the ophthalmologist's role in the management of dyslexia .dyslexia is a clinical entity characterized by subnormal readingability in a person of average or above average intelligence .it is a disease which has different causes in different children . thecauses include brain damage in the /language area,/ hereditarypredisposition and such ophthalmic factors as hyperopia, muscleimbalance, aniseikonia or visual immaturity . emotional disturbances,educational immaturity and cerebral dominance may also play some role inthe etiology of this condition .the universal symptom is poor reading ability . however, these casesfrequently have other associated symptoms such as poor writing,difficulty in reading and writing numbers, inability to read or writemusical notes and disorientation for left and right . many of thesepatients develop personality maladjustments . visual fields often reveala hemianopia .in any group of poor readers, a large percentage will have ocular,neurologic, psychiatric or psychologic abnormalities and/or a stronghereditary tendency . the degree to which reading can be learned dependsupon the ability of the individual to adjust to the psycho-physiologicneeds that are present at the time he reaches /reading age/ in school .if compensating abilities are present, and if the child's reaction is afavorable one, he may read well in spite of unfavorable factors,. ifnot, he may become a /poor reader/ . these children should be recognizedin their first year of school .a complete medical work-up should be managed by an ophthalmologist . acomplete ophthalmic examination should first be performed and allpossible visual anomalies should be corrected . the ophthalmologist maywant a psychometric evaluation, a neurologic opinion to determine therole of organic brain damage, psychiatric consultation for evaluation ofemotional disturbances, pediatric consultation for evaluation of thestatus of the general health and/or consultation by an otolaryngologistto determine the patient's hearing ability . with all the necessaryinformation at hand, the ophthalmologist will be able to recommendcorrective medical therapy and to advise the parents and teachers aboutavailable remedial reading aids .the prognosis is good for most patients since they are of average orabove average intelligence,. nearly all cases can be helped .