chromosome studies of human cells infected in utero andin vitro with rubella virus.a cytologic study of metaphase chromosomeswas undertaken to determine if damageto the genetic apparatus of human cells maybe induced by rubella virus and whethersuch damage produces the pathology seenin newborns from mothers infected earlyin pregnancy.  fibroblast cell strains wereinitiated in vitro from embryonic materialobtained by therapeutic abortion of fetusesfrom rubella-infected mothers.  embryonicmaterial from spontaneous and non-rubellatherapeutic abortions yielded similarcell strains for infection in vitro.  theresults from both types of studies were asfollows: (a) virus shedding cell strains wereobtained from all types of organs cultivated,which indicated wide disseminationof virus in the fetuses from rubella-infectedmothers.  (b) chronic infection couldreadily be established by in vitro infectionand no cytopathic effect was noted.(c) although many strains continued to shedvirus throughout months of in vitro cultivation,no changes in growth propertiesoccurred with the exception that infectedstrains from lung tissue showed limitedgrowth capacities.  (d) from observationsof over 2,000 metaphases, neither obviouschromosomal rearrangements nor non-disjunctionalchanges were observed instrains infected naturally or experimentally.(e) among 17 rubella abortion-derivedcell strains there was a marked elevationin frequency of chromosome breakage in3 instances (18%, 29%, 68%,).  (f) a correlationbetween virus shedding in vitro andincreased chromosome breakage was notedalthough this was not complete.  (g) thecombined average frequency of chromosomebreakage in one set of 7 rubella-abortionstrains was 18%; in the other set of 9 abortusstrains, 9.8%.  (h) similarly, a slight,but significant elevation in average chromosomebreak frequency (9.8%) was obtainedin four cell strains which had been experimentallyinfected in vitro with rubella virus(uninfected cells: 5.2%).  although effectsupon the chromosomes were demonstrated,these were restricted to slight general elevationsin frequency of breakage abovenormal values.  very high increases in breakswere sporadic.  it appears more likelythat the general fetal abnormalities associatedwith rubella infection in vivo resultfrom possible effects of the virus upon growthrather than from effects upon thechromosomes.  however, the studies wererestricted to fibroblasts cultured invitro; and effects on other types of cellsmay have greater implications for thisquestion.