3716. glycolytic control mechanisms. i. inhibition of glycolysisby acetate and pyruvate in the isolated, perfused rat heartacetate or pyruvate had similar effectson the over-all metabolism of glucose.  gly-colytic flux was decreased in both thepresence and absence of insulin, glucoseoxidation was greatly decreased, andthe conversion of glucose to glycogen and lac-tate was promoted.  glucose phosphorylationwas decreased in the presence but notin the absence of insulin.  hexokinase,phosphofructokinase, glyceraldehyde phos-phate dehydrogenase, and pyruvic kinaseare far displaced from equilibrium, whilethe other enzymic steps of glycolysisare maintained either at equilibrium or fairlyclose to equilibrium.  in different metabolicsituations, glycolytic flux may be affec-ted by those steps which are far displacedfrom equilibrium.  increased levels ofthe hexose monophosphates, and decreasedlevels of the other glycolytic inter-mediates between fructose 1,6-diphosphateand pyruvate after the addition of 10 mmacetate indicate that glycolytic flux wasdecreased by inhibition of phosphofructo-kinase.  after the addition of 10 mm pyruvate,fructose 1,6-diphosphate, and triose-phosphate accumulated as a result of aninhibition of either glyceraldehyde phosphatedehydrogenase or phosphoglyceric kinase.acetate had little effect on the total con-tent of oxidized or reduced di- ortriphosphopyridine nucleotides, but slightly de-creased the ratio of nad to nadh2in the cytoplasm, as estimated from the ratiosof lactate to pyruvate and a-glycerophosphateto dihydroxyacetone phosphate.  pyru-vate increased the total content of nadh2and nadph2 as shown both by an increaseof fluorescence in the intact heart, and bytissue analyses, but the ratio of nad tonadii2 in the cytoplasm was greatlyincreased.  these results demonstrate com-partmentation of pyridine nucleotidesbetween cytoplasm and mitochondria in theintact cell.  after the addition of acetate,citrate was the only intermediate of thecitric acid cycle which increased greatlyin amount, while oxaloacetate levels de-creased.  after the addition of pyruvate,the levels of citrate, a-ketoglutarate, ma-late, and oxaloacetate were all greatlyelevated.  the glutamic-oxaloacetate trans-aminase reaction as measured from thetotal contents of the reactants in the tissueremained close to equilibrium.  changesin the concentrations of the adenine nu-cleotides were insufficient to account forthe inhibition of phosphofructokinase, butthe results are consistent with control at thisstep being mediated by citrate.