198. early experiences with azathioprine in ulcerative colitis.  a note ofcautionazathioprine was administered to 10 patients with ulcerative colitis classifiedas 'very severe' in 2,'moderately severe' in 7 and 'relatively mild' in 1patient, in conjunction with 'standard' therapy and adrenal corticosteroids in8 of the 10 patients.  the possible beneficial therapeutic effects ofazathioprine in this small series cannot be evaluated definitively because ofthe concurrent medication and the preliminary uncontrolled observations.however, clinical improvement was apparent in 8 of the 10 patients; and in 2patients, the favorable course occurred in the absence of steroid therapy.  in2 additional patients, the favorable course was maintained during theadministration of azathioprine following the discontinuance of prolongedsteroid therapy.  in 1 patient, the administration of azathioprine wasassociated with amelioration of an arthritis and pyoderma gangrenosum which didnot respond to the use of steroids and other medication.  immuno-suppressiveobservations were limited.  the established delayed hypersensitivity response,as reflected in various skin tests, was unchanged during the administration ofazathioprine.  azathioprine had no discernible toxic effects upon the kidneysor the liver in 2 patients, 1 with postnecrotic cirrhosis and the other withserum hepatitis.  gastro-intestinal symptoms (anorexia, epigastric discomfort,and nausea) occurred in 8 patients.  mild to moderate leukopenia developed in 8patients and, in 2 individuals, was accompanied by thrombocytopenia.  temporaryalopecia occurred in 1 woman.  the hematopoietic effects developed within 2 or3 wk of therapy with azathioprine at a dosage level of 4-6 mg/kg/day.azathioprine does not exert the rapid beneficial effect in ulcerative colitisnoted with corticotropin and adrenal corticosteroids.  therefore, its use insevere ulcerative colitis requiring intensive therapy probably is undesirable.azathioprine, on the basis of these initial observations, may be considered formoderately severe ulcerative colitis, under circumstances permitting controlledand prolonged therapeutic trial as adjunct medication, but with carefulsupervision for prevention of toxicity, especially leukopenia.