hemophilic arthropathyjaromir priborsky, zora antalovskathe authors report their experience with jointdiseases in 54 patients suffering from hemo-philia, 49 of them being cases of hemophilia a,5 of hemophilia b.  21 patients were childrenup to the age of 14 years.  bleeding into the jointsoccurred in 66.6% of patients.  in the agegroup over 14 years the cases of bleeding intothe joints were more frequent (78.8%) thanin the age group up to 14 years (47.7%).there were no differences as to bleeding into thejoints and the seriousness of articular changesbetween the cases of hemophilia a and hemo-philia b.  in most cases the bleeding into thejoints began between the 6th and the 14th yearof age.  bleeding into the joints as the firstmanifestation of a hemophilic condition occurredonly in 9.3% of patients; in most cases otherhemophilic manifestations preceded.  in spite ofthis fact the joint manifestations were oftenwrongly diagnosed as tuberculous arthritis, rheumaticfever, progressive arthritis, and were treatedaccordingly.  most usually the large joints (knee,elbow, ankle) were affected with bleeding and inthem the changes were also the most serious.  thejoints of both halves of the body wereaffected uniformly.  in most cases several joints wereaffected while monoarticular localizationwas observed in 16.6%.  the seriousness of articularchanges was dependent mainly on thenumber of repeated bleedings into one and the samejoint, although other factors (weight bearingof the joint, complexity of the joint, treatment) may beof decisive importance in the individualcases as well.according to clinical (especially fromthe functional point of view) and x-ray criteria thearticular findings were classified into threegroups: in the first group the function of the jointis preserved, in the second limited andin the third practically extinguished.  the followinglaboratory tests were carried out: erythrocytesedimentation reaction, latex test for the rheu-matoid factor, c-reactive protein, mecoproteintyrosine and weltmann's coagulation test.the findings were normal even in cases ofirreparable articular changes unless acute bleedinginto the joint or in some other localization,or some other complicating disorder was presentsimultaneously.the therapy of hemophilic arthropathyremains troublesome owing especially to a frequentoccurrence of articular bleeding.a close cooperation of the hematologistand the rheumatologist or the orthopedist may con-tribute to the improvement of the fate ofthese patients.