maternal anxiety during pregnancy and adequacy of mother and childadjustment eight months following childbirth .fifty pregnant women were administered a battery of psychologicaltests . on the basis of scores obtained from the manifest anxiety scale,these pregnant women were dichotomized into a /high anxiety/ group and a/low anxiety/ group . eight months following childbirth, the mothers andchildren were seen for a psychological assessment . it was found thatthe women in the /high anxious/ group evidenced significantly morenegative childrearing attitudes . that is, the /high anxious/ mothersobtained significantly higher scores on the hostility and controlfactors measured by the pari . on the basis of the examiner's ratings ofthe mother's personality traits, it was found that the women who werehighly anxious during pregnancy received much less favorable personalityratings at the time of the 8-month assessment . moreover, there was asignificant difference in the proportions of mothers in the two groupswho received a favorable rating from the examiner on the basis of hisobservation of the mother-child interaction during the session . instudying the children of these mothers, it was found that the childrenof the /low anxious/ mothers received a significantly higherdevelopmental quotient on the infant mental scale . in keeping with thisfinding, they also obtained a higher developmental quotient on the motorscale, although on this aspect of the intellectual assessment thedifference was not statistically significant . also, the children fromthe /low anxious/ mothers tended to receive a score indicative of a morefavorable general emotional tone than did the offspring of the /highanxious/ mothers . this difference between the two groups of childrenwas not statistically significant . in general, the findings wereconsistent with the predictions that the children who were being rearedby women who had been highly anxious during pregnancy would fare lesswell on tests of intellectual development and indices of emotionaladjustment . the findings also were in keeping with the prediction thatthe highly anxious women during pregnancy would evidence less desirableparental attitudes during their child's early development and that theywould present a less favorable personality picture at a timeapproximately 8 months following pregnancy .