
    
      Tumor necrosis factor (TNF), a cytokine that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of many
      diseases including inflammatory disorders, has been found to be elevated in the muscles of
      patients with dermatomyositis (DM) and polymyositis (PM). A subset of patients with DM and PM
      do not respond readily to conventional therapy. Therefore, a controlled trial using
      infliximab, a chimeric IgG(1) kappa monoclonal antibody against TNF, may provide a
      therapeutic option and advance understanding in the pathogenesis of these diseases. This
      study is designed to determine the safety and efficacy of infliximab in patients with DM and
      PM. We plan to enroll a maximum of 28 patients randomized at 1:1 ratio into 2 groups, placebo
      vs. infliximab at 5 mg/kg body weight. In the first phase of the study the placebo and
      infliximab infusions will be given at week 0, 2, 6 and 14. Primary outcome assessment will be
      done at week 16. Those who respond according to the criteria set for improvement in MMT will
      be given the option to remain on the same infusion (i.e. placebo or infliximab at 5 mg/kg
      body weight) at weeks 22, 30 and 38. Placebo non-responders will be given infliximab at 5
      mg/kg body weight in an open label fashion at weeks 16, 18, 22, 30 and 38. Patients who were
      initially on 5 mg/kg body weight of infliximab who failed to respond based on the criteria
      set will be placed on infliximab at 7.5 mg/kg body weight in an open label fashion on weeks
      22, 30 and 38. Pharmacokinetic modeling will be done in both phases of the study. A muscle
      biopsy will be done before treatment and again at 16 weeks of treatment. Microarray gene
      expression profiling of the muscle biopsy specimens will be done before treatment and again
      at 16 weeks. Clinical, functional and serological evaluations will be performed in every
      visit to assess other responses to treatment. Patients will be followed for 30 weeks after
      study termination to evaluate the long-term effects of the drug.
    
  