
    
      Computed tomography (CT) or "cat scan" is an x-ray test routinely used for diagnostic
      purposes. Heart ("Cardiac") CT, using the newest scanners, is an improved way of looking at
      the coronary arteries, which supply blood to the heart muscle. If these arteries are clogged
      this may cause chest pain or even a heart attack. The images of the coronary arteries
      obtained by CT scanners (during a 5-10 minute procedure) have been shown by many studies to
      be accurate, when compared to the conventional invasive cardiac catheterization procedure. In
      addition, at least five prior studies done at different hospitals suggest that cardiac CT
      scans are effective for diagnosing chest pain like yours in patients coming to the emergency
      room. What is new about this study is that it is being done in multiple hospitals at the same
      time. This is part of the process that all medical advances must go through to become a part
      of routine care of patients in hospitals throughout the country.

      A standard chest pain workup typically done in the emergency department consists of a
      physical examination, electrocardiograms (EKGs), and several blood tests. Blood tests
      typically completed include cardiac enzymes (Troponin, CK & CK-MB), a kidney function test, a
      pregnancy test if applicable, and possibly a lipid panel, depending on physician preference.
      For each test, a 3mL vial will be filled with a specimen of blood and processed in the
      laboratory for result. Also a two-part "rest-stress" nuclear scan is typically performed,
      which compares blood flow into the heart tissue at rest to blood flow into the heart tissue
      during exercise or dilation with medications. Based on prior studies, the researchers doing
      the present study believe that CT scanning of the coronary arteries can provide information
      that is just as safe and accurate as the rest-stress nuclear scan, and can do so more rapidly
      at a lower cost.
    
  