
    
      A questionnaire of health care renunciation will be administered to the patient at Day 0 and
      each year during 5 years, to determine whether or not he has given up one or more care in the
      last 12 months.

      The compliance to the CPAP or NIV will be extracted from the database of the Health care
      provider (AGIR à dom).

      The primary outcome is to determine the impact of health care renunciation on treatment
      compliance and overall health care processes.

      The analysis of the primary outcome (compliance) will be performed using a simple or
      generalized linear model (based on its observed distribution). Variables most associated with
      compliance will be introduced into a multivariate model, including healthcare renunciation
      variables.

      For the secondary objective (identifying the determinants of cessation of health care) a
      first approach based on unsupervised learning will make it possible to classify patients
      according to homogeneous profiles on the basis of the different information collected.

      A classical multivariate analysis using a hierarchical logistic regression model will
      quantify the weight of the different determinants in the renunciation of care. Finally, an
      exploratory approach based on structural equation models based on latent variables will be
      implemented to establish the direct and indirect relationships of the different qualitative
      determinants collected in the questionnaires on caregiving.

      Regarding the longitudinal approach, this will be the subject of several analysis steps.
      Firstly, on an annual basis, a descriptive analysis will be carried out to investigate the
      determinants of the cessation of care according to the status of patients (renouncing or not
      renouncing) the previous year. Regarding the five-year follow-up, mixed models will be used
      to identify different trajectories of patients with regard to the renunciation of care from
      the initial follow-up and to study their impact on the prognosis at 5 years in terms of
      deaths and number hospitalizations
    
  