
    
      The investigators plan to study the immunogenicity of two different types of the influenza
      vaccine in 240 allogeneic stem cell transplant patients during the 2015-2016 season. Patients
      will be randomized to receive either adjuvanted influenza vaccine or nonadjuvanted. Antibody
      titers will be evaluated by a standard hemagglutination inhibition assay. The investigators
      hypothesize that the patients who receive the adjuvanted influenza vaccine will reach
      significantly higher response to the vaccine. This study advances research on the prevention
      of serious viral infections in transplant recipients.

      Results from this study have the potential to directly improve patient care. If the use of
      the adjuvanted influenza vaccine is successful, this strategy may lead to a significant
      reduction in burden of disease, hospitalizations, and long-term morbidity.

      The co-administration of vaccine with an adjuvant is a potentially promising method of
      boosting immunogenicity. Two adjuvants have been used in influenza vaccines: AS03 and MF59.
      Both are oil-in-water emulsions. AS03 was used in the monovalent pandemic A/H1N1 vaccine in
      Canada and Europe. Adjuvanted vaccines have been studied in the hematopoietic stem cell
      transplant population with most studies done in using the AS03-adjuvanted pandemic vaccine.
      MF59 adjuvant has been used in seasonal influenza vaccine in Canada and Europe for people ≥65
      years old. MF59-adjuvanted vaccines have not been well studied in hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation but could represent a significant advance if they show greater immunogenicity
      than the standard non-adjuvanted influenza vaccine. Both FLUAD® and the standard 2015-2016
      nonadjuvanted vaccine will contain 15 microgram antigen from each strain and will be injected
      in a standard dose (0.5 mL) in the deltoid muscle by trained personnel.
    
  