
    
      This is a prospective, multi-center, observational study to assess the safety and efficacy of
      EyeArt in screening for DR.

      This study will enroll up to 940 subjects who meet the eligibility criteria at eye care
      practices and primary/diabetes care practices. Subjects will undergo fundus photography per
      the EyeArt photography manual using commercially available, Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA) cleared, non-mydriatic fundus cameras.

      Additionally, after dilation, the subject will undergo clinical reference standard
      photography by photographers certified to obtain photographs for clinical reference standard
      grading.

      The EyeArt screening results on photographs obtained per the EyeArt photography manual will
      be compared with the clinical reference standard grading to evaluate the sensitivity and
      specificity of the EyeArt device.

      The study will be conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements and
      established rules for Good Clinical Practice (GCP). Study sites will be chosen to meet the
      study requirements.

      Each study site will be visited periodically by the Study Monitor who will ascertain that all
      aspects of the Study Protocol are complied with and that the conduct of the study conforms to
      applicable regulatory requirements and established GCP rules.

      At the time of each monitoring visit, the Study Monitor will review the completed case report
      forms (CRFs) to ascertain that all items have been completed and that the data provided are
      accurate and obtained in the manner specified in the protocol.

      The Study Monitor will also check that the data in the CRF are consistent with the clinical
      records (Source Data Verification) and that study results are recorded completely and
      correctly. The Study Monitor will check on the reporting of adverse events (AEs).

      All subject data will be captured utilizing a 21 CFR Part 11 compliant database. Electronic
      case report forms (eCRFs) will be source document verified by designated study monitors. Data
      entry of subject data will be performed by approved trained Site Personnel. Approved Site
      Personnel will have a user specific log-in name and password to access the electronic data
      capture (EDC) system in order to enter study data.

      The EyeArt device will be finalized and frozen before the first subject is enrolled and a
      copy will be placed in a version-controlled system. Evidence that Eyenuk does not have direct
      access to the study data before data lock will include documentation, logs, and audit
      reports.
    
  