
    
      Intervention overview content and design:

      The intervention, VETS PREVAIL, will empower the user to gain control over life problems
      through enhancement of coping strategies, self-care, social support, and a repertoire of
      problems solving skills in an interactive internet intervention. This intervention will have
      two components: internet delivery of the intervention and brief person-to-person electronic
      contact structured around ensuring effective motivation, engagement, and completion. The
      coaching model for the person-to-person contact will be based on motivational interviewing
      with masters level social workers , as well as contact with peers who have completed the
      Vet-to-Vet certificate program offered by the Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance (DBSA).
      The internet component is focused on combat stress, self-assessment, coping strategies,
      problem solving, and social support.

      Trainer Role:

      During the 6 weeks of Vets Prevail a trainer, a masters level social worker, will engage with
      subjects through one online chat per week, post lesson (approximately 15 minute time blocks;
      duration will vary per subject). The total amount of person-to-person contact time, with a
      trainer, is an estimated 90 minutes throughout the 6 week program; contact time may vary per
      subject. The trainer will use motivational interviewing to clarify concepts within each
      week's lesson. In addition, the trainer will be responsible for making referrals and follow
      ups, when needed.

      Masters level social work education trains people to use evidence-based knowledge derived
      from research, practice evaluation and theories of human development and behavior and social
      systems to analyze complex situations between individuals and their environment, in addition
      to facilitating individual, organizational, social and cultural changes.

      Peer Role:

      During the 6 weeks of Vets Prevail a peer, a DBSA certified veteran, will engage with subject
      through one online chat per week, pre lesson (approximately 15 minute time blocks: duration
      will vary per subject). The total amount of person-to-person contact time, with a peer, is an
      estimated 60 minutes throughout the 6 week program; contact time my vary per subject. The
      purpose of the peer engagement is to motivate the subject to complete the activities they
      schedule for themselves during the week and to apply the lessons from each session into their
      lives.

      DBSA training trains people to use their experiences to work with others. Training features a
      nationally-developed recovery philosophy curriculum to enhance wellness and treatment
      strategies, through peer delivery services.

      Internet based component:

      The current intervention will have four major sections. The first section will relate stress
      in the context of depressive symptoms with direct tactics that can be immediately implemented
      to reduce symptoms and guide users towards their individual goals. The second section will
      demonstrate how to recognize treatment obstacles and organizing implementation of the tactics
      from section one. The third section addresses overcoming treatment obstacles along with
      reinforcing reduction of symptoms and goal-directed action. The fourth section provides
      instruction and application of personal problem-solving, taking goal-directed action to full
      implementation. The intervention concludes with a review, a reinforcement of
      personally-relevant treatment applications, and an evaluation of techniques. The internet
      component will also require active engagement of the individual with interactive activities
      to improve learning/skill building along with other activities designed to identify how they
      would manage specific behavioral symptoms (skill development). The internet component will
      consist of 6 individual sessions, with approximately one week between sessions. The
      electronic chat with the peer will occur directly before the subjects view this content, and
      the chat with the trainer occurs immediately afterwards so the trainer can answer any
      questions about the content the subject might have.
    
  