
    
      Interleukin 6 (IL-6), a proinflammatory cytokine, is a key driver of a cytokine storm that
      plays a significant role in clinical complications and acute lung injury. Emerging data
      indicate that serum levels of IL-6 are elevated in COVID-19 patients and are predictive of
      respiratory failure and mortality. IL-6 has been shown to contribute to lung damage during
      SARS-CoV infection and the virus itself is capable of directly inducing its expression.
      Suppression of pro-inflammatory IL-6 have been shown to have a therapeutic effect in many
      inflammatory diseases, including viral infections.

      In a mouse model of lung injury employing bleomycin, BLD-2660, at therapeutic doses of 30 and
      100 mg/kg twice per day (BID), reduced IL-6 levels in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid.
      BLD-2660 also attenuated fibrosis damage as measured by significant reductions in the alpha
      smooth muscle actin and collagen 1 in lung tissue. BLD-2660 also demonstrated target
      engagement by inhibiting cleavage of one of its substrates, spectrin, in bronchoalveolar
      cells.

      BLD-2660 was also evaluated in a mouse model of NASH fibrosis, demonstrating an anti-fibrotic
      effect. A significant decrease in IL-6 transcription was also observed. This suggests that
      the effect of BLD-2660 on IL-6 is independent of the injury, or the affected organ.

      It has been shown that the receptor for SARS-CoV-1 and -2 entry into the cell is
      angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE-2). ACE-2 and the dimeric calpains (data on file) are
      co-expressed in respiratory epithelial cells, the site of both viral entry and predominant
      early lung injury in COVID-19. Inhibition of dimeric calpain activity has not been associated
      with impairment of normal immune function. The safety and tolerability of BLD-2660 has been
      demonstrated in the recently completed Phase 1 single ascending dose (SAD)/multiple ascending
      dose (MAD) B-2660-101 study.

      As BLD-2660 has been demonstrated to (1) reduce tissue IL-6 levels and (2) attenuate lung
      fibrosis damage, it could therefore, potentially reduce the nonproductive IL-6 mediated
      host-response to infection, which contribute to morbidity and mortality in COVID-19. In
      addition, data suggest that survivors of SARS-CoV-2 infection are at risk for chronic
      impairment of pulmonary function, likely attributable to pulmonary fibrosis secondary to lung
      injury and inflammation. Although there is not yet available data documenting numbers of
      patients infected with SARS CoV2 pneumonia who progress to pulmonary fibrosis, epidemiology,
      viral immunology, and current clinical evidence support that pulmonary fibrosis may become
      one of the serious long-term complications of survivors of COVID-19 related pneumonia.

      Thus, BLD-2660 could not only potentially downregulate the nonproductive host-response to
      infection, which contributes to morbidity and mortality in COVID-19 but also could reduce
      potential long-term fibrosis and loss of pulmonary function resulting from SARS-CoV
      pneumonia. This study will evaluate BLD-2660 as an add-on therapy to standard of care (SOC)
      in hospitalized subjects with recent diagnosis of COVID-19.
    
  