
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To reduce therapy associated toxicity for patients with non-metastatic hepatoblastoma (HB)
      and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) without adversely affecting long term outcomes.

      II. To determine the event-free survival (EFS) in patients with HB whose tumor is completely
      resected at diagnosis and either receive no adjuvant chemotherapy (completely resected well
      differentiated fetal [WDF] histology HB) or 2 cycles of standard dose cisplatin monotherapy
      (completely resected non-well differentiated fetal histology HB - 100 mg/m^2/cycle given 3
      weeks apart). (Group A) III. To demonstrate that 4 to 6 cycles of interval compressed lower
      dose cisplatin monotherapy (80 mg/m^2/cycle; 320-480 mg/m^2 total) is adequate for low risk
      HB. (Group B) IIIa. In patients who are resected after 2 cycles of cisplatin monotherapy, to
      compare EFS following a randomized comparison of 2 versus 4 post-operative cycles of
      cisplatin monotherapy. (Group B) IIIb. In patients whose tumors are deemed unresectable after
      2 cycles of cisplatin monotherapy, to determine the proportion of tumors rendered completely
      resectable by an additional 2 or 4 cycles of chemotherapy. (Group B) IV. To compare in a
      randomized fashion, EFS in patients with intermediate risk HB treated with 6 cycles of
      cisplatin/5-fluorouracil/vincristine/doxorubicin (C5VD) chemotherapy versus 6 cycles of
      interval compressed cisplatin monotherapy (100 mg/m^2/dose). (Group C) V. To determine the
      EFS in patients with HCC whose tumor is completely resected at diagnosis who receive no
      adjuvant chemotherapy (completely resected HCC arising in the context of underlying liver
      disease) or 4 cycles of cisplatin/doxorubicin (PLADO) (completely resected de novo HCC).
      (Group E) VI. To improve the EFS of patients with high risk HB by treating them with interval
      compressed cisplatin and doxorubicin based induction regimen followed by response-adapted
      consolidation therapy. (Group D) VIa. In patients whose metastatic disease resolves with the
      administration of Societe Internationale d'Oncologie Pediatrique (SIOPEL) 4 Induction
      therapy, to determine if the promising pilot results observed in SIOPEL 4 can be validated in
      a large international study. (Group D1) VIb. In patients whose metastatic disease does not
      resolve with the administration of SIOPEL 4 Induction therapy, to determine in a randomized
      comparison which post induction treatment (irinotecan and vincristine sulfate [vincristine]
      alternating with carboplatin and doxorubicin or carboplatin and etoposide alternating with
      carboplatin and doxorubicin) results in superior outcomes. (Group D Arm CE & Arm VI) VII. In
      patients with unresectable/metastatic HCC at diagnosis, to determine whether the addition of
      gemcitabine and oxaliplatin (GEMOX + sorafenib) to a cisplatin, doxorubicin and sorafenib
      backbone improves chemotherapy response, resectability and survival. (Group F)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the Childhood Hepatic tumor International Consortium (CHIC) hepatoblastoma
      risk stratification analysis of very low risk (Group A), low risk (Group B), intermediate
      risk (Group C) and high risk (Group D) groups stratifies patients allowing appropriate
      utilization of varying intensity chemotherapy regimens and surgical resection strategies.

      II. To define the prognostic relevance of a positive microscopic margin in Group A-D resected
      HB specimens.

      III. To define the frequency of histologically detectable multifocal lesions in liver
      explants and resected specimens in which multifocal disease was detected at diagnosis and
      disappeared on cross sectional imaging following treatment with chemotherapy.

      IV. To define the prognostic relevance in HB of a 'small cell undifferentiated' tumor
      component and percentage of tumor necrosis in post chemotherapy specimens.

      V. To determine the prognostic impact on EFS and overall survival (OS) of biopsy technique in
      liver tumors unresectable at diagnosis.

      VI. To determine the 3-year EFS and OS of HB patients who undergo liver transplantation vs
      extreme resection in Group C and D patients.

      VII. To determine the 3-year EFS and OS of Group D patients who undergo pulmonary
      metastasectomy.

      VIII. To determine the 3-year EFS and OS of patients who undergo liver transplantation for
      HCC.

      IX. To determine the frequency of relapse in non-metastatic HCC in children treated by liver
      transplantation versus conventional resection.

      X. To determine the concordance of Pretreatment Extent of Disease (PRETEXT) and
      Post-treatment Extent of disease (POSTTEXT) based surgical guidelines and the surgical
      intervention performed.

      XI. To collect for future analysis, HB and HCC tumor specimens that can be molecularly
      characterized to validate newly identified molecular and immunohistochemical biomarkers
      correlating with known clinical prognostic factors and outcome.

      XII. To collect for future analysis samples to assess the pharmacogenomics (PG) related to
      cisplatin therapy in pediatric and adolescent liver tumor patients and correlate PG with
      Boston Grading Scale for ototoxicity.

      XIII. To collect for future analysis samples such that novel biomarkers of renal toxicity
      (urine neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin [NGAL], cystatin C and Kim1) from cisplatin
      therapy can be correlated with pharmacogenomics, other associated toxicities, and outcomes.

      XIV. To determine which system (Children's Oncology Group [COG] PRETEXT, SIOPEL PRETEXT, or a
      new hybrid definition of PRETEXT) of the annotation factors for V, P, E, F and R provides the
      best prognostic information for determining response to chemotherapy, guiding risk based
      therapy, predicting surgical resectability, and EFS.

      XV. To determine the concordance between institutional and expert panel review assessment of
      PRETEXT and POSTTEXT stage in an international cooperative group setting.

      OUTLINE:

      GROUP A (VERY LOW RISK HB): Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP A1 (WDF): Patients undergo observation.

      GROUP A2 (NON-WDF): Patients receive cisplatin (CDDP) intravenously (IV) over 6 hours on day
      1 following surgery. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP B (LOW RISK HB): Patients receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 14 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients are then assigned to 1 of 2 groups

      GROUP B1 (RESECTABLE): Patients receive 2 cycles of cisplatin, undergo surgery, then are
      randomized to 1 of 2 arms (2 vs 4 additional cycles of cisplatin).

      GROUP B1 ARM 4-CDDP: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 14 days for up to 4 total cycles (2 pre-surgery, 2 post-surgery) in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP B1 ARM 6-CDDP: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 14 days for up to 6 total cycles(2 pre-surgery, 4 post-surgery) in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP B2 (UNRESECTABLE): Patients receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 14 days for up to 6 total cycles (4 pre-surgery, 2 post-surgery). Patients with
      resectable tumors undergo surgery, then all patients continue with 2 additional cycles of
      cisplatin.

      GROUP C (INTERMEDIATE RISK HB): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      GROUP C ARM CDDP: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 14 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients undergo surgery after cycle 2 or 4.

      GROUP C ARM C5VD: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1, 5-fluorouracil IV over
      1-15 minutes, vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 1, 8, and 15 and doxorubicin IV
      over 1-15 minutes on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo surgery after cycle
      2 or 4.

      GROUP D (HIGH RISK HB): SIOPEL-4 IV INDUCTION: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours on
      days 1, 8, and 15 (for cycles 1 and 2) and days 1 and 8 (for cycle 3) and doxorubicin IV over
      1-15 minutes on days 8 and 9 (for cycles 1 and 2) and days 1 and 2 (for cycle 3). Cycles 1
      and 2 are 28 days; cycle 3 is 21 days. Patients are then assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      GROUP D1: CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients with lung complete remission (either with
      chemotherapy and/or surgery) receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 and doxorubicin IV
      over 1-15 minutes on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP D2: Patients with residual metastatic disease are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      GROUP D2 ARM CE: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 2, doxorubicin IV
      over 1-15 minutes on days 1 and 2 during cycles 1, 3 and 5, and carboplatin IV over 1 hour
      and etoposide IV over 2 hours on day 1 and 2 of cycles 2, 4 and 6. Treatments repeat every 21
      days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP D2 ARM VI: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 2 and doxorubicin
      IV over 1-15 minutes on days 1 and 2 during cycles 1, 3 and 5. Patients also receive
      vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 1 and 8 and irinotecan IV over 60-90 minutes
      once daily (QD) on days 1 to 5 of cycles 2, 4 and 6. Treatments repeat every 21 days for 6
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP E (RESECTED HCC): Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP E1: Patients with HCC secondary to underlying hepatic disease undergo observation only.

      GROUP E2 (PLADO): Patients with de novo HCC receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1 and
      doxorubicin IV over 1-15 minutes on days 1 and 2 following surgery. Treatments repeat every
      21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP F (UNRESECTED AND/OR METASTATIC HCC): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      GROUP F ARM 1 (PLADO): Patients receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1, doxorubicin IV
      over 1-15 minutes on days 1 and 2 and sorafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 3-21.
      Treatments repeat every 21 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients may undergo surgery, if tumors are resectable, or receive an
      additional 3 cycles of the treatment.

      GROUP F ARM 2 (P/GEMOX): Patients receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1, doxorubicin IV
      over 1-15 minutes on days 1 and 2 and sorafenib PO BID on days 3-14 of cycles 1 and 3.
      Patients also receive gemcitabine IV over 90 minutes on day 1, oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on
      day 1 and sorafenib PO on days 1-14 of cycles 2 and 4. Patients may undergo surgery, if
      tumors are resectable, or receive an additional 4 cycles of the treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for a minimum of 2 years.
    
  