
    
      Binaural hearing allows strengthening of speech intelligibility in noise and sound
      localization. It is well known that single-sided (SSD) and bilateral asymmetric deafness lead
      to socio-behavioral consequences and, in children, inducing impairments in learning
      acquisitions.

      In adults, SSD is associated with a reduction of inter-hemispheric functional asymmetry of
      auditory cortex on functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Moreover, in children with
      bilateral profound deafness who got one cochlear implant (inducing a form of asymmetric
      hearing), these clinical and functional anomalies cannot be overcome in case of a late
      (>1,5year) secondary implantation. This shows that once the loss of asymmetry is installed,
      it is difficult to recover from it.

      No data about SSD in children and its cortical representation exists. In this study, the
      investigators hypothesized that SSD modifies the auditory cortical activation profile, linked
      with a deterioration of the binaural auditory skills, the global development and the quality
      of life If this hypothesis is confirmed, systematic and individualized rehabilitation will be
      needed to reduce patient's handicap and to prevent long term consequences.

      The investigators will then measure the auditory cortical activity using fNIRS in 5 to 16
      year-old SSD and NH children. The fNIRS system will use a sensor-bearing cap, measuring
      cortical activity through the scalp. Binaural hearing (speech in noise and localisation),
      speech assessments (global and speech development), and QoL will also be measured.

      Children will undergo 2 sessions of 1 to 2 hours tests, each spaced up to 3 months apart. As
      they are children regularly seen in our ear-nose-throat department, a once-a-year follow-up
      will be proposed, on the child and his family convenience. As it is a non-interventional
      study, no follow-up would be needed.
    
  