
    
      In Stage 1, 20 substance abuse treatment (SAT) professionals, including clinicians,
      supervisors, and administrators, will participate in clinical focus groups. Clinical focus
      group members will review and discuss the MMI, its potential uses, and specific strategies
      around its implementation. Also in Stage 1, 240 clients will participate in a formal
      psychometric evaluation study of the Multidimensional Monitoring Instrument (MMI). These
      participants will complete a study intake meeting, which will include providing locator
      information (to facilitate scheduling research appointments), a baseline ASI6, and the MMI.
      After this intake, participants will complete 5 additional MMIs during a 4-week period. At
      the one and two-month follow-up research meetings, participants will complete the ASI6 and
      provide specimens for urine drug screens (UDSs). To ensure adequate resource management,
      participants who leave treatment at the program will not be continued in the study.
      Participants who are incarcerated during the study will not be contacted while in custody.

      In Stage 2, the Monitoring and Feedback Intervention (MFI), the MFI Manual, and associated
      training materials will be completed with expert consultation. Also in Stage 2, 35 clients
      will participate in the MFI Feasibility Study. They will complete a baseline ASI6, as well as
      brief research assessments at 1-month post study intake and 2 months later (i.e., at the
      conclusion of their participation). Client participants will also provide specimens for UDSs.
      Clients will complete the MMI with their counselors on a regular basis, about weekly. Five
      randomly selected counselors will also participate in the Feasibility Study. They will meet
      with research staff for training and to periodically complete questionnaires/interviews. All
      individual counseling sessions will be recorded using a digital voice recorder.

      During Stage 3, 112 clients will participate in a randomized clinical trial (RCT) of the
      intervention (MFI). These participants will complete a baseline ASI6, as well as brief
      research assessments at 1-month post study intake and 2 months later (i.e., at the conclusion
      of their participation). They will also provide samples for UDSs. Clients will be randomized
      so that one-half will receive treatment as usual (TAU; with the exception that counseling
      sessions will be digitally recorded), and one-half will receive MFI. Clients in the MFI group
      will participate in standard treatment and complete the MMI weekly with their counselors at
      the beginning of each individual counseling session. Also, a total of 8 counselors will be
      randomly selected to participate. They will be randomized so that 4 will provide TAU, and 4
      will provide MFI. All counselors will meet with research staff for training and to
      periodically complete questionnaires/interviews. All individual counseling sessions will be
      recorded using a digital voice recorder.
    
  