
    
      This will be a 2-arm randomized 3-site trial. Recruitment will be within the community care
      clinics by poster and flyer advertisements. Pregnant women will be stratified by BMI
      categories and study site and randomized within strata to Group A (Nutrition+Exercise
      intervention program) or Group B (Usual Prenatal Care + Health Canada materials about healthy
      pregnancy + two focus group sessions exploring women's experiences with exercise, nutrition
      and weight gain in pregnancy).

      Primary research question: Among pregnant women, does introducing a structured and monitored
      nutrition and exercise program (treatment) in early pregnancy compared with Usual Prenatal
      Care (control) increase the likelihood of attaining gestational weight gain within the
      Institute of Medicine (IOM) guidelines over the pregnancy period? Secondary research
      questions: Among pregnant women (population), does introducing a structured and monitored
      nutrition and exercise program in early pregnancy (intervention) compared with Standard
      Prenatal Care (control) lead to 1) better maternal outcomes (outcome) at 6 months post-
      partum; and ii) better infant outcomes (outcome) at 6 months post partum?; and 2) i) to
      evaluate the benefits of a high dairy intake in pregnancy on maintenance of bone status in
      the mother and bone health outcomes in the child in early life (6 months); and ii) to
      investigate the interactions between genes associated with bone health and high dairy diet
      supplementation on bone status in mothers during pregnancy, and bone health in mothers
      post-delivery and children to 6 months of age.

      Experimental and Control groups: Both groups of mothers and their health care providers will
      be given the Health Canada materials on "Healthy Weight Gain during Pregnancy", "Eating Well
      with Canada's Food Guide" and the "Pregnancy Weight Gain Calculator". Baseline information
      will be recorded for eligible and consenting women after which they will be randomized to
      Experimental or Control group. Nutrition intake, physical measures and physical activity will
      be recorded at baseline, 26-28 weeks, 36-38 weeks of gestation, and 6 months postpartum in
      the same manner for both groups. All mothers will receive the study promotional materials and
      small incentives. Also, all mothers will be followed by their primary care provider and have
      usual access to public health.
    
  