
    
      Ascertainment of HIV serological status has become a prerequisite for better prevention of
      malaria. Studies reported that cotrimoxazole reduces malaria episodes in adults (other than
      pregnant women), and in children. Furthermore, several studies showed a good clinical and
      parasitological response to cotrimoxazole in treated children. Therefore, preventive
      treatment with SP for all HIV+ patients (including pregnant women) who are receiving
      treatment containing cotrimoxazole is superfluous and is even contraindicated because of the
      increase risk of severe adverse reactions. Few studies, however, have described the efficacy
      of cotrimoxazole in the prevention of malaria in pregnant women, particularly in an area
      where the frequency of therapeutic failures with SP in cases of Plasmodium falciparum malaria
      is increasing.

      The emergence and augmentation of the frequency of resistance of Plasmodium falciparum to SP,
      which has already been observed in numerous countries of sub-Saharan Africa and in the
      Central African Republic, challenges the short-term usefulness of this drug combination in
      the prevention of malaria in pregnant women. The resistance is due to accumulation of point
      mutations at various sites on the genes coding for dihydrofolate reductase (dhfr) and
      dihydropteroate synthase (dhps). The number of mutations correlates with the extent of
      resistance of Plasmodium falciparum to SP in vitro. In studies carried out in Bangui, the
      prevalence of therapeutic failure was estimated to be 23.8% after 14 days of follow-up among
      children with uncomplicated malaria, while the resistance of Plasmodium falciparum to
      pyrimethamine in vitro was reported to be 38.3%. The frequency of mutations in dhfr and dhps
      alleles is correlated with in vitro response of Plasmodium falciparum strains to SP.

      Pregnancy and HIV infection increase the risk for emergence of mutated strains that are
      resistant to SP, because a wide variety of types and clones are found in parasitaemia in
      pregnant women (genetic diversity). Furthermore, some studies raised concern about the
      possible development of cross-resistance of Plasmodium falciparum to both cotrimoxazole and
      SP because of the similarity of their mode of action, although this hypothesis has not been
      proven.

      The national malaria programme in the Central African Republic recommends the use of IPT-SP
      since 2006.

      The investigators' main hypothesis is based on the premise that cotrimoxazole is more
      effective than SP for placental parasitaemia. This might be due to the higher plasma
      concentration of cotrimoxazole attained with daily doses. If this hypothesis is proven,
      cotrimoxazole could be recommended as prophylaxis for HIV+ pregnant women, whatever their
      CD4+ cell count. In this study, the investigators will also test the hypothesis that the
      strains of Plasmodium falciparum isolated from HIV+ positive pregnant women express more dhfr
      and dhps resistance markers.
    
  