
    
      Hip fracture often occurs in frail older people and is a major concern for the health care
      systems because it is associated with an up to 36% excess mortality within 1 year. Hip
      fracture also represents a risk factor for further falls and fractures, functional decline
      and institutionalization, with <40% of hip fractured patients regaining their pre-injury
      level of ambulation.

      One of the most challenging tasks of today's post-acute geriatric rehabilitation wards is
      improving the functional abilities of fragile hip-fractured patients and discharging most of
      them to their homes. Yet, the rising incidence of hip fractures in the elderly has created an
      overwhelming workload on those departments and has significantly increased the burden on
      healthcare resources. Previous studies have found that cognitive decline is an important
      negative predictor in rehabilitation. Several studies have shown that cognitive interventions
      can improve functional abilities of older people. Yet, these studies were conducted in
      community dwelling older people. Our study will assess this issue amongst post-acute
      rehabilitation hip fracture patients. Our hypotyhesis is that those patients recieving
      specific cognitive intervention will show significantly better rehabilitation outcomes and
      cognitive function.

      The objective of the present study is to assess whether specific cognitive intervention will
      influence rehabilitation outcomes of post-acute hip fracture patients.

      This is a randomized double blinded study. We will compare two groups: one will recieve
      specific cognitive intervention and a control group will recieve conventional occupational
      therapy treatment. Both groups will recieve the same amount of interventions.The
      interventions will include all together 12 sessions, each being 45 minutes, for a total of 3
      weeks. The intervention will include: 4 treatments in the area of memory and attention, 4
      treatments in the area of problem solving, 4 treatments in the area of planning and
      analysing.

      Patients in the control group will recieve conventional occupational therapy treatment: 3
      weeks of all together 12 sessions, 45 minutes each.

      The outcome measures are: a disability measure, the Functional Independence Measure (FIM),
      the motor FIM, the Montebello Rehabilitation Factor Score (MRFS), also called motor FIM
      effectiveness. In addition 4 cognitive functional measures: the Color Trail Test, the Kettle
      Test, the Groningen Activity Restriction Skill (GARS), the Montreal Cognitive Assessment
      (MOCA).

      The randomization process will be carried out by withdrawing a piece of paper written either
      A (intervention) (n=10) or B (control) (n=10) from an envelope. The subjects will not be
      informed as to which group they will be assigned. Patient recruitment and the randomization
      process will be supervised by the clinical staff. The assessors will be blinded to the type
      of intervention.

      Statistical analysis will be performed using the IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows (Version
      25.0. Armonk, NY: IBM Corp.).

      The study sample size was estimated using the mean and the standard deviation of the motor
      FIM measure (calculated for this population), with improvement assumption by 7 points, with
      power of 0.8 and significance level of 0.05.
    
  