
    
      Background: Specialty atrial fibrillation (AF) clinics have been shown to reduce AF-related
      hospitalizations, emergency department readmissions, and overall healthcare costs, while at
      the same time improving health behaviours and quality of life for patients. An AF clinic
      delivered virtually may offer a viable approach to remove barriers to accessing specialty
      care, but currently, no virtual AF models exist. However, virtual clinics that use new and
      emerging digital and communications technologies have been used in managing patients with a
      variety of chronic diseases: inflammatory bowel disease, diabetes, kidney disease,
      ophthalmology problems, and for post-operative follow-up (e.g., orthopedic surgery). They
      have been found to facilitate rapid referral, improve communication with providers, improve
      clinical indicators, improve self-efficacy, and achieve knowledge comparable to usual care.
      Purpose: The primary purpose of phase 3 of the project is to implement and evaluate an
      alternative model of care, a Virtual AF Clinic (vAFC) to referred patients with AF living in
      communities outside the Greater Vancouver area.

      Methodology:

      Design: We will test two modes of AF care: 1) virtual AF care (intervention group) and 2) in
      person AF clinic care (control group). The intervention group will receive the vAFC. The vAFC
      will include up to four scheduled encounters with the NPs/cardiologist: an initial encounter
      following baseline work-up (e.g., Holter, echo) and at 4 to 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months.
      For the duration of the intervention, the vAFC group will also receive access to a website
      with specific AF educational content and resources. The control group will receive usual
      onsite AF care provided by the Vancouver AF clinic. Recruitment: A total of 60-80 patients
      with AF, 30-40 allocated to each group, will be recruited from the Vancouver AF clinic. This
      sample size is consistent with recommendations for pilot/feasibility studies. AF clinic staff
      will identify eligible patients, and will send them a "letter of initial contact" letter.
      Patients will contact or be contacted by the research team who will provide additional study
      details, answer questions, conduct screening for eligibility, and obtain consent. Data
      Collection: Intervention and control groups will complete the same repeated measures during
      the study period. Demographics will be obtained at baseline. The primary outcomes: AF

      Knowledge and AF Quality of Life, and secondary outcomes:

      Healthcare Utilization, and Perceived Stress, will be obtained at three time points: baseline
      (t1) (following consent, prior to randomization), 3 months (t2), and 6 months (t3).The
      secondary outcomes: Lifestyle Behaviors, Physical Activity, and Patient Satisfaction will be
      obtained at t1 and t3. Questionnaire data will be collected using the online survey program
      Qualtrics. Each participant will be assigned a unique identifier code and emailed a link to
      the survey and consent form once they have completed eligibility screening. Patient health
      history, stroke risk, bleeding risk, and medications will be extracted from the consult
      letter sent to the AF clinic during patient referral. Website usage will be measured for each
      participant using Google Analytics. Following the study, approximately eight participants
      from each study arm will be invited to participate in an hour-long interview. Data Analysis:
      The focus of the pilot will be on effect sizes, as a

      guide for determining the number of cases required for a full- scale study and the
      feasibility for such a study. The data will be

      evaluated both graphically and statistically, with an emphasis on the effect sizes of the
      changes across time and on the effect sizes for the group differences.
    
  