
    
      This study will be conducted to answer the question whether vaccination during chemotherapy
      induces an adequate antibody response in oncology patients. Moreover, the effect of the
      timing of the vaccination during a chemotherapy cycle will be evaluated. In the mamma
      carcinoma patients, the effect of early versus late vaccination during a chemotherapy cycle
      will be studied. It was chosen to vaccinate in the early group at day 4 +/- 1 day; the
      immediate influence of the chemotherapy on the vaccination response is expected to have
      passed by then and patients will not already have their nadir. Late vaccination was defined
      as vaccination on day 16 +/- 1 day of the cycle. It is expected that the white blood cell and
      platelet counts by then are normalised.

      In order to define a relatively homogenous patient population with mamma carcinoma, in this
      study patients will be recruited who are treated in the adjuvant setting with FEC-containing
      regimens (5-fluorouracil 500 mg/m2, epirubicin 100 mg/m2 and cyclophosphamid 500 mg/m2). The
      results of vaccination in these immunocompromised groups will be compared to the serological
      response to vaccination in persons who receive the influenza vaccination due to heart
      failure. Studies have shown that, although cytotoxic T-cell responses might be diminished,
      the rise in haemagglutinin inhibition titres in patients with heart failure vaccinated
      against influenza can be compared to the response to vaccination in otherwise healthy
      persons. These patients with heart failure will therefore be used as a control group.
      Patients with heart failure who are on treatment with immunosuppressives like prednisolone
      will not be included, because prednisolone diminishes the response to vaccination. The heart
      failure patients will be vaccinated according to the standard influenza vaccination protocol
      in the Netherlands.
    
  