
    
      The completion of the Human Genome Project in 2003 marked the beginning of the genomic era
      and the birth of "personalized" (precision) medicine. In the last decade, genetics have
      provided a new understanding of predicting, diagnosing, and treating individual health
      conditions. Indeed, such precision medicine has begun to impact virtually all areas of
      medicine, with significant potential to influence the timing, dosage, and intensity of
      physical rehabilitation.

      The long-term goals of this research are: (1) to determine if certain genetic variants
      associated to learning impairments impact the motor and cognitive benefit experienced in
      response to physical rehabilitation in Veterans with Parkinson's disease (PD), and (2) to use
      that knowledge to identify subpopulations of patients that may require rehabilitative
      strategies tailored to their genotype to optimize physical rehabilitation. To achieve these
      goals the investigators will enroll 30 Veterans with PD in a 10-week moderate intensity gait
      training program consisting of 2 times per week treadmill training with verbal cues for gait
      quality. Aim 1 will examine the association between variants in 2 genes known to affect
      cognition and motor learning (APOE- 4 and BDNF-Met66), and motor improvements after gait
      training. Specifically, changes in walking from during and after training will be sensitively
      and objectively assessed using state-of-the-art quantitative gait analysis, and compared
      between three genotype groups (carriers of BDNF-Met66 (N=10), carriers of APOE- 4 (N=10) and
      those not carrying either of those variants (N=10)). Aim 2 will examine the effect of APOE- 4
      and BDNF-Met66 genetic variants on cognitive changes in response to this training program. In
      order to do this the investigators will measure cognitive performance pre- and post-training
      using a brief, targeted battery aimed at assessing attention, processing speed, executive
      function, and learning/memory, the domains more affected, and more likely to improve with
      physical exercise in PD. The investigators will test the hypothesis that Veterans with PD who
      carry an APOE- 4 or BDNF-Met66 allele will demonstrate smaller improvements in gait (Aim 1)
      and cognition (Aim 2) in response to a 10-week gait training program. Overall the results of
      this project will enhance the investigators' knowledge regarding the influence of different
      genetic profiles in the response to physical rehabilitation in Veterans with PD, and will
      generate supporting data that will translate to more personalized and effective
      rehabilitation programs for people with PD.
    
  