
    
      Investigation of the causes of genetic defects relating to hereditary urologic malignancies
      will be undertaken. These rare disorders result from inherited or newly arising mutations in
      genes involved in the development and function of different organ systems. As specific
      disease syndromes are recognized and the responsible genes identified, mutations in
      individual families can be identified. Correlation of mutation sites with clinical
      information will help determine how specific gene segments encode important functional
      protein domains.

      Families with urologic malignant disorders of known or suspected genetic basis will be
      enrolled. Genetic linkage studies will include all available family members, while gene
      sequence analysis will be performed on affected individuals. Unaffected family members or
      unrelated normal individuals will serve as controls. The family members will be identified by
      the proband or proband's parent when the initial pedigree is taken. Subjects considered by
      the investigators to be appropriate for linkage studies will be invited to participate by the
      local genetics provider or by the investigators, who will then connect these members to their
      own local providers for enrollment.

      In our studies of inherited urologic malignant disorders, there may be individuals from renal
      cancer families who do not undergo clinical evaluation for the presence of an inherited
      urologic malignant disorder at the National Institutes of Health because of their health
      problems, geographical location, or personal preference. Even though these individuals do not
      undergo a clinical evaluation of their suspected inherited urologic malignant disorder at the
      National Institutes of Health, they may have rare diseases that are extremely important to
      study. Therefore, we intend to collect blood samples for genetic studies from these
      individuals to facilitate linkage analysis and disease gene identification. Samples will be
      collected either by the individual's physician and sent to NIH, or will be collected by NIH
      physicians at either the individual's off-site location or at the NIH.
    
  