
    
      Population: The investigators will recruit 104 children ages 12-24 months from daycare
      centers in the Houston and surrounding areas.

      Study design: The study will be conducted at daycare centers and will consist of three phases
      - a 'lead in period' (two weeks) where baseline measurements will be taken followed by an
      'Introductory period' (three weeks) where the new food will be introduced on three days
      during snack time for three weeks. The introductory phase will be followed by the
      'intervention period' (three weeks) where children will receive daily servings of hummus and
      vegetables.

      Lead in period (two weeks): Two 24-hour dietary recalls will be conducted on each child
      (parent-report); one 24-hour dietary recall (over a weekend) will be conducted on each parent
      (self-report). Three dirty diapers will be collected within the time span of a week for
      microbiome analysis.

      Introductory period (three weeks): Since children typically take several introductions of a
      new food to accept it, and the investigators wish to ensure a high acceptance of hummus, the
      investigators will spend three weeks introducing the food. The food will be provided on three
      days during snack time for three weeks. Prior to introducing the food, children will receive
      a 'lesson' involving information about vegetables using a combination of songs, rhymes and
      craft activities. Following the lesson, hummus and vegetables will be provided in the hummus
      group; vegetables only in the control group. Hummus will be provided in a pre-packaged 2
      ounce serving cup; vegetables will conform to age-appropriate servings designated by the
      American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) and will consist of soft vegetables (e.g., winter
      squash) and lightly steamed, but chilled, hard vegetables (e.g., carrots, broccoli).

      Intervention period (three weeks): Similar to the introductory period, a serving of either
      hummus and vegetables or vegetables only will be provided to the children during snack time.
      The food will be provided daily for three weeks. In the final week of the intervention
      period, two 24-hour dietary recalls (one weekday and one weekend) will be conducted on the
      child (parent-report). In addition, one weekend 24-hour dietary recall will be conducted on
      the parent (self-report). Three dirty diapers will be collected on the child during the final
      week for microbiome analysis.
    
  