
    
      Study design

      All patients with symptoms compatible with pancreatic cancer living in the northern catchment
      area of the Capital Region of Copenhagen, Denmark, are referred to Dept. of Surgery, Hospital
      of North Zealand for further investigations. Cases diagnosed with pancreatic cancer are
      discussed at a regional Multi-Disciplinary-Team (MDT) conference and either referred for
      surgery or chemotherapy or receive best supportive care in Dept. of Surgery. The Palliative
      Care Unit at Hospital of North Zealand covers the same geographical area with 310,000
      inhabitants.

      Patients referred to Dept. of Surgery and diagnosed with pancreatic cancer are offered
      participation in this study. All participants will receive home-visits from the palliative
      care team every four weeks, starting within three weeks from diagnosis and until end-of-life
      or cure without residual palliative needs.

      The study design chosen is a quasi-experimental design using historical control patients for
      the primary outcome: use of health care services (acute hospital admissions, days in
      hospital) and the secondary outcomes: survival and place of death. The historical control
      patients were diagnosed before the introduction of early palliative care. The outcomes are
      readily available from patient records and are expected to carry a very low risk of
      registration bias. Palliative care needs at referral in the study group will be compared with
      palliative care needs in the subgroup of historical control patients referred to palliative
      care on-demand.

      Demographic data will be collected for participants and historical controls to evaluate if
      any selection bias or other systematic differences exist between the groups.

      For outcomes where unbiased historical control data are not available a prospective
      observational approach is used. These include symptom burden, psychological health and
      satisfaction with care.

      The study will include 40-50 patients and their carers from September 2019 to September 2020.

      Recruitment and informed consent

      Recruitment to this project will take place in Dept. of Surgery, Hospital of North Zealand to
      which all patients suspected of having pancreatic cancer and living in the northern catchment
      area of the Capital Region of Copenhagen will be referred for further investigations. The
      patients will be informed about their diagnosis by the responsible surgeon in the outpatient
      clinic in an undisturbed environment. The patients will then be informed about the
      possibility of participation in the present study. They will receive both oral and written
      information about the project and will be allowed enough time to consider participation
      before deciding, as long as it allows contact to the palliative care team within three weeks
      from diagnosis. It is expected that most patients will come to Dept. of Surgery with a family
      member or friend, as they are aware that they will receive the results from the
      investigations performed. However, patients will be informed that they have a right to come
      back for further information about the protocol accompanied by a family member or any other
      person they want to bring. They will meet either a surgeon or a palliative care physician who
      can give further information and answer any possible questions at this meeting.

      Written informed consent will be obtained before any protocol related procedures are
      performed.

      Carers will receive separate oral and written information either on the same day as the
      patient or when meeting the palliative care team on the first visit. Carers will sign a
      separate consent form if they want to participate in the study. Carers have the same rights
      as the patients regarding time for consideration and further information before signing the
      consent form.

      Palliative Care Intervention

      Patients and carers will be seen on home-visits. The first time they will meet a doctor and
      usually also a nurse, while follow-up home-visits can be undertaken by either a doctor or a
      nurse. Home-visits are scheduled every four weeks. Patients can contact a doctor or a
      specialised nurse on weekdays for consultation. The palliative care nurse will contact a
      palliative care physician if needed for change of treatment or other reasons. Palliative care
      is offered in parallel with any specific cancer treatment given.

      The patients will receive standard palliative care including treatment of symptoms (e.g.
      pain, nausea, weight loss, loss of appetite, diarrhoea or fatigue), psychosocial support,
      physiotherapy, nutritional counselling and advance care planning, depending on their needs.
      The palliative care team comprises physicians, nurses, a physiotherapist and a chaplain.
      Patients and/or carers scoring 8 or more on HADS for anxiety and/or depression will be
      advised to be referred to a psychologist via their general practitioner.

      Change from standard of care

      Patients with pancreatic cancer are normally referred to palliative care when the surgeon,
      oncologist or general practitioner taking care of them find that they are not able to meet
      their palliative care needs, or if the patients and their families request a referral. Most
      patients are referred late in their trajectory and only half of the patients are referred. We
      do not know whether patients not referred to palliative care in the routine setting have
      palliative care needs, whether they are met by other physicians or whether they have unsolved
      palliative care needs.

      Patients accepting inclusion in the project will get specialised palliative care throughout
      their trajectory, within three weeks after diagnosis until end-of-life or cure without
      residual palliative care needs.

      Both patients participating in the project and patients referred on-demand will receive
      four-weekly visits in their homes. Patients participating in the project are guaranteed that
      the first visit will take place within three weeks after diagnosis, whereas patients referred
      on-demand might have to wait longer before they meet the palliative care team.
    
  