
    
      Background:

        -  Belinostat is a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor. HDACs are frequently deregulated
           in cancer cells, leading to an increase in deacetylation and the silencing of genes that
           normally control cell cycle arrest and apoptosis.

        -  Belinostat has growth inhibitory activity in several malignancies in vitro and in vivo,
           both as a single agent and in combination with chemotherapeutic agents. Several Phase I
           and II clinical trials have been conducted to date in patients with solid tumor and
           hematologic malignancies; belinostat has been generally well tolerated.

        -  Belinostat is metabolized in the liver and therefore, the safety and dosing of
           belinostat needs to be established in patients with varying degrees of hepatic
           dysfunction.

      Objectives:

        -  Establish the safety and tolerability of belinostat given on days 1 through 5 of 21-day
           cycles to patients with varying degrees of liver dysfunction.

        -  Define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended dose of belinostat given on days
           1 through 5 of 21-day cycles to patients with varying degrees of liver dysfunction.

        -  Evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of one dose of belinostat (400 mg/m(2)) in patients
           with varying degrees of liver dysfunction.

        -  Obtain preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity at tolerable doses of belinostat in
           patients with varying degrees of liver dysfunction.

        -  Measure direct versus indirect bilirubin levels and correlate these with observed
           toxicities, PK.

      Eligibility:

      -Adults with solid tumors or lymphomas whose disease has progressed after standard therapy or
      who have no acceptable standard treatment options. Patients with normal and varying degrees
      of hepatic dysfunction (mild, moderate, and severe) are eligible.

      Study Design:

      -Patients will be divided into 4 dose escalation cohorts based on their level of liver
      dysfunction. Belinostat will be administered intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes. On day -7
      (Cycle 1 only), all patients will receive a single dose of 400 mg/m(2) belinostat. On days 1
      through 5 of each cycle, patients will receive belinostat at a dose dependent on the level of
      hepatic dysfunction and dose level. Mild, moderate, and severe liver dysfunction cohorts will
      begin on dose level 1; patients with normal hepatic function will not have their dose
      escalated (see below). The total length of Cycle 1 will be 28 days; all other cycles will be
      21 days. No more than 12 evaluable patients with normal hepatic function will be accrued.
    
  