
    
      The primary hypothesis is that there will be a significantly greater reduction in measured
      levels of air contaminants among workers in the intervention group than in the comparison
      group. The primary outcome of interest is workplace chemical exposure reduction.

      In addition, the secondary hypotheses are:

        1. The proportion of workers who have increased knowledge of workplace chemical exposure
           reduction (WCER) will be significantly greater in the intervention group than in the
           comparison group.

        2. The proportion of workers who report having modified behavioral and environmental
           factors that facilitate WCER will increase significantly more in the intervention group
           than the comparison group.

        3. The proportion of workers with decreased work-related health problems will be greater in
           the intervention group than the comparison group.

      As part of the secondary analyses, the investigators will also examine whether changes in
      knowledge and behavior are associated with workplace chemical exposure reduction and also
      whether changes in workplace chemical exposure are associated with improved health. The
      specific aims are to:

        1. Enhance existing workplace chemical exposure reduction (WCER) education materials and
           survey instruments that target Vietnamese nail salon owners and workers.

        2. Implement an owner-to-worker intervention to administer the WCER education materials.

        3. Evaluate the effectiveness of the owner-to-worker WCER intervention for:

             1. reducing the primary outcome of measured personal levels of air contaminants (e.g.,
                toluene, methyl methacrylate, methyl ethyl ketone, and total volatile organic
                compounds) in workers;

             2. influencing the secondary outcomes which include:

           i) increasing worker knowledge of WCER

           ii) modifying behavioral and environmental factors that promote WCER
    
  