
    
      The splanchnic circulation contains a highly compliant venous bed which normally stores ~25%
      of the blood volume, and receives up to 25% of the resting cardiac output. It is highly
      innervated by the sympathetic nervous system, and this neural regulation results in large
      volume shifts that modulate blood pressure (BP). The splanchnic circulation may play a role
      in hypertension as suggested by studies showing that surgical splanchnic denervation
      effectively lowered BP in hypertensive subjects without affecting renal function. Recently,
      studies in animal models have shown that splanchnic sympathetic activation, particularly to
      capacitance vessels, was critical to the development of hypertension. The clinical
      translation of these findings to human hypertension has lagged behind because of limitations
      in previously available experimental approaches. The investigators propose to use splanchnic
      radionuclide plethysmography and sympathetic withdrawal with the ganglionic blocker
      trimethaphan to overcome these limitations.

      Several studies have shown that sympathetic activity contributes to hypertension.
      Accordingly, our previous studies showed that sympathetic withdrawal with the ganglionic
      blocker trimethaphan resulted in normalization of BP in hypertensive subjects. Interestingly,
      this was caused mainly by a fall in stroke volume, rather than a decrease in arterial
      vascular resistance suggesting that decreased venous return may play a major role, and that a
      sympathetically mediated contraction of splanchnic capacitance contributes to the maintenance
      of hypertension.

      The investigators hypothesize that the decrease in BP induced by autonomic blockade with
      trimethaphan results from an increase in splanchnic capacitance leading to a reduction in
      venous return. To test this hypothesis, the investigators will compare the effect of
      sympathetic withdrawal on splanchnic capacitance between hypertensive and normotensive
      subjects. Splanchnic venous capacitance will be measured by radionuclide plethysmography.
      Abdominal blood volumes will be measured using labeled red cells with technetium-99 while
      applying different levels of continuous positive airway pressure.

      In addition, the investigators will assess whether changes in splanchnic capacitance measured
      by bioimpedance are similar to those measured by radionuclide imaging. For this purpose, the
      investigators will compare the effects of nitroglycerin on splanchnic capacitance measured by
      the two techniques.
    
  