
    
      It is a protocol opened, multicentric, led to end to increase a) the rate of complete
      responses, b) the duration of the response, c) the free survival of disease and d) the global
      survival.

      The included subjects will be patients with primary or secondary AML that they have not
      achieved the CR after the standard treatment with an anthracycline or derivative associated
      with Ara-C or have relapsed in the first 12 months after having achieved the RC. Also
      patients with AML that, for any reason, they could not receive the standard treatment with
      anthracycline and Ara-C, will be included

      Cycle of induction. The patients will be treated by FLAT according to the following scheme:

        -  FLUDARABINE, 30 mg/m2 i.v. (In 1 hour) on the 1st to 4.

        -  CITARABINE, 2 g/m2 i.v. (In 4 hours), four hours after finishing the fludarabine, on the
           1st to 4.

        -  TOPOTECAN, 1,5 mg/m2 i.v. (In 4 hours), four hours after finishing the cytarabine, on
           the 1st to 4.

      When the patient starts recovering the hematological counts, and providing that has not
      blasts in the peripheral blood (SP), he will become a medullar revision (MO):

        -  If MO presents severe hypocellularity without blasts,no therapeutic measurement will
           take and there will repeat revisions weekly and MDR's study up to the CR or the blasts
           appearance.

        -  If in MO persist blasts (>5 %) but have diminished less than 50 % of the initial number,
           the induction will be continued by the FLAT's second shift.

        -  If in MO persists more than 50 % of blasts of the initial number, the patient goes out
           of the protocol and it will be treated as an agreement by the criterion of the center.

      The patients who have managed to enter CR will receive a cycle of consolidation as soon as
      possible and always within 2 months from the day in which they received first FLAT's dose.
      The cycle of consolidation consists of another FLAT's scheme to the same doses.
    
  