
    
      A brief overview of the study: To test the working hypothesis of the study, the investigators
      propose to study 60 chronic migraine (CM)/high-frequency episodic migraine (HFEM) patients in
      4 visits to the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) Comprehensive Headache Center
      and 2 visits to the imaging center at McLean Hospital. The first 3 visits to BIDMC
      Comprehensive Headache Center and the first visit to McLean Hospital will take place before
      treatment, whereas the 4th visit to BIDMC Comprehensive Headache Center and the second visit
      to McLean Hospital will take place 3 months after initiation of treatment. In these visits,
      the investigators will collect medical and headache history, perform a physical examination,
      administer and review subjects' e-diary, and perform functional and structural fMRI brain
      imaging (see flow chart).

      Overall study design: Experimental prospective study involving identification of neurological
      effects after treatment of CM and HFEM with galcanezumab - an anti-CGRP-monoclonal antibody
      (mAb).

      Design methodologies: Open-label treatment study comparing the effects of galcanezumab on
      neurological functioning and brain structure in super-responders, responders and
      non-responders among CM and HFEM patients.

      Primary goal: To determine whether galacanezumab - a drug that acts mainly outside the brain
      - reverses abnormal brain functioning in CM and HFEM patients. For this study, signs of
      abnormal brain functioning include triggering of migraine by deviation from homeostasis
      (prodromes, sleep deprivation, skipping meals) and abnormal sensitivity to sensory stimuli
      (light, noise, smell, auras).

      Key details of study implementation: The study includes CM and HFEM patients. The
      intervention is galacanezumab (Emgality™). Galcanezumab is an anti-CGRP-mAb approved by the
      FDA for the prophylactic treatment of migraine. Because this is not an efficacy study, the
      primary endpoint will not include reduction in number of migraine/headache days per month.
      Rather, the primary endpoints of the study will include the following: incidence of
      prodromes, incidence of triggers, sensitivity to light, noise and smell during and in between
      attacks, and incidence of aura (as determined by filling the e-diary), gray mater thickness
      and connectivity strength between brain areas involved in migraine (as determined by fMRI).
      Each patient will be scheduled to visit the headache clinic at BIDMC 4 times and the McLean
      Hospital Pain Imaging Center twice (a total of 6 hospital visits). Visits 1 and 6 (at BIDMC)
      will take 1 hour. Visits 2 and 4 (at BIDMC) will take 30 min. Visits 3 and 5 (at McLean
      Hospital) will take 2 hours. In addition, each patient will have to fill a daily diary for 4
      months (estimated to take 5 minutes per day), and will receive a 5 minute weekly phone call
      from a study coordinator.

      Participants will undergo the following procedures:

        1. Medical and Headache history at BIDMC (questionnaire filled by patients and reviewed by
           Drs. Ashina and Burstein)

        2. Physical examination including measurements of vital signs at BIDMC (performed by Dr.
           Ashina).

        3. E-diary education and administration by study coordinator.

           a. The diary e-diary will be administered in the form of a REDCap survey using an email
           link that participants can access from their personal computer/electronic device.

        4. 2 fMRI sessions at McLean Hospital by Dr. Borsook (see attached protocol from Dr.
           Borsook at McLean Hospital)

        5. Administration of galcanezumab by Dr. Ashina at BIDMC.

        6. Self administration of galcanezumab at home

      McLean Hospital part of the study: Patients recruited to the study at BIDMC and deemed
      eligible to participate in the study (per the results of visits 1 and 2), will be referred to
      McLean Hospital for the fMRI scanning. All fMRI scanning will take place at McLean Hospital
      under the supervision of our Co-investigator Dr. David Borsook. Subjects will travel to
      McLean Hospital and be met by the research coordinator at McLean, Jaymin Upadhyay, to escort
      them to the MRI scanning area. The McLean MRI staff will review the subject's MRI safety
      checklist and prep the subjects for scanning.Each patient will be scanned twice, once before
      initiation of treatment with galcanezumab and a second time on day 115 of the study, after
      being on galcanezumab for about 3 months. Image acquisition will be performed with a Siemens
      Systems 3 Tesla MRI scanner equipped with a 32-channel head coil. For each patient, a
      high-resolution, T1-weighted magnetization-prepared rapid gradient-echo sequence will be
      acquired [slices = 176, field of view = 220 x 220, echo time = 1.74, repetition time = 2520,
      flip angle = 7°, resolution = 1 x 1 mm, slice thickness = 1 mm, no gap]. Preprocessing for
      the surface-based morphometric analysis will be performed using FreeSurfer (version 5.3.0)
      (http://surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu), a semi-automated toolbox for cortical surface
      reconstruction and visualization Affine registration of the T1-weighted volume to Talairach
      space is then performed, followed by skull stripping, white matter (WM) segmentation and
      tessellation of the gray/white matter boundary. Visual inspection and manual correction of
      topological errors are carried out at each processing step. Following reconstruction of the
      cortical surface, brains will be inflated, averaged across patients to produce a
      study-specific brain, and then smoothed using a 10 mm full-width at half maximum Gaussian
      kernel. Each hemisphere will be parcellated into 34 distinct regions using the
      Desikan-Killiany atlas. A direct measure of cortical thickness will then be calculated using
      the shortest distance (mm) between the pial surface and gray-white matter boundary at each
      point or vertex of the cortical mantle.
    
  