
    
      Background : Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is an autosomal dominant disease characterized
      by unexplained hypertrophy of the left ventricle, often with predominant involvement of the
      interventricular septum, and characterized by myocyte disarray and fibrosis.

      HCM is the most common familial heart disease with strong genetic heterogeneity, demonstrated
      over the past 20 years. Mutations in 11 or more genes encoding proteins of the cardiac
      sarcomere are responsible for (or associated with) HCM.

      However, 30-40% of sporadic and familial cases of HCM are still genetically unlabelled. In
      addition, secondary HCM caused by Fabry's disease or amyloidosis, may mimic primary HCM and
      may be under diagnosed. This may result in a delay in accurate diagnosis and instauration of
      specific treatment, with possible clinical consequences for the patients.

      Objectives : For these reasons, we decided to apply a new diagnostic strategy for patients
      with newly diagnosed HCM, including the whole exome sequencing (WES) technology.

        1. Main objective: to evaluate the additional diagnostic value of the new proposed strategy
           for the identification of a specific cause of HCM as compared with conventional
           diagnostic strategy

        2. Secondary objectives:

      To evaluate the frequency of secondary HCM (Fabry's disease, amyloidosis, mitochondrial
      cardiomyopathies, and others) observed by this systematic screening in a population of newly
      diagnosed HCM

      Perspectives: If correctly applied, this new technology has the potential to strongly reduce
      the diagnostic wavering leading to earlier diagnosis and genetic counseling in sarcomeric HCM
      and rarer forms of secondary HCM including Fabry's disease and amyloidosis, and also specific
      therapy set-up in secondary forms of HCM. It should also allow identifying new genes
      responsible for HCM.
    
  