
    
      This study focuses on an underserved, understudied population: African American and White
      homebound persons with dementia and their caregivers (CGs). Severe dementia, frailty,
      multiple disabling co-morbid diseases, lack of transportation, inability to afford or obtain
      a sitter for the care recipient (CR), and lack of time in a CG's burdened daily schedule may
      prevent care dyads (caregivers and their family member with dementia) from receiving services
      in primary care settings and from participating in clinical studies. Homebound issues may be
      particularly important for African American CGs, yet the minority CG literature has not
      addressed relevant issues for homebound dyads. Nor are the chronic needs of homebound
      dementia care dyads adequately attended by the current home health care system, which now
      focuses on skilled nursing care. This study has been designed to address these research
      deficits. The study will examine the benefit (through improving depression, anxiety, and
      health perception) and the cost-effectiveness of home-based dementia caregiving
      interventions, with attention to both the informal care provided by the CG and the use of
      formal care services.

      Care dyads will be randomized to either Usual Care or Enhanced Care. Both Usual Care and
      Enhanced Care caregivers will receive usual home health care delivered by home health nurses
      on the schedule determined by the patient's needs and set by the home care agency. For the
      Enhanced Care caregivers, to ensure protocol adherence, using the same schedule as the home
      health visits, trained interventionists from the research staff will deliver the
      intervention. The interventionists will teach dementia family caregivers to cope with
      difficult care recipient behaviors and challenges to caregiving and will teach caregivers how
      to cope with their own responses to caregiving. Following established protocols and using
      fifth grade level pamphlets and educational material, the interventionists will tailor the
      intervention sessions to meet the individual needs of each care dyad in their own home
      environment. Enhanced Care sessions will not exceed 60 minutes. Research specialists will
      perform data collection visits in the care dyads' homes at baseline, within 2 weeks of home
      care ending and six months.
    
  