
    
      We will determine the incidence of virologic and clinical reactivation of HBV during DAA
      treatment for CHC, in two prophylactic groups versus control group. We will also examine
      whether extending the duration of prophylactic NUC would be more beneficial than the 3-month
      prophylaxis regimen.

      Patients with the following criteria will be enrolled: age ≥20 years; anti-HCV positive and
      HCV RNA >1000 IU/ml; any HCV genotype; all received 12 weeks of DAA treatment; treatment
      naïve or experienced of pegylated interferon/ribavirin; concurrent HBV infection which is
      defined by positive HBsAg for at least 6 months. Patients with the following criteria will be
      excluded: history of treatment regimen that included any kind of direct antiviral agents;
      presence of other etiology of chronic hepatitis including HIV, autoimmune hepatitis, NASH,
      etc; uncontrolled diabetes mellitus (Hba1c >8.5); current evidence or suspicion of
      malignancy; severe cardiovascular or other severe comorbid diseases; autoimmune disorders;
      presence of liver cirrhosis clinically or pathologically; any one of following hematology or
      biochemical or clinical abnormalities: AST/ALT >10x ULN, Albumin <3.5g/dL, Bilirubin
      >2.5mg/dL, eGFR <30 ml/min/1.73m2, prothrombin time prolongation >4 sec or INR >1.7, platelet
      count <100 x 103 uL, and history or presence of ascites or hepatic encephalopathy;
      child-bearing age women without the willing to contraceptive control; and pregnant women or
      lactating women.

      Briefly, 60 HCV/HBV coinfected patients will be enrolled and randomized to receive 12-week
      DAA regimen for reimbursed for the the treatment of patients with CHC in Taiwan.

      Entecavir (0.5mg; ETV) 1 # daily will be used in the prophylactic group. Group 1 patients
      (n=20) will receive 12-week ETV from the start of DAA therapy. Group 2 patients (n=20) will
      receive 24-week ETV from the start of DAA till 12 weeks after end of DAA. Group 3 patients
      (n=20) will not receive ETV during the period of DAA and serve as controls. The rate of HBV
      reactivation and clinical reactivation will be compared among 3 groups of patients.

      The primary endpoint will be the incidence of virologic and clinical reactivation of HBV
      during DAA treatment for CHC. Secondary objectives include the rate of HBV virologic and
      clinical reactivation between 12-week versus 24-week entecavir (ETV) prophylaxis during and
      after DAA treatment; the profiles of serum HBV DNA/qHBsAg during and after DAA treatment; and
      sustained virological response at post-DAA treatment 12 weeks (SVR12).

      The data will be expressed as percentages for category variables and as mean +- standard
      deviation for continuous variables. Category variables will be evaluated by Chi-square test
      or Fisher exact test. Student's t test or Mann-Whitney U test will be applied for comparison
      of the continuous variables. Multivariate analysis will be used to identify factors that are
      associated with HBV reactivation. A p value less than 0.05 is considered to be significant.
    
  