
    
      1. Breast Cancer

           The American Cancer Society estimates that there will be approximately 215,990 new cases
           of breast cancer diagnosed in women during 2004 in the United States. Breast cancer is
           the most common malignancy in women in the United States and the second leading cause of
           cancer death in women.

           Treatment options for breast cancer have evolved from extensive surgical approaches to
           breast-conserving techniques and the use of adjuvant and neo-adjuvant chemotherapy,
           radiation, and endocrine therapy to reduce the risk of recurrence.

        2. Chemotherapy in Breast Cancer

           The use of adjuvant chemotherapy is a well established and routine part of care for
           breast cancer. Chemotherapy can reduce a woman's risk of recurrence by 25-30%. The
           amount of risk reduction depends on the patient's age, nodal status, and hormone
           receptor status.

           Anthracycline-based chemotherapy is standard in the treatment of breast cancer with
           doxorubicin being the most frequently used agent in this group. Currently the most
           commonly used chemotherapy regimens for breast cancer include: *
           doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide (AC) * fluorouracil/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide (FAC) *
           cyclophosphamide/methotrexate/fluorouracil (CMF) *
           docetaxel/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide (TAC) * fluorouracil/epirubicin/cyclophosphamide
           (FEC) * single agent taxanes (paclitaxel and docetaxel) Except for the taxanes, these
           agents are known to cause significant nausea and vomiting after administration.

           Cancer drugs differ both quantitatively and qualitatively in their emetogenic potential.
           Emetogenic potential can be influenced by chemotherapy-related characteristics and
           patient characteristics.

        3. Gastrointestinal Side Effects of Chemotherapy

      Nausea and vomiting following administration of chemotherapy for cancer are among the most
      significant and feared side effects of patients undergoing treatment. Despite continued
      advances in pharmacology, the ability to prevent or control nausea, vomiting, or retching
      remains a problem for patients. Research has confirmed that chemotherapy related nausea and
      vomiting negatively affects quality of life. Among patients, the same level of nausea and
      vomiting varies in effect on quality of life. It is difficult to substantiate the degree of
      this effect, but it has been shown that even with serotonin antagonists, patients still rank
      nausea as their most bothersome chemotherapy side effect, while vomiting is ranked as third
      to fifth most bothersome.

      The risk for chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting is related to the anti-neoplastic
      agents administered and to patient related factors. Emetogenic potential is affected by the
      intrinsic emetogenicity of the chemotherapy drugs, the combination of agents, the doses
      administered and the rate of administration. Patient related factors include: 1.
      gender-increased risk in females 2. age-increased risk in younger, premenopausal patients 3.
      history of alcohol intake-low chronic intake decreases risk 4. history of motion
      sickness-increases risk 5. hyperemesis during pregnancy-increases risk.

      Emesis is a complex phenomenon characterized by three components: nausea, vomiting, and
      retching. Nausea is a subjective phenomenon of an unpleasant sensation in the epigastrium and
      in the back of the throat that may or may not culminate in vomiting; it is also described as
      feeling "sick at the stomach." Nausea exists only insofar as it is defined by the patient.
      Vomiting is the forceful expulsion of the contents of the stomach, duodenum and jejunum
      through the oral cavity as a result of changes in intrathoracic positive pressure. It is also
      described as "throwing up." Retching, also called "dry heaves," is the attempt to vomit
      without expelling any material.

      Drugs used to improve the control of nausea and vomiting include serotonin antagonists,
      dopamine antagonist (metoclopramide, prochlorperazine), corticosteroids, benzodiazepines, and
      phenothiazines. The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) has developed clinical
      practice guidelines for the management of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting based on
      the emetogenic potential of the agents being administered. For combinations with moderate
      emetogenic potential, acute emesis is managed with a corticosteroid and serotonin receptor
      antagonists. Serotonin receptor antagonists currently available include ondansetron,
      granisetron, and dolasetron. Studies indicate they are equally effective in the management of
      chemotherapy-related nausea/vomiting/retching. Delayed emesis (greater than 24 hours
      post-chemotherapy) can be controlled with a number of agents including steroids, serotonin
      receptor antagonists or metoclopramide. Recommended combinations include dexamethasone, 8 mg
      for 2-3 days, then 4 mg for 1-2 days and metoclopramide, 20-40 mg twice daily to four times
      daily for 3-4 days, or Zofran 8 mg twice daily for 3 days. With combination chemotherapy,
      patients should receive the antiemetic regimens appropriate for the chemotherapy agent with
      the highest emetic risk.

      Drugs used to improve the control of nausea and vomiting include serotonin antagonists,
      dopamine antagonist (metoclopramide, prochlorperazine), corticosteroids, benzodiazepines, and
      phenothiazines. The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) has developed clinical
      practice guidelines for the management of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting based on
      the emetogenic potential of the agents being administered. For combinations with moderate
      emetogenic potential, acute emesis is managed with a corticosteroid and serotonin receptor
      antagonists. Serotonin receptor antagonists currently available include ondansetron,
      granisetron, and dolasetron. Studies indicate they are equally effective in the management of
      chemotherapy-related nausea/vomiting/retching. Delayed emesis (greater than 24 hours
      post-chemotherapy) can be controlled with a number of agents including steroids, serotonin
      receptor antagonists or metoclopramide. Recommended combinations include dexamethasone, 8 mg
      for 2-3 days, then 4 mg for 1-2 days and metoclopramide, 20-40 mg twice daily to four times
      daily for 3-4 days, or Zofran 8 mg twice daily for 3 days. With combination chemotherapy,
      patients should receive the antiemetic regimens appropriate for the chemotherapy agent with
      the highest emetic risk.

      Studies done with standard antiemetics in women undergoing treatment with anthracycline-based
      chemotherapy for breast cancer show a success rate for emetic control in the range of 60-65%.
      4. Measurement of Nausea, Vomiting, and Retching

      It remains difficult to compare clinical studies of nausea and vomiting because of the
      variety of measurement tools utilized and the variable time periods that were monitored
      following chemotherapy. The ideal tool would include assessment of: 1. duration and severity
      of nausea 2. frequency, duration, and severity of vomiting/retching 3. number of antiemetics
      utilized 4. impact of nausea and vomiting on quality of life 5. adverse effects experienced

      5. Proton Pump Inhibitors

      Despite utilization of the antiemetics recommended by ASCO, approximately one-third of
      patients undergoing anthracycline-based chemotherapy still develop nausea and vomiting. A
      current therapeutic challenge is to find and prove methods to control nausea and vomiting
      after chemotherapy.

      Although the pathophysiology of nausea and vomiting is not well understood, we know that
      chemotherapy causes damage to the gastrointestinal (GI) mucosa. The pathobiology of the
      mucosal damage has been reviewed by Blijlevens and can be divided into four phases: the
      inflammatory phase, the epithelial phase, the ulcerative/bacteriological phase and the
      healing phase. This mucosal injury is usually self-limiting with a complete cycle of injury
      to healing lasting approximately 2-3 weeks. The mucosal damage can be increased in patients
      receiving chemotherapy and corticosteroids which breast cancer patients require as
      pre-medications. Since cytotoxic chemotherapy damages the mucosal lining, it leaves the GI
      mucosa exposed to the normal acid-producing gastric parietal cells. The resultant damage has
      been seen endoscopically in patients receiving chemotherapy with cytosine arabinoside. Hence,
      suppression of acid secretion from the gastric parietal cells should reduce mucosal injury
      and related symptoms.

      Historical therapies for gastrointestinal distress have included anticholinergics, as well as
      H-2 receptor antagonists, to help reduce acid secretion. H-2 receptor blockers were effective
      by blocking the histamine driven acid secretion, but despite its targeted action, acid
      production continues through alternative pathways. Recently a group of new agents known as
      proton pump inhibitors have been developed which target the final common pathway of acid
      secretion. These agents are known to act directly on the H+/K+-ATPase in the gastric parietal
      cell. Since these agents act directly on the final stimulatory pathway, they provide rapid
      symptom resolution and reliable healing in gastroesophageal reflux disease and peptic ulcer
      disease.

      To date, two large clinical trials have been performed to evaluate the effectiveness of
      proton pump inhibitors in preventing mucosal injury. The first trial selected 182 patients
      with breast cancer (77 pts) or colon cancer (105 pts) who were receiving cyclophosphamide,
      methotrexate and 5-FU (CMF), or 5-FU, respectively. These patients were randomized to receive
      either omeprazole (20 mg daily), misoprostol (a prostaglandin analogue) (400 mg twice daily),
      or placebo (once daily) for two full courses of chemotherapy (56 days). Endoscopic evaluation
      (EGD) was performed one week prior to initiation of chemotherapy and one week after the end
      of the second cycle of chemotherapy comparing the number of erosions/ulcers in the stomach
      and duodenum. The omeprazole group had a lower frequency and degree of erosions compared to
      placebo and misoprostol. Symptoms of epigastric pain and heartburn were also significantly
      less in the omeprazole patients. A second study performed by the same group evaluated
      patients with breast or colon cancer (n=228) receiving either CMF or 5-FU. These patients
      were randomized to receive omeprazole 20 mg daily, ranitidine 300 mg daily (a H2 blocker), or
      placebo once daily for 56 days. EGD was performed as above, before cycle 1 and after cycle 2
      of chemotherapy. The omeprazole group experienced the lowest frequency of ulcers (n=2),
      followed by the ranitidine group (n=8), and the placebo group (n=18). Symptoms of epigastric
      pain or heartburn were also significantly less in the omeprazole arm (n=11) compared to the
      ranitidine (n=13) or placebo (n=24) arms. Chemotherapy was delayed in the placebo and
      ranitidine group, but not in the patients receiving omeprazole. These two trials demonstrate
      the ability of a proton pump inhibitor (omeprazole) to limit the mucosal injury induced by
      chemotherapy. Protecting the mucosa from damage also appeared to significantly decrease the
      frequency of upper GI symptoms. It should be noted that nausea or vomiting was not assessed
      in either trial since various antiemetics were given during chemotherapy.

      Esomeprazole magnesium is the latest proton pump inhibitor that has been developed. It is
      unique in that it is the S- isomer of omeprazole, and as such, has better bioavailability and
      elevated levels compared to the racemic omeprazole. Since the proton pump is the last step in
      acid production, blockade of this pump causes reduction in gastric acidity. This effect is
      dose related up to a dose of 20-40mg daily. Esomeprazole is currently clinically indicated
      for the treatment of erosive esophagitis and symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux disease. In
      addition, it is approved to treat Helicobacter pylori in patients with duodenal ulcer disease
      in conjunction with either amoxicillin or clarithromycin and amoxicillin.
    
  