
    
      Virtual reality exposure therapy (VRE) for the treatment of anxiety disorders has received
      considerable attention. During VRE, a person encounters a feared stimulus in a
      computer-generated environment, often through the use of a head mounted display and motion
      tracker that allows for multisensory input and natural movement. Several advantages of VRE
      have been noted - both clinical, such as treatment acceptability, and methodological, such as
      the ability to conduct exposure in a tightly controlled environment. Empirical support for
      VRE varies across anxiety disorders. Specifically, randomized controlled trials support the
      efficacy of VRE with fear of flying and acrophobia and show that it is equally effective as
      in vivo exposure. These phobias lend themselves well to VRE; the feared stimulus is
      circumscribed and contains powerful physical cues that can be produced within a virtual
      environment. There is less controlled research on the use of VRE for other anxiety disorders.
      The current study examines VRE for social anxiety disorder, which is characterized by fear of
      negative evaluation, and thus may be more difficult to evoke and treat using a virtual
      environment. Further, no research to date has compared VRE and the gold standard treatment
      for social anxiety disorder - cognitive behavioral therapy in a group format.

      The purpose of the current study is to compare VRE and Exposure Group Therapy to wait list in
      a sample of adults meeting criteria for social anxiety disorder with a primary fear of public
      speaking. It is hypothesized that, relative to wait list, those receiving treatment will
      improve on standardized measures of public speaking fears and fears of negative evaluation,
      as well as a behavioral avoidance task. Participants also are expected to maintain treatment
      gains at 3 and 12-month follow-up. Comparisons between the two active treatments also will be
      made.

      Procedure

      Following consent, study candidates completed a phone interview to screen for obvious
      exclusion criteria (e.g., current treatment for social anxiety disorder) and then an
      in-person, pretreatment assessment consisting of the Structured Clinical Interview for the
      DSM-IV (SCID), speech task, and the battery of self-report measures. Eligible participants
      were randomly assigned to virtual reality exposure therapy, exposure group therapy, or wait
      list by simple randomization using a computerized random number generator. Concealment
      procedures were used to prevent foreknowledge of treatment assignment from influencing
      enrollment. Each potential participant had a participant number, which was only known by the
      study coordinator. The first author kept a hard copy of a list linking participant number to
      condition assignment in a locked file drawer. Once a participant was enrolled, the study
      coordinator asked for the treatment condition for a particular participant number. The first
      author had no knowledge of which participant was linked with a participant number, and the
      study coordinator had no knowledge of which participant number was linked with treatment
      condition. Participants assigned to wait list were re-randomized to virtual reality exposure
      therapy or exposure group therapy following the waiting period (Figure 1). Participants
      completed all assessment and treatment sessions at a psychology clinic within at an urban
      research university that is accessible by public transportation.

      Assessments

      Participants completed assessments at pretreatment, posttreatment, and follow-up. Self-report
      outcome measures were completed at each assessment point. Participants were asked to complete
      the behavioral avoidance task at pretreatment and posttreatment. The anxiety, mood, and
      substance use modules of the SCID were administered at pretreatment, and the anxiety module
      was administered at the 3-month follow-up.

      All assessments were conducted by doctoral students who were blind to the type of treatment
      to be received. All pretreatment and follow-up diagnostic assessments were videotaped, and a
      randomly selected subset (N=10) were reviewed by a licensed psychologist to calculate the
      inter-rater reliability of pretreatment assessment (100% agreement for primary diagnosis,
      with one disagreement on severity). Compensation was provided to participants who completed
      the self-report battery of measures administered at posttreatment, 3- and 12-month follow-up.

      Treatment

      Prior to administering therapy, study therapists attended two day training workshops for each
      treatment, led by the developers of the respective treatments. Each study therapist also
      received weekly supervision by the first author. There were 5 study therapists: 2 licensed
      clinical psychologists with experience in manualized treatment, and 3 doctoral students with
      no experience with manualized treatments. All therapists administered both treatments.

      Both treatments were administered according to a manualized protocol for 8 sessions. The VRE
      and EGT treatment groups were designed to be as similar as possible, with the exception of
      the modality for the delivery of exposure. Both treatments began with a treatment rationale
      and psychoeducation about social anxiety disorder. During sessions 2- 8, both treatments
      addressed specific aspects of social anxiety disorder identified in psychopathology
      literature, including self-focused attention, perceptions of self and others, perceptions of
      emotional control, rumination, realistic goal setting for social situations through the use
      of such techniques as cognitive preparation, and challenging of cost and probability biases.
      Session 8 also included relapse prevention. Homework was assigned for both treatments,
      including a daily mirror task, daily record of social situations, and identification of
      cognitive biases.

      Virtual Reality Exposure (VRE)

      Virtual environments included a virtual conference room (~5 audience members), a virtual
      classroom (~35 audience members), and a virtual auditorium (100+ audience members).
      Therapists could manipulate audience reactions in a number of ways including making them
      appear interested, bored, supportive, hostile, distracted (i.e., cell phone ringing). Virtual
      audience members could also pose questions, either standardized (e.g., "I don't understand,
      could you explain again") or tailored to the client using therapist voice-over. Virtual
      environments were manipulated according to the participants fear hierarchy. Participants were
      exposed to each item on their hierarchy until their fear decreased.

      Exposure Group Therapy (EGT)

      EGT was co-led by a licensed clinical psychologist and an advanced doctoral student. Groups
      consisted of up to five participants. During exposure, participants gave a videotaped speech
      in front of the group. Group members were also asked to provide each other with positive
      feedback when the videotaped speeches were reviewed.

      Every effort was made to equate time in exposure across treatment group. Participants
      receiving VRE completed 4 trials of exposure. Because of the risk of simulator sickness
      (e.g., headaches, nausea), exposure trials lasted no longer than 30 minutes, for a total of
      up to 120 minutes. Participants receiving EGT received 6 trials of exposure. The amount of
      time spent on each group member varied according to the number of participants in the group.
      On average, for a group with 4 participants, participants completed 6 trials of exposure for
      20 minutes for a total of 120 minutes.

      Wait List

      After 8 weeks, wait list participants completed the self-report battery. Wait list
      participants were re-randomized to either virtual reality exposure or exposure group therapy
      following the waiting period and received the same 8-week treatment protocol described above.
    
  