
    
      Primary Outcomes (Hypotheses): Breastfeeding

        1. Breastfeeding Intensity at 1,3, and 6 Months- There will be significant differences in
           breastfeeding intensity among the 4 treatment groups. We expect that intensity will be
           greatest in the PNC+LC group, followed by the LC, then the PNC, and Control groups,
           respectively. Intensity will be assessed via 7 day recall of the frequency of breastmilk
           feedings vs. other liquids and solids.

        2. Exclusive Breastfeeding at 1,3, and 6 Months- There will be significant differences in
           the rate of exclusive breastfeeding among the 4 treatment groups. We expect that rates
           of exclusive breastfeeding will be greatest in the PNC+LC group, followed by the LC,
           then the PNC, and Control groups, respectively.

           Secondary Outcomes (Descriptive): Infant Health, and Participant/Provider Experience

        3. To describe the frequency and timing of infant health visits for "breast-feeding
           sensitive" illnesses (i.e., otitis media, gastrointestinal, and respiratory infections)
           by treatment group.

        4. To describe the frequency and timing of infant health visits for "breast-feeding
           sensitive" illnesses by intensity of breastfeeding regardless of group assignment.

        5. To describe participant and provider (LC and PNC) experience of the interventions.

      BINGO is the first RCT in the US of routine provider, primary-care based interventions to
      increase breastfeeding (BF). Government task forces in the US3 and Canada specifically call
      for such trials, as well as trials to assess independent effects of combined interventions.
      BINGO is the first trial to apply strategies derived from the current National Breastfeeding
      Awareness Campaign (NBAC). BINGO will employ the NBAC message-- that exclusive BF for 6
      months reduces infant ear infections, diarrhea, respiratory illness, and perhaps childhood
      obesity. We expect this message will yield greater BF intensity, and thus progress toward
      pending Healthy People 2010 goals for exclusive BF.

      BINGO uses evidence-based strategies in practice, consistent with the NIH roadmap. Its
      interventions are logistically and economically sustainable in clinical practice. They
      support women pre- and post-natally, across multiple care settings (clinic, hospital, home).
      Both Certified Nurse Midwives and Ob/Gyns, deliver the PNC intervention, thus increasing
      generalizability. BINGO now has the enthusiastic support of perinatal nursing, physician, and
      lactation specialist groups. This support, at the outset, provides the foundation for
      effective BINGO interventions to be translated into practice.
    
  