
    
      INTRODUCTION Septic shock is associated with a high mortality risk of up to 30-60%. Multiple
      pathogenic factors can lead to progressive tissue hypoperfusion in the context of severe
      systemic inflammation. However, despite extensive research on the best monitoring and
      resuscitation strategy many uncertainties persist. Over-resuscitation, particularly when
      inducing fluid overload, might contribute to a worse outcome. Fluid overload more likely
      occurs when fluids are administered to fluid unresponsive patients, but also when
      inappropriate resuscitation goals are pursued. The systematic use of bedside techniques to
      determine fluid responsiveness (FR) can help to avoid fluid overload. Moreover, further
      deleterious fluid administration can be prevented by adding the evaluation of hemodynamic
      coherence in parallel or sequentially to FR. Further research on this topic is imperative
      considering not only the extremely high morbidity and mortality of septic shock, but also the
      increasing economic burden over the health system in both developed and low/medium income
      countries.

      CAPILLARY REFILL TIME (CRT) AS A TARGET FOR FLUID RESUSCITATION IN SEPTIC SHOCK The skin
      territory lacks auto-regulatory flow control, and therefore, sympathetic activation impairs
      skin perfusion during circulatory dysfunction, a phenomenon that can be evaluated by
      peripheral perfusion assessment. Abnormal peripheral perfusion after initial or advanced
      resuscitation is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. A cold clammy skin,
      mottling or prolonged CRT have been suggested as triggers for fluid resuscitation in patients
      with septic shock. Moreover, the excellent prognosis associated with CRT recovery, its
      rapid-response time to fluid loading, its relative simplicity, its availability in
      resource-limited settings, and its capacity to change in parallel with perfusion of
      physiologically relevant territories such as the hepatosplanchnic region, constitute strong
      reasons to consider CRT as a target for fluid resuscitation in septic shock patients.

      THE CONCEPT OF A FLUID CHALLENGE Since absolute or relative hypovolemia is almost universally
      present in early septic shock, resuscitation starts with fluid loading in pre-ICU settings.
      Fluid loading is the rapid administration of fluids without necessarily monitoring the
      response in real-time, when confronting severe life-threatening hypotension and
      hypoperfusion. In this setting, usually 20-30 ml/kg crystalloids are loaded.

      If circulatory dysfunction is not resolved with this initial management, patients are
      transferred to the ICU, where advanced fluid resuscitation is started with the fundamental
      objective to increase systemic blood flow. The initial step is assessment of FR.
      Fluid-responsive patients will increase stroke volume >10 to 15% after receiving a fluid
      bolus (usually 250 to 500 ml of crystalloids) since they are in the ascending part of the
      Starling curve. On the contrary, being fluid-unresponsive implies to be in the flat part of
      the curve where fluids will only lead to congestion without increasing stroke volume.

      The standard practice is to perform a fluid challenge in fluid-responsive patient who are
      still hypoperfused. A fluid challenge consists of a fluid bolus, large and rapid enough, to
      increase venous return and cardiac output (CO) in fluid responsive patients, and eventually
      improve tissue perfusion, depending on the status of hemodynamic coherence (see below). Fluid
      is given as a fluid challenge so that response can be assessed looking at the target, and the
      need for ongoing fluid therapy ascertained.

      Very few studies have addressed the best way to perform a fluid challenge. A recent study
      demonstrated that a minimum of 4 ml/kg fluid bolus maximizes the impact on stroke volume. On
      the other hand, the rate of administration is also important. The FENICE study found that the
      most common practice in Europe is to administer 500 ml of crystalloids in 30 minutes as a
      fluid challenge (standard method). However, a more rapid fluid challenge in 5 to 10 minutes
      might exert more beneficial effects on tissue perfusion by inducing a vasodilatory reflex in
      addition to the increase in stroke volume. T

      THE CONCEPT AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE OF HEMODYNAMIC COHERENCE IN SEPTIC SHOCK Hemodynamic
      coherence is the condition in which resuscitation of systemic macrohemodynamic variables
      results in concurrent improvement in regional and microcirculatory flow, and correction of
      tissue hypoperfusion. Loss of coherence in septic shock is associated with increasing organ
      dysfunction and a worse prognosis.

      The relationship between macrocirculation and regional/microcirculatory blood flow is
      conditioned by the predominant pathogenic mechanism at different stages of septic shock. At
      an early stage, hypovolemia and vascular tone depression predominate, leading to low CO and
      hypotension. An increase in systemic blood flow induced by fluids and/or vasopressors
      improves regional and microcirculatory flow at this stage. This suggests that macro- and
      microcirculation are coupled, and should lead to sustained efforts to increase systemic blood
      flow until hypoperfusion-related variables are corrected.

      At a more advanced stage, excessive adrenergic tone (or high-dose vasopressors), and
      microvascular/endothelial inflammation predominate, leading to abnormal regional flow
      distribution, and microcirculatory dysfunction that might not respond to systemic blood flow
      optimization. Microvascular dysfunction occurs because of endothelial dysfunction,
      leukocyte-endothelium interactions, coagulation and inflammatory disorders, hemorheologic
      abnormalities, functional shunting, and as an iatrogenic effect of fluid overload/tissue
      edema.

      Hemodynamic coherence is lost in this advanced stage, and efforts to further increase cardiac
      CO) with fluids or inodilators might lead to fluid overload and the toxicity of vasoactive
      agents without improving tissue perfusion.

      TRACKING THE STATUS OF HEMODYNAMIC COHERENCE IN SEPTIC SHOCK PATIENTS:

      A major risk of ICU-based fluid resuscitation is to induce fluid overload. Administering
      fluids to patients with septic shock after they lost hemodynamic coherence might deteriorate
      tissue oxygenation, even if they are still fluid-responsive in cardiac function terms. This
      is a very important consideration. Assessment of hemodynamic coherence is a step forward over
      the fluid responsiveness concept. This latter looks at the cardiac function curve, but the
      former instead at the holistic relationship between different components of the
      cardiovascular system.

      The problem is that no single static parameter can predict the status of hemodynamic
      coherence, and therefore, fluids are abused and probably contribute to progression to
      refractory shock and death. This is a fundamental contradiction in septic shock resuscitation
      and highlights the difference between the concepts of FR and hemodynamic coherence. As an
      example, patients with capillary leak maintain FR along the process because fluids are
      rapidly lost to the interstitium, and the severe endothelial/microcirculatory dysfunction
      precludes reperfusion. So, these patients are both fluid-responsive and uncoupled. Moreover,
      clinicians in despair keep pushing more fluids to try to correct hypoperfusion, which only
      worsens microcirculatory abnormalities and further impairs perfusion.

      Only a novel dynamic test could reveal if the macrocirculation is still coupled or not to
      regional/microcirculatory blood flow and prevent mismanagement and fluid overload as stated
      above. The hypothesis of AUSTRALIS is that CRT response to a single rapid fluid challenge can
      be used as a novel "hemodynamic coherence test." CRT is a sort of bridge between the two
      worlds (macro-and microcirculation), since it directly represents systemic blood flow (due to
      the lack of autoregulation), and microcirculation. Normalization of CRT represents an
      improvement in regional and microcirculatory skin perfusion secondary to an increase in
      systemic blood flow and/or a reactive decrease in adrenergic tone, thus reflecting
      hemodynamic coherence. On the contrary, CRT non-response after a rapid fluid challenge is
      abnormal and a signal of loss of coherence.

      PATHOPHYSIOLOGICAL DETERMINANTS OF CRT NON-RESPONSE There are many possible explanations on
      why CRT might not respond to a stroke volume increase induced by a fluid challenge. Some of
      these possible mechanisms will be addressed in the proposed study. Adrenergic tone and
      systemic inflammation, and endothelial/coagulation dysfunction will be addressed by a series
      of biomarkers selected to provide a broad overview of systemic inflammatory/anti-inflammatory
      response, and of the transition between endothelial/coagulation activation to established
      dysfunction, plus direct visualization of microcirculatory status under the tongue, and
      assessment of microvascular reactivity.

      CLINICAL RELEVANCE OF THE PRESENT STUDY If the hypothesis is confirmed, CRT-response to a
      rapid fluid challenge could be used as a hemodynamic coherence test, and help to avoid futile
      and dangerous further fluid administration in uncoupled patients, and eventually reduce
      additional iatrogenic-related excess mortality. Fluid resuscitation could then be focused in
      fluid responsive patients in whom hemodynamic coherence is still preserved while other
      perfusion parameters are still not normalized.

      Furthermore, establishing the status of hemodynamic coherence with this simple test in
      pre-ICU or resource-limited settings, could eventually aid in taking triage decisions. CRT
      non-responders who concentrate septic shock mortality might be rapidly transferred to
      hospitals with ICU facilities for advanced monitoring and treatment, including reinforcement
      of source control and eventually rescue therapies.

      At the end, this study will help to position CRT, a costless, universally available, and
      simple test, not only as key target for septic shock resuscitation, but also as a dynamic
      test of the circulatory function that might help clinicians to interpret the stage of
      evolution, and help to take timely and critical decisions on fluid resuscitation beyond the
      concept of fluid responsiveness.

      For research purposes, CRT response is defined by "CRT-normalization", and not by "CRT
      improvement but without normalization" which will be categorized as CRT non-response. This is
      because hemodynamic tests require to be dichotomous to be applied on a decision branch. In
      addition, normalization is the only alternative to get certainty that reperfusion has been
      completed. In any case, partial response will be also included in post-hoc analyses, and the
      results of the test are not of a binding nature for attending intensivists.

      OBJECTIVES AND HYPOTHESIS OR RESEARCH QUESTIONS HYPOTHESIS: In septic shock patients, the
      hemodynamic coherence between systemic, regional and microcirculatory blood flow can be
      tracked by "CRT response to an increase in stroke volume induced by a rapid fluid challenge".
      A parallel improvement in regional blood flow, microcirculation and hypoperfusion-related
      parameters should be expected in CRT-responders as reflection of preserved hemodynamic
      coherence. CRT non-response is associated with a more severe systemic inflammatory state,
      endothelial and microvascular dysfunction, and a higher adrenergic tone.

      GENERAL OBJECTIVE: To determine if CRT response after a rapid fluid challenge signals a state
      of hemodynamic coherence as demonstrated by a parallel improvement in regional and
      microcirculatory blood flow in CRT-responders, and to explore the pathophysiological
      mechanisms associated to CRT non-response.

      SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES

        1. To determine if CRT normalization after an increase in stroke volume (>10%) induced by a
           rapid fluid challenge is associated with a parallel improvement in regional,
           microcirculatory blood flow and perfusion variables.

        2. To determine if the rate of fluid challenge (rapid vs. standard) influences CRT response
           rate.

        3. To determine if CRT non-response is associated with a more severe systemic inflammatory
           state, endothelial and microvascular dysfunction, and a higher adrenergic tone.
    
  