
    
      Headaches following combat-related post-concussive injury are common, and in some patients
      can increase in frequency and severity to become very debilitating. Posttraumatic headaches
      (PTHAs), particularly those following blast-related head injury, can be resistant to standard
      headache therapies. The objective of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the
      medication prazosin as a prophylactic (preventive) agent in treating combat-related PTHAs.
      Prazosin is a generic drug originally marketed over 30 years ago as a treatment for high
      blood pressure. It has subsequently been found to be safe and effective for treating other
      problems, including most recently posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and disrupted sleep in
      active duty Iraq/Afghanistan Service Members and Veterans. In preliminary studies, prazosin
      has also been found to substantially reduce the intensity and frequency of PTHAs in this
      population. This finding is the motivation behind this study.

      The investigators' hypotheses are (1) that prazosin will be more effective than placebo in
      easing the effects of chronic PTHAs, including headache frequency, duration, severity, use of
      abortive/analgesic medications, and disability caused, and (2) that improvement in headache
      parameters will be associated with improvement in sleep quality, PTSD symptom severity, mood,
      cognition, health-related quality of life, and global clinical status, and with moderation of
      alcohol consumption.

      The total trial length is 22 - 24 weeks. Following an initial clinic visit to determine
      preliminary study eligibility, there will be a 4-week pre-treatment preliminary screening
      period, during which participants will keep a daily headache diary. The purpose of this is to
      confirm eligibility for randomization per inclusion/exclusion criteria and to collect
      baseline data for headache-related outcome measures. Participants confirmed to be eligible to
      continue in the study will then have a one-week sleep evaluation including actigraphy and
      keeping a daily sleep diary. This will be followed by a baseline study visit, during which
      baseline data for secondary outcome measures will be collected using validated structured
      self-reports and clinician interviews. Participants will be randomized 2:1 to prazosin or
      placebo, and the study drug dose will be gradually titrated over a 5 to 7-week period to 5 mg
      in the morning and 20 mg in the evening or the maximum tolerated dose. The dose titration
      will be followed by 12 weeks at steady-dose. For the last week of the steady-dose phase,
      participants will repeat the sleep evaluation. Participants will keep a headache log through
      the duration of the study. Results will be analyzed using standard statistical techniques.
    
  