
    
      Data will be analyzed by reviewing the amount of headache days during the treatment period

      Patients will be distributed randomly into either the treatment arm or control arm. Subjects
      will be randomized as they are recruited for the study (i.e. subject 1 treatment, subject 2
      control, subject 3 treatment, etc.) The participants will be distributed by a research
      assistant who will allocate the patients randomly to one of the two arms.

      Both arms will be diagnosed using tenderpoints (Tenderpoints are small tense edematous areas
      of tenderness about the size of a fingertip. They are typically located near bony attachments
      of tendons, ligaments, or in the belly of some muscles).Tenderpoints will be documented and
      stored in a secure flash drive.

      Treatment arm will be treated with an Osteopathic manipulative treatment called counterstrain
      technique. Osteopathic manipulative treatment is a hands on palpation of the tissues to
      diagnose and treat neuromusculoskeletal dysfunction. Counterstrain is a passive manipulative
      technique which the tissue being treated is positioned at a point of balance, or ease, AWAY
      from the restrictive barrier (The most thought of form of manipulative technique is high
      velocity low amplitude which is typically performed by chiropractors in spinal manipulation
      which goes TOWARD the restrictive barrier and actually pass through the restrictive barrier).
      Once a tenderpoint is found in the muscles the area of treatment is placed in a (three
      dimensional) position that will eliminate the sensation (tenderness).The treatment position
      is held for 90 seconds or until a release is felt (release is usually a decrease in the tone
      or muscle tension).

      In the control arm the tenderpoint will Be palpated for 90 seconds with no counterstrain
      treatment applied. (Risk are possible soreness at palpation site though not likely, there is
      no benefit) Both treatment and control groups will remain on their current migraine
      medication regiment.

      They will follow-up with Dr. Deborah Reed, MD, FAHS who is a board certified neurologist and
      headache specialist. This investigator will be blinded to weather the patient received
      counterstrain manipulation or no treatment. The investigator will document the number of
      headache days between follow-up periods.

      After the first treatment follow-up will occur as follows: Week 1, Week 2, Week 4, Week 6,
      Week 10. This is picked somewhat arbitrarily as typical treatment follow-ups will vary from
      patient to patient depending on the severity of the musculoskeletal dysfunction (somatic
      dysfunction).
    
  