
    
      This is a prospective randomized trial of video education on prenatal testing vs. usual care,
      with the goal to assess women's prenatal testing choices, understanding of testing options
      and decisional conflict and regret. Participants will be recruited from a convenience sample
      of patients presenting for prenatal care at Naval Medical Center San Diego (NMCSD).

      While receiving prenatal care at NMCSD, all women are offered the option of screening for
      aneuploidy (serum screen (with or without nuchal translucency ultrasound) or cell free DNA
      testing) or diagnostic testing (chorionic villous sampling or amniocentesis) or no testing in
      pregnancy.

      After providing consent, participants will be randomized to video education or usual care.
      Randomization will be completed using a random number table. Women randomized to the
      intervention group (video education) will view the prenatal screening video made by the
      Genetic Support Foundation and the Washington Department of Health, the 4.5 minute video "How
      to Decide About Prenatal Genetic Testing," available at:
      https://www.geneticsupportfoundation.org/genetics-and-you/pregnancy-and-genetics/prenatal-gen
      etic-testing-videos .7 They will then complete the study related surveys at their initial
      obstetric visit. The educational video was created with input from clinicians including
      licensed genetic counselors, obstetricians, maternal fetal medicine physicians, and patients.
      Extensive testing and reviewing was completed to ensure adequate comprehension by a wide
      range of audiences and minimize counseling bias. Women randomized to the control group will
      receive routine prenatal care with no additional study intervention other than completion of
      the study related surveys at baseline (initial prenatal testing). Current national guidelines
      recommend offering all women prenatal diagnosis and prenatal screening at the beginning of
      the pregnancy.1

      The primary outcome for this study will be screening uptake rates, and will be based on
      review of the patient's electronic medical record. Secondary outcomes will include invasive
      diagnostic test rates, participant knowledge about testing (as assessed using the Maternal
      Serum Screening Knowledge Questionnaire,2 and decisional conflict (as assessed by the
      Decisional Conflict Scale) and decisional regret (as assessed by the Decision Regret Scale).
      These assessments will be conducted at time of prenatal testing (< 20 weeks). (Appendix A)

      The study questionnaire will include a check box for participants to indicate if they would
      be willing to participate in a follow on qualitative study to assess participant's personal
      experience related to their method of education about prenatal testing. This component of the
      study will aim to determine personal and social reasoning behind their decisions, and to
      further explore their experience, beliefs and behaviors. Interested participants from each
      group (both intervention and control) will be contacted to arrange a telephone or in person
      interview. (Appendix C) Participants will be interviewed in person or over the phone.
    
  