
    
      The aim of this trial is to compare the effectiveness of center-based versus home-based
      physical activity delivery among people with MCI and early dementia and to understand the
      influence of person and setting characteristics.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary: To compare the effectiveness of centre-based versus home-based physical activity
      delivery among people with MCI or early dementia, as measured by percent achievement of
      physical activity guidelines.

      Secondary:

      (i) To determine the influence of person- and setting-specific factors. (ii) To estimate the
      cost-effectiveness of centre-based and home-based physical activity.

      Exploratory:

      i) To compare the effect of centre- and home-based physical activity on other outcomes.

      ii) To explore whether participants consider certain aspects of the program to be important
      to program effectiveness.

      METHODS:

      The investigators will conduct a 3-month proof-of-concept, double-blinded randomized,
      parallel group trial to compare the effectiveness of centre-based and home-based physical
      activity in helping people with MCI and early dementia meet physical activity
      recommendations.

      Participants will be randomized to one of two physical activity delivery options.The goal of
      both arms will be to have participants reach physical activity guidelines by the end of the
      3-month intervention.

      Participants who are randomized to centre-based physical activity will attend physical
      activity programming at a centre (University of Waterloo or Toronto Rehabilitation Institute)
      once per week for one hour. Additional physical activity will be prescribed at home.

      Participants who are randomized to the home-based physical activity will received a physical
      activity prescription to be completed at home. They will also receive monthly support calls
      to assess achievements and barriers and to adjust the prescription.

      All assessors will be blinded to group allocation.
    
  