
    
      despite the best clinical efforts and breakthroughs in biotechnology, most patients diagnosed
      with advanced stage melanoma continue to die from their disease. Reasons for this include: 1)
      patients are often diagnosed at a time when their melanoma has already spread to other sites
      such as the chest cavity, bone, liver, and brain limiting the options for surgical excision
      and 2) the cancer cells are resistant or become resistant to chemotherapy drugs used to treat
      the patient. Resistance to one type of chemotherapy agent often rapidly leads to resistance
      against many other chemotherapy drugs. These reasons are the major causes of cancer
      progression that are usually discussed when considering treatment options for patients with
      disease that continues to grow and spread. However, another important part of the body should
      be considered-- the immune system. Scientists have clearly shown that melanoma cells produce
      a number of abnormal proteins or abnormal amounts of certain proteins found in normal
      melanoma cells. Normally one would expect a patient to develop an immune response against
      these abnormal proteins found in their cancer and attack them much the way the investigators
      would fight off an infection from a foreign bacteria or virus. However, for reasons that
      scientists do not fully understand, the immune system fails to respond adequately to these
      abnormal proteins and does not destroy the melanoma cells. This human clinical trial proposes
      a new way to make the immune system recognize the cancer cells and encourages it to attack
      and destroy them.

      In this project, the investigators have put a mouse gene into human melanoma cancer cells, so
      that those cells produce these abnormal sugar patterns and stimulate the immune system to
      attack the melanoma. This strategy works well to kill other human cancer cells in the
      laboratory, but it needs to be tried in melanoma patients to see if it will be effective and
      to determine if such a treatment causes any side effects. Investigators propose to test this
      new treatment in patients with melanoma to see if it can stop, slow or destroy tumors in
      these patients. Patients will be injected with an anti-tumor immunotherapy consisting of
      three types of dead human melanoma cancer cells that have been genetically altered to express
      the mouse gene responsible for making this abnormal sugar-protein on the cells.

      In this Phase II Study, patients with early stage melanoma will undergo a series of
      intradermal injections with cytokine-induced killer therapy. These cell lines have been
      transduced with a recombinant. In addition to the cik therapy, some patients will also
      receive ipilimumab as an important component of this immunization strategy that will attempt
      to enhance and activate the host immune system to destroy growing tumor cells. Endpoints of
      the study include safety assessments, and clinical, tumor and immunological responses.
    
  