
    
      Participants were asked to perform 3 trials [sitting (SIT), standing (STAND) and sitting with
      neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) to the lower limbs in randomised counter-balanced
      study design. Trials were separated by at least 48 h and were completed within 14 days. In
      all trials, participants were required to remain relaxed and motionless. SIT: participants
      sat in a chair with back, arms and legs supported. STAND: participants were asked to stand
      with arms supported and feet spaced approximately 15 cm apart. If needed, adjustment of
      standing posture was allowed during the standing trial to prevent orthostatic hypotension.
      NMES: prior to the NMES trial, participants underwent preliminary testing to ensure that
      stimulation was comfortable. Before the NMES, a small area of the body hair was shaved and
      skin was cleaned with an alcohol wipe and electrodes were stuck to the surface of the skin.
      Small electrodes placed (5*5 cm) on the lower limb of both legs (gastrocnemius, rectus
      femoris, vastus medialis). The two devices (EM 80, Beurer UK Ltd, Golborne, UK) were set up
      with the frequency of 20 Hz along with stimulation period of 1 second on and 1 second off
      throughout a 2 h oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). The instruction for NMES intensity was
      that the maximal intensity participants were be able to withstand for 2 hours whilst
      imagining sitting at home watching TV without feeling discomfort. Prior to the OGTT, 5 min
      was given to identify the suitable intensity of stimulation and within the first 10 min of
      the OGTT participants were allowed to adjust the intensity once, after which, the intensity
      remained the same for the rest of OGTT. Participants were asked to sit in a chair with back,
      arms and legs supported during the stimulation. During trials, participants could watch TV,
      or read, but typing on a laptop or computer were avoided.
    
  