
    
      - Background: The NAVA is a new mode of ventilation which works from the continuous recording
      of the electromyogram of the diaphragm. In theory, the NAVA delivred a proportional and
      synchronous assistance, to respiratory efforts allowing a more adequate ventilatory support.
      However, no study estimates the NAVA in the weaning from mechanical ventilation.

      - Purpose: The NAVA, by its more physiological aspect and a better adaptation of the patient
      to the ventilator with a decrease of asynchronies patients-ventilators, could decrease the
      duration of weaning and so decrease the duration of invasive mechanical ventilation and the
      morbi-mortality. The objective of this study is to compare the neurally adjusted ventilatory
      assist versus the usual management of weaning from mechanical ventilation, in term of
      duration of weaning, at the patients in period of difficult weaning from the invasive
      mechanical ventilation.

      - Detailed description: Approximately 20 to 25 % of the patients under mechanical ventilation
      who have the general criteria of weaning will not pass a first SBT (Spontaneous Breathing
      Trial). At this moment, the management of the weaning ventilatoire are made with PSV. The
      NAVA is proportional assistance and depends on the intensity of the electric diaphragmatic
      signal (Edi). The respiratory effort of the patient is directly detected from the Edi signal.
      In theory, the NAVA is a proportional and synchronous respiratory.

        -  After a first failure of a SBT, patients respecting the inclusion criteria and exlusion
           criteria described above are then included in the study and randomized in two groups
           (control group or NAVA group).

        -  In the control group, the PSV is decreased of 2cmH2O daily or several times a day to
           obtain a good clinical and biologic tolerance, with a respiratory frequency between 15
           and 30/min and a tidal volume at 6ml/kg.

        -  In the NAVA group, the level of NAVA is daily adjusted to obtain Eadimax corresponding
           to 60 % of Eadimax of the patient during the SBT to obtain a good clinical and biologic
           tolerance, with a respiratory frequency between 15 and 30/min and a tidal volume at
           6ml/kg.

        -  Twice a day, the criteria of SBT are looked for. When they are present, a SBT is
           realized. If it is a success, the patient will be extube. If it is a failure, the
           patient will be reventilated in PSV or NAVA according to their group. A non-invasive
           ventilation preventive or of "rescue" can be administered post-extubation according to
           criteria. The reintubated criteria are also defined.
    
  