
    
      Present study proposes to conduct the study in rural areas covered by community clinic (CC)
      services and will use their community based staff to deliver the intervention. Each Community
      Clinic is established at grass root level providing one stop service center for Primary
      Health Care for approx. 6000 population. There are over 12000 Community Clinics operating in
      Bangladesh. We chose this population as almost 75% of people live in rural areas and they
      will form a representative sample for scaling in future. There will be 2 groups in the study
      i) Intervention group (Cognitive Behavioral Therapy + play stimulation) and ii) control group
      (with none)..

      Previous studies reported moderate benefit with both home and center based psycho social
      stimulation program in Bangladesh. However in most parts we found low self esteem among the
      mothers that required quite effort to bring them into the task. So it is assumed that the
      proposed community based Cognitive Behavioral Therapy model (Rahman et al 2008) for
      management of depressive symptoms, will be a unique sustainable approach to get maximize
      effect psycho social stimulation intervention. The study aimed to deliver the intervention
      using government health infrastructure. The study will evaluate the workload of existing 2
      staff -Health Assistant (HA) and Family Welfare Assistant (FWA) at each Community Clinic who
      regularly go for home visits and will train them for intervention. The study may need to
      train one additional person from the same community to assist Health Assistant or Family
      Welfare Assistant in delivering the intervention. The overall success of the project will be
      able to come up with a model that can be used by other Community Clinics to take it to scale.

      After selection of study sites under 30 Community Clinics, randomization will be done. The
      study will do several small group discussions with mothers living in those communities to
      know about their lifestyle, local terminologies of depressive symptoms, view about depressive
      symptoms, child rearing practices and coping strategies. Then Health Assistants and Family
      Welfare Assistants of 15 intervention Community Clinics will be identified and will receive
      training in batches. In next step, after taking consent, screening will be conducted in the
      community among mothers of 9-12 months old children by trained psychologists. Considering the
      Community Clinics as a center, data collectors will start screening from center to periphery
      in the community until we get 10 mothers with depressive symptoms. Mothers, who will fulfill
      the study enrollment criteria, will be offered to join the study and will be invited to the
      test center for baseline assessment (of mother-child dyad). We will set up temporary test
      centers in villages under each Community Clinic, using a space in Community Clinics (provided
      there is available space) or rooms in schools or convenient rented rooms in residence of
      local people. Two teams of testers and interviewers will be rotated from one Community Clinic
      to another after completing screening and baseline psychological assessments in areas under
      that Community Clinic which on average would take 2-3 days. It is expected that the baseline
      assessment will be covered by 2 months. Soon after baseline assessment in one Community
      Clinic, intervention in villages under that Community Clinic will be started by the trained
      Health Assistant/Family Welfare Assistant assigned to that Community Clinic. In the middle of
      the study, the study will conduct in-depth interview on two mothers under each Community
      Clinic to know about mothers' perception and comments about the intervention for further
      modification of the program. The study will also conduct small group discussions with the
      Health Assistant and Family Welfare Assistant about the intervention during monthly meetings
      with them- to know their views about the program. After 12 months intervention, final
      assessment will be done following the same procedure"
    
  