
    
      A number of pathophysiological mechanisms underlie the polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
      Neuroendocrine abnormalities play a significant role in most women with PCOS, and PCOS is
      associated with relative resistance of the gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) pulse
      generator to negative feedback by progesterone and estradiol. This hypothalamic resistance to
      negative feedback appears to be a result of hyperandrogenemia (HA), and can also occur in
      adolescents with HA. We have hypothesized that peripubertal HA (which can represent a
      forerunner of adult PCOS) can promote the development of PCOS in part via induction of
      hypothalamic resistance to negative feedback. However, the cause of peripubertal HA remains
      largely unknown. Obesity is a well-recognized pathophysiological factor in the HA of adult
      PCOS; and recent data demonstrate that peripubertal obesity is associated with HA. However,
      the mechanisms underlying the relationship between peripubertal obesity and HA-and the marked
      variability of androgen levels observed among obese girls-are unknown. We have gathered
      preliminary data that suggests that obese pre- and early pubertal girls with high androgen
      levels also exhibit greater degrees of insulin resistance compared to obese girls with lower
      androgens.

      The primary goal of this pilot project is to begin to establish the relationship between
      insulin resistance (as determined by insulin clamp studies) and free testosterone
      concentrations in obese peripubertal girls. Secondarily, the aim is to assess the
      contributions of elevated luteinizing hormone (determined by frequent blood sampling for LH)
      in obesity-associated HA across puberty.

      Subjects will be admitted to the General Clinical Research Center at 1600 h after 4 hours of
      fasting. We will measure luteinizing hormone every 10 minutes from 1800 h to 0900 h; other
      hormones (e.g., testosterone) will be assessed as well. Measurements of insulin and glucose
      will occur before and after a standardized mixed meal (eaten at 1900 h) and while fasting the
      following morning. A standard hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp procedure will be performed
      from 0900-1100 h.

      Characterization of the factors underlying peripubertal HA may permit prediction of which
      pre- and early pubertal girls will subsequently go on to develop symptoms of PCOS. Data
      generated by this project will prompt novel future studies to investigate the complex
      interactions among metabolic and classical endocrine pathways that lead to PCOS.
    
  