
    
      The study design is a randomized, double-blind and controlled trial. A total of 50 adult men
      will be recruited from medical departments of the National Institute of Rehabilitation in
      Mexico City.

      Patients: Fifty men 20 to 50 years old, between 15 to 19 weeks after surgical reconstruction
      of anterior cruciate ligament and moderate loss of muscle strength of knee (assessment with
      computerized dynamometer), will be recruited from the Sport Rehabilitation department, and
      the treatment will be carried out in the Sport Medicine area, both of the National Institute
      of Rehabilitation in Mexico City. Patients with diabetes, obesity, hypertension, kidney or
      liver diseases or with glucocorticoid treatment, and athletes will not be included.

      Intervention: The sample will be randomized in two groups. At the beginning and at the end of
      the training session, the experimental group will receive 10 grams of glutamine, and the
      control group will receive 10 grams of placebo (maltodextrin), both dissolved in 120
      milliliters of water and all participants will not be aware of the supplement content.

      Both groups will participate in the same standardized resistance training program, to ensure
      progression (or regression if necessary) to all training components and adherence to the
      intervention, each participant will do the training program in a therapeutic gym of Sport
      Medicine area three times per week, during 6 weeks of follow-up. One training session
      consists of 20 minutes of warm-up, 40 to 60 minutes of aerobic and anaerobic exercises and 15
      minutes of cooling down. The exercises of the lower part of the body consist in 3 sets of 10
      repetitions for healthy knees, and 12 repetitions for knees with anterior cruciate ligament
      reconstruction in a modular leg press, leg curl and leg extension machine.

      All participants, irrespective of the supplement that they receive, will be closely monitored
      by a physician specialist in Sport Medicine and a nutritionist, who will give a dietary
      program to standardize protein consumption. Status nutritional will be assessed according to
      Body Mass Index [(BMI) 19.9-24.9, 25-29.9].

      Muscle strength will be measured by a computer dynamometer. The reliability of the
      dynamometry will be evaluated by Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC). Thigh
      circumference will be measured by a anthropometric technique (Nutritionists certified by the
      International Society for the Advance of Kinanthropometry in level one, will carry out the
      measurement). Fasting glucose, lipid profile and liver function test will be carried out in
      the clinical laboratory of National Institute of Rehabilitation. The measurements are going
      to be held twice; before the first training session, and 6 weeks after.

      For each participant the study duration will start in the first training session until 6
      weeks after. Endpoints assessments will be performed at baseline (2 days before starting the
      training program) and after 6 weeks of follow-up (2 days after the last training session).
      Data will be collected by study investigators blinded to the allocation of the participants.

      Comparison: The control group will receive maltodextrin powder (placebo) dissolved in 120
      milliliters of water. The placebo will be inside gray envelopes, in the same manner that the
      glutamine was administered.

      Outcomes: The main outcome is to change the strength of quadriceps femoris (assessment by
      isokinetic dynamometer).
    
  