
    
      This two-part protocol will evaluate: Part 1: the response to influenza vaccine in
      HIV-infected adults receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART); and Part 2: the
      effect of influenza vaccine on HIV-viral load (Part 2). The purpose of Part 1 is to evaluate
      the effect of HIV viral load on the generation of influenza-specific antibodies. 95
      HIV-infected subjects with any CD4 cell count and HIV viral load on HAART will be enrolled to
      receive the influenza vaccine appropriate to the on-going influenza season and to have
      laboratory studies (including influenza titers, CD4 counts, and HIV viral loads) obtained at
      baseline and 28 days post vaccination; 15 HIV-negative healthy volunteers will serve as
      controls to demonstrate that the vaccine preparation can induce protective immunity. The
      purpose of Part 2 is to assess the potential effect of vaccine-associated immune activation
      on HIV viral replication in 30 HIV-infected subjects on HAART who have suppressed HIV viremia
      (less than 50 copies/mL) at the screening visit. These subjects will be randomized to receive
      the influenza vaccine appropriate to the on-going influenza season immediately or 3 weeks
      after enrollment. Both groups will have frequent blood draws for HIV viral load with the 3
      weeks immediately after vaccine serving as the vaccine response period and the other 3 weeks
      serving as the control period for each subject. All subjects will have pre-vaccine and 28 day
      post vaccine influenza titers determined to see if there is a relationship between HIV viral
      load increases and vaccine responses. Subjects will be compensated for participation in both
      parts of the study. Those subjects who are ineligible for Part 2 because their screening HIV
      viral loads are greater than 50 copies/mL will be invited to participate in Part 1. This
      study will be conducted during the USA influenza season (Oct-March). Thus, the primary study
      risks are those of phlebotomy and inconvenience. Although there are some risks to influenza
      vaccine, the ACIP recommends influenza vaccination for HIV-infected patients. Finally, for
      subjects deferring vaccination for three weeks, there is presumably an increased risk of
      developing influenza. Total enrollment of the study is 140 subjects (125 HIV-infected
      individuals and 15 HIV-negative controls).
    
  