
    
      This clinical study protocol will use a three tier approach consisting of the following
      examinations:

        1. Patient examination with Survey Meter: Patients who agree to be tested at the clinical
           sites will be first evaluated using a survey meter. In those patients in whom radiation
           count is ≥ 2 times above background count using a standard survey meter, the presence of
           Sr-82 and/or Sr-85 will be assessed through a quantitative reading from a calibrated
           portable isotope identifier.

        2. Patient examination with Portable Isotope Identifier: This examination will be done by
           use of a portable isotope identifier, which will be supplied by the Sponsor to the study
           sites. An assessor, independent to the study site, will perform the examination. In
           those patients whose radiation count is ≥ 2 times above background count using a
           standard survey meter, the presence of Sr-82 and/or Sr-85 will be assessed through a
           quantitative reading from a calibrated portable isotope identifier. The reading will be
           forwarded along with the date of the reading, the date of the patient's CardioGen-82®
           scan, and the total dose of CardioGen-82® administered to the patient, to an independent
           medical expert, independent to the study site, who will back-calculate an estimated dose
           of Sr-82 and/or Sr-85 from these data.

        3. Patient examination at Oak Ridge National Laboratory: Any patient whose estimated dose
           of Sr-82 exceeds the specified limit of 0.02 microcuries per mCi Rb-82 administered,
           and/or whose estimated dose of Sr-85 exceeds the specified limit of 0.2 microcuries per
           mCi Rb-82 administered, will be asked to travel to Oak Ridge National Laboratory in
           Tennessee, for accurate whole body scanning. Scan data from Oak Ridge National
           Laboratories will be analyzed by one or more independent medical experts to accurately
           back-calculate exposure to Sr-82 and/or Sr-85, and to estimate health hazard for the
           patient.
    
  