
    
      Early case detection, treatment, and prompt household contact investigation, depend on rapid
      microbiological confirmation, by direct smear microscopy of acid-fast bacilli, in patients
      with suspected pulmonary tuberculosis. Since delayed diagnosis may result in death due to
      lack of appropriate therapy, rapid microbiological diagnosis is especially critical in
      HIV-infected persons. Improved rapid diagnostic methods are also crucial for the success of
      epidemiological studies; trials of preventative interventions, such as novel vaccines; and
      therapeutic interventions, since the diagnostic endpoints of such trials may require
      microbiological confirmation of tuberculosis. In clinical practice, early therapeutic
      intervention might reduce the risk of death, especially in patients co-infected with HIV. In
      this study, researchers propose to test a simple diagnostic modality for rapid diagnosis of
      pulmonary tuberculosis in HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected adolescents and adults. Researchers
      will test whether induced sputum will improve the diagnostic yield of smear positive
      tuberculosis. This low-cost technology augments spontaneous sputum production by inhalation
      of a nebulized saline solution. The primary objective of this study is to quantify and
      compare the diagnostic yield of smear positive tuberculosis from induced sputum, with that of
      routine sputum, in HIV-infected patients with suspected tuberculosis. Researchers believe
      that induced sputum will increase the diagnostic yield from direct smear microscopy in this
      patient population. The secondary objective of the study is to quantify and compare the
      diagnostic yield of smear positive tuberculosis from induced sputum, with that of routine
      sputum, in all patients with suspected tuberculosis, regardless of HIV status. Researchers
      believe that induced sputum will increase the diagnostic yield from direct smear microscopy
      in all patients in this population, regardless of HIV status. Approximately 1200 individuals
      (male or female gender), aged 12 years and older, with suspected pulmonary tuberculosis, will
      be screened in order to enroll 600 eligible participants at 2 district health services
      clinics near the town of Worcester, Western Cape Province, South Africa. Informed consent for
      participation will be sought from adolescents and adults with suspected pulmonary
      tuberculosis who present to public sector community health services for investigation. A
      rapid HIV test, with pre- and post-test counseling, will be performed. A routine spontaneous
      expectorated sputum sample and an induced sputum sample (obtained after nebulization of
      sterile 5% saline via mask) will be collected. A second routine sputum will be collected on
      the following morning. Direct smear microscopy and mycobacterial culture of sputum will be
      performed in an accredited microbiology laboratory. HIV rapid test results will be used to
      classify participants for evaluation of the primary outcome, positive direct smear
      microscopy, and the secondary outcome, positive culture of M. tuberculosis. Diagnostic yields
      for each routine and induced sputum sample will be calculated, as a proportion of all
      patients who are culture-positive for M. tuberculosis, and compared in a pair-wise and
      sequential manner. Results will be reported as differences in yield and 95% confidence
      intervals for the difference in those proportions. The primary endpoint will be sputum direct
      smear microscopy positive for acid-fast bacilli. The secondary endpoint will be sputum
      culture positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Study duration will be 4 years with
      individual subject participation approximately 8 weeks.
    
  