
    
      This study aims to answer the following problematic: How to improve the learning of Non
      Technical Skills (communication, teamwork, leadership ...) in simulation. This study tests
      non technical skills learning in a serious game on Postpartum Hemorrhage (PPH) management and
      the interest of specifically designed scenarios.

      36 students in midwifery in 5th (and last) year will participate in the experiment. They will
      be randomized into 3 groups:

        -  Serious game Control group (12 participants): The participants spend on three different
           scenarios from the game "PerinatSims"; basic scenarios designed to train Technical
           Skills (management of post partum hemorrhage according to the algorithm).

        -  Serious game Experimental group (12 participants): The participants spend on three
           "PerinatSims" scenarios in which "critical situations" have been implemented, aiming to
           mobilize some of the non-technical skills of the learners: situation awareness, decision
           making, communication...

        -  Classical teaching group (12 participants): the students received the classical teaching
           of postpartum hemorrhage management and a reminder of the algorithm before the
           high-fidelity simulation session.

      For the serious games groups, at the end of each scenario the participant has access to a
      debriefing of his technical skills, integrated into the game. At the end of the 3 scenarios,
      the participant has a debriefing with a simulation teacher.

      Finally, each participant of the three groups will be asked to participate to a post partum
      hemorrhage scenario in High Fidelity simulation. This final award will enable us to validate
      the investigator's working hypothesis: to check if the non-technical skills mobilized during
      the sessions on the serious game PerinatSims have been acquired and are beneficial for the
      participants. A debriefing will be done at the end of the simulation.

      The objective of this experiment is to assess if the type of scenario (with or without
      critical events) improves non-technical skills learning.

      The evaluation tools will be the following:

        -  3 hetero evaluation scales: Anesthetist's Non Technical Skills (ANTS), Observational
           Teamwork Assessment for Surgery (OTAS) and a checklist specially developped.

        -  Electrophysiology: Eye tracking (for the screen-based simulation), Heart rate monitor

        -  Auto evaluation scales: Flow scale, Stress scale (DASS), Leadership scale (BAT), Mental
           load scale (NASA TLX), Scale of technological acceptability (SUS)

      The High Fidelity simulation will be evaluated according to the same tools outside the
      eye-tracking.
    
  