
    
      Designed as a small open label clinical study to demonstrate proof of concept which will
      follow CONSORT guidelines, the investigators aim to recruit approximately 15 people who are
      currently using illicit substances and who currently use opioids (illicit or prescription -
      non-medically). The sample size of 15 balances pragmatic issues (difficulty in recruiting
      people who are actively using illicit substances) and the need to have a good sample of the
      population. These participants will be interviewed by the research coordinator in person
      prior to intervention initiation to determine baseline use; history of overdose; and current
      harm reduction activities (see appendix). They will then be asked to call the intervention
      number if they are going to be using alone (see appendix for call flow).

      Each time a participant dials the number, the operator will gather (as part of the
      intervention) the address the participant is at, their name/pseudonym and a phone number that
      can be used as a call back number in case the call is disconnected. The phone line operator
      will then ask a) what they planned on using, b) the method of use, c) if the participant is
      using safe sterile supplies (and provide information on where they can get new supplies in
      their community), and d) if they have a naloxone kit (overdose reversal kit) available. They
      will then inform the participant that they will be checking in on them every 5 - 10 minutes
      and if they do not respond, they will call emergency medical services for them.

      If the participant responds to each verbal prompt (calling their name) over a minimum of 30
      minutes, the operator will let them know that they are disconnecting the call. The operator
      will offer to connect the participant to other health services, such as the location of new
      supplies, social services, addiction treatment and opioid agonist therapy. If the participant
      fails to respond to a prompt (or the call is disconnected and is not able to be reconnected),
      the operator will contact the dispatch supervisor and the process for emergency services
      dispatch will be initiated.
    
  