
    
      All patients with a significant deficiency of skin sensitivity and reduced mobility are
      potentially at risk of Pressure Ulcers (PUs), in particular the persons affected by Spinal
      Cord Injury (SCI), also due to their frequent alteration or loss of subcutaneous skin
      sensitivity. More than one-third of individuals hospitalized in Spinal Units for
      rehabilitative treatments following a SCI develop PUs during acute hospitalization and it was
      also estimated that up to 85% of SCI persons develop at least one PU in the course of their
      lives. Pressure sores are therefore one of the most common and fearful complications in SCI,
      with a severe impact on quality of life and on care health costs. They are often the cause of
      lengthening the time of hospitalization, slowing down clinical and rehabilitation programs
      and re-hospitalization.

      PUs, when arisen, heal slowly and, despite the protracted conservative medical therapies,
      sometimes they do not come to complete healing. Sometimes plastic surgery is needed, although
      even after it recurrence rates remain high.

      Traditional treatment of PUs consists in the use of advanced dressings that may vary
      depending on the degree of staging of the lesion, its extent and the presence of clinical
      signs of necrosis and/or deep soft tissue infection. In addition to dressings, treatment
      cycles with intermittent negative pressure therapy can be indicated and the surgical approach
      (toilets + plastic reconstruction) could be reserved to chronic lesions with no response to
      traditional dressings or in the case of underlying osteomyelitis.

      Alternative treatments (e.g. electrotherapy, pulsed electromagnetic fields, ultraviolet
      light, infrared radiation, laser therapy, ultrasound, shock waves) have been proposed in
      addition to the usual medication, however they are characterized by a certain degree of
      invasiveness and are often conditioned by the availability of specific and sometimes
      expensive equipment, as well as by the presence of highly qualified personnel. In general,
      there is also a lack of good quality clinical trials for assessing the effectiveness and
      safety of such techniques that are often not decisive for healing, especially for severe and
      recalcitrant lesions.

      Among alternative techniques for the healing of skin ulcers in general, the adhesive elastic
      bandage, also known as "kinesio taping" or "neuro taping" and already recognized for the
      treatment of edema, hematoma and scarring, has been proposed. However, specific protocols and
      published studies are not available for PUs.

      The Montecatone Rehabilitation Institute hosts the largest Spinal Unit in Italy as for number
      of beds and patients admitted. In addition to the intensive rehabilitation of SCI patients,
      great attention is paid to the prevention and treatment of PUs in both acute and chronic
      patients, involving physicians, physiotherapists and nurses. Some Physical Therapists of the
      Hospital are trained and experienced in the use of adhesive elastic bandage for various
      neuromuscular applications and a physiotherapy/nursing team has conceived, under medical
      supervision, the taping protocol for the PUs therapy proposed in this study. The rationale
      for such a taping positioning around PUs is to improve lymphatic drainage and reactivation of
      the superficial bloodstream by increasing interstitial spaces and reducing skin and
      subcutaneous compression, notoriously compromised in the areas of onset of pressure sores.
      Therefore, it is considered that, thanks to the normalization of blood and lymphatic flow,
      the proposed protocol may have a facilitating action to heal such lesions, especially if they
      are severe and recalcitrant to normal therapies.

      The total shortage in the literature and in user manuals of taping protocols for PUs supports
      this preliminary, exploratory, descriptive and uncontrolled pilot study with the primary aim
      of verifying the safety of a taping treatment for medium/severe grade PUs, "add-on" to the
      usual care. The choice of the ulcer sites selected (sacral and heel) has been affected by the
      feasibility of tape positioning.
    
  