
    
      Cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI) is a research priority due to its rising
      prevalence and dramatic impacts on survivors' quality of life and health long-term. Strong
      evidence supports the efficacy of physical activity (PA) for improving cognitive function and
      key CRCI correlates. The aim of the proposed study is to pilot test an innovative, mHealth
      intervention designed to ameliorate CRCI in women receiving chemotherapy for breast cancer.
      This study will employ an efficient 2x2 factorial design to compare PA prescriptions
      targeting frequent PA of any intensity and reduced daily sitting (Move); aerobic exercise
      (consistent with PA guidelines for cancer survivors; Exercise); both (Move+Exercise); or none
      (Core). The main and interactive effects of these intervention components on CRCI and its
      underlying mechanisms will be tested across the breast cancer trajectory. Aim 1: This pilot
      study aims to test the feasibility and acceptability of the mHealth intervention in 40 women
      receiving chemotherapy for breast cancer. Feasibility will be assessed by participant
      recruitment yield, intervention adherence, contamination, and retention. Acceptability will
      be assessed by participant ratings and perceptions of intervention components as measured at
      a baseline orientation and at post-intervention (1 month post-chemotherapy). Aim 2: Examine
      preliminary efficacy of the intervention components (i.e., Move, Exercise, Core) delivered
      alone (i.e., main effects) and in combination (i.e., interaction effects) on executive
      function and working memory at post-intervention. These data will inform the sample size
      needed for a fully-powered randomized controlled trial. Aim 2 outcomes will be measured at
      pre-intervention (before the first or second chemotherapy cycle) and post-intervention, and
      include accelerometry and neurocognitive testing. Exploratory Aim: Explore the effects of the
      intervention components on CRCI correlates. Exploratory outcomes will be measured at pre- and
      post-intervention and include patient-reported outcomes (e.g., fatigue, depressive symptoms).
      Participants will also complete brief ecological momentary assessments (EMAs) on their mobile
      phones across four 14-day measurement bursts to further explore associations among behavioral
      patterns, cognition, and CRCI correlates. To test the specific aims, women diagnosed with
      breast cancer and scheduled to receive 3-6 months of chemotherapy (N=40) will be randomized
      to receive select mHealth intervention components, including Core (attentional control),
      Move, Exercise, or Move+Exercise (n=10 each condition). Data will be analyzed using
      descriptive statistics and axial coding (Aim 1); analysis of covariance and standard mean
      difference (Aim 2 and Exploratory); and hierarchical linear modeling (Exploratory). Findings
      will provide the necessary pilot data to support a grant application for a fully-powered
      trial.
    
  