
    
      Background:

        -  Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable plasma cell neoplasm with a median survival of 3-4
           years.

        -  Novel agent combinations with proteasome inhibitors demonstrate improved response rates
           while increasing survival in MM patients.

        -  A common debilitating side effect of the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib is neuropathy.

        -  Carfilzomib is a new proteasome inhibitor with potent anti-MM effects and decreased
           peripheral neuropathy

      Objectives:

      -Evaluate toxicity, including peripheral neuropathy, of carfilzomib, lenalidomide, and
      dexamethasone (CRd) in untreated MM patients

      Eligibility:

        -  Newly diagnosed patients with histologically confirmed multiple myeloma

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years

        -  Creatinine Clearance (CrCl) greater than or equal to 60 ml/min. CrCl will be calculated
           using the Cockcroft- Gault method. If the calculated CrCl based on Cockcroft-Gault
           method is <60 mL/min, patient will have a 24 hr urine collection to measure CrCl. The
           measured CrCl must also be greater than or equal to 60 ml/min.

        -  Without serious co-morbidity that would interfere with receipt of CRd

        -  Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) greater than or equal to 1.0 K/uL, hemoglobin greater
           than or equal to 8 g/dL, and platelet count greater than or equal to 75 K/uL

        -  Adequate hepatic function, with bilirubin less than 1.5 x the upper limit of normal
           (ULN), and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) less than
           3.0 x ULN

      Design:

        -  Single arm, single stage phase II trial of combination therapy (carfilzomib,
           lenalidomide, and dexamethasone) for untreated multiple myeloma patients with an early
           stopping rule for toxicity

        -  Patients will receive 8 cycles of induction combination therapy of CRd

        -  Each cycle consists of 28-days

        -  After 4 cycles of therapy, transplant eligible patients will undergo stem cell
           collection

        -  Patients achieving stable disease or better after 8 cycles of CRd will receive
           lenalidomide extended dosing (phase I) for 12 cycles. After 12 cycles, patients will
           have the option to continue extended dosing (phase II) for one additional year.

        -  Patients will have routine blood work with serum protein electrophoresis (SPEP) and free
           light chains monthly

        -  Pre- and post-treatment bone marrow biopsies will be obtained for confirmation of
           diagnosis and correlative studies

        -  Patients will also undergo evaluation for minimal residual disease at regular interval
           time points, using multi-parametric flow cytometry and fludeoxyglucose 18F-positron
           emission tomography - computed tomography (FDG PET-CT)

        -  A single stage phase II design will be employed, with an early stopping rule. Unless 4
           or more patients in the first 20 have Grade 3 or higher neurologic toxicity in the first
           2 completed cycles, a total of 45 evaluable patients will be enrolled in this study.
    
  