
    
      This will be a randomized sham-controlled trial. The investigators have planned to study the
      efficacy of Transcranial pulsed current stimulation (tPCS) in patients of Parkinson's disease
      (PD) in their OFF state. Each patient will come in 3 separate days in OFF state. They will
      first receive either active tPCS or sham tPCS or 3 tabs of Levodopa (100/25) in OFF state.
      Pre and post intervention analysis will be done. In those, who are receiving tPCS
      (active/sham), the investigators will give them Levodopa (100/25) after post stimulation
      assessment done. The patients will be assessed clinically by UPDRS III. EEG (for
      electrophysiological analysis), Gait Carpet (for Gait analysis) will also be done - before
      and after a single session of 20 min stimulation via tPCS. The investigators will also
      compare the effect of tPCS in OFF state, with that of Levodopa in OFF state.

      The assessment will be done by-

        1. Unified Parkinson's disease rating scale III (UPDRS III)

        2. Gait via Gait Carpet

        3. Quantitative Electroencephalography (qEEG)

        4. KinARM

      Transcranial pulsed current stimulation (tPCS) will be delivered through a pair of
      saline-soaked (0.9% NaCl) surface sponge electrodes. For this experiment, 20 minutes of
      stimulation will be performed. The stimulation would be done to the motor cortex (M1) or
      supplementary motor area (SMA), based on quantitative electroencephalography (qEEG) findings.
      For the sham stimulation, the electrode placement will be same, but the electric current will
      be ramped down 5 seconds.

      Zeno Walkway is a pressure sensitive electronic roll-up walkway that measures the temporal
      and spatial parameters of gait which could in turn help in identifying any abnormalities in
      the gait. The patient walks on the Zeno Walkway mat before and after the tPCS stimulation to
      find the difference in the gait motion. The Zeno walkway will be used in conjunction with the
      ProtoKinetics Movement Analysis Software (PKMAS). These data will be captured and collated
      via the PKMAS software, resulting in numerous spatial, temporal and pressure-related gait
      parameters. Timed-up-and-go (TUG) (1-5minutes per trial) will be performed. The test consists
      of rising from chair, walking across the 20-foot gait carpet, turning around off the carpet,
      walking back and sitting down. This will be performed over 3 trials. Gait analysis provides
      various additional parameters as output such as stride length, line of progression, step
      length, toe-offs and other temporal and spatial parameters for analysis.

      Quantitative EEG signals will be recorded, eyes-closed, no-task, using g.Nautilus g.tec
      wireless system. The g.tech system uses earclip reference sensors. The patient will be in a
      quiet place with less light or electromagnetic perturbations. During the resting state
      recordings, patients are seated in a comfortable arm chair and will be instructed to keep
      relaxed, with their eyes closed for 5 min.

      Kinarm will be used to measure the kinematics of upper limb movements, via Reaching tasks.
      This is basically mechanical handle driven by multiple actuators. A software named BKIN will
      be used to setup this hardware. The Kinarm initially provides the patients with multiple
      points to reach in the screen and the patients would try to reach these points using the
      kinarm handle. The motion of the patients when trying to reach for these points is analysed
      by kinarm and the data would be provided to us based on this analysis.

      An paired t test will be used to compare baseline data and post tPCS data. Descriptive
      analysis of the neurological examination findings will be provided. The output from the
      KinARM, gait carpet, EEG will be used for further analysis to build a descriptive machine
      learning model.
    
  