
    
      The primary objective is to evaluate and document the SpO2 accuracy of the pulse oximeter
      equipment, evaluating the performance of the device compared to invasive method blood
      sampling (SaO2) by CO-Oximeter in healthy subjects during invasive controlled desaturation
      study at different ranges (100 % to 70% SaO2).

      Subject safety during desaturation and saturation period, will be evaluated by reviewing
      vital sign: heart rate (HR) continuously and blood pressure/temperature between each
      desaturation plateau.

      There are two secondaries objectives, the measurement of the variation of the fraction of
      inspired oxygen (FiO2), and the validation of the algorithm for data review and analysis.

      For the study primary phase, the purpose of this phase is to test the body area where the
      SpO2 is better detected and define 3 measurement areas. For this, three healthy volunteers
      will be placed in normal O2 saturation, the SpO2 will be measured using the Bioserenity
      oximeter (noninvasive method) and will be compared to a gold-standard oximeter CE-marked. The
      investigator will determine the best area in the body where the SpO2 could be taken for the
      following subjects.

      During a second phase, the measurement of Sp02 and HR with EOXY, will be performed in O2
      saturation conditions up to 100% and then in desaturation by plateau from 100 % to 70%. 3
      EOXY pulse oximeter recorded the SpO2 at the same time in 3 different areas of the body. As
      required by the standard, Sp02 measures will be simultaneously compared to SaO2 values
      measured by blood sampling taken from an indwelling arterial catheter. The HR obtained with
      EOXY will be compared simultaneously to a gold standard oximeter CE-marked.

      As the example in the standard, it was choosen to do the test on the 70-100% range, with 5
      plateaus (100%-97%, 97%-92%, 92%-85%, 84%-78%, 77%-70%) and to collect five Sp02 and Sa02
      values (blood samples) and five HR measures, per plateau, for each of 13 subjects.

      The desaturation will be controlled thanks' the FiO2 measures, that should allow to bring
      subjects near target levels of desaturation plateau.
    
  