
    
      The study will take place at UTI Dr. José María Cullen Hospital in the city of Santa Fe. An
      observational study will be carried out in adult patients with septic shock (according to the
      definition of Sepsis-3), presenting hypotension, requiring vasopressors to maintain a mean
      arterial pressure (MAP) of 65 mmHg, blood lactate> 2 mmol / L, after adequate resuscitation
      with fluids and in need of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (Extracorporeal Membrane
      Oxygenation, ECMO), Renal Replacement Therapy (TRR) ( which may be continuous (Continuous
      Renal Replacement Therapy (CRRT)) or Extended Slow Daily Dialysis (SLEDD) or both, added to
      the hemoperfusion (HP) treatment.

      The study was designed by the authors, without receiving any input from companies.

      Patients will be treated according to The Surviving Sepsis Campaign 2016 recommendations:
      identification and control of the infectious focus (surgery). It will begin with antibiotics
      as soon as possible, resuscitation with crystalloids at 30 mL / kg in case of hypotension and
      continue according to assessment of dynamic and static parameters (EV 1000, Swan Ganz,
      central venous pressure and echocardiography, used at the discretion of attending physician).
      Noradrenaline will be administered to maintain a MAP ≧ 65 mmHg. Dobutamine will be indicated
      if the minute volume <3.0 L / min / m2. According to our practice, adrenaline will be added
      if the dose of norepinephrine exceeds 2 μg / kg / min. In addition, 100 mg of hydrocortisone
      will be administered every 8 hours.

      In case of requiring TRR for AKI, continuous vein-venous hemodiafiltration will be started
      using Prismaflex or Amplya equipment with a dose of 35 mL / kg / h, at a 1: 1 ratio, the
      replacement solution / dialysate solution, with AN ST 1.5 filter, HF 1.4 or HFT 1.4 or 1.7 or
      2.2 with citrate as an anticoagulation method. In the case of ECMO, anticoagulation will be
      performed with heparin, according to the standardized practice of the service.

      Treatment with HA 330 cartridges: Hemoperfusion treatment will be initiated as soon as
      possible, no later than 12 hours after the diagnosis of septic shock. An 8-hour treatment
      will be indicated for 2 (two) consecutive days. Prior to using the cartridge, 12,500 units of
      sodium heparin will be placed inside through the hole located in the upper region. During the
      next 30 minutes, it will be necessary to rotate it so that heparin is distributed throughout
      its interior. After 30 minutes, a physiological solution should be washed (a total of 2000
      mL, with an infusion pump or by gravity pump) in order to remove the heparin, and in turn,
      avoid the formation of bubbles or air accumulation. After this step it is ready to be used,
      either for isolated HP therapies or in association with other therapies (SLEDD, ECMO, CRRT )

      Data collection: For each patient who enters the protocol, a record will be completed with
      the data from the sampling, date and time of extraction, with the results of IL-6 and PCT and
      with the clinical data. The latter will be:

        -  age

        -  sex

        -  preexisting diseases

        -  infectious focus

        -  community or acquired sepsis

        -  positive crops

        -  SOFA score (daily for 7 (seven) days)

        -  APACHE II (upon admission and before starting HP treatment)

        -  IL-6 (as admission criteria and before and after each treatment)

        -  procalcitonin (PCT) on admission and on days 5-7

        -  lactate (before and after treatment with HP and daily for 7 (seven) days)

        -  additional laboratory: blood count, hepatogram, urea, creatinine, coagulogram,
           norepinephrine / adrenaline / IDI dose

        -  antibiotic dosing (according to the established sampling scheme)

        -  administered volume of fluids (daily for 7 (seven) days

        -  requirement of TRR and ECMO.

      Informed consent will be obtained for each patient who enters the protocol for participation
      Samples will be taken at predetermined times for 48-72 hours following the established
      procedure.
    
  