
    
      Background:

      Within the daily clinical work of all medical specialties, objective diagnostic tools are
      paramount. However, in the psychiatric field such measures are lacking. Since 1983 the method
      of psychoacoustics has been under development in hope to serve this purpose. A recent
      development of auditory brainstem response (ABR/SD-BERA), has been proposed as a potential
      diagnostic tool within psychiatry.

      The ABR is a diagnostic tool used primarily to diagnose sensorineural hearing loss. It
      detects evoked potentials, generated by neuronal activity in the auditory pathways in the
      brainstem, within the first 10 ms following acoustic stimulation. The potentials are recorded
      by surface electrodes placed on the forehead and on the mastoid processes. The wave pattern
      recorded consists of seven peaks, which are interpreted with respect to latencies and
      amplitudes.

      Previous studies have aimed to associate the peaks with specific anatomical structures. The
      method SD-BERA is a further development of the standard ABR. It uses a wider array of
      acoustic stimuli, including complex sounds, for instance masking noises. The measuring
      procedure will roughly take 25 minutes. Previous studies using these complex sounds to
      compare mentally healthy subjects with patients suffering from schizophrenia, ADHD and
      bipolar disorder have shown that the different psychiatric groups exhibit specific wave
      patterns.

      Aims

      The aim of the first study is to validate previous results and identify five (n=5) patients
      with diagnosed ADHD, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, and to compare these patients (n=15)
      with healthy, age-matched controls.

      The aim of the second study is to present a blinded study where 12 patients with
      schizophrenia and 12 patients with bipolar disorder (total n=24) are compared to each other
      and to healthy controls (n=12) in order to evaluate the method as a diagnostic tool in
      clinical healthcare practice.
    
  