
    
      Detailed Description:

      Infection and inadequate diet are proximate risk factors for under-nutrition and early life
      growth faltering; the two processes likely act reciprocally in a vicious cycle that
      perpetuates physiologic and metabolic deficits and increases the risk of mortality. Children
      who exhibit growth faltering are more likely to have deficits in cognitive development and
      long-term human capital, and are more likely to have children who also suffer from growth
      deficits - perpetuating the cycle into the next generation.

      There are two probable interdependent pathways that link enteric infections to child growth
      and development. The first pathway includes repeated infections the lead to acute illness or
      parasitic infection in the first years of life, which increase the risk of stunting and
      subsequent cognitive deficits in childhood and later in life. The second pathway is through a
      subclinical condition called environmental enteropathy (EE).

      There is limited evidence to demonstrate whether or not water quality, sanitation, and hand
      washing (WASH) interventions can improve measures of EE, child growth and development, and
      whether nutritional interventions could be enhanced if provided concurrently with WASH
      interventions. To help fill this evidence gap, the WASH Benefits study will deliver
      randomized interventions designed to reduce infection and improve nutrition, and will measure
      intervention effects on child illness, growth and development. WASH Benefits includes two,
      comparable but standalone trials in Bangladesh and Kenya that are registered under separate
      protocols.

      In Bangladesh, the study will include 720 clusters, and each cluster will enroll 8 household
      compounds (baris) with pregnant women in their second or third trimester. The study will
      randomize 90 clusters to each of 6 active intervention arms (water quality, sanitation, hand
      washing, combined WSH, nutrition, nutrition+WSH), and 180 clusters to a standard practices
      non-intervention arm. Children born into the cohort will be followed for 2 years after the
      intervention, with measurements at 12 and 24 months after intervention delivery. (anticipated
      age range: 20 - 27 months old at the final measurement). At the 12- and 24-month follow-up
      visits, the study will collect child anthropometric measurements and caregiver-reported
      diarrhea. In the final visit the study will administer a test to measure child development
      outcomes. The study will collect urine, blood, and stool specimens from a subsample of 1,500
      children distributed across four arms of the study (Control, combined WSH, Nutrition,
      Nutrition+WSH) to measure biomarkers of gut function and intestinal parasitic infections at
      the 12- and 24-month follow-up visits. In addition, the study will collect specimens (blood,
      stool) from children 18 - 27 months old at baseline who are living in the same compound as
      target children to test for intestinal parasitic infections. At 24-months in all arms, the
      study will collect specimens stool from target children, children 18 - 27 months old at
      baseline, a school-aged child, and an adult who are living in the same compound as target
      children to test for intestinal parasitic infections. At 36-months in all arms, the study
      will collect specimens stool from target children, a school-aged child, and an adult who are
      living in the same compound as target children to test for intestinal parasitic infections.
    
  