
    
      Patients diagnosed as having perforated diverticulitis with free air on plain abdominal X-ray
      or CT scan fulfilling the in- and exclusion criteria are randomised during laparoscopy via a
      central computer. In case of purulent diverticulitis patients are randomised to three arms:
      (a) laparoscopic lavage, (b) sigmoidectomy with colostomy or (c) sigmoidectomy with
      anastomosis in ratio of 2:1:1. In case of faecal peritonitis or an overt perforation of the
      sigmoid, the patient will be randomised 1:1 to sigmoidectomy with colostomy or sigmoidectomy
      with primary anastomosis.

      The first primary outcome parameter consists of a combined endpoint consisting of mortality
      and major morbidity (LOLA). The second primary endpoint consists of stoma-free survival one
      year after initial surgery (DIVA). Secondary endpoints are number of days alive and outside
      the hospital, health related quality of life, health care utilisation and associated costs. A
      sample size of 132:66:66 patients per treatment arm will be able to detect a difference in
      the combined endpoint of serious complications and mortality from 25% in the two
      sigmoidectomy groups compared to 10% in the lavage group (two-side alpha of 5% and a power of
      90%. In the DIVA analysis 2x132 patients are needed to significantly demonstrate a difference
      of 30% in stoma-free survival between both treatment arms (log rank test two-sided alpha of
      5% and power of 90%) in favour of the patients with primary anastomosis. More than 35
      hospitals will participate in this study with an estimated total inclusion of 100 patients
      per year. Patients will be followed for one year.

      The study will be executed in concordance with the protocol, the Good Clinical Practice
      guidelines and regulatory requirements.

      After closure of the LOLA-arm due to safety concerns for laparoscopic lavage, the protocol
      and sample size has for the DIVA-arm been adjusted to 118 patients per study arm (faecal or
      purulent peritonitis).
    
  