
    
      This study involves participants from the randomised clinical trial which was just completed
      (CASA AF RCT: NCT02755688; ISRCTN18250790 ). They have undergone relevant ablation procedures
      in a randomised fashion and completed 12 months follow up. At the last study visit they
      signed a consent form to confirm that they have agreed to keep implanted loop recorder for
      the duration of its battery life time (approximately 3 years). They have also continued to
      regularly transfer data from their implanted loop recorder to the secure server where it is
      regularly reviewed. This group of patients is now a unique cohort whose follow up data is
      invaluable for additional research. For this study we will ask for their written consent and
      apart from analysing their heart rhythm data we will arrange two hospital visits with some
      additional tests and completion of questionnaires.

      The principal objective of the study is to compare the long-term effectiveness of
      thoracoscopic surgical ablation and percutaneous catheter ablation, the two procedures
      available for treatment of atrial fibrillation in patients with longstanding persistent AF
      (LSPAF). There is some evidence that thoracoscopic surgical ablation may be better than
      catheter ablation in keeping the patients in regular heart rhythm after a single procedure
      without use of antiarrhythmic drugs in short term. In this study we plan to monitor patients
      who have undergone these procedures for 3 years.

      Our secondary objectives are focussing on patients who had more than one procedure and/or may
      be using medications in order to maintain regular heart rhythm during 36 months follow up.

      We will therefore look at:

        1. the effectiveness of a single procedure (catheter or surgical) in maintaining normal
           rhythm with use of antiarrhythmic drugs.

        2. the effectiveness of multiple ablative procedures in maintaining sinus rhythm with and
           without use of antiarrhythmic drugs.

        3. the proportion of patients who are still in AF but the time they spend in it is reduced
           by ≥75%.

           We will also want to examine:

        4. patient reported change in quality of life from baseline to 24 and 36 months after
           ablative treatment.

        5. changes in levels of serum biomarkers from baseline to 36 months and how they relate to
           the freedom of arrhythmia

        6. health and social care resource use and associated costs from baseline to 36 months

        7. the cost-effectiveness of thoracoscopic surgical ablation compared with catheter
           ablation and update the health economic model developed for the main study (CASA AF
           RCT).

      Our sample size calculations show that with an expected rate of attrition of around 20% we
      need 94-100 study participants to show the difference in the effectiveness of the two
      procedure with power of 80%, p= 0.05.

      Patients participating in this extended follow-up study will attend two hospital appointments
      to coincide with 24 and 36 months post-ablation (± 6 months). These two visits will consist
      of:

        1. clinical examination

        2. review of concurrent medications and comorbidities

        3. electrocardiogram (12 lead ECG )

        4. blood test for routine biochemistry and collection of a sample for biomarkers analyses

        5. completion of questionnaires to assess patients' quality of life: atrial fibrillation
           effect on quality of life (AFEQT), EuroQol (EQ5D5L) European Heart Rhythm Association
           score of atrial fibrillation (EHRA),

        6. Health economic questionnaire to capture repeat procedures (ablation, direct current
           cardioversion and AF-related emergency care)

      For the duration of the extended follow-up, once a week patients will download data from
      their implantable loop recorders which have algorithms that are specific for atrial
      arrhythmias (atrial fibrillation, atrial tachycardia, atrial flutter). Patients remotely
      download their data to the Medtronic (MyCarelinkTM) secure server. These data will be
      reviewed centrally every month by a dedicated Research Fellow. Patients will be contacted
      monthly by telephone to ensure compliance and to discuss any rhythm abnormalities detected in
      these data that require review of treatment/ management. Patients will be able to contact the
      research team if they experience symptoms of atrial arrhythmias. The implanted loop recorder
      data can be interrogated remotely, and appropriate advice regarding treatment given based on
      data review.
    
  