
    
      This project's long-term goal is to develop a system-level method to move existing,
      efficacious self-management resources into the hands of children with type 1 diabetes and
      their families. Over 175,000 US children have type 1 diabetes and face a lifetime of
      self-management decisions in an attempt to delay or prevent complications, avoid
      hypoglycemia, and maintain quality of life for themselves and their parents. Although
      efficacious self-management resources exist, most children with diabetes struggle to manage
      their disease. Several barriers to diabetes management exist, including knowledge,
      motivation, and family interactions. Because barriers are unique for each child and family,
      family-centered approaches are recommended. Currently, no systematic approach exists to
      identify and address each family's self-management barriers. Information from PRISM (Problem
      Recognition in Illness Self-Management), a 10-minute survey tool, could help families and
      clinicians make better decisions to address these barriers, ultimately improving outcomes,
      fostering family-centered diabetes care, and optimizing resource use.

      This randomized, pragmatic trial will compare outcomes from PRISM-based, family-centered
      tailoring of self-management resources (intervention) to outcomes from the untailored
      approach of usual care. Our specific aims are to assess the effect of family-centered
      tailoring of diabetes self-management resources on outcomes that matter to the children and
      parents: glycemic control (A1c and fear of hypoglycemia) and child and parent quality of
      life.

      Children 8-16 years old with diabetes (150 each in usual care and intervention groups) and
      their parents will be enrolled at two large pediatric diabetes clinics. We will 1) use PRISM
      to identify families' unique self-management barriers; 2) tailor self-management resources to
      identified barriers; and 3) coordinate group-based delivery of the resources with routine
      diabetes visits. The group-based resources will be delivered in four 75-minute sessions over
      12 months. A1c will be assessed after sessions, along with fear of hypoglycemia and quality
      of life for the child and parent. We will compare outcomes with mixed-effects models.
    
  