
    
      Purpose 1 (arms 1 and 2): To evaluate the effect of referral to peer-led coaching, guided by
      the ProACTIVE SCI intervention, on physical activity behaviour, health, and quality of life
      outcomes among people with SCI.

      Procedure overview: Participants will complete survey measures (~45 minutes) at
      baseline/discharge, 2 months, 6 months post discharge, and 1-year follow-up. Participants
      will also complete a semi-structured interview to assess satisfaction with the intervention
      at 6 months. Participants in the intervention group will receive an initial assessment (~1
      hour) and 10 physical activity coaching sessions (~15 minutes each). A total time commitment
      of ~6.5 hours is expected over one year.

      Design: For pragmatic and ethical reasons, a quasi-experimental design will be used where
      interested participants will be allocated to the intervention group.

      Procedure: Patients who are interested in participating will be enrolled in the intervention
      group and will receive the ProACTIVE SCI intervention coaching. Patients who are not
      interested in participating will be re-contacted before discharge and/or at 3 months
      post-discharge to gauge interest. Those who remain uninterested will be allocated to the
      control group and those who are interested will be put into the intervention group. For those
      who consent during their hospital stay, a two-page quick-sheet will be filled out at
      discharge to record any physical activity coaching information collected during their
      hospital stay as part of usual care. (Please see Section 9 for the "GF Strong inpatient/
      form" and "GF Strong outpatient form" that is currently used in practice). The quick-sheet
      and any exercise prescriptions developed will be transferred to the SCI BC peers. If
      possible, SCI BC peers will contact the client in-person or over video-conference before
      discharge to begin coaching, otherwise SCI BC peers will contact the patient to begin
      coaching sessions in the community post-discharge. SCI BC peers will carry out the physical
      activity coaching sessions guided by the ProACTIVE SCI intervention with the exception that
      exercise prescriptions cannot be made by the peers. If exercise prescriptions are needed,
      referral to an adapted personal trainer in the community will be made. Coaching sessions will
      be provided either in-person, using video teleconferencing technology or telephone if needed.
      Ten 15-minute sessions will be scheduled in accordance with patient needs and readiness,
      however, as a general structure, one coaching session will be provided each month for months
      1-3, two coaching sessions per month in months 4-6, with a follow-up before one year. The
      peer coaches will make up to 5 attempts to reschedule a missed coaching session.

      Sample size estimate: Based on feasibility estimates calculated using number of patients
      admitted yearly to GF Strong (n=100), an estimated 70% discharged to home (n=70; remaining
      30% discharged to long-term care or other), approximately 55% of patients willing to consent
      over the 3 month follow-up period, and a 20% dropout estimate (based on previous experience
      in conducting studies in this population) an estimated n=30 individuals will be recruited to
      the intervention group and n=25 will be allocated to the control group (see Figure 2).

      To ensure the sample size based on feasibility is adequately powered to detect an effect on
      physical activity, the investigators conducted a power calculation based on a previous
      randomized controlled trial in the in-patient setting with individuals with spinal cord
      injury. Physiotherapists delivered a bi-weekly behavioural coaching intervention to 39
      individuals with SCI and physical activity was assessed at baseline, discharge, 6-months, and
      one-year post-discharge. A large-sized effect was observed at 6 months (d=0.89) for
      self-reported physical activity. Given the quasi-experimental design, the investigators are
      powering for a more modest between groups difference (d = .75). Eight participants/condition
      (N = 16) are needed to yield a significant effect of this magnitude in a repeated measures
      ANOVA, with β = .80 and α = .05. Thus, the feasibility-based projected sample size is
      adequate to detect a significant effect of the intervention on physical activity in this
      context.

      Statistical Analysis: Two-way repeated measures ANOVA

      Purpose 2 (arm 3): Evaluate, understand, and document the implementation process of
      physiotherapists and peers with SCI delivering the ProACTIVE SCI intervention

      Procedure overview: Clinicians and SCI BC Peers will receive a two-day training (2 hours each
      day) on how to deliver the ProACTIVE intervention. Clinicians and SCI BC Peers will be
      supported with monitoring and feedback for the first two months of delivering the
      intervention to clients and community of practice meetings as needed. 20-minute surveys will
      be administered before and immediately after training, as well as at 1 month and 6 months
      after starting implementation. One-hour semi-structured interviews will be conducted at 6
      months. A total time commitment of ~18.5 hours is expected over one year for the clinicians.
      SCI BC Peers will deliver 10x15 minute coaching sessions to ~ 10 participants each for a
      total time commitment of 43.5 hours over one year.

      Design: Within-subject, repeated measures.

      Participants: As the aim of this project is to deliver the intervention using a pragmatic
      approach, volunteer physiotherapists from GF Strong and SCI BC peer coordinators who are
      interested in delivering the ProACTIVE SCI intervention will be included in this objective.

      Sample size estimate: The study is powered to detect a significant within-subject effect over
      time on the theoretical domains framework (TDF) measures. A previous evaluation of the
      ProACTIVE implementation training amongst physiotherapists, when using within subject
      pre-post analyses, demonstrated a very large effect size across TDF outcomes (f=.867). A
      minimum of five participants are needed to yield a significant effect of this magnitude in a
      within-subject, repeated measures ANOVA (4 time points), with β = .80, α = .05, and a
      conservative 0.25 correlation among repeated measures.

      Statistical Analysis: One-way repeated measure ANOVA.
    
  