
    
      There is considerable inter-individual variability in therapeutic drug response, required
      dosage and adverse effects in psychotropic treatment. Few patients experience a remission of
      their illness when initially treated with any medications.1,2 In those who remain
      symptomatic, less than half will experience a significant improvement with a change in
      medication or with the addition of an alternative psychotropic medication.2 Variation in drug
      response is complex and is dependent on a number of factors, including diagnostic accuracy,
      the potential for drug-drug interactions, age, gender, renal and hepatic functioning, medical
      and psychiatric comorbidity, nutritional status, coincident substance use, genomic and
      related downstream translational factors and patient compliance. In recent studies examining
      the use of antidepressants, antipsychotics, mood stabilizers, and pain medications
      substantial proportions of study patients discontinue treatment as a consequence of adverse
      effects or symptom relapse.3-5 Similarly in community practice settings, nearly half of the
      patients make no follow-up visits, and only a fourth return to pursue regular primary
      treatment.6,7 Prolonged times to response whether caused by adverse effects or by other
      factors are associated with substantial increased risk for morbidity or mortality.
      Pharmacogenomic testing is expected to improve response, as well as minimize the likelihood
      of adverse effects associated with patient nonadherence and extended morbidity.8-10 While the
      scientific understanding of pharmacogenomics is quickly accelerating, its translation to
      clinical decision-making in practice has progressed more slowly.11,12 In an effort to begin
      to bridge this translational gap, a pharmacogenomic/pharmacogenetic testing has been
      developed for various and commonly existing psychiatric disorders to improve the safety of
      prescribing medications. This pharmacogenomic-based interpretive report is based on
      genotyping both copies of multiple informative genes, which are: the cytochrome P450 1A2 gene
      (CYP1A2); the cytochrome P450 2B6 (CYP2B6) gene; P450 2D6 gene (CYP2D6); the cytochrome P450
      2C9 gene (CYP2C9); the cytochrome P450 2C19 gene (CYP2C19); uridine-glucoronyl-transferase
      2B15 (UGT2B15) gene; the serotonin transporter gene (Solute Carrier Family 6 Member; SLC6A4);
      p-glycoprotein ( ATP-binding cassette sub-family B member 1; ABCB1) transporter gene; the
      serotonin 2A receptor gene (HTR2A); the serotonin 2C receptor (HTR2C) gene; serotonin 1a
      receptor (5HT1a) gene; dopamine 1 receptor (DRD1) gene; dopamine 2 receptor (DRD2) gene;
      adrenergic alpha-2A receptor (alpha-2A) gene; opioid mu (opioid receptor mu 1; OPRM1)
      receptor gene; dopamine synthesis gene (ankyrin repeat and kinase domain containing 1;
      ANKK1); dopamine metabolizing enzyme [Catechol-o-methyltransferase (COMT]) gene; kainite
      receptor gene (glutamate ionotropic receptor kainate type subunit 4; GRIK4); folate
      (methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase; MTHFR) gene; sodium channels (sodium voltage-gated
      channel alpha subunit 2; SCN2A) gene.

      The cytochrome P450 enzymes' genes code for the enzymes that are responsible for metabolism
      of most antipsychotic, antidepressant and pain medications. The UGT2B15 is for benzodiazepine
      metabolism. The COMT gene is for dopamine metabolism and is relevant for cognitive function,
      depression and smoking. The SLC6A4 and the 5HT2A have been associated with differential
      treatment response to specific medications. The 5HT2C is for weight gain; the ABCB1 gene is
      for pain; some psychotropics such as risperidone; the dopamine 2 (D2) receptor gene for
      psychotropic medications, weight gain and pain medications; and the opioid mu (OPRM1)
      receptor gene for weight and pain; Sodium channels (SCN2A) gene for autism, seizures and
      bipolar disorder; GRIK4 gene is for kainite receptor involvement with rapidly acting
      antidepressants, pain, dysphoria, and potentially psychotropic medications' ANKK1 is for
      smoking, weight management, and bipolar disorder. The MHTFR is for antidepressants; D1 is for
      psychotropic response.

      Such genetic testing has a significant potential to reduce healthcare costs through increased
      efficacy and tolerability of antidepressant medications as well as medication adherence.
      However, there is a relative lack of such efforts with psychotropic medications (APMs) in the
      treatment of various psychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia, major depression, or
      bipolar disorder. This is despite significant room for improvement in efficacy and
      tolerability of currently available drugs in such patients. Consequently, the investigators
      are proposing to utilize genetic testing to select more genetically-informed medications to
      enhance their effectiveness in real-world patients with psychiatric illnesses such as
      schizophrenia, major depression, and bipolar affective disorder as well as medical problem
      with chronic pain in a large state hospital setting. The investigators plan to use genetic
      testing offered by Admera® for medications. The investigators hypothesize that utilizing such
      pharmacogenomic testing as a treatment decision support tool will demonstrate clinical
      benefits by improving patient response and decreasing adverse effects to the psychotropic
      medications. The proposed study will be conducted at the Oregon State Hospital, Salem Oregon
      over a total period of 12 months.
    
  