
    
      Background and Significance: Two major factors affecting the delivery of quality patient care
      today are cost of care and development of antibiotic resistance. If no significant difference
      is found in the rate of tympanostomy tube occlusion and drainage in subects receiving ear
      drops after surgery and those not receiving ear drops, may help prevent the development of
      antibiotic resistance and could possibly reduce the cost of care for families.

      Tympanostomy tube(s) (TT) insertion is the most common otolaryngologic procedure for children
      and adolescents who suffer from chronic otitis media. TT(s) are inserted by a surgeon through
      the eardrum to regulate pressure in the middle ear and to aid with ear drainage and
      ventilation. In order for TT(s) to ventilate the middle ear space properly, they must remain
      unobstructed. Otorrhea is one of the most common complications following TT(s) insertion.
      Previous research has suggested that various factors may lead to TT(s) occlusion, including
      blood, debris, purulent otorrhea and tube size. A 2014 study by Conrad et al., found that
      patients with the presence of middle ear effusion at the time of surgery were more likely to
      experience tube occlusions than patients without fluid. However, studies demonstrating the
      most effective treatment for preventing postoperative otorrhea and TT occlusion are limited.

      How to reduce the risk of post-operative TT otorrhea and TT occlusion is a common question
      among otolaryngologists and researchers and the efficacy of ototopical drops has been debated
      for patients without middle ear fluid. There is conflicting information in the current
      literature about the utility of these topical otic drops in patients with dry ears on the day
      of surgery. A 2008 review of seven randomized controlled trials completed by Schmelzle and
      colleagues concluded that fluoroquinolone based topical otic drops are the most effective
      treatment for patients with acute otitis media and TTs when compared to systemic antibiotic
      treatment and placebo. However, this treatment has been long debated. A 1991 study published
      by Ramadan, Tarazi, and Zaytoun found that there was no statistical difference between
      treated vs. not treated group in the development of post-operative otorrhea; however, all of
      these patients had middle ear effusions at the time of TT placement. Concurrently, a 2009 ex
      vivo study by Burke and colleagues on clotted TT(s) found that the administration of a
      solution of vinegar and hydrogen peroxide produced patent tubes at a higher rate than
      antibiotic otic drops.

      Additionally, antibiotic resistance is a growing concern when treating with oral antibiotic
      therapy. While the placement of tympanostomy tubes does reduce the need for oral antibiotic
      therapy, resistant strains of bacteria such as methicillin-resistance staphylococcus aureus
      (MRSA) have become more prevalent in children with tympanostomy tubes.

      Given the lack of evidence-based research, the decision for usage of topical otic drops when
      there is no middle ear fluid present is based on the subject's medical history and clinical
      judgment of the treating physician. Some providers opt to use topical otic drops in the
      absence of middle ear effusion, and some providers forgo the use of drops intra- and/or
      post-operatively. When topical otic drops are used as part of standard of care they are
      placed bilaterally, and patients receive variable amounts of otic solution intra- and
      post-operatively, also based on clinician preference.

      Some providers believe that the use of topical otic drops in the absence of middle ear fluid
      effectively lessens the potential of a post-operative negative outcome such as TT occlusion.
      If this is true, not using topical otic drops intra- or post-operatively exposes the patient
      to a higher risk of a negative surgical outcome. However, there is currently insufficient
      clinical evidence to support the efficacy of topical drops in that specific clinical
      scenario. If indeed topical otic drops do not effectively improve post-operative outcomes,
      then the use of them is exposing the patient to antibiotics and adding to the cost of their
      care unnecessarily. The goal of this present study is to demonstrate whether the use of
      topical ofloxacin otic drops in patients with absent middle ear effusion on the day of TT
      surgery impacts the development of post-operative tube otorrhea or occlusion.

      In the proposed study, subjects' ears will be randomized and ofloxacin drops will be
      administered intra- and post-operatively in either their left or right ear, depending on
      treatment group. Subjects will be followed-up at their 4-week appointment to determine
      presence of otorrhea and patency of tubes.
    
  