
    
      Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the leading cause of pediatric lower respiratory tract
      infection. RSV also causes lower respiratory tract disease in the elderly and
      life-threatening disease in immunocompromised hosts. An RSV monoclonal antibody (palivizumab)
      is currently available for passive immunoprophylaxis in high-risk infants. Vaccines and
      antiviral agents are under development for the treatment and prevention of RSV, but none are
      licensed. The ability to challenge healthy volunteers with RSV could rapidly facilitate
      efficacy studies of future antivirals and vaccines. In addition, challenge studies would
      provide critical information on viral pathogenesis, including types of cells infected,
      mucosal and systemic immune response, and alterations in respiratory microbiota. Clinical
      trial material for human challenge studies has been prepared from live recombinant
      (complementary DNA-derived) RSV of subgroup A (RSV A2).

      This study will be a phase 1 study in healthy adult male and non-pregnant female subjects 18
      years to 50 years of age. The purpose of the trial is to define safety profiles and estimate
      illness rates for subjects given 2 different doses of RSV A2 challenge virus. If RSV A2 is
      found to be sufficiently infectious in adults, then it may be used as a challenge virus in
      future studies evaluating the protective efficacy of RSV vaccines or antivirals and in
      studies of pathogenesis of RSV.

      Subjects will be admitted to the NIH Clinical Center and receive a single intranasal dose of
      RSV A2 at either 10^5 or 10^6.3 PFU. Subjects will remain at the Clinical Center for
      approximately 9-12 days for clinical evaluation. Research procedures conducted on blood and
      nasal swab and wash samples will include lymphocyte phenotyping, cytokine analysis,
      transcriptosome profiling, RSV-specific immunoglobin analysis (circulating IgG and nasal
      secretory IgA), quantitative viral titers and viral culture, and nasal microbiome analysis.
      Subjects will be discharged when their NP wash RSV results are negative for two consecutive
      days and they do not have any signs or symptoms suggestive of possible RSV-associated lower
      respiratory tract disease. Subjects will return for followup evaluation 28 and 56 days after
      viral challenge.
    
  