
    
      Diabetes prevalence is higher in rural areas that have lower resources to diabetes
      self-management education and support (DSMES), a cornerstone to optimal diabetes management.
      A time efficient DSMES program delivered via telehealth by multidisciplinary experts that
      also encourages care partner and peer support is a creative solution to increasing access to
      DSMES and reducing disparities. This study is guided by the Research, Effectiveness,
      Adoption, Implementation, and Maintenance (RE-AIM) framework. English and Spanish-speaking
      participants and care partners will receive a one-time, 8-hour telehealth intervention at the
      rural clinic where they receive their usual care, from the multidisciplinary team. The rural
      clinical practices will provide feedback in two rounds, with iterative practice-level
      changes, to address process and/or workflow issues. Our overall objective is to adapt,
      implement, refine, and evaluate a time efficient DSMES program delivered via telehealth by a
      team of multidisciplinary experts that encourages care partner and peer support to improve
      A1C and diabetes self-management in rural communities to reduce disparities. Our
      multidisciplinary team includes researchers and clinical healthcare providers with experience
      in diabetes care, DSMES delivery, community-engaged research, practice-based research, and
      rural health issues. The University of Utah and High Plains Research Network provide a strong
      environment for this particular study. The proposed study will 1) adapt the exiting Diabetes
      One-Day Program (D1D) for use in rural communities (Rural Diabetes One-Day Program or R-D1D),
      2) conduct a patient-level pilot RCT to examine effects of R-D1D (intervention group) versus
      standard patient education (attention control group), guided by the RE-AIM framework. Our
      ultimate goal is to reduce health disparities in rural populations by increasing access to
      diabetes specialty care using telehealth. Preliminary data support the D1D intervention, but
      will require adaptation to translate for rural populations, then iterative refinement at the
      practice level to support long-term maintenance. Such a tested, accepted intervention should
      have a beneficial effect on diabetes self-management across multiple rural locations.
    
  