
    
      This single center, double-blind, placebo-controlled study will enroll 57 participants with a
      diagnosis of idiopathic PD. Subjects enrolled in the study will be randomized to receive once
      daily self-administered injections of liraglutide (1.2 or 1.8 mg, as tolerated) or placebo at
      the same dose range in a 2:1 study design.

      Liraglutide has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat adults with
      Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) and to treat obesity, but it is considered investigational in this
      study, as it has not been approved for use in patients with PD. Liraglutide belongs to a
      class of medications able to stimulate receptors of glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), a
      naturally occurring peptide found throughout much of the brain and able to increase the
      incretin effect in patients with T2D, stimulating the release of insulin. Liraglutide can
      reduce systemic and brain insulin resistance, an abnormality that could help drive PD
      pathogenesis. Indeed, impaired insulin signaling in the brain can cause or exacerbate many
      brain pathologies and behavioral abnormalities seen in PD. Another GLP-1 agonist, named
      exenatide, has been evaluated in patients with PD, showing significant improvement of motor
      and cognitive symptoms. There is reason to believe that liraglutide may prove superior to
      exenatide in treating PD.

      Eligible participants will be followed for up to 14 months and will be expected to complete 9
      in-person visits and 2 telephone visits. The study will measure liraglutide effects on motor
      (assessed by changes in the MDS-UPDRS part III) and non-motor symptoms of PD (assessed by the
      NMSS and MDRS-2) after 52 weeks of treatment. The secondary outcomes include measures of the
      association between liraglutide's effects on peripheral insulin resistance, PD symptoms and
      safety. Collection of blood and urine samples will be obtained to monitor drug safety.
    
  