
    
      Corona viruses can cause diseases in both animals and humans. Many of them typically infect
      upper respiratory tract with minor symptoms. However, three corona viruses can infect lower
      respiratory tract and cause fatal pneumonia; which are severe acute respiratory syndrome
      corona virus (SARS-CoV), Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) and (
      SARS-CoV-2). SARS-CoV-2 shares 78% similarity of genetic material with SARS-CoV.

      Pathophysiology of both viruses are closely similar, with destructive inflammatory response
      resulting in airway damage. That's why, disease severity in patients depends, not only on the
      viral infection, but also on the host response.

      In many cases, this will resolve the infection. However, in other cases, immune response
      dysfunctions and causes severe lung and systemic pathology ending to ARDS and respiratory
      failure .

      Treatment according to this protocol will be focused on using Asprin to decrease inflammatory
      reaction weather from the virus or after using alcohol.

      Alcohol will be used by different methods and concentration in order to decrease surface
      tension on alveoli , decreasing foamy sputum secretion , increasing vascular permeability and
      improving oxygenation .

      Also the investigator will use it as a prophylaxis for health care workers to disinfect the
      virus as soon as possible while it is present in nasal mucosa and upper airway.

      Patients will be classified according to inclusion and exclusion criteria and will be divided
      into groups and they will receive the protocol as it is designed in concentrations and
      techniques suitable for their medical condition .

      In this trial , The investigator will use 4 method to administrate Ethyl Alcohol to the
      patient by different concentrations .

        1. Inhaling alcohol vapor through nostrils .

        2. Inhalation of Alcohol vapor driven by Oxygen .

        3. Inhalation of Alcohol vapor driven by oxygen in case of ARDS.

        4. Ethyl Alcohol infusion into the airway . In each method , the patient will be prepared
           for one day before starting the protocol by prophylactic antibiotic , anti -
           inflammatory , mucolytic and bronchodilators .

      Investigations will be made before starting for follow up of the results .
    
  