
    
      The objective in this study is to investigate whether maternal arsenic exposure and
      one-carbon metabolism micronutrient deficiencies alter maternal and newborn measures of
      vaccine-induced protection, respiratory morbidity, and systemic immune function following
      influenza vaccination during pregnancy. The hypothesis is that maternal arsenic exposure and
      one-carbon metabolism micronutrient deficiencies alter maternal and newborn influenza
      antibody titer and avidity, respiratory infection morbidity, and markers of systemic immune
      function following maternal influenza vaccination during pregnancy. This study leverages a
      comprehensive pregnancy surveillance system at the JiVitA Maternal and Child Health and
      Nutrition Research Project site in Bangladesh (hereafter JiVitA) to pursue the following
      three aims:

      Aim 1. Establish whether arsenic exposure during pregnancy alters maternal and newborn
      influenza antibody titer and avidity following maternal influenza vaccination.

      Aim 2. Determine whether markers of systemic immune function mediate the association between
      arsenic exposure and respiratory illness in pregnant women and their newborns.

      Aim 3. Assess whether arsenic exposure and one-carbon metabolism micronutrient deficiencies
      during pregnancy have a joint effect on markers of systemic immune function and respiratory
      illness in mothers and their newborns.

      This study will yield three expected outcomes. First, it will fill critical knowledge gaps
      about whether arsenic exposure and one-carbon metabolism micronutrient deficiencies alter
      immune responses to a vaccination with known benefits for mothers and their newborns. Second,
      it will increase understanding of arsenic-associated respiratory morbidity and specific
      immune function pathways between arsenic exposure and respiratory morbidity in mothers and
      their newborns. Finally, as the global availability of vaccines increases, improving
      knowledge of potential environmental and biologic barriers to maternal and newborn
      vaccine-induced protection could lead to improved vaccine regimens (targeted vaccination
      campaigns, higher vaccine doses, and/or additional booster immunizations) to restore
      vaccine-induced protection in arsenic-exposed and malnutrition-affected populations of
      pregnant women and newborns worldwide.
    
  