
    
      March 2017 - April 2018. 30 healthy participants, 30 recurrent and 30 chronic LBP patients
      all aged 18-45 and of both genders were tested for 2 conditions on 2 separate days, i.e. a
      control condition (C) on 1 test day; a fear (F) condition consisting out of threat (T) and no
      threat trials (NT) on another test day. The order of test days was randomized.

      1 block of 240 rapid arm movements (RAM) with the dominant arm was performed per condition,
      while electroencephalography (EEG) of the brain and surface electromyography (sEMG) of the
      Internal Oblique/Transversus Abdominis, External Oblique, Multifidus and Iliocostalis
      Lumborum pars Thoracis muscles were measured bilaterally. sEMG of the Anterior Deltoid muscle
      of the dominant arm was also measured. This RAM was used to induce an internal perturbation
      to the postural balance of subjects and is an often used task in the study of trunk motor
      control. Midway the RAM block, the participants got a short intermission of 90 seconds seated
      rest. Both conditions consisted of a warning cue (colored dot on a screen) followed by a go
      cue (arrow indicating either an upwards or downwards rapid arm movement) or a no-go cue
      ('STOP') and 12 seconds rest before the next trial. Harmless vibrotactile stimuli were always
      administered to the low back region during the appearance of the warning cue. During the C, a
      white warning cue was presented (safe cue), meaning that the RAM would never be accompanied
      by a painful electrocutaneous stimulus in that condition. During the F a safe (no threat) or
      a threatening warning cue could be presented (50-50%); in 25% of the trials after the
      threatening cue an electrocutaneous stimulus was given to the lower back region; the trials
      after the no threat cue were never accompanied with painful stimuli.

      The intensity of the electrocutaneous stimulus was self-determined by participants through a
      staircase paradigm and was administered by a digitimer system.

      At the beginning of each test day several questionnaires were also administered to control
      for psychological factors and physical activity, i.e. Central Sensitization Index (CSI),
      Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia (TSK), Pain
      Catastrophizing Scale (PCS), Pain Vigilance and Awareness Questionnaire (PVAQ), Roland-Morris
      Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ), International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) and a
      general questionnaire regarding socio-demographic information and history of complaints.
      Furthermore, complaint specific questionnaires were also administered, but only for the
      clinical populations (RLBP and CLBP)

      Statistical analysis will be performed to assess whether and to what extent both threat and
      LBP might influence motor control as measured with EMG during RAM. Furthermore, the effect of
      both on cortical movement preparation and somatosensory processing will also be assessed
      based on the EEG measurements.
    
  