
    
      Anticipated Impacts on Veterans Health Care: The first three essential strategies listed
      within the VA's Blueprint for Excellence encompass plans to improve care to vulnerable
      Veterans, deliver high quality care through achieving the "Triple Aim" and leverage the use
      of technology to improve the efficiency of care delivery. The intervention this grant
      proposes focuses on improving medication safety and care coordination within a high risk
      vulnerable Veteran population, leverages the use of informatics and analytics to support this
      intervention, and aims to demonstrate improved care at reduced costs through the pharmacist
      intervention; thus, perfectly aligning with these three essential components of the
      Blueprint. The overarching goal of this study is to develop a feasibly deployable,
      technology-enabled intervention that will demonstrate substantial improvements in
      immunosuppressant medication safety, clinical outcomes and health care costs in Veteran organ
      transplant recipients; demonstrating this through a randomized controlled trial will provide
      sufficient evidence to further develop a VA-specific pharmacist learning collaborative aimed
      at improving care and reducing costs for Veteran organ transplant recipients across the
      entire VA system.

      Background: Organ transplant is the gold-standard treatment for patients with end organ
      diseases of the kidney, liver, heart and lungs, as it substantially improves survival and
      quality of life. Over the past 20 years, the use of contemporary immunosuppression has
      reduced the risk of acute rejection rates by upwards of 80%; yet long-term allograft survival
      remains suboptimal. Studies have demonstrated that causes of late graft loss is predominantly
      driven by immunosuppression adverse events and late allograft rejection episodes from
      medication errors and non-adherence, which encompass issues directly related to medication
      safety. The investigators' research demonstrates that medication errors occur in nearly
      two-thirds of transplant recipients, leading to hospitalization in 1 in 8 recipients.
      Recipients that develop significant medication errors are at considerably higher risk of
      graft loss, leading to higher costs and mortality. Thus, in order to improve medication
      safety and long-term outcomes in transplant recipients, enhancements in immunosuppressant
      therapy management is needed.

      Objectives: The central hypothesis for the ISTEP study (Improving Transplant Medication
      Safety through a TEchnology and Pharmacist Intervention) is that pharmacist-led
      immunosuppressant therapy management, facilitated through the use of innovative technology,
      will significantly improve immunosuppressant safety and clinical outcomes in Veteran
      transplant recipients.

      Methods: This is a 24-month, prospective, cluster-randomized controlled clinical trial at 10
      sites, randomizing 5 sites to standard clinical care and 5 to standard care and the
      technology-enabled pharmacist intervention. The technology component of this intervention
      consists of the use of an expanded dashboard system that has already demonstrated
      effectiveness in improving immunosuppression monitoring. The dashboard performs
      population-level surveillance of transplant recipients and identifies those with potential
      drug-related problems, including non-adherence, drug interactions, missing and worrisome
      trends in labs; then providing a real-time alert to the pharmacist, who will determine its
      relevance and intervene in an appropriate protocol-guided manner. Effectiveness will be
      determined by comparing the rates of hospitalizations and ER visits between groups, while
      adjusting for baseline patient, provider and facility characteristics. Secondary measures
      include comparing healthcare costs and determining dashboard functionality, dashboard
      actionability and pharmacist intervention types and acceptance rates. The investigators will
      also assess the overall incidence and severity of drug-related problems and graft and patient
      survival rates and compare these between the intervention and control sites.
    
  