
    
      Study Procedures Once the subject has agreed to participate in the study and has signed the
      consent form, the baseline visit can be performed. A full medical history will be taken and a
      physical exam will be done as per local routine practice for an embolization procedure. The
      Cognard scale will be performed to assess the grade of a DAVF and the Spetzler Martin grade
      will be assessed if a brain AVM is to be treated; these are standard scoring systems for
      brain DAVFs and AVMs. A neurological exam will be done and any abnormalities will be
      documented.

      Procedure Embolization of the DAVF or BAVM or tumor will be done as per routine practice but
      using the Easyx product. The procedure to treat a BAVM or a tumor may be staged and complex
      DAVFs may require a second treatment to fully occlude the fistula. The plan for treatment
      will be noted at the procedure visit and subsequent planned interventions will not be classed
      as adverse events. All interventions up to the 12 month follow up visit will be recorded in
      the Case Report Forms - CRFs. If the preliminary angiogram immediately prior to treatment
      shows that the target area can no longer be treated with an embolic product, the patient will
      be withdrawn from the study at this point and alternative treatment as per routine practice
      will be planned. Procedure details will be noted and feedback from the treating
      interventionalist will be collected, to determine the ease of handling of the product.

      If the DAVF occlusion is complete, an assessment of where occlusion has been performed will
      be noted. If the DAVF or BAVM occlusion or blockage of the supply to a tumor is incomplete,
      the reason for incomplete occlusion will be given. The subject will be asked to complete a
      visual analog scale immediately after the procedure to report on any pain. A neurological
      exam will be done post treatment to assess for any changes.

      Discharge The subject's condition will be recorded at discharge. Adverse events will be
      reported as well as any subsequent imaging or interventions that occurred following the
      initial treatment. A neurological exam will be done and any changes will be recorded. The
      Rankin score will only be done if there has been a hemorrhagic or ischemic stroke; this is a
      well known stroke scale.

      One Month Follow up A follow up visit will be done at the clinic one month after the initial
      treatment. Adverse events will be reported and any subsequent imaging or interventions that
      occurred following the initial treatment. A neurological exam will be done and any changes
      will be recorded. The Rankin score will only be done if there has been a hemorrhagic or
      ischemic stroke.

      Three - Six Months Follow up A control cerebral imaging will be done as per local routine
      practice for an embolization procedure. This may include dynamic Magnetic Resonance
      MR-Angiography, CT or catheter angiography. Adverse events will also be reported. The Cognard
      score and the Martin Spetzler grade will be documented and a neurological exam will be done.
      The Rankin score will only be done if there has been a hemorrhagic or ischemic stroke.

      Twelve Months Follow up A final follow up visit will be done at 12 months to determine if any
      adverse events have occurred. A neurological exam will be done and any changes will be
      recorded. The Rankin score will only be done if there has been a hemorrhagic or ischemic
      stroke. Subjects may be brought back as late as 14 months post procedure, to fit in with
      routine follow up.

      Risks

      The clinical risks associated with the use of of Easyx™ and the procedure to place the device
      are the same as any other marketed embolic product. These risks of the procedure include:

        -  Headache

        -  Too much blood sugar

        -  Infection

        -  Bleeding from access point for delivery catheter

        -  Bleeding in the brain or a blood clot in the brain leading to stroke

        -  Low or high blood pressure

        -  Inability to get to the area to be treated

        -  Difficulty to remove the delivery catheter, entrapment of the catheter, rupture of the
           catheter

        -  Rupture of a blood vessel due to mishandling of the catheter or due to an attempt to
           free a catheter that has become stuck to the embolic agent

        -  Abnormal heart rhythm

        -  A tear in the wall of the blood vessel

        -  Respiratory failure

        -  Seizures

        -  Spasm of the blood vessels

        -  Fainting

      The specific risks associated with the delivery of the embolic product itself are:

        -  Inability to clearly see the embolized area

        -  Allergic reaction related to placement of the embolic product

        -  Spasm of the blood vessels due to the solvent in the embolic product

        -  Low platelet count

        -  Reflux or migration of the embolic product

        -  Bleeding events related to product delivery

        -  Pain after the procedure, related to product delivery

      The risks associated with the delivery system include:

        -  Catheter entrapment

        -  Catheter clogging

        -  Catheter rupture

      The risks associated with the delivery of the embolic product into the incorrect target area
      are:

        -  Damage to the function of the cranial nerve vessels

        -  Symptoms of stroke associated with product being in the wrong brain vessels

        -  Tissue damage in the surrounding area of the embolic product

        -  Incorrect placement in the venous system

      Benefits The liquid embolic EasyxTM has proved to be feasible and safe for endovascular
      embolization in animal AVM and hypervascular animal models. The main advantages of the
      material are its even consistency, strongly bound iodine providing high visibility under
      x-ray, the non stick properties in relation to the delivery catheter and the adhesive
      properties in relation to easy placement of the product in the target vessel. Also, the
      product is ready to use and so does not need any preparation prior to placement in the target
      vessel. These advantages show that Easyx is easy to use in comparison to other products
      already on the market. EasyxTM has been shown to be biocompatible. The solvent is quickly
      dispersed in the surrounding tissue allowing the embolic product to quickly precipitate in
      situ and provide a solid cast in a target vessel lumen.
    
  