
    
      This is a single-arm, single-center, open-label trial of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in subjects
      with metastatic biliary tract cancer as second-line treatment after failing to at least one
      cytotoxic chemotherapy regimen

      Approximately 33 subjects will be enrollment to evaluate the efficacy and safety of
      pembrolizumab.

      Enrollment will begin with all subjects without regard for PD-L1 expression status.

      An evaluable specimen for PD-L1 status must be available and confirmed prior to enrollment.

      All study subjects will be evaluated every 6 weeks (+/- 7 days) following the date of IP drug
      adminstration for the first six months and every 12 weeks (+/- 7 days) thereafter until
      progression of disease is documented with radiologic imaging (computed tomography or magnetic
      resonance imaging).

      The primary efficacy endpoint is ORR (objective response rate) per RECIST 1.1. If a subject
      has progression of disease by RECIST 1.1, it is recommended that the subject be discontinued
      from the study treatment unless, in the Investigator's opinion, the subject is deriving
      benefit from treatment.

      Adverse events will be monitored throughout the trial and graded in severity according to the
      guidelines outlined in the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version
      4.0.

      Except as noted above, treatment with pembrolizumab will continue until documented disease
      progression, unacceptable adverse event(s), intercurrent illness that prevents further
      administration of treatment, Investigator's decision to withdraw the subject, subject
      withdraws consent, pregnancy of the subject, noncompliance with trial treatment or procedure
      requirements, completion of 24 months of pembrolizumab, or administrative reasons requiring
      the cessation of treatment.

      After the end of treatment, each subject will be followed for 30 days for adverse event
      monitoring (serious adverse events and events of clinical interest will be collected for 90
      days after the end of treatment or 30 days after the end of treatment if the subject
      initiates new anticancer therapy, whichever is earlier).Subjects who discontinue treatment
      for reasons other than disease progression will have post-treatment follow-up for disease
      status until disease progression, initiating a non-study cancer treatment, withdrawing
      consent, or becoming lost to follow-up. All subjects will be followed by telephone contact
      for overall survival until death, withdrawal of consent or the end of the study, whichever
      comes first.
    
  