
    
      Postmenopausal bleeding (PMB) is a common gynaecological complaint, accounting for up to 5 to
      10 % of postmenopausal women being referred to gynaecological outpatient clinic. It also
      comprised of up to 10% of our outpatient gynaecological referral. In general, 60 % of women
      with postmenopausal bleeding have no organic causes identified, whilst benign causes of PMB
      includes atrophic vaginitis, endometrial polyp, submucosal fibroid and functional
      endometrium. However, between 5.7 to 11.5% of women with postmenopausal bleeding have
      endometrial carcinoma, which is the fourth most common cancer among women, therefore, it is
      important to investigate carefully to exclude genital tract cancer.

      In the past, often women with PMB require multiple clinic visits in order to reach a final
      diagnosis. This not only increase the medical cost as a whole, but also imposes an enormous
      stress and burden on patients, concerning about delayed or overlooked diagnosis of genital
      tract cancer.

      A One-stop postmenopausal bleeding clinic has been established since February, 2002 by the
      Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, New Territories East cluster (NTEC) aiming at
      providing immediate assessment of women with postmenopausal bleeding in one single outpatient
      clinic assessment.

      During the visit, a detailed history was taken in regarding the PMB and usage of hormonal
      replacement therapy or herbal medicine. A physical examination was performed and a cervical
      smear was taken if not been taken within a year. Transvaginal ultrasound (TVS) was then
      performed to measure the endometrial thickness (ET), examining ovaries then followed by an
      endometrial sampling. An outpatient hysteroscopy was performed only if TVS showed an ET >=
      5mm, or an abnormal endometrial appearance or unsatisfactory ET. Benign looking endometrial
      polyp would be removed during the outpatient hysteroscopy if possible.

      At the moment, there was very limited local data and lack of the long term result.
      Investigators aim to retrospectively evaluate the clinical outcome of postmenopausal bleeding
      patients who has attended One Stop Postmenopausal Clinic in order to formulate better care
      and counseling in future.

      Objectives:

        1. To analyze histopathology in relative to history and ultrasound findings in PMB women
           presented to One Stop Postmenopausal Bleeding Clinic at NTEC

        2. To correlate the clinical findings of transvaginal ultrasonography ( TVS) with
           outpatient hysteroscopy and endometrial assessment in The One Stop Postmenopausal
           Bleeding Clinic

        3. To identify predictive and prognostic factors in women with PMB for possible use in
           triaging high risk patients

      Methodology A. Subjects Postmenopausal women who attended the One Stop Postmenopausal
      Bleeding Clinic since year 2002 B. Methods All women with postmenopausal bleeding presented
      to One-Stop PMB clinic were enrolled for analysis. Menopause was defined as the cessation of
      menses for more than 1 year. These patients had a thorough history taken. A physical
      examination was performed. A vaginal ultrasound was performed to determine uterine dimension,
      the endometrial thickness (ET) and exclude other adnexal pathology. An Endometrial sampling
      was taken afterward. An outpatient hysteroscopy , a 2.7mm or 2mm 30 degree rigid hysteroscope
      was then inserted into the uterine cavity using either CO2 or normal saline as distending
      medium to identify uterine pathology if TVS showed an ET >= 5mm, or an abnormal endometrial
      appearance, or unsatisfactory ET. Benign looking endometrial polyps were removed during the
      outpatient hysteroscopy if possible. The management was determined by the finding on
      transvaginal ultrasonography and hysteroscopy. If surgery was indicated, appropriate surgery
      would be booked in the clinic. Patient was discharged from the clinic if the findings were
      normal. A call-back system was established to recall patients with abnormal pathology. A
      follow up appointment would be given in case of suspicious pathology or incomplete
      examination.

      The data was transferred into a computer database which will be analyzed. Medical records of
      all patients who presented to our One- Stop clinic at New Territories East Cluster will be
      reviewed. Patient's demographic data, presenting symptoms, clinical assessments,
      investigations and treatments will be collected. If they had operations performed, surgical
      pathology, if any, will also be reviewed. The outcomes in terms of death or still being alive
      are also ascertained from the Computerized Medical System.

      Data and Analysis Data will be analysed using SPSS 22.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA)
      program. For comparison of frequencies, chi-square test or or a two-sided Fishers' exact test
      will be used where appropriate. The Mann- Whitney U Test will be used to compare
      nonparametric data and the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test for correlation analysis with P<0.05 as
      indication of significance.

      Implication of Data Postmenopausal bleeding (PMB) is a worrisome symptom that requires urgent
      investigation because of its association with genital tract malignancy. One-stop
      postmenopausal bleeding clinic is becoming a trend, which has been effective in reducing the
      number of hospital visits per patient as well as decreasing patient anxiety (9). The review
      of the results of our One Stop Clinic which allows us to have better understanding of our
      patient's characteristics, risk factors and underlying pathologies in causing PMB. These
      could provide a better local evidence for future clinical use and patient care. The data
      helps to provide the basis for further improvement and streamlining the service as well as
      finding new approaches in the organization of the service.
    
  