
    
      The sample size has been calculated considering the physical activity levels measured by the
      Human Activity Profile (HAP). The effect size has been derived from the study of
      Teixeira-Salmela et al. 1999, who performed aerobic training in addition to lower limbs
      resistance training, and home exercises with subjects with chronic stroke. The experimental
      group (n=6) showed an increase on HAP on average of 20±6.1 points after the intervention, and
      the control group (n=7) had an average reduction of 1.86±0.19 points. Considering a
      significance level of 5% and a desired power of 80%, 9 participants per group was found, or
      18 participants in total. Assuming an expected dropout rate of 20%, a target of 22
      participants in total was set (11 participants per group).

      Statistical analyses: A code will be given to each participant. Two independent examiners,
      blinded to the group allocation, will perform data entry, and verify missing or apparently
      wrong values. Original paper forms will be kept in a secure place. Electronic files will be
      available only to the research team. An independent examiner, blinded to the group
      allocation, will perform the statistical analysis by SPSS (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA).
      Descriptive statistics will be performed for all outcome variables. Baseline variables will
      be compared between groups using independent Student's t-tests, to investigate differences
      among the groups regarding the clinical-demographical characteristics. If differences between
      the groups at baseline exist, analysis of covariance will be used to eliminate the influence
      of extraneous factors. The effects of the interventions will be analyzed from the collected
      data and the intention-to-treat analysis. Data from the last available assessment will be
      considered as the values of missed sessions. Between-groups differences will be measured with
      two-way ANOVA with repeated measures considering the baseline, post-training, and follow-up
      measures. Level of significance will be set at 0.05 and adjusted for multiple comparisons.
      Normality and equality of variance will also be analyzed to ensure correct use of parametric
      data. Study results will be spread regardless of the magnitude and direction of the effects.
    
  