
    
      This is a prospective randomized comparative study. The investigators reviewed all registered
      patients underwent primary total hip arthroplasty (T.H.A.) at our department up to five years
      ago. Four hundred sixty three patients were recorded at our data base. After reviewing
      patients' files, the investigators excluded fifty two patients with follow up less than one
      year and 29 patients with a previous history of complications. Three hundred eighty two
      patients were initially eligible for the study. The investigators contacted them by telephone
      calls in order to ask them to be included in this study. The investigators were unable to
      contact 57 patients, 51 refused to be included, 31 preferred a personal contact with the
      surgeon, 14 patients were died and 51 patients did not have an internet access. One hundred
      seventy eight participants were finally eligible to be included in our research. Only 167
      participants completed both electronic and routine follow up and these were our final
      materials. The investigators designed a group on WhatsApp for all participants included in
      the study. The questionnaires were sent on the group to be filled by the participants in
      addition to a request for routine x ray follow up. Also, the investigators used the group to
      send any announcement, schedule of routine visits and some instructions about how to answer
      the questionnaires. To keep the privacy of participants' information, every one was asked to
      resend the file and x- ray pictures to the surgeon private account. The investigators
      collected data received by all participants and reviewed them. If there was any serious
      complain or major radiological finding the investigators asked the participant for immediate
      clinical visit. One month later, the investigators started to recall all participants for
      routine follow up visit (RV) and reevaluate them clinically and radiologically. The
      investigators asked participants to calculate total time needed for completion of the
      questionnaires, time needed for x-ray and we added time needed for reviewing these files. The
      same was done at the RV including time of transportation. The investigators obtained a
      written consent from all of the participants after discussion about the aim of the research
      and the confidentiality of their data. All procedures performed in the study were in
      accordance with the ethical standards of our department and with the 1964 Helsinki
      declaration and its later amendments.

      the investigators evaluated the effectiveness of the electronic visit (EV) by calculation of
      the number of missing complications or signs detected at the time of RV and require any
      interference or close observation
    
  