
    
      Background

      Neuroendocrine tumors Neuroendocrine tumors (NET) are heterogeneous slow-growing neoplasms,
      occurring in 1-4/100,000 people per year. They origin from endocrine cells that derive from
      entodermal stem cells and are characterized by an endocrine metabolism and a typical
      pathologic pattern.

      Slow metabolic rates of NET, small lesion size and variable anatomical localization have
      represented the major limits for lesions diagnosis. The diagnostic workup for NET has relied
      on conventional morphological imaging procedures including computed tomography (CT),
      ultrasound (US) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) combined with gamma camera functional
      imaging, namely whole-body somatostatin receptor scintigraphy (SRS). SRS show a higher
      diagnostic accuracy than CT for NET diagnosis at both the primary and metastatic site, but
      there is still room for improvement. Novel PET tracers specifically developed for NET may
      increase diagnostic accuracy considerably as outlined below.

      Somatostatin receptor scintigraphy (SRS) As NET have high affinity somatostatin receptors,
      scintigraphic methods have been developed in the early nineties to allow in vivo imaging. SRS
      using Indium-111-DTPA-octreotide (Indium-111-pentetreotide scintigraphy), is the most widely
      used diagnostic test. Although rather sensitive and helpful for whole body staging compared
      to traditional imaging methods, this technique has pitfalls, one of them being the poor
      spatial resolution, leading to the development of PET-based imaging.

      Gallium-68-DOTA-peptide PET In the past decade, several positron emitting tracers have been
      developed for NET imaging. 68Ga-DOTA-peptides are a group of PET tracers that specifically
      bind to somatostatin receptors (SSTR) over-expressed on NET cells. Gallium-68-DOTA-peptides
      structure can be summarized in (1) the active part binding to SSTR (TOC, NOC, TATE), (2) the
      chelant (DOTA) and (3) the isotope (68Ga). Indications to perform 68Ga -DOTA-peptides studies
      in NET patients include: staging, re-staging after therapy, identification of the site of the
      unknown primary tumor in patients with proven NET secondary lesions and selection of cases
      eligible for therapy with somatostatin analogues.

      68Ga-DOTA-TOC was the first tracer to be employed in NET imaging and was reported to present
      a high tumor to non-tumor contrast and a higher sensitivity compared to SRS . The study with
      the largest patients population (84 pts with NET), reported sensitivity (97%) for DOTA-TOC
      PET to be superior to CT (61%) and SRS (52%) for the detection of NET lesions, especially in
      case of small tumors at nodal or bone level. In a comparison study of 51 patients with well
      differentiated NET, PET with Gallium-DOTA-TOC performed better than CT and SRS for the early
      detection of bone NET secondary lesions (sensitivity of 97%, specificity of 92%).
      68Ga-DOTA-TATE is characterized by a very high affinity for SSTR2 with a considerably higher
      affinity than 111In-DTPA octreotide. In a recent study, 51 patients with established NET (35
      negative and 16 equivocal for uptake on SRS) were examined by 68Ga-DOTA-TATE PET.
      68Ga-DOTA-TATE PET identified significantly more lesions than SRS and changed management in
      36 patients (70.6%), who were subsequently deemed suitable for peptide receptor-targeted
      therapy.

      Rationale of the study 111In-pentetreotide scintigraphy is the current standard for the
      detection of NET, even though its diagnostic accuracy is less than optimal. In the past
      decade, several 68Ga-DOTA-peptides have been developed for NET imaging, which showed a better
      detection for NET than 111In-pentetreotide scintigraphy in a small number of studies. These
      studies had several limitations, most importantly the inclusion of rather small and
      heterogeneous patient populations.

      The aim of this study is to prospectively compare the diagnostic accuracy of 68Ga-DOTA-TATE
      PET/CT with 111In-pentetreotide scintigraphy in a well-defined population of consecutive
      patients with established GEP-NET or patients with suspicion of NET with indication for a
      scintigraphy.

      Objective

      The objective of this study is to compare the diagnostic accuracy of Gallium-68-DOTATATE
      PET/CT with Indium-111-pentetreotide scintigraphy (SPECT/CT) for the diagnosis of
      gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP-NET) in consecutive patients with
      established GEP-NET or patients with suspicion of NET with indication for a scintigraphy. The
      working hypothesis is that Gallium-68-DOTATATE PET/CT is superior to Indium-111-pentetreotide
      scintigraphy (SPECT/CT) in terms of sensitivity and specificity.

      Methods

      The present study is a multi-center assessor-blind diagnostic case-control study of
      Gallium-68-DOTATATE PET/CT compared to Indium-111-pentetreotide scintigraphy (SPECT/CT) in
      consecutive patients with established GEP-NET or patients with suspicion of NET with
      indication for a scintigraphy.

      The study is conducted at the University Hospital Basel, Bern University Hospital, and CHUV
      Lausanne. The University Clinics of Nuclear Medicine of Basel, Bern and Lausanne, as well as
      Endocrinology, Diabetes and Clinical Nutrition of Bern will accrue consecutive patients with
      established GEP-NET or patients with suspicion of GEP-NET that meet eligibility criteria. All
      patients will undergo Gallium-68-DOTATATE PET/CT as index test and Indium-111-pentetreotide
      scintigraphy as standard test. Both results will be compared with histology and the follow-up
      results as diagnostic gold standards.
    
  