
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of a preparative regimen of
      Yttrium-90 (90^Y)- labeled anti-cluster of differentiation (CD)20 monoclonal antibody (MAb)
      (yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan) in combination with fludarabine (fludarabine phosphate)
      and melphalan followed by allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (APBSCT) for
      treatment of patients with B-cell low-grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma (LG NHL), intermediate-grade
      non-Hodgkin lymphoma (IG NHL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). II. To evaluate the short- and
      long-term complications of this new preparative regimen, including rates of engraftment,
      acute and chronic graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD) and infectious complications. III. To
      estimate the disease response rate, disease relapse (progression) rate, and non-relapse
      mortality rate. IV. To perform exploratory studies that seek to measure/characterize the
      expression of costimulatory molecules and impact of these molecules on the natural killer
      (NK) and T cells of a subset of lymphoma patients pre- post- allogeneic stem cell transplant
      (ASCT) and the stem cell product from a portion of sibling donors.

      OUTLINE: REDUCED-INTENSITY CONDITIONING: Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV)
      followed by indium In-111 ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes on day -21 and rituximab IV
      followed by yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes on day -14. Patients also
      receive fludarabine phosphate IV on days -9 to -5 and melphalan IV on day -4.

      STEM CELL TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo APBSCT on day 0.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive tacrolimus IV or orally (PO) and sirolimus PO beginning on
      day -3 and continuing for up to 6 months with taper.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and
      then every 6 months for up to 5 years.
    
  