
    
      Cancer patients often experience anemia due to the disease itself, chemotherapy or both.
      Quality of life is also affected, due in part to the fatigue associated with anemia. Previous
      studies with epoetin alfa have suggested that achieving a higher hemoglobin level may improve
      quality of life and help patients live longer.This randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled multi-center study evaluated the effects of treatment with epoetin alfa in
      maintaining hemoglobin levels between 12 and 14 g/dL to determine its impact on survival and
      quality of life, in addition to investigating the possible role that epoetin alfa may have on
      tumor response to chemotherapy. During the double-blind portion of the study, patients were
      to receive 12 months of treatment with epoetin alfa or placebo. Thereafter, follow-up
      evaluations were to occur every 3 months until 75% of the patients had died. Effectiveness
      was to be determined by recording the number of patients surviving at 12 months, the change
      in hemoglobin from the start of the study until study completion, response to chemotherapy
      and quality of life. Safety evaluations (incidence of adverse events, physical examinations
      and clinical laboratory tests) were to be performed throughout the study. The study
      hypothesis was that maintaining hemoglobin in the range of 12 to 14 g/dL would improve
      12-month survival and quality of life in patients with metastatic breast cancer who were
      receiving chemotherapy. Since the time this study was originally designed, the prescribing
      information for epoetin alfa has changed. Current use of epoetin alfa should follow the
      prescribing information. Patients were to receive epoetin alfa injections (40,000 units)
      under their skin once per week for 12 months or matching placebo. Dosage was to be adjusted
      up (to 60,000 units) or down (to 75% of the last dose administered) as needed to maintain
      hemoglobin levels between 12 and 14 g/dL.
    
  