
    
      Ankle fractures are one of the most common fractures in adults resulting in hospital stays
      and inability to work. Instable or dislocated ankle fractures are mostly treated by surgery.
      Treatment of stable lateral ankle fractures is still discussed controversial. They can be
      treated conservatively as well as by surgery.

      Furthermore, optimal aftercare is part of on-going discussion in both groups. Goal of any
      treatment is a fast, good functional outcome with pain free patients at low overall costs.
      Long-term results in terms of osteoarthritis should be kept in mind.

      Primary study objective is the comparison of functional result after conservative versus
      operative treatment in stable lateral ankle fractures.

      Secondary study objectives are the return to work, pain, and osteoarthritis. It is a
      prospective, randomised (site stratified block randomisation) multi-center clinical trial.
      The two treatment options are split in two study arms and compared to each other.

      Measurements and procedures:

      People with acute stable lateral malleolar fracture type Weber B are potential participants.
      Patients are recruited at their first visit in the emergency department or on the first
      contact with the orthopaedic department. They have to live in Switzerland in order to be able
      to show up at the regular visits. They have to work in order to gain information concerning
      the timeframe for return to work.

      No vulnerable participants are included. The two treatment options (operative versus
      conservative) are split in two study arms and compared to each other. Patients are randomly
      allocated to one of the two study arms. A central block randomisation with 80 participants
      per block is installed in REDCap. At time of participating in the study, REDCap is assigning
      the patient to one of the study groups.

      After enrolling in the study at the first visit a split cast is applied in both group.
      Surgical intervention should be performed within 2 weeks after trauma. The exact time of
      surgery is determined by the treating surgeon and documented. In the surgical group open
      reduction and osteosynthesis by plating is done.

      In the conservative group clinical and radiological re-evaluation is done within the first 2
      weeks after trauma.

      Both groups are further treated with an orthosis and allowed to bear weight as possible.

      At time of accident, within the first two weeks, after 6 and 12 weeks, after 1, 3 and 5 years
      the patient is examined clinically and radiologically. Olerud Molander Ankle Score (OMAS),
      Foot Function Index (FFI), American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society Score (AOFAS), Visual
      Analogue Scale Foot and Ankle (VAS FA) and epidemiological and clinical findings are
      gathered. Patients who do not reach the 12 weeks follow-up will be considered drop-outs and
      must be replaced. In accordance to the intention to treat analysis (ITT-analysis) data will
      be included in the statistical analysis. Multiple imputation technique will be used to
      analyze missing data. Every effort will be undertaken to complete any trial participation.
      Data are recorded by paper Case Report Forms (CRF). For each enrolled study participant a CRF
      is maintained. The CRFs in this trial are implemented electronically using a dedicated
      electronic data capturing (EDC) system (REDCap).

      Number of Participants with Rationale:

      According to the power analysis (power=0.8, one sided Wilcoxon rank sum test, alpha-error
      0,05, SD=7, unimportant difference≤3) 69 patients are needed per study arm to state a
      non-inferiority in both groups. A drop out or lost to follow up rate at approximately 10-15%
      is expected. Therefore 80 patients are needed per study arm (overall 160 patients).

      Statistical Considerations:

      Descriptive statistics are used in order to analyse demographic data (age, gender, inability
      to work, return to work, distribution of occupation, etc.) The main outcome is the OMAS after
      12 weeks. The hypothesis is that there is no difference between conservative and surgically
      treated stable lateral malleolar fractures regarding pain, function, and return to the
      workplace.

      Descriptive statistic with specification of the 95% confidence interval is used for the
      secondary outcome parameters. If applicable a multivariance analysis is intended.
    
  