
    
      Eye Movement Modeling Examples (EMME) is the youngest topic within the field of applied
      eye-tracking research in Educational Science. These are video recordings of a model executing
      a task and explaining how he goes about that. On top of that, the model's eye movements are
      tracked and replayed on top of the video.

      It addresses the question, how visual expertise could be trained with the help of
      instructional videos of real-world tasks that are explained by experts in the field. These
      videos include an overlay of these experts' visual focuses to support the learner in
      connecting the verbal explanation of the expert to the real-world complexity of the task. The
      aim of this study will be to evaluate whether eye-tracking assisted teaching may improve the
      novice, inexperienced, trainee's performance in executing an epidural block on an epidural
      simulator and may change its visual patterns as assessed by eye-tracking glasses.

      The study will enroll 14 novice trainees who will be randomized into two equal groups to
      receive (study group) or to don't receive (control group) a pre-recorded video (intervention)
      containing the instructions on where to focus their gaze while performing the epidural
      procedure.

      All the trainees (study and control group) will be asked to perform the epidural procedure
      using a standardized epidural simulator while wearing eye-tracking glasses.

      For this study, the investigators will use a commercially available Tobii Pro Glasses 50 Hz
      wearable wireless eye tracker. This system can measure eye movements using cameras integrated
      into the eyeglasses which record the corneal reflection of infrared lighting to track pupil
      position, mapping the subject's focus of attention on video recordings of the subject's field
      of vision (gaze).

      All the eye-tracked epidural procedures will be recorded immediately after accurate
      individual calibration, during which the participant, after wearing the glasses unit, focused
      on the center of the calibration target.

      All the eye-tracking video-recordings will be stored and analyzed by using Tobii Pro Lab
      Software. The investigators will select six areas of interest (AOI), to define regions of a
      displayed stimulus, and to extract metrics specifically for those regions. The areas were the
      following: 1) point of the epidural needle at its insertion into the skin; 2) shaft of the
      epidural needle; 3) hub of the needle; 4) barrel of the syringe; 5) plunger of the syringe;
      6) other fields of view.
    
  