
    
      Stroke is one of the main causes of acquired adult disability in the UK. In England and
      Wales, over 900,000 people are living with the chronic illness, which can cause sufferers to
      be highly dependent on others for their care. Many psychological problems can also occur
      including: depression, anxiety and fatigue. This has a marked impact on health service usage.
      There is an outstanding need to increase and improve psychological resources within these
      services.

      Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) has a well-established evidence base for reducing
      psychological distress in individuals with mental illness and physical health conditions
      including: diabetes, chronic pain, epilepsy & cancer. It is hoped that the investigators can
      apply this same model to support stroke survivors and their carers.

      The investigators propose to evaluate the effectiveness of an adapted ACT group intervention
      for adult stroke survivors and their carers. The benefit of ACT is that it is transdiagnostic
      therefore applicable to the very wide range of psychological problems found in carers and
      survivors after stroke. This ACT group is a stroke adapted version of the already existing
      'ACTivate your life' course, which is being run by the NHS for people with mental health
      difficulties across South Wales. The course endeavours to promote positive adjustment and
      reduce levels of depression and anxiety, using the core tenets of ACT.

      This study will have two parts. Part 1: a quantitative phase evaluating the effectiveness of
      the ACT group using outcome data in comparison to a waiting list control across three time
      points. Part 2: A qualitative phase exploring stroke survivors experiences of the ACT group
      and their perceptions of any change from group attendance.

      PART 1:

      Design: The study will employ a longitudinal randomised design using a questionnaire
      methodology. The study will not be blind. Outcome measures will be taken pre, post and at a
      two month follow up.

      Participants and Recruitment: Participants will be recruited across five NHS University
      Health Boards/Trusts: Cardiff and Vale University Health Board, Aneurin Bevan university
      health board, Cwm Taf University Health Board, North Bristol NHS Trust and University
      Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust. Bristol Area Stroke Foundation charity (BASF) will
      also assist in the recruitment across Bristol and will host the course for all Bristol
      participants. The individuals may be recruited at any stage of the care pathway after
      discharge from hospital.

      Potential participants will be identified by clinicians working within the stroke teams. All
      interested participants will be provided with a course flyer, written participant information
      sheet and consent form. Once consent has been obtained, participants will be randomly
      allocated into the treatment group or placed on a waiting list (control group). Carer/stroke
      survivor pairs will be allocated together. Participants who were allocated into the waiting
      list group initially, will be offered to attend the ACT group once the first group has
      finished and 2 month follow-up data has been collected.

      The intervention group will attend a four week, 2.5 hour (maximum) psycho-educational group
      that focuses on assisting stroke survivors and carers to learn a set of simple, and
      teachable, techniques that focuses on changing patterns of experience and thinking. The
      learning will involve understanding the principles of ACT via PowerPoint presentations which
      have been adapted to include stroke specific examples and have been simplified to allow for
      potential cognitive impairment.

      Sample Size: In order for sufficient power (0.80) and using standard parameters of alpha =
      0.05, a total sample size of between 40 - 64 participants are required in total.

      Control Group: After the intervention group is finished, the waiting list group will be
      offered the intervention which will consist of the exact same process as above.

      Data Protection: Data will be anonymised with randomly allocated codes. Identifiable personal
      data will be stored separately in a locked unit.

      Analysis: A mixed model (within and between participants) MANOVA will be looking for group x
      time interaction between the experimental and control.

      PART 2:

      Design: Semi-structured interviews will be conducted to explore stroke survivors' subjective
      experiences of the ACT group. These will be conducted >1 month after the group and will be
      framed around 8 main questions. Interviews will be undertaken in consultation rooms or in the
      participants' own home, lasting no more than 1 hour. The number of interviews conducted will
      depend upon the length of time it takes to reach data saturation (i.e. when no new
      information is emerging from the dataset), which is recommended for the type of qualitative
      analysis being performed. Interviews will be audio-recorded to support the researcher with
      transcription and data analysis. Participants will be made aware of this in advance on the
      consent form.

      Sample Size: The investigators envisage data saturation will be achieved anywhere between 12
      - 25 participant interviews.

      Sampling: Sampling will begin purposefully in the first instance to offer maximum variation
      in stroke survivors reported experiences of the group i.e. a diverse range of participants
      who expressed interest to partake will be interviewed. Theoretical sampling will then be used
      for subsequent interviews, whereby participants are selected based on the emerging theory.

      Recruitment: Similar to above, participants will be recruited from the University Health
      Boards (UHBs) and BASF charity, at any stage of the care pathway following discharge.
      Participants for this phase of the study will consist only of stroke survivors.

      Data Protection: All data will be stored on a password protected and encrypted USB device for
      the duration of the study, and will subsequently be destroyed after use. Participants will be
      assigned a numerical identifier during transcription to protect their identity.

      Analysis: Grounded Theory (GT) will be used in phase 2, for both data collection and analysis
      which will occur simultaneously. GT aims to identify emerging themes from the data and
      develop new, contextualised theories (i.e. "grounded" in the data). As such, data collected
      after each interview will be transcribed and reviewed in an evolving process. Interview
      questions will be revised to progressively focus on the emerging theory. This process is in
      line with the inductive nature of the GT approach.
    
  