
    
      This study will test the hypothesis that in previously flavivirus-exposed individuals, the
      antibody response is more broadly cross neutralising, and that this will lead to the
      identification of conserved virion surface epitopes that could be the target of second
      generation vaccines.

      Exploratory Primary Objectives/Specific aims:

        1. To establish a human model system of JEV infection in healthy adult volunteers using
           live attenuated JE vaccine IMOJEV®.

        2. To sort and sequence individual responding B cells (plasmablasts) after vaccination with
           IMOJEV®, and to generate human monoclonal antibodies to JEV.

        3. To generate JEV specific human monoclonal antibodies from the sequences derived in (2).

        4. To describe the development, specificity, cross-reactivity and function of the T cell
           response to IMOJEV®.

        5. To establish a sample bank for future work on cross-reactive and other responses to
           flaviviruses, flavivirus vaccines and other emergent viruses.

      Exploratory Secondary Objectives:

        1. To examine the specificity and cross-reactivity of the antibody response after JE
           vaccination, using serum and human monoclonal antibodies.

        2. To determine whether there are epitopes which can serve as the target of broadly
           cross-neutralising antibody responses.

      Experimentally the fine specificity and cross-reactivity of the antibody response will be
      studied by cloning antibodies from plasmablasts (B cells responding to the vaccine) that have
      been single cell sorted by flow cytometry then sequenced at one week post vaccine. These
      human monoclonal antibodies will then be mapped on to the surface of the virus particle using
      established approaches, and tested to look for cross-reactive antibodies. T cell responses to
      the vaccine will be studied using custom pools of synthetic peptides by ELISpot and flow
      cytometry.
    
  