
    
      Rationale: Only about ¼ of patients with thyroid nodules with indeterminate cytology are
      proven to suffer from a malignancy at diagnostic hemithyroidectomy. Therefore ~¾ is operated
      upon unbeneficially. Recent studies using FDG-PET/CT have suggested that it can decrease the
      fraction of unbeneficial procedures from ~73% to ~40%. Thereby the direct costs per patient,
      the number of hospitalization and average sick leave days might decrease and the experienced
      HRQoL might increase. A study will be undertaken to show the additional value of FDG-PET/CT
      after indeterminate cytology with respect to unbeneficial procedures, costs and utilities.

      Main objective: To determine the impact of FDG-PET/CT on decreasing the fraction of patients
      with cytologically indeterminate thyroid nodules undergoing unbeneficial patient management.

      Study design: A prospective, multicentre, randomized, stratified controlled blinded trial
      with an experimental study-arm (FDG-PET/CT-driven) and a control study-arm (diagnostic
      hemithyroidectomy, independent of FDG-PET/CT-result).

      Study population: Adult patients with a cytologically indeterminate thyroid nodule, without
      exclusion criteria, in 15 (university and regional) hospitals distributed over the
      Netherlands.

      Intervention: One single FDG-PET/low-dose non-contrast enhanced CT of the head and neck is
      performed in all patients. Patient management depends on allocation and results of this
      FDG-PET/CT.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The number of unbeneficial interventions, i.e. surgery for
      benign disease or watchful-waiting for malignancy.

      Secondary objectives: complication rate, consequences of incidental PET-findings, number of
      hospitalisation and sick leave days, volumes of healthcare consumed, experienced
      health-related quality-of-life (HRQoL), genetic, cytological and (immuno)histopathological
      features of the nodules.

      Sample size calculation/data analysis: Based on above-mentioned estimated reduction in
      unbeneficial interventions from ~73% to ~40%, at least 90 patients with nodules>10 mm need to
      be analyzed (2:1 allocation, α=0.05, power=0.90, single-sided Fisher's exact test). After
      correction for nodule size and data-attrition, 132 patients need to be included in total.
      Intention-to-treat analysis will be performed. Incremental Net Monetary Benefit based on the
      total direct costs per patients and the gain in HRQoL-adjusted survival years are computed.
      Cytological, histological and genetic parameters for FDG-avidity will be described.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: All patients undergo one FDG-PET/CT scan of head/neck (effective dose: <3.5 mSv)
      and are asked to fill in 6 questionnaires at 4 timepoints. FDG-PET/CT negative patients in
      the experimental arm will undergo a single confirmatory US (±FNAC). An interim/posterior
      analysis of the control subjects is performed to ensure oncological safety. In case of an
      unexpected high false-negative ratio in this control arm, all patients will be advised to
      undergo surgery.
    
  