
    
      GP-induced chemotherapy combined with concurrent chemoradiotherapy is the standard treatment
      for the locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma recommended by the guidelines. However, the
      prognosis for T4 and/or N3 nasopharyngeal carcinoma is still poor, with the 3-year PFS of
      about 70%. Therefore, it is of great importance to improve the prognosis of patients with
      locally advanced high-risk nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Immunotherapy has been an emerging
      treatment method for tumors in recent years. Compared with the chemotherapy, immunotherapy
      has less adverse reactions, and the effects could last longer, significantly improving the
      prognosis and patients' quality of life. Endostar, as a VEGFR inhibitor, has good safety in
      treating nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Related data have shown that PD-1 and Endostar exert
      synergistic antitumor effects in a mouse model of lung cancer. A Phase II multi-center
      clinical study from our center has shown that, for patients with locally advanced low-risk
      nasopharyngeal carcinoma, all the 3-year OS, PFS, and DMFS for the radiotherapy combined with
      Endostar group were superior to the concurrent chemoradiotherapy group, and the combination
      of radiotherapy and Endostar lead to significantly reduced adverse effects. In clinical
      studies concerning other solid tumors, it has also been observed that the PD-1 inhibitors
      combined with VEGFR inhibitors could significantly improve the efficacy, and achieve
      synergistic effects. Therefore, A Phase II，randomized, prospective, multicentric clinical
      trail was conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of induction chemotherapy and the
      concurrent chemoradiotherapy plus Endostar and PD-1, followed by PD-1 treatment for half a
      year compared with the induction chemotherapy and the concurrent chemoradiotherapy for the T4
      and/or N3 nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
    
  