
    
      The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of supplementation with
      3,3´-Diindolylmethane (DIM) to increase the urinary ratio of estrogen metabolites
      2OHE1:16alphaOHE1 (RMEU) in women at risk of breast cancer to contribute to generate a tool
      of early prevention of this disease.

      Activities for detect women with REMU less than 0.9:

      Check every day in the Institute National of Perinatology urogynecology service, clinical
      records of the women who attending consultations in order to verify the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria.

      Interviewing these women to corroborate the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Quantify the
      concentrations of metabolites of estrogens in the urine for detect the presence of REMU less
      than 0.9.

      Provide result and invite women who present REMU less than 0.9 to participate in the project
      of supplementation with DIM.

      When women had a REMU equal or greater than 0.9, provide result and dietary guidance focused
      on maintaining BMI in normal range (19.0-24.9) or decrease (BMI more than or equal to 25)
      weight and the increase in the consumption of fruits and vegetables.

      Activities for women inclusion in the study of DIM supplementation:

      Once explained the study to the patients, women who met the criteria for inclusion were cited
      to provide an informed consent letter mentioning them that they had the freedom to clarify
      any doubt that might arise.

      Once the woman read out the letter, understood it and agreed to participate, the signing of
      this was requested.

      On the same date that each woman has signed the letter, another appointment was scheduled
      between day 12 and 15 of the menstrual cycle for the following assessments:

      Personal data: Name, date of birth, address, phone, marital status and occupation.

      Socioeconomic: With the criteria of the Mexican Association of Agencies of Market and Opinion
      based 2005

      Complete clinical history that included:

      Family history of chronic diseases included breast cancer, personal history of diseases and
      use medication, personal risk factors of breast cancer, type, frequency and duration of
      physical activity.

      Nutrition: Whereas both anthropometric indicators (weight, height and perimeter wrist, waist
      and hip), body composition (% of body fat and lean mass by the method of displacement of air)
      and diet (24-hour recall, frequency of consumption of cruciferous vegetables in the last year
      and use of supplements). The measurements of anthropometric indicators were made using the
      LOHMAN technique. The information was processed with the NUTRIKCAL system that is
      standardized for foods commonly consumed in Mexico.

      First morning urine. First morning urine with a difference no less than eight hours of
      previous urine.

      Once urine samples were received, added them, for conservation, 0.1 g of ascorbic acid per 10
      mL of urine, and stored at -70°C until it´s quantification.

      For the analysis of the metabolites 2OHE1 and 16αOHE1, was used a competitive solid phase
      enzyme immunoassay method, using the commercial kit ESTRAMET™ 2/16 (Immune Care Corporation,
      Bethlehem, MI. USA), which was validated by the manufacturer by gas chromatography and mass
      spectrometry. The analysis was performed according to the manufacturer's instructions;
      briefly: the urine sample was hydrolyzed with an enzyme beta glucuronidase and sulfatase
      activities. The free urinary metabolites, joined to monoclonal antibodies conjugated with
      alkaline phosphatase. The quantification of metabolites 2OHE1 and 16αOHE1 were performed in
      triplicate and the reproducibility of this method has already been reported by our team in a
      study. For each of the determinations of the RMEU were reference curves, achieving a 97% of
      accuracy.

      Adherence and side effects. In the first assessment is gave women a calendar to daily record
      consumption or omission of the supplement (active compound or placebo) as well as a series of
      side effects in order to assess the adherence and safety of supplement. This included side
      effects that had already been reported in other studies with DIM and I3C. In addition
      requested participants return the supplements vial to subsequently make the count of pills
      that were left over.

      Sample size.

      To estimate the sample size it was considered the following:

      Two sets of comparison (Placebo and 75mg DIM). According to literature and hoping to find a
      difference of .48 in the average of RMEU of the group of supplementation relative to the
      placebo group.

      Other studies have reported a standard deviation of .77 on the RMEU. Calculated with an alpha
      of 0.05 and a power of 80%. Approximately 31 women are required by group plus 10% to replace
      losses in the follow-up, which gives an approximate total of 35 women per group.

      Statistical Analysis. The statistical analysis of data was carried out in the following way:
      the differences between baseline characteristics was performed using the student T test for
      parametric variables with normal distribution, U Mann-Whitney for those who did not have a
      normal distribution and X2 for the nonparametric. The change of estrogen metabolites and RMEU
      in each group was evaluated using the Wilcoxon test and the comparison of the effect between
      groups, the values of concentrations of the metabolites of estrogen and the RMEU as well as
      their differences, was carried out by means of the test U Mann-Whitney.

      Masking. A stranger to the study researcher, received and coded vials containing the DIM
      supplement and placebo, recording the code in a role that was kept in an envelope that was
      opened at the end of the study.
    
  