
    
      Primary outcome measure:

      The cumulative number of new GdE T1 lesions developing while on treatment.

      Secondary outcome measures:

        -  MRI:

             -  Cumulative number of total GdE T1 lesions developing while on treatment

             -  Cumulative number of new T2 lesions

             -  Patients free of GdE (T1-weighted) lesions at week 24

             -  Change in volume of GdE T1

             -  Brain atrophy

             -  Cumulative number of new T1 hypointense lesions (black holes)

        -  Disease burden, T1 and T2 lesion activity at week 48.

        -  Number of clinical relapses from baseline to the end of treatment. • Change on the
           Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS)

        -  Number of patients requiring methylprednisolone treatment for a relapse.

        -  Serum levels of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines.

        -  Quality of life (MSQOL-54)

      Eligibility Criteria

      MS-Related inclusion criteria

        1. Diagnosis of relapsing MS according to the revised 2005 McDonald criteria.

        2. Has shown disease activity defined by 1 or more MS attack within the last year which has
           been documented in prior medical notes and or the presence of active lesions on
           historical scans being either (based on radiology report or investigator review of MRI):

             1. Gd-enhancing on any scan obtained in the last year, or

             2. new T2 lesions between two scans both obtained within the last year.

             3. A minimum total of 9 T2 lesions reported on a recent MRI obtained within 1 month
                prior to the screening visit.

        3. Baseline EDSS score 0 - 5.5.

        4. Has refused to be treated with approved disease modifying therapies available for MS,
           for any reason and once the investigator has fully informed the patient about the
           related benefits and potential adverse events associated with such treatments. Also,
           patients for whom such treatments have proved to be intolerable.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Has experienced an MS relapse or received systemic corticosteroids or
           adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) in the previous 1 month.

        2. Has a secondary progressive (SPMS), progressive relapsing (PRMS), or primary progressive
           MS (PPMS).

        3. Has received any of the following agents to treat MS (approved or unapproved):

             -  Within the previous 3 months: interferon beta, glatiramer acetate, intravenous
                immunoglobulin or plasmapheresis.

             -  Within the previous 12 months: natalizumab, daclizumab, cytapheresis, azathioprine,
                cladribine, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, mitoxantrone, mycophenolate,
                pixantrone, sirolimus, tacrolimus, or other agents typically used to prevent
                transplant rejection or as cancer chemotherapy, excluding hormonal treatments.

             -  Ever having received: stem cell or bone marrow transplant, total lymphoid
                irradiation, vaccine therapy for MS, or monoclonal antibodies whose effects may be
                longer than 1 year (such as alemtuzumab or rituximab).

             -  Within the previous 3 months: any other agents given for the non-symptomatic
                treatment of MS which are not included above, including over-the-counter, herbal
                and nutritional supplements. However, if the agent is being taken primarily to
                treat another medical condition, then it is allowed as long as the dose is
                unchanged within the previous 3 months and is unlikely to change before week
    
  