
    
      The primary objective of this trial is to characterize the feasibility, safety and
      tolerability of therapy with Hyper-CVAD and Rapamycin in adults with ALL and other aggressive
      lymphoid malignancies.

      This study will evaluate the effectiveness of Rapamycin given in combination with Hyper-CVAD
      during A treatment cycles, and Methotrexate and Cytarabine in B treatment cycles. Both cycles
      will also contain the drug Rituximab if the patient has a B cell type of leukemia or
      lymphoma.

      This combination of drugs are being studied to determine whether or not these drugs will have
      an effect in treating this disease.

      Current therapeutic regimens for induction of remission in ALL are broadly similar. There is
      no single best regimen for induction therapy. The hyper-CVAD regimen is of particular
      interest because it does not include asparaginase as part of the therapeutic regimen and the
      results of induction are similar to other published regimens.

      The HyperCVAD regimen with or without rituximab is also an accepted induction regimen for
      lymphoblastic lymphoma, Burkitt and Burkitt like lymphoma, Mantle Cell Lymphoma, and ALL in
      the elderly. The regimen has also been used as a salvage regimen in patients with the above
      diagnoses who have relapsed after another induction regimen.

      This trial will add a novel agent, an mTOR inhibitor (MTI), rapamycin, to act synergistically
      with the HyperCVAD regimen. This is a pilot study, assessing the feasibility, safety and
      toxicity of this regimen, with an ultimate goal to perform a phase II study to evaluate
      response rates and survival.

      This is a pilot study of the Hyper-CVAD regimen with Rapamycin for the treatment of adults
      with acute lymphoblastic leukemia or other aggressive lymphoid malignancies. The standard
      Hyper-CVAD regimen will be used, with the addition of the investigational agent, Rapamycin.
      Hyper-CVAD alone is one of the current standard induction and salvage regimens used to treat
      ALL and other aggressive lymphoid malignancies.

      Subjects included will have either de novo, relapsed, or refractory ALL or another aggressive
      lymphoid malignancy.

      Chemotherapy will consist of 4 'A' cycles alternating with 4 'B' cycles, every 21 days, or as
      count recovery allows (at least 14 days apart) as follows: 1A; 1B; 2A; 2B, 3A; 3B; 4A; 4B.
      This is dependent on white blood cell count recovery.
    
  