
    
      Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) is a common problem affecting 10-20% of the population
      in the Western World. Approximately 250 million subjects worldwide and 30 million subjects in
      the US suffer from GERD. Among the 12 million Americans who suffer from daily heart-burn (the
      main symptom of GERD) almost 5 million do not respond completely to medications and many more
      do not want or cannot take medications due to side-effects (1). The goals of treatment in
      GERD are to relieve symptoms, heal esophagitis if present, prevent recurrence of symptoms and
      esophagitis, and prevent complications. Medical acid-suppressive therapy with proton pump
      inhibitors (PPIs) heals esophagitis, relieves symptoms and improves quality of life. However,
      acid suppressive therapy does not correct the underlying pathophysiology of dysfunction of
      the lower esophageal sphincter and hence symptoms of reflux due to weakly acidic or non-acid
      reflux persist in the majority of subjects who present with symptoms persisting on PPIs
      (regurgitations) (2).

      Abnormalities in the structure and function of the esophago-gastric junction (EGJ) such as a
      permanently open EGJ, a hiatal hernia, a hypotensive lower esophageal sphincter (LES), and
      transient LES relaxations (t-LESR) are the main pathophysiologic mechanisms leading to GERD
      (3).

      Surgical therapy is able to restore the EGJ barrier function against reflux of the gastric
      content, decreases symptoms and improves the quality of life in GERD patients (4,5). However,
      there remain concerns regarding postoperative adverse events and the durability of the
      surgical procedure (6,7). The results reported from operations performed in community
      hospital lower volume centers have been different than those achieved in centers of
      excellence. It has been reported that between 23% and 62% of patients who have undergone
      laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication use acid suppression medications at long-term follow-up.
      Due to these issues patient and physician acceptance of surgical procedures remains low and
      is mainly limited to patients with severe GERD or those non-responsive to medications. For
      these reasons, less invasive endoscopic techniques to treat GERD have been developed during
      the last 2 decades, which may be categorized into 3 groups: (1) sewing/plication at the
      cardia and EGJ, (2) radiofrequency (RF) thermal therapy to the LES, and (3)
      injection/implantation of biopolymers at the EGJ. Minimally invasive endoluminal procedures
      for GERD are designed to provide long-lasting symptom relief and abolish or lessen medication
      dependency. Most endoluminal modalities that were introduced into clinical practice have
      failed due to lack of long-term efficacy, complications, or interruption of commercialization
      due to financial difficulties of the companies that developed the techniques (8,9).
      Endoscopic sewing/plication techniques comprised mucosal plications (Endocinch) that were not
      clinically useful because the plications were not durable, and full-thickness
      (serosa-to-serosa) plications allowing prolonged durability (NDO Plicator device and Esophyx
      device). The data from the RCTs with Plicator device were encouraging and the finding of
      better results with multiple plications without an increase in adverse events supported that
      this device could have clinical utility. However, the company ceased operations in 2008 and
      the device is no longer clinically available (10). Transoral incisionless fundoplication
      (TIF) using Esophyx showed promising results in open studies (11). However, long-term
      follow-up revealed that a majority of patients required either ongoing PPI use or were
      referred for LNF owing to persistent symptoms (12).

      Endomina-v2 (Endo Tools Therapeutics SA, Rue Auguste Piccard 48, 6041 GOSSELIES, Belgium) is
      a CE marked device that can be attached to an endoscope inside the body and allows
      manipulation of angulated tools during a peroral intervention. It offers the possibility to
      perform transoral surgical full thickness sutures and transoral endoscopic gastroplasty has
      shown to be safe and effective at mid-term follow-up in obese patients (13). The ability to
      perform endoscopic full-thickness plications with Endomina-v2 will be used to assess safety
      and feasibility of the procedure in reducing GERD in patients suffering with chronic GERD,
      unsatisfied with PPIs, and/or complaining of persistent GERD symptoms despite PPI use.
    
  