
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind (neither physician or participant knows the name of the
      assigned drug), placebo-controlled study of TMC435 in participants who are infected with
      genotype 1 hepatitis C virus who have never received treatment for this before. Participants
      in this study will also receive two other drugs for their infection (either peginterferon
      alfa-2a (Pegasys®) and ribavirin (Copegus®) or peginterferon alfa-2b (PegIntron®) and
      ribavirin (Rebetol®). The purpose of the study is to investigate if TMC435 is superior to
      placebo in reducing hepatitis C virus to an undetectable level 24 weeks after the end of
      treatment. For the first 12 weeks, participants will take TMC435 or placebo, plus
      peginterferon and ribavirin. For the next 12 weeks, participants will take peginterferon and
      ribavirin only. After that, some participants will continue to take peginterferon and
      ribavirin for up to 24 additional weeks. Other participants will stop taking peginterferon
      and ribavirin. The study doctor will inform each participant about how to take their study
      medication and when they should stop taking it. After a participant stops taking study
      medication, they will continue to come to the doctor's office for study visits until a total
      of 72 weeks after they enroll in the study. The total duration of the study is 78 weeks
      (including screening). Participants will be monitored for safety throughout the study. Study
      assessments at each study visit may include but are not limited to: blood and urine
      collection for testing, electrocardiogram (ECG) assessments (a measurement of the electrical
      activity of your heart), participant questionnaires, and physical examinations. TMC435 will
      be taken as an oral capsule of 150 mg once per day. Peginterferon (Pegasys ®) will be given
      as an injection of 180 µg once each week. Peginterferon (PegIntron®) will be given as an
      injection once each week and the dose will depend on your body weight. Ribavirin will be
      taken as a tablet (Copegus ®) or a capsule (Rebetol ®) twice each day and the dose will
      depend on your body weight.
    
  