
    
      Dental plaque is a bacterial biofilm adhering to the tooth surfaces and is not the same in
      the different areas of the tooth: there is the supragingival, the plaque from the gingival
      margin and subgingival plaque. It is mainly composed of complex bacterial populations
      organized in a carbohydrate matrix also containing a small number of epithelial cells,
      leukocytes, macrophages and inorganic components such as calcium and phosphorus. This biofilm
      develops in virtually all places where there are damp surfaces and teeth are a very stable
      support for bacterial colonization. Mechanical oral hygiene procedures such as tooth
      brushing, dental flossing and inter-dental brushing is the most effective method for plaque
      removal but mouth rinses containing anti-microbials play an important role in maintaining
      oral health.

      Chlorhexidine (CHX) digluconate, a cationic biguanide, is known to be an effective
      anti-plaque and anti-inflammatory agent and is the gold standard in chemical plaque control.
      The benefits of CHX are based on the high intra-oral substantivity and its bactericidal and
      bacteriostatic activities. This ingredient, when delivered orally, is free from systemic
      toxicity and microbial resistance, and supra-infections do not occur. It has been proven in
      several "in vitro" and "in vivo" studies, the safety and long-term efficacy of CHX mouth
      rinses. There have been suggested many indications for the use of this antiseptic and plaque
      control is one of the most important factors for proper healing after periodontal surgery and
      implant therapy.

      The 0.2% CHX solution became the standard international concentration, due to his development
      in Europe but similar levels of plaque inhibition can be achieved with larger volumes of
      lower concentration solutions of CHX.

      A lower concentration of CHX (0.12%) has been tested in several studies and has also been
      shown to confer clinical benefits. More important than the concentration of CHX seems to be
      the dose which balances efficacy against local side effects and user acceptability. The
      optimum dose is considered to be about 20 mg twice daily.

      Clinically, the 0,12% CHX have been found to be similarly effective as 0.2% if the volume of
      the rinse was increased from 10 to 15 ml, yielding an 18 mg dose on each occasion but with
      respect to plaque growth inhibition, there is a small but significant difference in favour of
      the 0.2% CHX concentration.

      CHX mouthrinses can have a variety of side effects and the most common, according to the
      manufacturers of these products, are loss of taste, tongue burning and irritation of the oral
      mucosa. Some brands have lowered the concentration of CHX in their mouthrinses and removed
      the ethanol in order to eliminate side effects such as soreness and to improve acceptability.
      A study concluded that the perturbation of taste perception after using 0.12% CHX is
      significantly lower than that after using 0.2% CHX. On the other hand, another studies
      concluded that there was no significant difference in terms of taste perception.

      This study was a double-blinded, randomized two group parallel, to compare the antiplaque
      efficacy of two mouth rinses, during a 3-day plaque accumulation model, in periodontal
      healthy patients. After supragingival prophylaxis participants rinsed twice a day over a 72h
      non-brushing period. Primary outcome variable was plaque index. As secondary outcomes the
      taste and side effects variables were studied. Mann-Whitney, χ2 and Fisher's Exact tests were
      used to compare the variables
    
  