
    
      Patients who are anemic at the time of operation have been shown to have an increased
      frequency of complications including wound infection and longer post-operative admissions.
      Similarly, patients who are anemic at the time of their cancer operation are more likely to
      require a blood transfusion which may increase the risk of recurrence of the cancer.

      At present, oral iron is often used to treat anemia preoperatively in an attempt to minimize
      the risk above. This drug is often poorly tolerated due to the side effect profile. Blood
      transfusions can also be administered but expose the patient to other risks including
      infection and transfusion associated reactions. In order to overcome these issues,
      intravenous iron preparations have been developed and have improved in safety.

      This is a multi-center, randomized, open label clinical trial, which looks to investigate the
      efficacy of intravenous iron is in the treatment of preoperative anemia in colorectal
      patients. Patients will be randomized to receive intravenous ferric carboxymaltose (treatment
      group) or oral ferrous sulphate (control). The outcomes reviewed will include the amount and
      frequency of blood transfusions received, changes in patient blood profiles, patient quality
      of life scores, operative complications and hospital length of stay. The role of hepcidin as
      a biomarker of treatment response will also be assessed.

      The primary hypothesis to be tested is that intravenous iron will decrease transfusion rates.
      To detect a significant clinical difference in blood transfused consistent with previous
      published data (1 unit), 58 patients will be required in each arm of the study with 90% power
      (alpha 0.05).

      Randomization will be performed independently to the trial team using a computer generated
      variable block randomization program.

      All data will be confidentially recorded on a Case Report Form, as will drug reactions and
      side effects.
    
  