
    
      A recent European survey showed that increasing number of hemophilia B patients was switched
      from standard to extended half-life drugs. While some clinicians currently prefer to treat
      empirically rather than based on laboratory results, adoption of replacement therapy based on
      extended half-life products such as eftrenonacog-alfa may increase the interest in
      individualized pharmacokinetic assessments allowing the development of an initial dosing
      regimen. Thus inaccurate FIX activity measurements might be critical, especially when FIX
      trough level is used to tailor patient dosing regimens. It is therefore important that FIX
      activity levels are accurately determined allowing adequate recovery without increasing the
      cost of medical management of hemophilia B patients due to unnecessary dose corrections.

      With the expansion of the prescription of eftrenonacog-alfa, the problem of accurately
      measuring its recovery has risen within hemostasis laboratories. Chronometric one-stage
      assays (OSA) are currently the most widely performed tests for FIX activity measurement. They
      are based on activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) reagent and factor-deficient
      plasma. Various aPTT reagents are commercialized. They could lead to a substantial
      variability in FIX results. Chromogenic two-stage assays (CSA) are less frequently used in
      clinical laboratories. They present fewer reagent choice compared to OSA. Several studies
      have evaluated OSA and CSA performances in samples spiked with eftrenonacog-alfa and have
      evidenced that some commonly used aPTT reagents would not be suitable for accurately
      monitoring this product. Whether these results are commutable to post-infusion samples
      collected from real-life patients remains unclear.

      Unlike the measurement of a unique coagulation factor activity, thrombin generation assay
      (TGA) is a dynamic global test that explores the coagulation cascade as well as the
      anticoagulant pathways. TGA could be therefore a valuable tool to monitor replacement therapy
      in hemophilia B patients.

      Hence the investigators sought in a real-life setting to compare 2 CSA and 1 OSA reagents to
      a product specific OSA in severe hemophilia B patients supplemented with eftrenonacog-alfa.
      The investigators also aimed to evaluate the pharmacodynamics (PD) of eftrenonacog-alfa using
      TGA.
    
  