
    
      1. Objective To determine the effects of community occupational therapy on the daily
           performance of older patients with mild to moderate dementia and the sense of competence
           of their primary caregivers.

        2. Methods

             1. design: a randomized controlled single-blind design is used with 3 measurement
                moments. We measure at baseline (before start of OT intervention), after 6 weeks
                (the effect measurement)and after 3 months after baseline (follow-up measurement).

             2. patients: 135 patients and their primary caregivers are needed to determine effects
                on the primary outcome measures of this intervention, with a power of 80% and alpha
                = 0.05/3. This power calculation is based on the outcomes of a pilot study (Graff,
                et al., 2003).

             3. intervention: 5 weeks client-centered community occupational therapy directed at
                both patients and primary caregivers using an OT guideline.The control group
                receives no OT intervention, but usual care.

             4. main outcome measures are: Assessment of Motor and Process Skills, Interview in
                Deterioration of Daily Activities in Dementia (IDDD)and Sense of Competence
                Questionnaire (SCQ)

             5. Analysis: analyses of covariance on intention-to-treat basis (Last Observation
                Carried Forward (LCOF))will be used to determine the effects of community OT on the
                daily performance of older patients with dementia and the sense of competence of
                their primary caregivers. Also secondary patients'and caregivers' health outcomes
                will be analyzed by analyses of covariance on intention-to-treat basis.

             6. Cost-effectiveness: the costs of this OT intervention will also be determined and a
                cost-effectiveness analysis will be carried out.

                3)Results: Results at baseline, at 6 weeks and at 3 months follow-up on primary
                outcome measures and on patients' and caregivers' secondary health outcomes and
                also the cost effectiveness of this intervention, will be analyzed and described in
                international publications.
    
  