
    
      The early detection of vulnerable plaques is clinically important for risk stratification and
      also to provide early treatment. Inflammation is important in the both pathogenesis and
      outcome of atherosclerosis. Plaques containing numerous inflammatory cells, particular
      macrophages, have a high risk of rupture. Diabetes is a major risk factor for the development
      of atherosclerosis. Lipid-lowering therapy with statins significantly decreases
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in primary and secondary prevention. Statin exert
      their benefits through the inhibition of de novo cholesterol synthesis, resulting in
      significant reductions in plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels. It
      remains controversial whether LDL-C lowering is the only mechanism for the observed
      beneficial effects. Many LDL-C-independent pleiotropic effects have been postulated.
      Moreover, Lipid lowering therapy may affect atherosclerosis also through the inhibition of
      inflammatory marker. These evidences highlight the possibility of statins could be have great
      impact on plaque inflammation. 18FDG is a glucose analogue that is taken up by cells in
      proportion to their metabolic activity. Several papers have reported the potential roles of
      metabolic imaging in the assessment of inflammatory vascular diseases, especially in large
      vessels. If so, FDG-PET can monitor the direct effect of statins on vascular inflammation.
      Additionally, monitoring the vascular inflammation by FDG-PET may be useful for determining
      the risk stratification of atherosclerotic patients. The investigators hypothesize that
      statins-induced attenuation of vascular inflammation could be monitored clinically by use of
      FDG-PET approach, and providing information of early efficacy statins therapy caused by
      stabilization of vulnerable plaque without affecting the lumen size.
    
  