
    
      Aim #1: To compare the impact of the intervention on the distribution of end-of-life
      knowledge, decisional conflict, and preferences among 248 subjects with advanced heart
      failure randomly assigned to one of two ACP modalities: 1. a video visually depicting the
      goals of care along with a patient checklist (intervention, 124 subjects), or 2. usual care,
      i.e., verbal narrative (control, 124 subjects).

      Hypothesis #1: Compared to subjects randomized to the verbal narrative group, subjects
      randomized to the video intervention will be significantly more likely to:

      1a. Have more knowledge about their choices

      1b. Have less decisional conflict about their decisions

      1c. Opt for comfort care and less likely to choose life-prolonging measures

      Aim #2: To compare stability of preferences over time (1, 3, and 6 months), concordance rate
      of preferences (preferences expressed vs. preferences documented in the medical record - both
      inpatient and outpatient records), and advance care planning discussions (as reported by the
      patient), among 248 subjects randomized to the video (N=124) vs. verbal narrative (N=124).

      Hypothesis #2: Compared to subjects randomized to the verbal narrative group, subjects
      randomized to the video intervention will be significantly more likely to:

      1a. Have more stable preferences over time

      1b. Higher concordance rates

      1c. Have had an advance care planning discussion

      Aim #3: To compare quality of life, anxiety and depression, referral to hospice, place of
      death, after death bereavement (caregiver), and resource utilization after 6 months and 1
      year (or death) among 248 subjects randomized to the video (N=124) vs. verbal narrative
      (N=124).

      Hypothesis #3: Compared to subjects randomized to the verbal narrative group, subjects
      randomized to the video intervention will be significantly more likely to:

      1a. Have a better quality of life (FACIT-Pal, FACIT-Sp-12)

      1b. Have earlier referral to hospice in subjects who die

      1d. Die at home or hospice (or inpatient hospice setting) in subjects who die

      1e. Have better caregiver bereavement score (for caregiver subjects who die).
    
  