
    
      In non-cardiac surgery major risk factors for morbidity and mortality include ASA
      classification, age, acute surgery and pre-existing cardiopulmonary disease. These risk
      factors are sometimes readily available and, along with the type of surgery, allow
      anaesthesiologists to tailor anaesthetic drugs, fluid therapy and monitoring to the
      individual patient need. However, cardiopulmonary disease may be occult or masked by other
      patient-related incapacities. Hence, identification of cardiopulmonary disease is an
      important priority during the pre-operative anaesthesia evaluation. Routine pre-operative
      anaesthesia evaluation includes screening with auscultation, blood tests and often
      electrocardiography. However, these exams are insensitive for detecting cardiopulmonary
      diseases that may be life threatening during anaesthesia, including ischaemia, heart valve
      disease and left ventricular hypertrophy.

      Point-of-care focused cardiac ultrasound (FOCUS) is claimed to be an effective method for
      filling out this obvious gap in rapid diagnostic capability, as FOCUS can detect both
      structural and functional cardiac disease as well as pleural effusion. FOCUS performed by
      anaesthesiologists can identify unknown pathologies in surgical patients and identification
      of these enables prediction of perioperative morbidity. Although pre-operative FOCUS has been
      shown to alter anaesthetic patient management, it remains unclear whether the application of
      FOCUS actually impacts patient outcome.

      This study aims to clarify whether pre-operative FOCUS changes clinical outcomes in high-risk
      patients undergoing acute, non-cardiac surgery.

      The hypothesis of the study is that pre-operative FOCUS reduces the fraction of patients
      admitted to hospital for more than 10 days or are dead within 30 days after high risk,
      non-cardiac surgery.
    
  