
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess and compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients receiving
      irinotecan, cetuximab, and bevacizumab with patients receiving irinotecan, cetuximab and
      placebo, in the population of patients with RAS wild-type, irinotecan-refractory metastatic
      colorectal cancer (mCRC) who also previously received bevacizumab in at least one prior line
      therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the adverse event (AE) profile and safety of the proposed treatment in this
      population.

      II. To assess and compare the overall survival (OS) between treatment arms in this
      population.

      III. To assess and compare the disease control rate (DCR) between treatment arms in this
      population.

      IV. To assess and compare the overall response rate (ORR) between treatment arms in this
      population.

      V. To assess and compare the duration of response between treatment arms in this population.

      VI. To assess and compare time to treatment failure between treatment arms in this
      population.

      VII. To assess relative dose intensity of treatment agents between treatment arms in this
      population.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the change in genotype concentrations of prespecified gene mutations in
      circulating cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) collected serially during protocol
      treatment.

      II. Explore the predictive value of pretreatment mutation status, germline single nucleotide
      polymorphisms (SNPs), and gene expression signatures for cetuximab sensitivity and
      resistance.

      III. Explore the predictive value of dynamic changes in mutation status and gene expression
      signatures for cetuximab sensitivity and resistance.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive cetuximab intravenously (IV) over 90-120 minutes, bevacizumab IV over
      30-90 minutes, and irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 14 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 90-120 minutes, placebo IV over 30-90 minutes, and
      irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 2 years.
    
  