
    
      Migraine causes a tremendous disease burden around the world. Migraine is one of the most
      prevalent neurological disorders and is reported by the WHO as the second leading cause of
      disease-related disabilities globally (No. 1 in the population under the 50s). There has been
      no much change in the ranking of disability for migraine for the past two decades, reflecting
      an unmet need for better treatment options. Even with the recently available calcitonin-gene
      related peptide (CGRP)-based treatment, the treatment response versus placebo is still
      disappointing (6.4-17.6% in acute treatment, 10.2-23.7% in preventive treatment). There is an
      urgent need to push further the current understanding of the pathophysiology of migraine,
      based on which novel treatment strategies can be developed. The lack of appropriate research
      tools hinders the acceleration of migraine research. As a neurological disorder, many
      neuroimaging studies have been focused on brain alterations; however, the majority focused on
      the cerebrum. Limited by the currently available neuroimaging and electrophysiological
      technologies, the deep brain structures especially the brainstem involved in the sensory and
      nociceptive neurotransmission in migraine, such as the trigeminal nucleus, could only be
      investigated to a limited extent. Obviously, there is an unmet need for novel technologies
      that can be used to delineate structural or functional alterations in the brainstem.
      Elucidation of the role of these deep brain structures may fill the gap in the current
      understanding of migraine pathophysiology, and pave the way to precise and efficient
      treatment. Studies restricted to single methodologies are insufficient for the complexity of
      migraine. Migraine is a complex and dynamic disorder. However, most prior studies were
      limited to single methodologies and provided limited insights into such a multifaceted
      disorder. Studies with an integrated approach are lacking. An exhaustive examination of the
      discrete components of a phenotype, i.e., 'deep phenotyping', can help understand different
      aspects of its clinical manifestations, and facilitate patient classification. Coupled with
      neuroimaging and electrophysiological research methodologies, a multi-modal decoding approach
      would help identify a constellation of migraine-specific biosignatures, rather than just one.
      This can not only provide clues to decipher migraine pathophysiology in various dimensions
      but also serve as the basis of the development of a prediction algorithm that can be applied
      in clinical practice. To pursue the overall goal, the present project schemes as a
      composition of the following 5 aims:

      Aim 1: Deep phenotyping for sensory processing in patients with migraine Aim 2:
      Brainstem-based functional and structural connectomics in migraine Aim 3: Capturing brainstem
      electro-neurosignature in migraine Aim 4: Constructing a data fusion platform and developing
      an EEG cap with a built-in analytic chip Aim 5: Exploring brainstem-based connectome
      sequencing in migraine animal model
    
  