
    
      Sepsis and complications to sepsis are major causes of mortality in critically ill patients.
      Rapid treatment of sepsis is of crucial importance for survival of patients. In the ICU, the
      infectious status of the patient is often difficult to assess because symptoms cannot be
      expressed (unconscious or sedated patients) and signs may present atypically because of
      immunologic incompetence and masking by the drugs given and thermo-therapy. Biological and
      biochemical markers of inflammation (White Blood Cells (WBC), C-reactive protein) may often
      be influenced by other parameters than infection, such as: trauma, surgery, other types of
      inflammation such as rheumatoid diseases (C-reactive protein) and gluco-corticosteroid
      treatment (WBC), and may be unacceptably slowly released after progression of an infection.
      At the same time, lack of a relevant antimicrobial therapy in an early course of infection
      may be fatal for the patient.

      For these reasons, in the clinical setting, it is often necessary to initiate or adjust
      antimicrobial therapy on an unsure ground and the relevant therapy may in some situations be
      delayed for important hours or even days. Specific and rapid markers of bacterial infection
      have been sought for use in the ICU. Mortality in critically ill patients increases gravely
      when Procalcitonin levels increase from day to day (own submitted, though yet unpublished
      data). Low PCT levels have been shown to effectively rule out sepsis.

      However, no randomised controlled trials have been conducted to show if mortality in
      critically ill patients can be reduced by using a strategy of daily standardised
      Procalcitonin measurements as an early detector of serious bacterial infection. Therefore
      evidence is presently not sufficient to introduce daily consecutive Procalcitonin
      measurements to guide the diagnostic and therapeutic management of patients admitted to the
      ICU .

      The rationale for this trial is to assess the ability of daily Procalcitonin measurements to
      reduce the mortality of critically ill patients.
    
  