
    
      The PERMIT study aims to ascertain current ERM practices within PICU settings and
      barriers/facilitators to ERM delivery.

      The investigators plan to directly observe current ERM practices within UK PICUs, identify
      patients who do and do not receive ERM, describe the variation between PICUs and factors
      associated with ERM practices.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. All Children and Young Persons (CYP) (0-<16 years)

        2. Admitted to PICU

        3. Remain within PICU on day 3 post-admission

      The broad inclusion criteria will allow for the observation of all types of patients admitted
      for PICU care (acute and elective e.g. post-surgical recovery) and all age ranges.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. A local decision by a Principal investigator (PI) or treating clinical team not to
           include patient

        2. Parent or guardian chooses to opt-out

      Prospective data about all children admitted to PICU for 3 days or more will be collected.
      Eligible patients will be identified, screened and enrolled in the study. Posters and patient
      information leaflets will be provided to parents/legal guardians within participating PICU
      explaining their rights to withdraw from the study without affecting the future care of their
      child. Data collected as part of the study will be stored for ten years, in line with Good
      Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines. No identifiable data will be collected or shared with the
      PERMIT study team at any time.

      Following the observation of current ERM delivery and identification of patients who may
      benefit from ERM in selected PICUs, the study investigators will use this information to
      model how many patients may be available in the UK for a potential future RCT. This will be
      achieved by modeling patient demographic information with the Paediatric Intensive Care Audit
      Network (PICANet) dataset.
    
  