
    
      This study is reported according to the Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies
      in Epidemiology (STROBE) statement for cohort studies. Between January 2008 and December
      2016, female patients affected by fecal incontinence (FI) or urinary incontinence referred to
      our referral center of coloproctology (master of pelvi-perineal rehabilitation and master of
      coloproctology) at University of Study of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli" of Naples were
      prospectively assessed. Inclusion criteria were age ≥16 and symptoms of faecal incontinence
      or constipation. Exclusion criteria were past history of anorectal or vaginal surgery,
      history of pelvic radiation or tumors and inability to complete the study protocol. Patients
      with pelviperineal dysfunction were enrolled in the study (Group A). Clinical symptoms were
      graded as follows: constipation was evaluated according to the Wexner Scale (0-30),
      continence was evaluated according to Cleveland Clinic incontinence score (0-20)13-14. The
      following information were collected: age, symptoms, grading, previous pelvic surgery. In
      order to compare and analyse the data, a cohort of 34 healthy volunteers was enrolled among
      students and residents of University of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli" (Group B). The local
      ethical committee approved the study protocol.

      Patients All patients were assessed during a specialized coloproctology evaluation in our
      teaching Hospital. A clinical examination was performed in all patients and information on
      bowel function, pregnancies, episiotomy, previous surgery and associated diseases were
      recorded. A preoperative informed consent was acquired in every case and the physicians
      explained to the patients the details and the aims of the procedures.

      Each patient underwent a DTU by an expert coloproctologist (LB) with great experience of
      perineal ultrasonography, person in charge of a master of coloproctology and of master of
      pelvi-perineal rehabilitation at University of Study of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli" of
      Naples. Subsequently, all patients underwent PNTML evaluation using the St. Marks glove
      mounted pudendal nerve stimulator (St. Mark's 13 L40® Dantec Elektronic, Skovlunde, Denmark),
      performed by a blinded neurophysiologist (FT).

      Dynamic Transperineal Ultrasound Voluntary contraction of the perineum and of the PR muscle
      leads to a shortening of the PR muscle itself. The anal canal moves in the direction of the
      pubic bone and diminishes the anorectal angle. In contrast, relaxation of the PR muscle,
      which occurs while attempting defecation, lengthens the PRS and opens the anorectal angle.
      Contraction and relaxation of the PR muscle can be measured with DTU. DTU, in fact, is a
      morphological and functional procedure assessing puborectal function. It is cheap, feasible,
      well tolerated and reproducible. The patient is placed in the dorsal lithotomy position, with
      hips flexed and abducted, and a 3-6 MHz conventional convex transducer and field of view at
      least 70° positioned on the perineum between the mons pubis and the anal margin. In the
      mid-sagittal plane, all anatomical structures (bladder, urethra, vaginal walls, anal canal
      and rectum) between the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis and the posterior part of
      the levator ani are visualized3. [Figure 1] The probe is progressively inclined until the
      anal sphincter is visible. Changing application pressure and probe inclination, allows to
      scan the entire anal canal in transversal section. After the sphincter identification, a
      further longitudinal image obtained with a 90° rotation of the scanning plane allows to
      observe the PR sling behind the rectum.

      The first caliper is placed on the anterior border of the PR in resting position; the second
      one is placed on the anterior border of PR in straining or squeezing position in order to
      respectively obtain the measure AD or the PD.

      In healthy patients, the AD should be more than 7mm during squeezing and the PD more than
      6mm, during straining.

      Pudendal nerve terminal motor latency Pudendal nerve terminal motor latency is an affordable
      technique to evaluate anal sphincter innervation; it reflects the conduction velocity of the
      fastest motor nerve fiber supplying the anal sphincter.

      In order to execute the examination a glove-mounted electrode (St. Mark's 13 L40® Dantec
      Elektronic, Skovlunde, Denmark) is used to measure pudendal nerve conduction time.

      It is inserted into the anal canal with patients laying in Sims position. Both right and left
      pudendal nerves are stimulated using a pulse of 50 V, for 0.1 ms at a rate of 1 pulse per
      second over the ischial spines until a reproducible latency is obtained.

      We selected the shortest reproducible latency recorded for each patient according to the
      neurophysiologist opinion. Prolonged PNTML was defined as greater than or equal to 2.2 ms.
    
  