
    
      The investigators will expand an existing, patient-centered, health literacy strategy to
      promote longer-term adherence to colorectal cancer (CRC) screening in resource-limited, rural
      health clinics via colonoscopy or annual fecal immunochemical test (FIT). Guided by recently
      completed trials, the investigators will leverage consumer technologies that are now
      available in rural areas and implement a multifaceted approach - designed for scale in
      resource-limited federally qualified health centers (FQHCs). While significant gains have
      been made to improve CRC screening, compliance with those guidelines is sub-optimal and
      disparities remain. In particular, adults who receive care at rural FQHCs that have limited
      resources struggle to initiate and maintain annual CRC screening via the most common method,
      FIT. Over the past decade, this team has studied the effectiveness of specific interventions
      to enhance initial and repeat CRC screening completion among lower income, lower health
      literate, racially/ethnically diverse adults in rural FQHC settings. The majority of patients
      will complete the initial test (67% - 69%), yet fewer (32% - 40%) complete an annual test in
      years 2 and 3. This indicates a "stepped care" approach is needed to promote long-term CRC
      screening. The investigators' rural health literacy interventions have until now been limited
      to the FIT due to restrictions of state Medicaid coverage and clinical bandwidth of
      colonoscopy services available to rural FQHCs. Changes to Medicaid have now expanded the
      availability of colonoscopy. The investigators propose a novel intervention guided by
      evidence learned from the investigators' previous studies and recent literature - the
      Patient-Centered Reminders to Inform, Motivate, and Engage-CRC Screening (PRIME-CRC). In this
      proposed 2-arm, randomized control trial (N=1200), both PRIME-CRC and enhanced usual care
      arms will at point of care receive CRC patient information and counseling to aid patient
      decision making for selecting FIT or colonoscopy utilizing core components including
      evidence-based Health Literacy education and counseling, along with printed, simplified CRC
      screening information and simplified test instructions. PRIME-CRC will additionally have a
      "stepped care" approach for reminding patients on proper CRC screening preparation for
      scheduled colonoscopy or completion of annual FIT. Patients in the PRIME-CRC arm will have
      frequent follow-up with tailored contact via automated call or SMS text (based on patient
      preference) from their healthcare provider (audio recorded or personalized text). The primary
      outcome will be completion of either colonoscopy or annual FIT over 3 years. The specific
      aims are to: test the effectiveness of the PRIME-CRC intervention to improve CRC screening
      completion rates in rural FQHCs compared to enhanced usual care; investigate whether the
      intervention can reduce CRC screening disparities by patient health literacy, race or sex;
      determine the fidelity of PRIME-CRC components, and explore patient, provider, and healthcare
      system barriers to implementation, and evaluate the cost associated with the intervention
      from a FQHC perspective. This study extends this team's longstanding collaboration on health
      literacy, health disparities, rural health and cancer screening.
    
  