
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess humoral and cellular immune responses to adjuvant PEP-3-KLH conjugate vaccine
           in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM).

        -  To assess the clinical efficacy of the PEP-3-KLH conjugate vaccine, in terms of
           progression-free survival, in patients with newly diagnosed GBM.

      Secondary

        -  To determine whether patients with GBM, who are known to be at least mildly
           immunosuppressed, can respond to standard and proven vaccine strategies.

        -  To assess for any potential toxicity to the PEP-3-KLH conjugate vaccine in patients with
           newly diagnosed GBM.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to participating
      center.

      At the time the study was initiated, standard of care temozolomide was not established,
      therefore, Arm I (ACTIVATE)was given without monthly cycles of temozolomide. At the point of
      interim analysis, monthly cycles of temozolomide had become standard of care. Arm II was then
      given the standard of care 5-day cycles of monthly temozolomide and during this time,
      dose-intensified temozolomide was in trials to compare with the 5-day temozolomide.
      Therefore, Arm III was initiated to determine the immunologic effects of 21-day monthly
      cycles of temozolomide with vaccine.

        -  Arm I (ACTIVATE): Patients receive PEP-3-KLH conjugate vaccine and sargramostim (GM-CSF)
           intradermally on days 1, 15, and 29 and then monthly in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (ACT II Standard (STD)): Patients first receive 3 initial vaccinations of an
           epidermal growth factor receptor variant III (EGRRvIII)- specific peptide (PEP-3)
           keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) conjugate vaccine and sargramostim (GM-CSF) biweekly
           starting within 6 weeks of completing radiation. Additional vaccinations are given until
           clinical or radiographic evidence of progression or death. Patients subsequently receive
           temozolomide at a targeted dose of 200 mg/m2 for the first 5 days of a 28 day cycle.

        -  Arm III (ACT II Dose-intensified (DI)): Patients first receive 3 initial vaccinations of
           an epidermal growth factor receptor variant III (EGRRvIII)- specific peptide (PEP-3)
           keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) conjugate vaccine and sargramostim (GM-CSF) biweekly
           starting within 6 weeks of completing radiation. Additional vaccinations are given until
           clinical or radiographic evidence of progression or death. Patients subsequently receive
           temozolomide at a targeted dose of 100 mg/m2 for the first 21 days of a 28 day cycle.

             -  Patients undergo delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) skin testing* at baseline,
                after the third vaccination, and then monthly thereafter. Patients also undergo
                leukapheresis to obtain sufficient peripheral blood lymphocytes for immunologic
                monitoring at baseline, after the third vaccination, and then, if applicable, at
                the time of positive DTH response, disease progression, or after the sixth course
                of post-radiotherapy temozolomide. Methods used for immunologic monitoring include
                Enzyme-linked Immunospot(ELISPOT) assays, cytotoxicity assays, fluorescence
                activated cell sorting (FACS), and ELISA.

      NOTE: *Patients with positive DTH skin testing, also undergo skin punch biopsies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.
    
  