
    
      In humans, apoB is the principal apolipoprotein of the atherogenic lipoproteins, comprising
      very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), intermediate density lipoprotein (IDL) and low density
      lipoprotein (LDL). ApoB messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) is abundantly present in the liver.
      Within the endoplasmatic reticulum, apoB requires lipidation by microsomal triglyceride
      transfer protein, which allows apoB to be incorporated in the VLDL particle within the lumen
      of the endoplasmatic reticulum. Non-lipidated apoB is readily degraded via ubiquitination.
      Notably, apoB within the VLDL particle is obligatory for hepatic secretion of VLDL. ApoB
      remains present within the VLDL-metabolism pathway, from secretion to clearance of the end
      product LDL by the liver LDL receptor. As a consequence, apoB reliably reflects the total
      burden of atherogenic lipoproteins. Thus, apoB carries strong prognostic value for
      cardiovascular events, which exceeds the predictive value of LDL-C. Conversely, decreased
      levels of apoB (e.g. in familial hypobetalipoproteinemia) have been associated with reduced
      levels of atherosclerosis. These genetic observations have prompted interest in pharmacologic
      inhibition of apoB synthesis.

      Mipomersen (ISIS 301012) is an antisense drug targeted to human apoB, the principal
      apolipoprotein of LDL and its metabolic precursor, VLDL. Mipomersen (ISIS 301012) is
      complementary to the coding region of the mRNA for apoB, binding by Watson and Crick base
      pairing. The hybridization (binding) of mipomersen (ISIS 301012) to the cognate mRNA results
      in Ribonuclease (RNase) H-mediated degradation of the cognate mRNA, thus inhibiting
      translation of the apoB protein.

      This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 study to assess the safety
      and efficacy of mipomersen administration in high-risk statin-intolerant patients with
      hypercholesterolemia. This study consisted of a ≤3-week screening period, 26 weeks of
      treatment, and a 24-week post-treatment follow-up period.

      Eligible patients were randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive mipomersen 200 mg or matching
      volume placebo subcutaneous (SC) injections weekly.

      Following the screening visit, eligible patients returned to the study center for clinical
      evaluation every week for study drug administration and assessments.
    
  