
    
      Nasal congestion is an important complication of viral upper respiratory infections in young
      children. It can lead to poor eating, sleeping and breathing. Recently, the FDA recommended
      against using over-the-counter cold remedies in young children because of inefficacy and
      occasional dangerous side effects. A commonly recommended non-drug solution for nasal
      congestion is nasal suctioning. This can be effective but currently available methods have
      been found to be awkward, uncomfortable and ineffective.

      The studied device has potential for making nasal suctioning easy to perform in the home
      setting, especially in young children. It is already FDA cleared for professional use and
      this study was developed to demonstrate that it is appropriate for the home as well. This
      would be significant as it would allow parents a strategy of clearing their child's nose
      without drugs.

      The device is automatic and handheld that can irrigate and/or aspirate the nasal cavity with
      hospital-grade suction. The handle houses a pump that can achieve air flows known to be
      effective for infant nasal suctioning in the hospital. A disposable wash-head is placed on
      top. It has an irrigation chamber with 0.9% saline and another chamber for collecting the
      aspirated nasal contents. The unit operates from a single bi-functional button.

      Several key safety features have been built in such as: a tip that is shaped to maximize the
      seal but prevent intrusion into the nose; an irrigation function that delivers an optimal
      volume but prevents flooding the nasal cavity; and a pump that can deliver suction known to
      be effective in the hospital but whose safety valve does not allow it to rise above dangerous
      levels.

      Participants were parents of children who have nasal congestion for whom nasal suctioning is
      traditionally recommended. They were asked to review the instruction manual of the device,
      and then use it on their children.

      The primary outcome was proper use of device that was precisely defined. Additionally,
      subjective efficacy of mucus removal, evidence of adverse events and understanding of the
      device's user manual were also measured.
    
  