
    
      This study is designed to address the need for more effective antifungal therapy for
      cryptococcal meningitis. This is a prospective, randomized, open-label, multicenter phase II
      clinical trial of combination therapy for the treatment of acute cryptococcal meningitis in
      HIV-positive subjects. The primary study objectives will be to assess the safety and
      tolerability of the study drug regimens; and to determine whether the safety and efficacy of
      combination therapy supports development of a phase III trial of combination therapy, and if
      so, to select the most appropriate dose of fluconazole plus amphotericin B based on safety
      and efficacy to be evaluated in a subsequent phase III trial. Secondary study objectives
      include: comparing the efficacy of the study drug treatments at 2, 6, and 10 weeks (Days 14,
      42, and 70); comparing the findings on detailed neurological examination between study arms
      at baseline and 2, 6, 10, and 24 weeks (6 months); assessing the proportion of subjects in
      each study arm that are alive at 6 months after initiation of study therapy; describing the
      effects of baseline clinical, neurological, and mycological characteristics on mycological
      failure at 2 and 10 weeks; measuring time to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) culture negatively for
      each study arm; assessing the length of hospitalization in the treatment groups as a
      surrogate of cost efficacy; assessing the incidence of immune reconstitution inflammatory
      syndrome among all subjects receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART); and
      examining antifungal susceptibility of all cryptococcal isolates. Study participants will
      include 150 subjects ages 13 and older. Subjects will be randomly assigned to 1 of 3
      treatment arms including 1 standard therapy and 2 investigational arms. The standard
      treatment arm will include amphotericin B 0.7 mg/kg (IV) for 14 days followed by 8 weeks (56
      days) of fluconazole at 400 mg/day orally. The 2 investigational arms will include daily
      amphotericin B 0.7 mg/kg (IV) and the randomized dose of fluconazole 400 mg/day or 800 mg/day
      for the first 14 day, then the randomized dose of fluconazole at 400 mg/day or 800 mg/day
      respectively for an additional 8 weeks (56 days). At the completion of study therapy, all
      subjects will receive chronic suppressive therapy with oral fluconazole at a dose of at least
      200 mg/day. The safety endpoints are considered to be the primary endpoints for this study.
      The safety assessment for each treatment arm will end at study day 100 for each subject. The
      key safety endpoint will be the incidence of adverse experiences of grade 3-5 (total and
      attributed to the treatment regimens). The primary safety endpoint will examine the incidence
      of grade 3-5 adverse experiences that are definitely or probably related to study drugs,
      while secondary analysis will include grade 3-5 adverse experiences that are, definitely
      probably or possibly related to study drugs. Another secondary safety endpoint will be the
      number of dose-limiting toxicities attributed to the treatment regimens. Key efficacy
      endpoint (treatment success) will be a composite of the following 3 mycologic and clinical
      measures after 14, 42, and 70 days of therapy: CSF culture conversion; neurologically stable
      or improved; and alive. Other secondary efficacy endpoints that will be evaluated
      descriptively are: CSF culture conversion at multiple time points; all-cause mortality;
      length of hospitalization; and incidence of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome.
    
  