
    
      1. Introduction: the World Health Organization (WHO) has proposed a classification of
           histopathological thymic tumor and it significance in prognosis. Chest computed
           tomography (CT) is the most common method to evaluate thymic epithelial tumors before
           operation. Therefore, the question is to predict the histopathological type of thymic
           epithelial tumors before surgery based on CT-scan images , to help determine treatment
           strategy and prognosis. In Vietnam, there are no published literature on this issue.

        2. Materials and methods:

           2.1. Cross-sectional descriptive study on 53 patients with diagnosed of thymoma by CT
           and had postoperative histopathology results as thymic epithelial tumors

           2.2. Time and Place: in Departement of CTVS, Military Hospital 103, Vietnam from 10/2013
           to 7/2017.

           2.3. methods:

             -  study in chest CT scan:

                  -  Measure the maximun diameter of the tumor

                  -  The contour: smooth contour or irregular contour

                  -  The shape: round, oval and plaque base on the ratio between long axis and
                     short axis of the tumor

                  -  Some other characteristics: Degree of enhancement, Level of drug absorbed,
                     Calcification, Invasion the local organs and Capsular destruction.

             -  Histopathological study: based on the 2004 WHO classification:

                  -  Thymoma: type A, AB, B1, B2, B3

                  -  Thymic carcinoma

             -  Data processing: use software Epi Info 2000.

        3. Expectation of results

             -  Relationship between the size and histopathological type of thymic epithelial
                tumors.

             -  Comparison of some characteristics of the tumor on preoperative chest CT scans and
                histopathological type of thymic epithelial tumors
    
  