
    
      Background:The Asia Fracture Gap Taiwan Study (AFGTS) showed that among fragility fracture
      sufferers, only 1/4 of them underwent bone mineral density (BMD) tests and 1/3 of them
      received treatments for osteoporosis. Secondary fragility fracture prevention services are
      needed to improve the care gaps

      . Aims: to Establish the FLS services at the National Taiwan University Hospital (NTUH) and
      its Beihu Branch (BB).

      Method: The FLS was designed following the 13 'Capture the Fracture Best Practice Standards'.
      The National Taiwan University Hospital (NTUH) institutional review board approved the study
      in Jan., 2014. Patients were eligible to be enrolled into the main hospital (MH) service if
      they had

        1. new hip fracture in orthopedic ward

        2. newly identified radiographic vertebral fractures from plan films in geriatric ward or

        3. clinical vertebral fractures in outpatient clinics.

      Patients in outpatient clinics of BB were eligible to be enrolled if they had (1) clinical
      vertebral fractures or (2) newly identified asymtomatic radiological vertebral fractures by a
      routine weekly review of every plan film of thoracic or lumbar spine regardless of the reason
      for it.They were excluded from the service if they had life expectancy shorter than 2 years
      of life or not be able to complete study assessments for communication or cognitive problems.

      Osteoporosis-related assessments, treatments, consultations on diet, medications, exercise,
      fall prevention were given mainly by care managers. A system is set up to remind patients to
      take their medications at home or to return to clinic for regular injections of medications.
      Follow up assessments included adherence to education instructions, medications, fall and
      fracture incidences. During the whole study period, we planed to enroll 600 fracture
      patients. Each patient would be assessed at baseline, and every 4 months last for two years.

      Anticipated results:

      Establish domestic FLS model and database Publish preliminary results at the 2014 the IOF 5th
      Regionals Asia Pacific Meeting in Taipei in November.

      Participating physicians and care managers will learn new skills in managing osteoporosis
      patients.

      Application for Best Practice Recognition for the IOF Capture the Fracture Campaign

      Preliminary results:

      We have enrolled 371 eligible patients into FLS services. From the NTUH program, BMD tests
      were completed within 8 weeks for over 90% of participants. Also, anti-osteoporosis
      medication (AOMs) were prescribed to about 90% of participants eligible for National Health
      Insurance reimbursements.

      In 2014, National Taiwan University Hospital (NTUH) and its BeiHu Branch (BB) were awarded
      the gold medal and silver medal accredited best practice programs from the 'Capture the
      Fracture' campaign from International Osteoporosis Foundation, respectively.

      Our preliminary results were presented at annual scientific meeting of the Taiwanese
      Osteoporosis Association, at Madrid, Spain, and the IOF 5th Regionals Asia Pacific Meeting in
      Taipei, Taiwan, and the World Congress on Osteoporosis, Osteoarthritis and Musculoskeletal
      Diseases, at Milan, Italy.
    
  