
    
      Justification

      Access to antiretroviral therapy (ART) is still limited in Africa (11% of patients in
      immediate need in June 2005). Face to the scope of the need and the constraints
      (unavailability and cost of viral load and CD4 cell count, lack of physicians…), WHO has
      developed a follow-up approach based on a simplified monitoring. This "simplified" approach
      restricting the use of complementary exams including biologic criteria of effectiveness and
      tolerability, some people consider this approach as dangerous for the patient but also for
      the community (rapid emergence of resistances) and that it would be preferable to treat less
      patients and only with the gold standard approach. In practice, this "simplified" approach
      which represents a major stake for the expanded access to ART has been little evaluated
      against the gold standard approach.

      Objectives

      Main objective: To compare the increase in the CD4 cell count in patients receiving ART with
      a "simplified" approach and in those treated with the gold standard approach in district
      hospitals.

      Secondary objectives: To compare between the two approaches the virologic effectiveness,
      survival, treatment interruptions, number of patients lost to follow-up, clinical
      progression, clinical and biologic tolerability, adherence, emergence of drug resistances,
      impact on patients' daily life, acceptability by the patients and health professionals, and
      cost-effectiveness performances.

      Methods

      Randomised, controlled, multicentre, non inferiority, intervention trial, without blind for
      approach, in 9 district hospitals of the Province du Centre in Cameroon. 430 adult patients
      will be randomised in two groups ("simplified" approach or gold standard approach) with a 1:1
      ratio and followed for 24 months.

      In the "simplified" approach, the results of the HIV-1 viral load and CD4 cell count will not
      be available for the management of patients, the biologic assessment of tolerability will be
      limited and some clinical consultations will be performed by nurses under the physicians'
      responsibility; the remainder will be similar to the gold standard approach.

      Planning

      The study will start in the first semester of 2006. The full length of the study would be 36
      months maximum (12 months for enrolment and 24 months for follow-up).

      Expected results

      Advices for increasing access to ART in Africa.
    
  