
    
      This project will look at the possibility of treating in-patients with UI at RIC while in the
      acute rehab hospital setting to determine what positive outcomes are possible. Subjects will
      be provided both individual and group sessions to help educate and treat those suffering with
      UI. Subjects would participate in a weekly educational class of lecture and video and then
      perform both pelvic floor and general exercises in a group setting for the remainder of their
      stay. Pre- and post- values of the listed outcome measures would be taken and analyzed.

      The purpose of this fellowship is to determine if, through an educational and exercise class
      setting, improvements can be made in women with UI in an acute rehab hospital. Also, surveys
      will be used to see if patients find this type of intervention satisfactory and appropriate
      in this level of care. Another outcome of this fellowship will be to expand this intervention
      to other inpatient units and day rehab sites in the RIC system.

      Specific Aim #1: To determine if women with urinary incontinence in an acute care rehab
      setting are satisfied with a group setting to treat UI Hypothesis 1: Women with urinary
      incontinence in an acute care rehab setting will find a group educational and exercise class
      appropriate for an acute care rehab hospital setting.

      Specific Aim #2: To determine if women with urinary incontinence in an acute rehab setting
      feel the group setting of educational class of lecture and video and exercise class was
      effective in reducing the amount or severity of UI Hypothesis 2: Women with urinary
      incontinence in an acute care rehab setting will find a group educational (lecture and video)
      and exercise class effective in reducing the amount or severity of UI Specific Aim #3: To
      determine if women's quality of life improves with treating incontinence in an inpatient
      rehab setting Hypothesis 3: Quality of life will improve for women with urinary incontinence
      treated through group educational and exercise classes in an acute care rehab setting.

      Methods This is a prospective pilot study of 15 women who have been admitted to the Rehab
      Institute of Chicago. There will not be a control group, and all 15 women will be in the
      intervention group. Patients will be selected from the 4th floor inpatient unit. Diagnoses
      will include women with orthopedic injuries, spinal surgeries, s/p surgical procedures, and
      general debility due to hospitalizations. All types of incontinence will be included in the
      study. UI will be defined as having an episode of loss of urine in the last 3 months.

        1. Study participants will be recruited from the therapy (PT and OT), nursing, and medical
           staff on the 4th floor of the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago by patient report
           during initial assessment/evaluations.

        2. Investigator will determine if subject fits inclusion criteria for study by checking the
           medical record and subjective interview.

        3. Participants will be recruited for a period of 8 months with the expectation to enroll
           15 women.

        4. The women who consent to participate in the study will be given a set of questionnaires
           at the time of consent and asked to complete by the next session.

        5. Consenting patient will undergo an internal and external pelvic floor muscle
           examination. These procedures will be performed by the investigator.

        6. If upon evaluation, the patient can perform the pelvic floor muscle contraction, she
           will then be enrolled in both an educational class and a pelvic floor exercise class. If
           extra time is needed for the patient to improve the contraction, the patient will
           receive more 1:1 time before being enrolled in the exercise class.

        7. The educational class will focus on the anatomy of the pelvic floor, physiology of
           urination, urinary incontinence, behavioral modifications in bladder training, dietary
           impact on bladder function, and performance of pelvic floor muscle exercises. The
           exercise class will have an emphasis on pelvic floor exercises, core exercises, and
           general body conditioning.

        8. An external and internal pelvic floor muscle examination will be performed after the
           intervention, prior to discharge to next level of care.

        9. All intervention will be performed while the patient is in the hospital, and no
           follow-up visits will be required.

       10. Participants will not be compensated for this study.

      Recruitment

        1. Staff nurses, resident physicians, attending physicians, nurse practitioners, physical
           or occupational therapists will inform investigator of any patient self-reports of
           incontinence by women admitted to the 4th floor nursing unit during initial evaluations
           or any other time during their stay.

        2. The staff member will explain the study to the woman, and she will be asked if the study
           investigator could come and discuss the possibility of enrolling in this study.

        3. The investigator will approach every woman referred to the study and will explain the
           study in more detail. Participants will be asked to sign the consent form if they agree
           to participate and allow collection of personal health information. Ample time will be
           allowed for reading and answering any questions.

        4. After consent if gathered, the investigator will determine if the subject fits all
           inclusion/exclusion criteria.

        5. Subject will be notified of investigators findings within 1 day of talking with the
           investigator for confirmation or exclusion of enrollment.

      Analysis Following HIPPA guidelines, patient identifiable data will be coded to protect each
      patient's identity. The data obtained from the patients will be entered onto electronic
      teleforms and imported into the database. This is an RIC secure server where access will only
      be given to project staff. We are familiar with using this technology on other studies. It is
      efficient to complete in clinical setting and minimize data entry errors. The data will be
      used to describe patient characteristics and trends in findings.

      We will run descriptive analyses to characterize the patients in the study. We will report
      the percent of patients who indicate they were satisfied with the program. We will compare
      pre-program and post-program outcomes using t-tests. Outcomes include: the frequency and
      severity of incontinence, quality of life, satisfaction with intervention, and FIM bladder
      score. Analyses will be conducted using SPSS version 20.

      Outcome Measures Frequency and severity of Incontinence: We will be measuring this concept
      using the FIM data from the patient's medical chart to note the number of accidents reported
      in a 24 hour time frame. The severity of incontinence will be measured with the Sandvick's
      severity index, a valid measure to score the severity of urinary incontinence in women.

      Quality of Life: The quality of life of these subjects will be tested using the International
      Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form (ICIQ-SF) Satisfaction: A satisfaction
      survey developed by the Principal Investigator will be used to understand the subject's
      satisfaction with the program.

      Data Collection Time points Data will be collected at 2 separate time points. Data will be
      collected initially upon consent to the study and then again prior to subject discharge to
      the next level of care.

      Data Collection Format Personal Health Information will be collected by the investigator
      through review of the subject's medical chart and subjective interview after consent to
      participate is received. Participants will be given paper copies of the survey questionnaires
      to complete and the investigator will collect the surveys. The results of the surveys and
      physical examinations will be entered onto an Excel spreadsheet by study personnel. All data
      will be stored on a password protected file in a RIC secure server with access only to
      project staff. No names will be included in the data files, only study identification
      numbers. The study identification numbers will be tracked in a separate data folder on the
      same secure network, also password protected. A detailed description of data to be collected
      follows.

      .

      Evaluation/Assessment:

      Outcomes will consist of patient responses to standardized and non-standardized
      questionnaires and physical examination. In addition, we will collect relevant demographic
      data and medical utilization data to describe the study population.

      Subjective interviews will be given to understand the specifics of each subject's urinary
      incontinence and previous treatments. A satisfaction survey will be developed by the
      principal investigator and given to subjects at the end of their enrollment. The purpose of
      the survey will be to determine if the information was understood and if the patient was
      satisfied with the type of interventions. The International Consultation on Incontinence
      Questionnaire-Short Form (ICIQ-SF) will be used to look at quality of life issues with the
      participants before and after the intervention. The ICIQ-SF has been proven to show
      widespread applicability as an outcome measure in patients with incontinence. Admission FIM
      and discharge FIM score for the bladder management will be collected to address if the
      intervention was successful in decreasing the number of accidents/episodes of incontinence
      per day. All objective findings will follow the Laycock PERFECT Scale and ICS guidelines to
      standardize the terminology.

      Tests and Measures:

      The investigator will perform an external and internal pelvic floor muscle examination. This
      will include a sensory screen to external pelvic region, anal wink reflex, and external
      observation of perineal body mobility. Internally, the investigator will assess tone in
      pelvic floor musculature, and muscle strength will be assessed using the Modified Oxford
      scale and Laycock PERFECT scale.

      Baseline and post-intervention ICIQ-SF and FIM scores will be compared using a one sample
      t-test (if normally distributed) or the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test (if data are not normally
      distributed).

      Physical Examination Procedures:

      Internal Muscuoloskeletal Tests and Measures: During all procedures, unless otherwise noted,
      the patient will be disrobed below the waist and allowed to wear her choosing above the
      waist.

        1. Internal assessment of pelvic floor muscle function: The examiner observes the movement
           of the patient's perineum with the patient in the supine position with legs spread or in
           the dorsal lithotomy position; approximate time for testing 2 minutes, graded as present
           or absent

             1. voluntary contraction: moves ventrally and cranially during contraction

             2. voluntary relaxation: able to relax on demand, descends from ventral position

             3. involuntary contraction: takes place preceding increase in abdominal pressure

             4. involuntary relaxation: takes place when straining as in defecation

        2. Modified Oxford scale: The examiner inserts a finger into the patient's vagina to
           perform a manual muscle test of right and left pelvic floor muscles with the patient in
           the supine or dorsal lithotomy position using the modified Oxford scale ; approximate
           time for testing 3 minutes. The patient is instructed to contract her pelvic floor
           muscles.

             1. 0/5 = no discernible contraction of muscles

             2. 1/5 = flicker or pulsation is felt, no discernible lifting or tightening

             3. 2/5 = weak contraction, no discernible lifting or tightening

             4. 3/5 = moderate, some lifting of the posterior wall and some tightening around the
                examiner's finger, contraction is visible

             5. 4/5 = good, elevation of the vaginal wall is felt against resistance, drawing in of
                the perineum is felt, able to hold for 5 or more seconds

             6. 5/5 = strong resistance is felt; if two fingers are inserted, fingers will be
                approximated, able to hold for with 10 second hold

        3. Laycock PERFECT scale. Approximate time for testing is 10 minutes

             1. P=Use modified Oxford scale and ICS guidelines

             2. E=List number of seconds contraction is held

             3. R=List number of repetitions contraction is hel

             4. F=list number of contractions that can be performed in 10 seconds

             5. E=elevation of posterior vaginal wall toward pubic bone (absent or present)

             6. C=Co-contraction of the deep abdominal muscles (absent or present)

             7. T=Timing-involuntary pelvic floor muscle contraction (absent or present)

        4. Pelvic floor palpation exam: The patient is disrobed from the waist down and is lying
           supine with hips and knees flexed. The examiner inserts a finger into the patient's
           vagina and performs manual palpation of pelvic floor and obturator internus musculature
           for tenderness. Approximate time for testing 5 minutes.

           a. Right and left superficial genital muscles i. Anterior ii. Perineal body iii.
           posterior b. Right and left levator ani c. Right and left obturator internus

      Personal Health Information to be collected The personal health information items that will
      be collected will include

        1. Name

        2. Date of birth

        3. Age

        4. Medical Record Number

        5. Number of previous pregnancies

        6. Number of previous deliveries

        7. Types of previous deliveries

        8. Dates of deliveries

        9. Instrumentation during delivery

       10. Previous gynecological/abdominal surgeries

       11. Previous/current pelvic radiation

       12. Current medications

       13. History or neurological disease

       14. History of urinary or fecal incontinence

       15. Other treatments for urinary incontinence

       16. Length of incontinence (time since onset)

       17. Race

       18. Income Level

       19. Highest Level of Education

       20. Payer

       21. History of back pain

       22. History of and type of prior physical therapy for pelvic floor rehab for UI

      Impact and Significance Urinary incontinence is a very prevalent problem in women, even those
      who are admitted to inpatient rehab units. Previous studies on treating UI have been done on
      community dwelling women, not those that are in a hospital setting. The research has shown
      that there is both a need and want to treat this condition in an inpatient hospital.
      Interventions with physical therapy and behavioral modifications have been proven to be the
      best first line of treating this condition so should be tested in this patient population.
      Improvements could be made in the subjects' severity of incontinence, quality of life,
      self-efficacy, and possible discharge destination. This study will also be of benefit to the
      Rehab Institute of Chicago by bringing urinary incontinence to the forefront of the rehab
      team and improve the process and techniques in which it is managed.
    
  