
    
      Azacitidine is a new chemotherapy drug that is designed to destroy cancer cells at high
      doses. At low doses, it is designed to destroy some cancer cells as well as cause changes
      that may make cancer cells less harmful. Valproic acid is a drug that is used in every day
      practice in the treatment of seizures, migraine headache, and mood disturbance in bipolar
      disorders.

      Before you can start receiving the study drug, you will have what are called "screening
      tests." These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the
      study. You will have a complete physical exam, including routine blood tests (about 4
      teaspoons). You may have to get either a CT scan or a MRI to measure your disease if you have
      not had one within 1 month. Women who are able to have children must have a negative
      blood-pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive the study drug
      in "cycles." Cycles will generally be 4 weeks long but may be longer, depending on any side
      effects you experience from the azacitidine. During each cycle, you will receive azacitidine
      under the skin once each day for the first 10 days (Day 1 to Day 10). You will then have an
      18-day break during which you will not receive azacitidine injections for the rest of the
      cycle. Additionally, you will take valproic acid pills by mouth, every day, starting the
      first day of the first cycle (Day 1 to Day 28). You will take valproic acid every day while
      on study without interruption.

      The dose of azacitidine that you receive will depend on when you enroll in this study. You
      will be part of a study group "cohort" (6 patients will be enrolled in each cohort). All
      members of a cohort receive the same dose of azacitidine when they begin receiving the study
      drug. Each new cohort will receive a higher dose than the cohort before. The dose of
      azacitidine that you receive may be adjusted depending on how well you tolerate it. The
      starting dose of valproic acid is fixed for all the patients, but this dose may be adjusted
      by your physician based on the results of your blood work.

      You will have a physical exam and blood tests (about 1 tablespoon each) every two weeks of
      the first two study drug cycles. For further cycles, you will have a physical exam and blood
      test only once a month. Your disease will be measured by CT scan or MRI after every 2
      treatment cycles.

      You may continue to receive the study drug on this study until your disease gets worse or
      intolerable side effects occur. After your participation in this study is over, you will
      receive follow-up care, as is standard of care for your disease.

      This is an investigational study. The FDA has approved azacitidine for a blood disease known
      as myelodysplastic syndrome. Its use in this study is experimental. The valproic acid is a
      drug approved by the FDA for treatment of seizure, bipolar disorders, and migraine headaches.
      Up to 68 patients will take part in the study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  