
    
      1. Granulocyte-Colony Stimulating Factor (G-CSF) G-CSF is known to be a synthetic cytokine
           that induces neutrophil differentiation and proliferation survival during leukocyte
           differentiation, and increases the activity in the periphery of mature neutrophils,
           which play an important role in human immunity. Cytotoxic chemotherapy inhibits bone
           marrow hematopoiesis. Inhibition of bone marrow hematopoiesis causes anemia,
           thrombocytopenia and leukopenia, and significant leukocytopenia causes opportunistic
           infection. G-CSF is an indispensable drug for the treatment of leukopenia caused by
           cytotoxic chemotherapy in solid and blood cancer patients receiving chemotherapy.

        2. Chemotherapy with chemotherapy and G-CSF The severity of neutropenia induced by
           chemotherapy was grade 1 (<1500 / mm3), grade 2 (<1500-1000 / mm3) and grade 3 (<1000)
           based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events To 500 / mm3) and grade 4
           (<500 / mm3). Cytotoxic anticancer drugs used in general chemotherapy cause neutropenia,
           and febrile neutropenia occurs in 10-20% of patients. In order to recover this, grade 4
           neutropenia with an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of less than 500 and neutrophil to
           grade 2 or higher with G-CSF in case of febrile grade 3 neutropenia.

        3. G-CSF dose and timing G-CSF (Renoglass team lenograstim 250 ug) was subcutaneously
           injected to a solid tumor (grade 3 or higher regardless of fever) with grade 3 or grade
           4 neutropenia with fever Until then, take medication daily. It is used regardless of
           gender, age, weight, body mass index, method of using anticancer, and injection time.

      However, the actual timing and extent of neutrophil recovery after G-CSF administration
      varies from patient to patient. G-CSF is a cytokine that is currently used in clinical
      trials. However, there are insufficient studies to investigate the clinical factors involved
      in the recovery of neutrophils in bone marrow after G-CSF administration in domestic cancer
      patients. Therefore, this study aims to analyze the clinical factors for the recovery of bone
      marrow hematopoietic function of G-CSF administered in neutropenia following cytotoxic
      chemotherapy.
    
  