
    
      Rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (RRD) is a potentially blinding condition and a common
      cause of ocular morbidity, with an estimated incidence of 6.3-17.9 per 100,000 of population.
      1 Despite contemporary surgical treatments, with nearly 95% of anatomical success, functional
      results for the repair of primary RRD remain poor, with only 43% achieving a final vision ≥
      20/40 and 21% a visual acuity (VA) < 20/100. 2 Various studies of vision related quality of
      life after RRD have demonstrated that RRD subjects suffer with substantial impairment of
      physical, psychological and social functions. 3-6 Mozaffarieh et al. further demonstrated
      that these subjects suffer of anxiety and depression, with correlation to visual functional
      status. 7 However, to date, no study have assessed the occurrence of primary RRD as a
      traumatic event that may trigger an associated distress disorder.

      Post traumatic distress disorder (PTSD) is diagnosed after a subject is exposed to an extreme
      stressor or traumatic event, which resulted with response of fear, helplessness, or horror,
      and caused typical symptoms of reexperiencing of the event, avoidance of reminders of the
      event, and increased arousal, for at least one month (Table 1). 8 PTSD was found to occur in
      the aftermath of external traumas, such as rape, physical assault, combat and natural
      disasters. 9 However, various illnesses were described as well, as triggering events, after
      which PTSD developed: myocardial infarction (MI), 10 abortions, 11, 12 cancer, 13 diagnosis
      of HIV infection, 14 and pulmonary diseases. 15, 16 The burden of PTSD can be high, with
      inability to work or return to prior levels of functioning. 17, 18 The work impairment
      associated with PTSD is estimated to result with an annual productivity loss in excess of $3
      billion in the US. 19 Furthermore, PTSD was found to have an impact on physical health, with
      higher rates of cardiovascular and pulmonary illnesses, 20 and with greater utilization of
      health care services, 21 all together putting the disorder as a major public health problem.

      The purpose of our study was to examine whether the occurrence of a primary RRD can give rise
      to an associated PTSD, to investigate its prevalence and determine variables associated with
      the disorder.

      Methods:

      We approached 547 patients with a previous primary RRD, of which 363 (mean age 58 ± 15 years,
      64% were men) were enrolled in the study. PTSD was assessed by the Clinician Administered
      PTSD Scale and the 25-Item National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire (NEI-VFQ-25)
      was used as a measure of vision-related quality of life. Objective clinical measures were
      obtained from the patient's medical records. Psychological and ophthalmological variables
      were compared between PTSD diagnosed patients and a subset of PTSD-negative patients, who
      served as controls.
    
  