
    
      Background / Rationale: Improving end-of-life care is of critical importance to the VA as it
      faces an increasingly aging and dying veteran population. In FY2000 approximately 104,000
      enrolled veterans died in the U.S. including 27,200 that died as inpatients in VA acute or
      chronic care medical wards. Previous work within and outside of the VA has identified serious
      deficiencies in the quality of care delivered near the end of life. A pilot program of a
      collaborative care intervention in patients with advanced illness suggests that palliative
      care management may lead to improvements in processes and outcomes of care at reduced costs.

      Objective(s): The purpose of this project is to test the effectiveness of a chronic illness
      model-based palliative care intervention that utilizes prognosis-based palliative care
      evaluation and longitudinal nurse care management on the processes and outcomes of
      end-of-life care at one VA medical center.

      Methods: The study uses a randomized, controlled design. All patients admitted to the
      inpatient medical service during the enrollment period are screened for survival prognosis by
      their admitting resident physician. Patients estimated to have at least a 25% risk of dying
      over the following year and who meet other basic inclusion criteria are invited to
      participate. Consenting patients are randomized to intervention or usual care. The
      intervention entails initial palliative evaluation followed by nurse care management designed
      to promote informed goal-setting, symptom management, psycho/socio/spiritual support, and
      family support. Data collection activities include patient and caregiver surveys, chart
      reviews, and reviews of administrative databases. Primary study outcomes include
      caregiver-rated quality of death and dying, hospital-based resource use, and costs; secondary
      outcomes include patient quality of life, satisfaction with care, continuity and coordination
      of care, and patient self-determination

      Status: Enrollment and follow up of veterans/patients in the study is complete. Follow up
      with the caregivers of patients who died is ongoing and projected to end in February 2008.
      Subject enrollment began on 08/04/04 and target enrollment of 400 patients was reached in
      November 2006. Of the 1354 non-duplicated patients admitted to the hospital and
      prognostically eligible for the study, 795 (59%) were excluded; 400 (30%) were enrolled;
      142(10%) refused; and 17 (1%) were missed or did not respond to recruitment efforts. To date,
      257 of 400 enrolled veterans (64%) have died and 152 after-death interviews have been
      conducted with caregivers.

      Impact: If shown to be effective, the palliative care program tested in this study will be
      the first of its type to demonstrate success in a controlled trial, and it will be ready for
      larger-scale implementation studies that will inform models of end-of-life care delivery both
      within and outside of the VA. Administrators at VAs nationwide, including chiefs of service,
      chiefs of staff, hospital directors, and VISN directors will be able to use the plans and
      protocols developed in this project to develop programs at their own institutions. Nurses,
      generalist physicians, and specialists can gain important insights about the special needs of
      seriously ill patients and the role of care systems in delivering high-quality end of life
      care. Finally, the project has immediate relevance to the healthcare system at large, as it
      struggles to find effective end-of-life care delivery models.
    
  