
    
      If you agree to participate in this research study you will be evaluated during the 4th-6th
      week after your transplant to determine the number of CD4 cells in your circulation and to
      determine that your body has eliminated all of the immune suppressing medicines used around
      the time of your transplant. This will be performed by studying the cells from two tubes of
      blood. Thereafter, blood cells will be obtained from your donor (the same donor as used for
      the transplant). These cells from the donor will be treated with LLME in the laboratory. The
      cells will then be washed to eliminate the LLME, counted, and the desired number will be
      administered to you by transfusion.

      Four to six weeks later, you will have additional blood drawn (2-3 teaspoons) to determine
      the number of CD4 cells in your blood. If the number is below 100, you will be given another
      transfusion of LLME treated cells, but you will receive a larger number of cells. Above 100
      CD4 cells, the risk of infections appears to decrease. This will be repeated every 8 weeks
      provided that you and your donor remain willing to continue until one of three things
      happens. The three things that would cause us to stop further DLI would be: (1) you develop a
      CD4 count of over 100, (2) you develop evidence of GVHD, or (3) we reach the maximum
      practical number of cells which your donor could provide.

      Your donor will also be reevaluated by medical history, physical examination, and blood tests
      to ensure that he/she remains healthy and can undergo the cell donation procedure safely. He
      or she will donate the first doses of white cells by drawing a small amount of blood. Later
      donations, if necessary, will be collected in a manner that is very similar to how platelets
      are normally collected from volunteer donors by the blood bank. The manner in which the
      transfusions are given will be similar to that in which you have received red blood cell and
      platelet transfusions in the past.
    
  