
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare radiographic progression-free survival (rPFS) and overall survival (OS) with
      enzalutamide and rucaparib camsylate (rucaparib) versus enzalutamide alone for patients with
      metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer commencing first-line therapy.

      II. (PK substudy) To evaluate the safety and tolerability of rucaparib and enzalutamide
      combination III. (Quality of life substudy) To compare quality of life as measured by FACT-P
      Trial Outcome Index in patients with mCRPC who receive enzalutamide plus rucaparib vs
      enzalutamide alone at the 12-month time point (primary QOL timepoint).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare rPFS and OS with enzalutamide and rucaparib versus enzalutamide alone within
      homologous-recombination repair (HRR) aberrant and wild-type patients.

      II. To evaluate the effects of concurrent administration of rucaparib on time to unequivocal
      clinical progression.

      III. To evaluate the effects of concurrent administration of rucaparib on best radiographic
      response using Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria.

      IV. To evaluate the effects of concurrent administration of rucaparib on duration of overall
      response.

      V. To evaluate the effects of concurrent administration of rucaparib on prostate specific
      antigen (PSA) response rate.

      VI. To evaluate the effects of concurrent administration of rucaparib on best response by
      serum PSA by months 7 and 13.

      VII. To evaluate the effects of concurrent administration of rucaparib on time to first
      symptomatic skeletal event (SSE).

      VIII. To evaluate the effects of concurrent administration of rucaparib on safety and
      tolerability as measured by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria; and
      trial discontinuation for treatment emergent toxicities.

      IX. To compare performance of plasma-based and tissue-based genomic profiling in detection of
      homologous-recombination repair mutation (HRRm) in metastatic castration-resistant prostate
      cancer (mCRPC).

      OUTLINE:

      The mandatory PK substudy will enroll up to 18 patients. These patients receive a fixed dose
      of enzalutamide (160mg daily) and varying doses of rucaparib in cohorts of 3 to 6 patients to
      find the recommended dose for the phase 3 portion.

      In the randomized, placebo-controlled phase 3 portion, patients will be randomized to 1 of 2
      arms:

      ARM I: Patients will receive enzalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) and rucaparib PO twice
      daily (BID). Patients who did not undergo bilateral orchiectomy will also receive androgen
      deprivation therapy (ADT) consisting of leuprolide acetate intramuscularly (IM), goserelin
      acetate subcutaneously (SC) every 12 weeks or degarelix SC. Cycles will repeat every 28 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients will receive enzalutamide PO QD and placebo PO BID. Patients who did not
      undergo bilateral orchiectomy will also receive ADT consisting of leuprolide acetate IM,
      goserelin acetate SC every 12 weeks or degarelix SC. Cycles will repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients will be followed every 3 months for 2
      years, then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  