
    
      Because coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most frequent cause of death in industrialized
      nations and its onset is currently unpredictable, there is a need for new methods of
      screening apparently healthy individuals to identify those at increased risk.

      Several imaging techniques are in use to visualize coronary arteries. These include both
      invasive procedure as x-ray coronary angiography and those non invasive like computed
      tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Among these imaging modalities,
      selective cardiac catheterization and x-ray angiography is the current gold standard for
      visualization of coronaries and detection of their stenoses, providing for optimal spatial
      resolution, a general "road map" of the coronary tree for interventions. The replacement of
      even a fraction of these procedures with non-invasive modalities would constitute an
      important advance in the care of patients with suspected coronary artery disease Preliminary
      results reported in literature addressing the study of coronary arteries by multidetector-CT
      (MDCT) appear to be interesting. Several studies have been performed firstly using Electron
      beam CT (EBCT).EBCT provides high temporal resolution and enables quantitative assessment of
      the coronary artery calcium, but because of limited spatial resolution as a result of limited
      z axis resolution, it does not permit direct visualisation in multi-reformation of the whole
      coronary artery system.

      With the introduction of 4-row MDCT there have now been several studies aimed to compare the
      MDCT with a standard invasive angiography. Data published for over 200 subjects from 4
      studies demonstrated that patient compliance at breath-hold, heart rate and rhythm are
      crucial limitation to this procedure. In the Nieman and Achembach papers not all the coronary
      segments were assessable because of the limited temporal resolution of 4-slice MDCT. With
      this machine it is mandatory to select patients carefully, considering only those with
      baseline hearth rate < 65 bpm (also obtained by pre-treatment with β-blockers in order to
      slow hearth rate).
    
  