
    
      After mifepristone was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration in 2000,
      the combination of mifepristone 200 mg and vaginal use of misoprostol 800 mcg became almost a
      standard of care in early medical abortion up to 63 days of gestation. Misoprostol, a
      synthetic analogue of naturally occurring prostaglandin E1, has uterotonic effect and it can
      stimulate myometrial contraction and cause cervical ripening and dilatation. Progesterone
      maintains the uterus in a quiescent state by inducing hyperpolarization of the membrane of
      the myometrial cells and a greater change in electric potential is necessary before
      contractions can occur. Mifepristone is the anti-progestin that binds to the progesterone
      receptors and prevents endogenous progesterone from exerting is effects. It can also increase
      the sensitivity of the uterus to prostaglandins. The complete abortion rate achieved with
      this sequential regimen has been found to be up to 93-95%, which is higher than the rate
      achieved with either mifepristone or misoprostol alone.

      Apart from progesterone, estrogen is another important hormone for the maintenance of
      pregnancy. Albrecht et al showed that 50% of the baboons miscarried when maternal estrogen
      synthesis was suppressed using aromatase inhibitors whereas all maintained their pregnancy
      when concomitant estradiol was given. Letrozole is a third-generation aromatase inhibitor
      which leads to reduced production of estrogen and has specific actions at clinical doses with
      no effect on basal levels of cortisol and aldosterone. Shi et al found that the combinations
      of anti-progestin with aromatase inhibitor act synergistically to induce 100% abortion rate
      in rats, with little effect of antiprogestin or aromatase inhibitor when administered alone.
      Lee et al conducted the first pilot study of the effect of letrozole on medical abortions of
      up to 9 weeks gestation in humans. When 7.5 mg letrozole was combined with 200 mg
      mifepristone, the abortion effect was not as great as those observed in animal study, with
      clinical complete abortion rate of 71% only. On the other hand, when 7.5 mg letrozole was
      given daily for 2 days followed by 800 mcg vaginal misoprostol, this regimen was associated
      with a clinical complete abortion rate of 80% and 87.5% with gestation of less than 63 days
      and gestation of less than 49 days respectively. Hormonal profiles revealed that letrozole
      led to significant reduction in oestradiol level, but progesterone level was not altered. The
      complete abortion rate achieved was noted to be higher when the dosage and duration of
      letrozole were increased to 10 mg for 3 days. There were no serious complications encountered
      in these 200 subjects, implying that these regimens are likely safe to use in humans.

      Letrozole plays a role in medical termination through its principal effect on oestrodial
      synthesis, which is an important factor in the maintenance of early pregnancy. It is
      postulated that by combining both letrozole and mifepristone, together with misoprostol, a
      synergistic effect will be exerted as the depleted estrogen and progesterone level will be
      insufficient to support the pregnancy, and the uterotonic effect of misoprostol will hasten
      the abortion process, hence improving the complete abortion rate. The aim of this pilot study
      was to determine the complete abortion rate of vaginal misoprostol when given with
      mifepristone and letrozole for termination of first trimester pregnancy up to 9 weeks
      gestation.
    
  