
    
      Next-generation sequencing (NGS) is changing the paradigm of clinical genetic testing. Unlike
      highly focused single-gene tests, NGS allows one to examine gene panels, the exome, and the
      whole genome. With the broad array of molecular tests now available, ordering physicians face
      the conundrum of selecting the best diagnostic tool for patients with suspected genetic
      conditions. Single-gene testing is often most appropriate for conditions with distinctive
      clinical features and minimal locus heterogeneity. NGS-based gene panel testing, which can be
      complemented with chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA) and other ancillary methods, provides
      a comprehensive and feasible approach for well documented but genetically heterogeneous
      disorders. Whole exome sequencing (WES) and whole genome sequencing (WGS) have the advantage
      of enabling parallel interrogation of most of the genes in the human genome. To some, WES is
      preferable to previously used methods due to higher diagnostic yield, shorter time to
      diagnosis, and improved cost-efficiency.

      The ability to survey the exome opens up both new opportunities and new challenges. For
      example, all coding regions of known genes must be analyzed when applying WES to undiagnosed
      cases with unclear inheritance patterns. Current limitations on variant interpretation
      capabilities and clinical validity raise questions about the clinical utility of WES as
      either a stand-alone or a first-choice diagnostic test. Additional challenges include pre-
      and post-test counseling with appropriate and robust informed consent, bioinformatics
      analysis setup and validation, variant interpretation and classification, the need for
      policies and protocols concerning the discovery and reporting of secondary findings unrelated
      to the presenting indication, a requirement for validation of WES results, assurance of
      conformation to quality control standards, data storage and accessibility, and reimbursement
      issues.

      Introducing WES into pediatric clinical care of underrepresented populations raises
      additional issues and considerations of payment coverage, access, and standards of care.
      Beyond the sheer complexity of the test and its results, clinicians and health systems must
      address numerous considerations, including: private and public insurance coverage; language
      and culture differences and their implications for genetic counseling and clinician-patient
      relationships; ability to access follow-up testing and clinical care; and ability to access
      appropriate treatment and services. These issues and others will affect not only patients'
      decision-making regarding WES, but also their post-test needs for patient follow up. The
      importance of systematically assessing the clinical utility of NGS is critical for
      determining in which clinical and health care contexts WES will be useful and for commencing
      research on these considerations.
    
  