
    
      Cesarean delivery has become the most common surgical procedure in the US, with over 1.2
      million cesarean deliveries performed each year. The addition of non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) to a post-cesarean analgesic regimen has been shown to
      improve the quality of post-cesarean analgesia and markedly reduce opioid consumption. As a
      result, fewer patients incur opioid related side-effects such as nausea and vomiting,
      respiratory compromise, sedation, and impaired breast-feeding.

      The effect of NSAIDs on healthy volunteers is relatively well-described. Most commonly,
      NSAIDs inhibit membrane-bound cyclooxygenase 1 (COX-1), the enzyme responsible for the
      production of the platelet agonist thromboxane A2. This ultimately results in inhibition of
      platelet aggregation and prolonged bleeding time. However, in the obstetric population, the
      presence and degree of platelet inhibition after NSAID exposure is less clear. This has
      limited the incorporation of NSAIDs into protocols for postpartum analgesia following
      cesarean delivery.

      Platelet Function Assessment 100 (PFA) assays, with collagen/epinephrine and collagen/ADP
      (adenosine diphosphate) as agonists, can reliably test for platelet inhibition. PFA has been
      utilized to examine the anti-platelet effects of platelet inhibitors including NSAIDs in
      studies involving non-obstetric patients. Similarly, platelet aggregometry has been used to
      evaluate the platelet inhibitory effects of NSAIDs. Thromboelastography (TEG) has been shown
      in numerous studies to represent in-vivo clot strength and function.

      Research in this field is needed as physiologic changes of pregnancy combined with
      significant surgical blood loss and hemodilution at cesarean delivery may alter the effect on
      maternal platelet function. This has become more pressing as postpartum thromboprophylaxis is
      likely to be more commonly considered for patients after cesarean delivery. In their most
      recent unofficial guidelines, the American Society of Regional Anesthesia state that NSAIDs
      should not be used with thromboprophylaxis after patients received neuraxial blockade (ASRA
      App). However, to the best of our knowledge, there is limited data, only utilizing bleeding
      time,5 examining the potential platelet inhibitory effect of NSAIDs in a low-risk healthy
      cohort undergoing cesarean delivery.

      Protocol:

      Brief Study Protocol After obtaining Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval, patients will
      be randomly assigned to receive either IV ketorolac 30 mg (n=15) or normal saline (n=15)
      based on a pre-assigned randomization sequence. The assignment for each patient will be kept
      in sealed opaque envelopes. After obtaining written informed consent, an anesthesiologist not
      involved in the study will open the envelope and will prepare the study drug. The patient and
      the study investigators will be blinded to the study drug.

      Baseline platelet count, coagulation parameters (activated partial thromboplastin time
      (APTT), prothrombin time (PT), Fibrinogen) and TEG parameters will be measured
      pre-operatively on the day of surgery. Routine lab work obtained at this time will require 10
      ml of blood, while study related tests will require 5.4 ml. Each patient will undergo either
      spinal or combined spinal epidural anesthesia with our standard cesarean induction dose of
      hyperbaric intrathecal 0.75% bupivacaine 1.5 ml, intrathecal fentanyl 25 micrograms and
      intrathecal morphine 250 micrograms. The patient will be moved to the supine position with
      left lateral uterine displacement. When a T6 sensory level to pinprick is achieved, cesarean
      delivery will be allowed to proceed. At the completion of the surgery, Platelet Aggregometry
      and TEG parameters will be performed to assess for intraoperative changes to TEG and
      establish baseline Platelet Aggregometry values. A total volume of 18.9 ml of blood will be
      withdrawn for the study at this time. While under the effect of the spinal medication,
      meaning that the patient is unable to fill sharp in their feet, the patient may elect to have
      this blood and the subsequent blood drawn from their foot to avoid unnecessary pain. These
      blood draws would only be performed by an anesthesiologist and only if a suitable site was
      identified. Performing venipucture for lab draws in the feet is not known to increase the
      risk of complications from blood draws when compared to the upper extremity. The study drug
      will be administered upon completion of the case. Platelet Aggregometry and TEG parameters
      will be performed 10 min after study drug administration. An additional volume of 18.9 ml of
      blood will be withdrawn for the study at this time. After blood samples have been obtained,
      patients in each group will receive the alternate therapy (ie placebo group receives
      ketorolac and ketorolac receives placebo), allowing both groups to benefit from the analgesic
      effect of ketorolac. Supplemental analgesia will be administered according to a standard
      post-operative pain management protocol on labor and delivery.

      Statistical analysis: Data will be assessed for normality using normality plots and the
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Demographic, obstetric, and perioperative data will be presented as
      mean (SD) or median [interquartile range]. Between-group comparisons will be assessed using
      the unpaired t test and Mann-Whitney U test, where appropriate. Within-group before vs. after
      NSAID exposure changes will be assessed using the paired t test and Wilcoxon signed rank
      test, where appropriate. The percentage change from baseline for each PFA, TEG, and lab
      parameter will also be calculated.

      Sample size justification: There is limited data on the affect of ketorolac on quantitative
      coagulation studies, particularly in the obstetric population. Based on available data from a
      prior study examining platelet inhibition of non-opioid analgesics, a PFA closure time ≥173
      seconds can be used to classify platelet inhibition. Using the aforementioned data on
      epinephrine-induced PFA closure time, the investigators estimate that, before and after
      ketorolac exposure, 25% and 70% patients respectively would exhibit prolonged PFA closure
      times. With an alpha error of 0.05 and a beta error of 0.8, the investigators estimated that
      a sample size of 18 patients per group would provide 80% power. Additional studies have
      examined the affect of ketorolac on platelet aggregometry. Platelet aggregometry to collagen
      was diminished in the ketorolac group from preoperative to poststudy drug data points (90.8%
      +/- 7.6% to 60.5% +/- 32.5%; P < 0.01). With an alpha error of 0.05 and a beta error of 0.8,
      the investigators estimated that a sample size of 19 patients per group would provide 80%
      power.
    
  