
    
      Scientific justification:

      In one third of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), tidal inflation starts when an
      airway opening pressure (AOP) is overcome 1. This phenomenon of airway closure has been
      underestimated and misinterpreted. Recent research demonstrates that airway closure is a
      matter of concern as it participates to the heterogeneity of tidal ventilation distribution
      and it can amplify Ventilator Induced Lung Injury (VILI). The detection of airway closure and
      the measurement of AOP need a pressure volume curve at low flow and no positive end
      expiratory pressure (PEEP). However, this will measure a global AOP whereas ventilation is
      heterogeneous between the two lungs in ARDS. EIT is an interesting monitoring tool that could
      allow EIT derived PV curve construction with measurement of regional AOP2, right vs left
      lung. The investigor wants to compare global AOP on ventilator PV curve with left and right
      lung EIT derived AOP measurements. Recent Covid 19 pneumoniae is responsible for numerous
      acute respiratory distress with severe hypoxemia. Phenotypes are discussed with differences
      in terms of respiratory mechanics. It is therefore important to describe specifically Covid
      19 patients with ARDS.

      Strategy description:

      Patients with moderate to severe ARDS equipped with EIT will be included. PEEP will be
      titrated with PEEP-EIT method. A classical low flow PV curve from without PEEP will be done,
      the acquisition of EIT data during PV curve will be analysed secondary with a dedicated
      software. PV curve on the ventilator will be analysed to determine if there is an airway
      closer phenomenon. Reconstruction of EIT derived PV curve will determine, first: if there is
      a left and/or right lung airway closer phenomenon, and second: the value of each lung AOP.

      Follow up description:

        -  Measurement of ventilator pressures, flow and volume before/during/after the PV curve.

        -  Last chest X Ray and arterial blood gases,

        -  Haemodynamic data.
    
  