
    
      Primary Hypothesis: The primary hypothesis is that robotic training compared with usual care
      and intensive comparison therapy will lead to improved upper extremity function. Eligible
      patients will be randomized to one of three treatment arms: 1) usual care, 2) intensive
      comparison therapy, or 3) robotic training. Participants assigned to intensive comparison
      therapy or robot-assisted training will receive treatment for 12 weeks consisting of three
      one-hour sessions a week and then usual care for the remainder of follow-up. Those assigned
      to usual care will receive the usual stroke care as delivered at each participating medical
      center for 36 weeks and then will be offered, as compassionate care, their choice of either
      robot-assisted or intensive comparison therapy.

      Secondary Hypothesis: The secondary hypotheses are that compared with usual care and
      intensive comparison therapy, robotic treatment will lead to improved quality of life and
      task performance involving proximal and distal control of the paretic arm. If the robotic arm
      is effective, two other secondary objects are to evaluate its early (less than 12 week) and
      late (36 week) effects on the primary and secondary outcomes.

      Primary Outcome: The primary study outcome is the change in the Fugl-Meyer score of
      neurological impairment at 12 weeks relative to baseline.

      Secondary Outcome: Secondary outcomes include the Stroke Impact Scale and Wolf Motor Function
      Test. A cost-effectiveness analysis is planned but only will be conducted if robotic training
      is more effective than usual care.

      Study Abstract: CSP #558 will be a randomized, multi-center, outpatient phase II trial to
      assess the safety and efficacy of robot-assisted therapy for neurorehabilitation in stroke
      patients with moderate to severe upper extremity impairment.

      The target sample is 158 patients: 26 usual care, 66 intensive comparison therapy and 66
      robot training. This sample size will provide 90% power to detect a 5-point mean difference
      in the Fugl-Meyer scale between robot training and usual care and 3-point mean difference
      between robot training and intensive comparison therapy. There will be one interim analysis
      of the primary endpoint at 12 months for the purpose of sample size re-estimation using an
      adaptive design. The planned study duration is 33 months with 24 months of intake and nine
      months of follow-up.

      IMPACT STATEMENT

      If robotic training proves to be beneficial it will not only provide a functionally-oriented
      and neurophysiologically appropriate therapy, but also will make more widely available
      high-quality, evidence-based rehabilitative care at a time when there is a shortage of
      experienced therapists and a progressively growing rehabilitative need for veterans and all
      Americans.
    
  