
    
      High intensity interval training (HIIT) is a promising intervention for treatment and
      prevention of type 2 diabetes. In spite of the interplay between circadian rhythms and
      exercise, the time of day in which the most robust adaption to HIIT can be achieved is
      unknown. The main goal of the study is to compare the efficacy of morning and afternoon HIIT
      in lowering blood glucose values in participants with type 2 diabetes. Additionally, we aim
      to to elucidate the underlying hormonal changes and fuel utilization preference responsible
      for the differing blood glucose response.

      A randomized cross-over trial with 40 participants with type 2 diabetes will be performed.
      The participants will be examined on three occasions on an in-patient basis (36-hour hospital
      visits). On visit 1 baseline (no exercise) measurements will be established. On visit 2 the
      participants will perform a single bout of HIIT either in the morning (08:30) or afternoon
      (19:30). After a 1-week washout period, the participants will return for visit 3 and an
      opposing exercise time. Primarily, the efficacy of the morning and afternoon HIIT will be
      judged by the continuous glucose monitor (CGM) -based glycaemia measurements. Additionally,
      during the visits the investigators will collect repeated blood samples to assess the effect
      of exercise timing on the diurnal hormonal rhythms. Fuel utilization preference will be
      measured by respiratory exchange ratio (RER)during exercise.

      The hypothesis is that afternoon HIIT will be more efficacious in controlling blood glucose
      values, based on the preliminary data gathered from the 'free living' pilot study. The
      current study will aim to compare the morning and afternoon exercise in controlled
      conditions, eliminating the effects of dietary intake, medication and sleep cycle disruption.
      Additionally, the specific factors responsible for the differing glycaemic response to
      morning and afternoon exercise will be elucidated.

      Preliminary data from the pilot study

      A randomised cross-over pilot study with 11 participants with type 2 diabetes in 'free
      living' conditions has been performed. Glycaemia measurements were collected by continuous
      glucose monitors (CGMs) for 2 weeks pre-training and for the duration of the study. The
      participants were assigned to either morning (08:00) or afternoon (16:00) training regime
      consisting of 6 HIIT occasions over 2 weeks. Following a 2-week 'wash-out' period, the
      participants performed the opposing exercise training regime. The preliminary results show
      that HIIT is more efficacious in improving glycaemia when performed in the afternoon, rather
      than in the morning.

      This pilot was a field-based study in 'free-living' individuals, thus the specific factors
      responsible for the differing blood glucose levels between morning and afternoon exercise
      trials remain to be elucidated. Now is the aim to perform a study in controlled condition,
      limiting the effects food intake, medication and sleep-wake cycle disruption and measuring
      the effects of a single HIIT bout on glycaemia. The hypothesis is that HIIT bout at different
      times of day diversely affects diurnal hormonal rhythms, accounting for the differing
      glycaemic responses.
    
  