
    
      Poor quality diet and physical inactivity are the most prevalent, preventable causes of death
      in the United States. In particular, high saturated fat diet (Fat), low fruit and vegetable
      intake (FV), low physical activity (PA), and high sedentary leisure screen time (Sed)
      co-occur and heighten the risks of cardiovascular disease and cancers. The first Make Better
      Choices (MBC1) experiment contrasted four strategies to promote healthful change across these
      four risk behaviors. Each intervention targeted two behaviors (one diet, one activity)
      simultaneously and either increased healthy or decreased unhealthy responding. The
      intervention targeting increased FV and decreased Sed was most efficacious, yielding
      unexpectedly sustained improvement in three out of the four risk behaviors (FV, Sed, Fat).
      The proposed MBC2 trial tests the efficacy of MBC intervention to promote sustained,
      healthful change in diet and activity at 6 and 12 months, as contrasted with a stress
      management control condition. MBC2 tests competing hypotheses about the optimal way to
      increase PA without undermining the maintenance of FV, Sed, and Fat by changing multiple
      behaviors either sequentially or simultaneously. Furthermore, MBC2 examines mediators and
      biomarkers of healthy lifestyle change. Community dwelling adults (N=250) with suboptimal
      diet and inactive lifestyle will be randomized to the following conditions: 1) Sequential MBC
      (increasing FV intake and decreasing Sed, followed by increasing PA), 2) Simultaneous MBC
      (increasing FV, decreasing Sed, and increasing PA), or 3) Control (stress management).
      Participants in all conditions will use Smartphones equipped with customized behavioral
      decision support tools to self-monitor health behaviors. These handheld devices will be
      programmed to automatically transmit these data to our study server to be reviewed by a
      personal behavior coach. Based on theories of self-regulation and habit strength, the Mastery
      hypothesis predicts superior health behavior change for participants randomized to the
      sequential condition. It is anticipated that these effects will be mediated by greater habit
      strength for healthy eating and physical activity. However, based on goal systems theory, the
      Synergy hypothesis predicts superior health behavior change among participants randomized to
      the simultaneous condition. It is anticipated that these effects will be mediated by the
      establishment of superordinate healthy lifestyle goals. The results of the MBC2 trial will
      assist researchers in understanding the optimal manner in which to facilitate multiple health
      behavior change in this population. Furthermore, these data will help to identify the
      mechanisms that underlie healthy change among prevalent risk behaviors. If successful, this
      trial will also result in an innovative, highly disseminable technology-supported minimal
      counseling intervention to address the American unhealthy diet and sedentary lifestyle.
    
  