
    
      The study aims at improving treatment of patients with recurrent Rb through a specific
      approach according to the site of relapse and a uniform and well-defined treatment schedule.
      A precise observation of early, intermediate and long-term toxic effects with treatment
      recommendation will be done. For intravitreal relapse, the trial will focus on a
      randomization between melphalan (standard) and topotecan (investigational). For retinal /
      diffuse subretinal relapse in patients not having received prior IAC, it will focus on a
      randomization between IAC melphalan only and IAC combining melphalan+topotecan. For vitreous
      and retinal relapse the treatment will be a sequential administration of intravitreous and
      intraarterial injections (observational patients).

      The duration of patient recruitment is 3 years, the duration of patient follow-up for study
      purposes is until at least 2 years after end of current relapse treatment. A long-term
      follow-up of at least 10 years on a regular basis will be proposed at the end of the study,
      with the aim to record the occurrence of secondary malignancies, metastases and long term
      sequelae.

      The overall objective is to provide a conservative eye-preserving treatment for pediatric
      patients with Rb who have failed prior standard treatments and have no other option than
      enucleation and/or EBR, to preserve functional vision and to limit general and ocular
      toxicity.

      Primary objectives

      A. To reduce the incidence of retinal toxicity in IVitC treatment while retaining similar
      efficacy of tumor control, in vitreous relapse.

      B. To reduce further relapse by IAC with melphalan+topotecan compared to IAC with melphalan
      only in patients not having received prior IAC and presenting retinal / diffuse subretinal
      relapse.

      The primary outcome, on which the sample size calculation is based, is the rate of retinal
      toxicity following IVitC treatment with melphalan as compared to topotecan. Currently a
      retinal toxicity rate of 40% is reported with melphalan. Topotecan is reportedly less toxic
      and the investigators expect a retinal toxicity of 10% or less. To have 90% power of
      detecting a reduction of 30% in retinal toxicity at the 5% level of significance, 43 patients
      are required in each arm. Allowing for a 5% drop out rate per year for 3 years, the
      investigators estimate that 50 patients are required in each of arm of this study. Concerning
      the second primary objective the investigators postulate that the eye salvage rate can be
      increased by adding topotecan to melphalan from overall 67% to 84% at 2 years. A randomized
      2:1 (arm with association Topotecan-Melphalan and arm with Melphalan only, respectively) non
      comparative phase II will be performed. In the Topotecan and Melphalan arm, 67% (p0) or less
      of eye salvage rate is considered as ineffective, 84% (p1) as active. 64 patients will be
      included in the Topotecan and Melphalan arm, with a type one error of 7% and a type two error
      of 5%.
    
  