
    
      Suspected ischemic heart disease (IHD) or coronary artery disease (CAD) is commonly diagnosed
      by stress testing where patients undergo exercise tests in order to make their hearts work
      hard and beat fast to require more blood and oxygen. Pharmacological-induced stress is
      employed in the case where the patient is unable to exercise. Since plaque-narrowed arteries
      cannot supply enough oxygen-rich blood to meet the heart's needs, the stress test can show
      signs and symptoms of IHD. Some of the symptoms include abnormal changes in the heart rate or
      blood pressure, shortness of breath, chest pain, or abnormal changes in the heart's rhythm
      and electrical activity.

      As part of the stress tests, images of the heart are taken while the patient is exercising
      and while the patient is at rest. The imaging stress tests will show how well the blood flows
      in and out of the heart. An example would be a stress echocardiogram where an ultrasound is
      performed on the chest to produce video images of the heart to. IHD is detected through
      development of new regional wall motion abnormalities or worsening of preexisting regional
      wall motions. The patient will be required to exercise on a treadmill before lying on the
      examination bed for the ultrasound scan. This however, would require the patient to move from
      the treadmill to the bed, which would result in some time delay.

      Another diagnostic test commonly used to diagnose IHD would be a nuclear scan known as
      myocardial perfusion imaging where a radioactive isotope acting as a tracer is injected into
      the bloodstream. During exercise, the tracer is monitored while it flows through the heart
      and lungs to allow detection for any blood-flow problems. However, this test would involve
      ionizing radiation due to the radioactive isotopic tracer used.

      A detailed test to view blood flow through the heart, would be through a cardiac
      catheterization or an angiogram where a thin and flexible tube known as a catheter is
      threaded through an artery, usually in the leg, to the heart arteries. An invisible dye is
      injected through the catheter and special x-rays will be taken while the dye flows through
      the coronary arteries, allowing the doctor to study the blood flow through the heart and
      blood vessels. Due to the nature of the catheterization with the insertion of the tube, it
      makes the procedure invasive and hence involving risks although they are rare.

      Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) is able to accurately and non-radiatively assess the
      heart structure, any scarring or lack of blood supply to the heart muscle. A CMR-compatible
      cycle ergometer offers a one-stop diagnostic test that is non-radiative and non-invasive.
      Hence, our investigators aim to develop a protocol that does not require any invasive
      procedure by assessing its accuracy and develop reference ranges in healthy individuals.
    
  