
    
      The bioresource from this protocol, ethics application and future funding will comprise the
      following:

      i) UKMYONET cross-sectional study ii) MYOPROSP inception cohort study iii) MYOACT novel
      therapies registry iv) UK neuromuscular biobank

      Primary endpoint The primary study endpoint will be sensitivity to change of the biomarkers
      of interest.

      Secondary endpoints

      This will include but not limited to:

        -  Response to treatment

        -  Drug reductions and cessations due to treatment failure, adverse events and clinical
           remission

        -  Differentiation of myositis subgroups using newer imaging modalities

        -  Sensitivity of biomarkers to diagnose extramuscular manifestations (including myocardial
           and pulmonary lung disease) and predict their severity and clinical course

        -  Identification of novel genetic variants associated with IIM and subtypes

        -  Cost economic analysis

        -  Validations of definition of improvement criteria

      Cases will be adults >18 years, with a number of different IIM clinical phenotypes
      encountered in clinically practice. It is vitally important that patients with suspected, but
      not confirmed, IIM are also included so that the natural history and subsequent final
      diagnoses can be tracked. Subsequent investigations will often confirm a diagnosis that was
      not confirmed at initial presentation. Patients who do have confirmed PM/DM will have IIM
      according to the Bohan and Peter criteria, which remains the internationally accepted
      criteria for inclusion into clinical trials. Disease duration from onset of initial symptoms
      would ideally be less than one year to enrich the cohort with patients of high disease
      activity and minimal established disease-related damage.

      Patients with suspected "possible" polymyositis (PM)/dermatomyositis (DM), where a diagnosis
      of IIM is suspected but not confirmed probable/definite by the Bohan and Peter criteria, will
      also be eligible. Patients with myositis as their primary condition and also fulfilling
      criteria for an associated connective tissue disease, including but not limited to, systemic
      sclerosis, Sjogren's, SLE, rheumatoid arthritis, will also be allowed for inclusion into the
      study. Patients will also be eligible if they present with ILD/Raynaud's or other CTD
      features in association with a myositis specific antibody other than an anti-synthetase and
      no other obvious IIM-diagnostic features. Patients with IBM will also be accepted on to the
      study, meeting the revised MRC Neuromuscular criteria.

      Patients will also be accepted on to the study if they possess amyopathic or hypomyopathic
      DM, as per the Sontheimer criteria, which states that "amyopathic DM is a subset of DM
      characterized by biopsy-confirmed hallmark cutaneous manifestations of classic DM occurring
      for 6 months or longer with no clinical evidence of proximal muscle weakness and no serum
      muscle enzyme abnormalities. If more extensive muscle testing is carried out, the results
      should be within normal limits".

      STUDY METHODS:

      Initial approach Patients will be sent a letter from their consultants. The letter will give
      a brief introduction to the proposed study and a patient information sheet will be included.
      A unique identifier would be assigned to each potential new recruit. Potential participants
      will be given a full explanation of the study and provided with a patient information sheet
      and consent form to sign, following the opportunity to ask any questions. If having been
      allowed sufficient time to consider their decision, and they want to participate, informed
      consent will then be sought. The samples will be anonymised, processed, and sent to The
      University of Manchester for storage and analysis. No treatment will be withheld for the
      purposes of this study.

      Data collection i) UKMYONET cross-sectional study Baseline core data encompassing the
      clinical information outlined in UKMYONET will be collected. Blood for sera and plasma will
      also be collected. Retrospective data collection will also be allowed to interrogate how
      baseline characteristics may influence outcome.

      ii) MYOPROSP inception cohort study Baseline core data encompassing the clinical information
      outlined in UKMYONET will be collected, and extended data on medication use and disease
      activity. As genetic material (DNA) does not change with time, it would only be necessary to
      obtain this at one time-point (0 months); however, epigenetic, psychological, clinical and
      serological factors will alter over the course of the treatment, therefore sequential samples
      will be taken at 3, 6 and 12 month time points for comparison. Whilst being taken as part of
      routine clinical practice, patients can also consent to have part of their muscle biopsy,
      used for research purposes, as well as a follow-up biopsy. If other tissues are being taken
      as part of routine clinical practice, the patient can also be consented for their use as part
      of research studies. Patients may also be approached for further clinical data collection at
      yearly intervals up to 5 years after inception.

      iii) MYOACT novel therapies registry Baseline core data encompassing the clinical information
      outlined in UKMYONET will be collected, and extended data on medication use and disease
      activity. Patients will also be given the option to partake in MYOPROSP for blood collection.

      iv) UK neuromuscular biobank Blood/tissue related to the underlying disease process will be
      collected if being taken for clinical purposes. Blood samples will be used to extracted DNA,
      RNA, PBMC (peripheral blood mononuclear cells), serum and plasma samples which will also be
      stored for use in future studies. Additionally, patients will be asked for their permission
      to use their anonymised clinical and demographic details in any future research projects.

      Blood sampling Patients consenting to take part in the study will be asked to provide blood
      samples as outlined above at baseline, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months. Normally, it is
      routine clinical practice to assess patients at these time points. These blood tests will be
      taken in addition to routine tests required during these assessments. Hence, although an
      additional blood sample will be taken, no additional venepuncture will be required thus
      minimising any inconvenience for the patient. In exceptional circumstances, it may be
      required that a blood sample is taken at an extra visit if clinic/nurse time is not available
      for this routine sampling. Standard laboratory assays or ELISA will be used for measuring
      serum enzyme, cytokine and antibody levels.

      Patient questionnaires Clinical data will be attained regarding their level of disability
      (Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire) and health outcome (EQ-5D-5L). When patients
      attend for review at each of the time points (3/6/12 months), they will be asked to complete
      these questionnaires. If the diagnosis is DM, patients will be asked to fill in the
      dermatology life quality index (DLQI) questionnaire, and if IBM, the Inclusion Body Myositis
      Functional Related Scale (IBM-FRS). The blood samples and questionnaires will already be
      labelled with a unique identifier and returned to the Centre for Musculoskeletal Research,
      The University of Manchester, using a pre-paid, pre-addressed blood box for the blood and a
      separate pre-paid stamped addressed envelope for the documentation.

      Core dataset

      The core dataset will comprise the UKMYONET basic dataset questionnaire and bloods for serum
      and plasma. Consent will also allow for further data collection as per the MYOPROSP study if
      the patient is under regular follow up. The International Myositis Assessment and Clinical
      Studies (IMACS) Group have agreed core-set measures to assess myositis disease activity,
      including assessment of the following:

      IMACS core measures of disease activity

        1. Physician/patient global activity assessment by visual analogue scale

        2. IMACS core measures of disease activity

        3. Physical function

        4. Muscle enzymes

        5. Extraskeletal muscle disease

        6. Physical impairment measured with the Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire

      Muscle tissue is the primary organ affected in myositis, but other organs may also be
      involved, hence the requirement to capture extraskeletal disease activity using the Myositis
      Intention to Treat Index (MITAX) and the Myositis Activity Assessment by Visual Analogue
      Scales (MYOACT). The Myositis Damage Index (MDI) assesses extent and severity of damage.
      MITAX, MYOACT and MDI are all physician-initiated questionnaires. Further optional
      information can also be collected if performed as part of a routine clinical assessment, eg
      information on endurance.

      Clinical Data As well as the information in the Core dataset, data will be captured at
      baseline including demographics, clinical disease classification, data detailing confirmation
      of diagnosis (including muscle biopsy, electromyography, autoantibody status, MR findings)
      co-morbidities and therapies. Changes in therapy will be captured at subsequent visits along
      with IMACS core measures. For IBM, additional monitoring will be performed including but not
      limited to IBM functional related scale, 6 minute walk test, timed up and go, grip strength.

      MR imaging As a sub-study, patients will be given the option of having MR imaging of the
      femur to image the thigh musculature, and gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging of the heart at
      months 0 and 6. It is normal clinical practice to perform an MR of the femur at baseline and
      follow-up, and would be considered best practice to MR image the heart. In patients where
      gadolinium contrast would be deemed high-risk (renal impairment, history of previous contrast
      reactions), this would not be offered. A protocol will be developed in conjunction with
      musculoskeletal radiology colleagues to standardise the methods used for MR imaging in the
      different participating centres.

      Muscle biopsy At diagnosis, a muscle biopsy is routinely performed under local anaesthetic in
      a non-invasive fashion. Several samples are usually taken in one pass, and one sample will
      stored in a PAXgene tube for RNA expression studies. The remainder of the samples will be
      processed and analysed in the local clinical histopathological departments. Muscle biopsy
      specimens will be snap-frozen in isopentane using liquid nitrogen and stored at -80C.
      Protocols for muscle tissue mounting, sectioning and storage that have already been tested
      and optimised as part of the UK juvenile dermatomyositis research study will be used. A
      further biopsy will be planned and offered at 6 months post-recruitment into the study.
      Although this is not routine clinical practice, an important clinical question needs to be
      addressed about the clinical utility of repeat biopsy and whether it may quantify change in
      disease activity and thus allow for accurate decision-making about treatment
      reduction/escalation.
    
  