
    
      Bariatric surgery is an effective therapy for obesity. Malabsorption-based surgical
      techniques (excluding the first part of the gastrointestinal tract from the alimentary
      circuit) are also effective in correcting T2D, even before any significant weight loss has
      occurred. Proposed mechanisms to explain this beneficial effect include caloric restriction,
      altered secretion of gut hormones due to duodenal exclusion or due to contact of undigested
      food with the jejunal mucosa, pancreatic islet hyperfunction, changes of intestinal flora,
      mucosal inflammation, and/or changes in the biliary acid re-circulation.

      EndoBarrier is an endoscopically delivered device that mimics malabsorptive surgical
      procedures while the endoscopically placed intragastric balloon induces weight loss with a
      mechanical action.

      The present study is a prospective, randomized clinical trial. It will compare the metabolic
      compensation between patient treated with EndoBarrier and patient treated with Intragastric
      Balloon.

      The aims will be: comparison of glycemic control as measured by hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c),
      change in oral hypoglycemic drug consumption and body loss from baseline and during follow up
      in the two groups; evaluation of mechanisms implicated in glycemic control by measuring basal
      and stimulated insular hormones, glucose levels and gastrointestinal hormones; creation of a
      bio-bank and dedicated database to collect biological samples for further future studies.

      Obese adult T2D patients (BMI ≥ 30) with diabetes duration <10 years will be randomized to
      receive either EndoBarrier (n=45) or Intragastric Balloon (n=45). The devices will be
      implanted and kept in place for the first 12 months of study and then removed. Clinical and
      biochemical data will be collected every 3 months during the 12 months of implant and for the
      subsequent 12 months after removal.

      Statistics describing variables at baseline, at subsequent visits and at the end of the study
      will be produced for both groups of patients. The Student's t-test will be used for a
      cross-sectional analysis while the mixed model system will be used for longitudinal
      observations. Multivariate analysis will also be applied to better characterize differences
      that may be seen between the two groups.
    
  