
    
      The place of intensified regimens with autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) is poorly
      defined in FL at diagnosis . Most data arise from studies performed in the pre-Rituximab age.
      According to these studies, ASCT improved overall survival versus standard salvage approaches
      in relapsed patients with a high proportion of patients achieving a durable molecular
      remission. Data at diagnosis are less clear. Three studies have been so far published with
      contradictory results. Two of these studies showed that intensive therapy ensures a better
      disease control although in one study a significant extra-mortality from secondary tumors was
      observed in the intensified arm. A third study found no advantage for patients treated
      intensively. These results led to the widespread notion that ASCT is not superior to
      conventional chemotherapy in unselected FL patients. Our previous non-randomized experience
      employing high dose sequential chemotherapy with a final TBI-free ASCT added some clues to
      these considerations. Our study employs an autografting procedure which is associated to
      fewer secondary tumors as it does not include total body irradiation. Moreover we have
      observed that the our regimen (named HDS) is particularly effective in high-risk patients,
      suggesting that this specific subgroup is the most appropriate setting for intensified
      regimens

      The present multicenter open label randomized trial took advantage of these observations. In
      addition we have included Rituximab in both arms as the inclusion of this novel agent is
      expected to significantly modify the performance of available treatments. We have thus
      compared a Rituximab-supplemented version of HDS (R-HDS) regimen with six CHOP courses
      supplemented by an identical number of Rituximab courses. Aim of the study was verify if an
      intensified approach could be beneficial as first line treatment of high-risk FL patients in
      the Rituximab age.
    
  