
    
      This study will incorporate random assignment for two study conditions: medication for opioid
      use disorder (MOUD) PreTreatment Telehealth or MOUD PreTreatment Telehealth with Peer
      Navigation using a rigorous randomized block design. Women in the experimental conditions
      will be stratified by sites (6 sites; 3 urban and 3 non-urban) and by offender classification
      level of felony versus misdemeanor (due to potential differences in community supervision).
      Three comparison sites with existing jail-based MOUD treatment for women will not be
      randomized but will be included in analyses within planned, non-randomized comparisons.

        1. MOUD PreTreatment Telehealth: Participants who screen positive for moderate to high-risk
           opioid use and complete the baseline interview will be connected via telehealth to the
           community MOUD provider for a psychosocial assessment. The study data coordinator will
           assist with linking the participant to the community MOUD provider via telehealth, as
           well as collecting initial in-person biological specimens for medical evaluation. The
           psychosocial assessment with the community MOUD provider will involve a more detailed
           examination of OUD using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM)
           5 criteria. Type of medication (naltrexone, buprenorphine, or methadone) will depend on
           the psychosocial assessment and medical evaluation. Indications for the most appropriate
           course of treatment will be determined by the community MOUD provider in conjunction
           with the study participant. Women in this condition will also receive general education
           about MOUD options including risks and benefits, and they will be given the opportunity
           to ask questions about the medication. The community MOUD provider will also use
           motivational interviewing to assess each woman's readiness to engage in MOUD and to
           better understand possible barriers to MOUD utilization. At the end of the education
           session, the study participant and the MOUD community provider will develop a re-entry
           plan for ongoing care, which will include a plan for insurance coverage of medications
           in the community.

        2. MOUD PreTreatment Telehealth + Peer Navigation: In addition to MOUD PreTreatment
           Telehealth, women in this arm will be connected with a peer, a woman in recovery who is
           employed by Voices of Hope (VOH) in Lexington, KY. Peer Navigators will be located in
           Lexington through a partnership with VOH. VOH is a non-profit recovery support
           organization which provides peer recovery support services. In conjunction with the
           study data coordinators, the Peer Navigator will schedule an initial session via
           telehealth with the participant, assist with scheduling a follow-up appointment with the
           community MOUD provider, and provide recovery support for community MOUD initiation and
           maintenance. Peer Navigators will be certified Peer Support Specialists trained and
           supervised by VOH in accordance with state statutory requirements. When a woman returns
           to the community, Peer Navigators will engage her in weekly telephone recovery services
           (TRS) for 12 weeks, which may include identifying personal goals and strength-based,
           practical strategies for success. In addition to MOUD linkages to care, Peer Navigators
           will suggest strategies to maintain sobriety and improve recovery capital, including
           safe housing, transportation, financial counseling, continued education, employment
           skills, and sober social activities.

        3. Services as Usual: Women in this arm will not be randomized, but will receive substance
           abuse treatment as usual in three comparison jail sites. Each of these jails has a
           women's substance abuse program (SAP) managed by the Kentucky Department of Corrections
           (KY-DOC with the option to initiate MOUD prior to jail release. These programs operate
           as modified therapeutic communities with transitional support following release.
    
  