
    
      The leading preventable cause of death for all people between 18 and 45, world-wide, military
      or civilian is uncontrolled internal bleeding i.e. hemorrhage. (A. Sauaia et al, J. Trauma
      38, 185-193 (1995)). Internal bleeding can be very difficult to reliably detect when there is
      no visible external injury and the rate of blood loss is not very rapid. Two known leading
      indicators of blood loss are fluctuations in hematocrit and blood protein concentration.
      Monitoring of either of these analytes requires a blood draw and at least 3-5 minutes to
      obtain a single measurement. The LighTouch device shines imperceptible red light into the
      skin and measures the light that comes back out using the method of Raman Spectroscopy. Some
      of this light is color shifted and some is not. Using a proprietary numerical recipe, the
      LighTouch device combines the signals in this remitted light and calculates hematocrit,
      glucose, protein and potentially other analytes. Thus the LighTouch device produces
      information without painful physical insult to the patient and can trend changes in these
      blood analytes in order to predict the need for intervention. Previous IRB approved clinical
      trials over the last 10 years demonstrated useful performance for blood glucose and now the
      hematocrit and protein analytes are ready to be tested. Since hematocrit and protein
      concentrations change during hemodialysis it provides an ideal model to monitor these
      fluctions over time and assess the precision and accuracy of the LighTouch device for these
      analytes. This technique will not affect the usual dialysis treatment in any way. The subject
      will place one finger into the machine for exposure to the incoming light signal and sensors
      within the machine will detect light scatter from specfic analytes such as hematocrit.
      Literally hundreds of individuals have experienced the LighTouch device since 1999 and there
      has never been an unpleasant response or adverse outcome. The system is analagous to having a
      laser pointer shining on one's finger-tip. The ultimate goal of this research is to develop
      the device into a reliable non-invasive measure of critical blood elements that can be
      determined at the patient's side.
    
  