
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Improve the outcome in children with first isolated central nervous system
      (CNS), testicular, or ocular relapse of acute lymphoblastic lymphoma (ALL), and increase the
      knowledge of the characteristics of extramedullary and subsequent relapses of ALL. II.
      Quantitate, by current molecular biologic techniques, occult systemic leukemia in cases of
      conventional isolated extramedullary relapse, and examine the relationship between this
      assessment and subsequent clinical outcome, particularly overt marrow relapse. III.
      Quantitate occult systemic leukemia in subsets of extramedullary relapse that include site
      (CNS, testis, or eye), time of relapse (early or late), initial risk group, immunophenotype,
      DNA index and karyotype, gender (for CNS and eye), and ethnicity, and assess the response to
      therapy in patients entered on companion protocol CCG-B958. IV. Compare the relative
      sensitivities of two quantitative in vitro assays for occult systemic leukemia
      (fluorescence-activated cell sorter/leukemic progenitor cell clonogenic assay vs. polymerase
      chain reaction-based clonospecific assay), correlate the assays with clinical outcome, and
      assess other biologic studies of leukemic cells (e.g., neurotropic potential in the SCID
      mouse xenograft model and methotrexate sensitivity). V. Determine the event-free survival
      (EFS) and pattern of failure in children with first isolated CNS, testicular, or ocular
      relapse after treatment that includes intensive systemic chemotherapy. VI. Correlate EFS in
      patients with CNS and ocular relapse with sex, and in patients with relapse at all three
      sites with ethnicity. VII. Evaluate the impact of combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy on
      health status in survivors at two and four years after extramedullary relapse and study
      entry.

      OUTLINE: All patients receive induction chemotherapy over 5 weeks with: etoposide,
      ifosfamide/mesna, dexamethasone, vincristine, and pegaspargase (if pegaspargase is not
      available, E. coli asparaginase may be substituted throughout study); then dexamethasone,
      vincristine, pegaspargase (or E. coli asparaginase), and high-dose methotrexate with
      leucovorin rescue; and triple intrathecal chemotherapy (TIT). Following induction
      chemotherapy, all patients receive two 6-week courses of intensification therapy with
      intermittent TIT; each course consists of dexamethasone, vincristine, high-dose
      methotrexate/leucovorin, thioguanine, cytarabine, etoposide, and pegaspargase (or E. coli
      asparaginase) followed by dexamethasone, vincristine, high-dose methotrexate/leucovorin,
      thioguanine, ifosfamide/mesna, and idarubicin. Patients receive 2 additional courses of
      intensification chemotherapy followed by four 12-week courses of maintenance chemotherapy
      with vincristine and methotrexate every 2 weeks and daily oral thioguanine. Total duration of
      therapy is 78 weeks. Patients with isolated ocular relapse receive local radiotherapy prior
      to initiation of induction chemotherapy; those who also have CNS leukemia begin TIT with the
      radiotherapy. Patients with CNS relapse receive craniospinal irradiation during the first
      month of maintenance therapy, with the dose and fields based on whether they will receive TBI
      and whether they have had CNS irradiation previously. Patients with testicular relapse
      receive bilateral testicular irradiation during the first 3 weeks of intensification therapy.
      Patients are followed every 3 months for 3 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and yearly
      thereafter, or upon relapse, second malignancy, loss to follow up, or death. All patients
      undergo quality-of-life assessment at entry and 2 and 4 years after entry.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 120 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  