
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the end of induction (EOI) complete response rate (CR) for treatment with the
      regimen of rituximab and hyaluronidase human + polatuzumab vedotin + venetoclax (RSC + Pola +
      Ven) in relapsed/refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the EOI overall response rate (ORR) for the combination of RSC + Pola + Ven in
      relapsed/refractory MCL.

      II. To evaluate the best response (CR, partial response [PR]) in patients who continue on to
      maintenance therapy and evaluate the improvement in the depth of response.

      III. To evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) for the
      combination of RSC + Pola + Ven) in relapsed/ refractory MCL.

      IV. To compare the ORR, CR, PFS, and OS in ibrutinib refractory compared to ibrutinib naive
      patients.

      V. To evaluate regimen-related toxicity for patients treated with RSC + Pola + Ven.

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate changes in minimal residual disease (MRD) status in both responding and
      non-responding patients at EOI and end of maintenance and compared to baseline as well as
      correlate MRD status with PFS and OS.

      II. To evaluate changes in systemic immune profiles and T cell activation induced by
      treatment with RituxSC (RSC) + Pola + Ven.

      III. To evaluate the prognostic importance of high risk cytogenetic alterations, and other
      risk stratification scores in patients with relapsed/refractory MCL receiving RituxSC + Pola
      + Ven.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on day 1 of cycle 1 and rituximab
      and hyaluronidase human subcutaneously (SC) over 5 minutes on day 1 of cycles 2-6. Patients
      also receive polatuzumab vedotin IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and venetoclax orally (PO)
      daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE: Patients receive venetoclax PO daily and rituximab and hyaluronidase human SC
      over 5 minutes every 60 days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 90 days for up to 5
      years.
    
  