
    
      Background:

      The current standard of care for patients at the investigators' institution is to perform an
      interscalene peripheral nerve block for patients receiving arthroscopic shoulder surgery
      surgery as it is an effective opioid-free alternative for post-operative pain control. The
      investigators in the past perform both single shot injections and place catheter based on
      patient and surgical preferences. Catheters have shown to have extended benefit throughout
      the perioperative period, including lower pain scores, reduced analgesics and improved sleep.
      However, the negatives of catheters include the placement of a foreign body, increased time
      to perform the procedure, interference in surgical field and increased cost of catheter
      equipment and local anesthetic pump and premature catheter dislodgement. Therefore, pros and
      cons of deciding between placing a single shot injecting versus catheter has to be considered
      individually for each case.

      Liposomal bupivacaine due to its liposomal outer layers, releases bupivacaine over a longer
      period of time than plain bupivacaine. A pharmacokinetic study showed the terminal half-life
      of bupivacaine to be 131 ± 58 minutes versus 1294 ± 860 minutes for liposomal bupivacaine.

      In a recent study comparing liposomal bupivacaine to placebo for interscalene peripheral
      nerve blocks, patients receiving liposomal bupivacaine had significantly lower pain scores
      over 48 hours and received less opioid over 72 hours[6]. Therefore, if a single shot
      injection with liposomal bupivacaine can provide longer pain relief than plain bupivacaine,
      it makes the decision to perform single shot interscalene peripheral nerve blocks easier.

      Study Objectives The investigators would like to study whether an interscalene peripheral
      block injection with liposomal bupivacaine provides superior pain control compared to an
      interscalene single shot with plain bupivacaine. The investigators will be looking at average
      daily pain scores, highest daily visual analog scale (VAS) pain scores at rest and with
      movement, total daily opioid consumption from immediately post-operative to 7 days
      post-operative, and functionality with physical therapy. The investigators will also plan to
      follow these patients 6 month and 12 months post-operative to determine whether there is any
      difference in incidence of persistent post-operative pain.
    
  