
    
      Intervention Arm: Internet Quiz Competition Campaign

      The intervention is designed based on the Theory of Planned Behavior. Participants will gain
      alcohol-related knowledge through the participation of the intervention, which would in turn
      alter their attitude concerning drinking and alcohol use. According to the Theory of Planned
      Behavior, such knowledge and attitude improvement would reduce participants' intention to
      drink and thus change or prevent their drinking behavior. To promote the intervention, the
      investigators will conduct a briefing session and a demonstration session for all eligible
      students in participating schools in the intervention arm. Campaign promotion brochures and
      posters will be distributed within those schools.

      Campaign Design

      Participants of the campaign will receive a referral code from those who refer them to the
      online quiz website; starters of the campaigns will receive the code directly from the
      research team. These referral codes, sets of 8-digit numbers, will be unique to each user and
      used to track the referral process. During registration, participants will be asked to
      provide basic demographic information and their referral code. After registration, their
      baseline attitudes and behavior will be assessed using the Alcohol Attitudes and Behavior
      survey.

      The campaign will last for 30 days, starting from the day of the school promotion session.
      The aim of the competition from the participants' perspective will be to obtain the highest
      score possible to win a prize. They will have two ways of doing so.

      The first way will be to answer the online quiz questions. The po-ints gained in this way
      will constitute the "answer score." Alcohol-related multiple-choice questions will be
      presented on the webpage one by one in random non-repeated order. Each correct answer will
      result in 10 points being awarded to the user's account. Giving an incorrect answer or
      skipping a question will not result in any points being deducted. Users will be shown the
      correct answer immediately after they have chosen their own. The purpose of this design is to
      promote correct alcohol-related knowledge and attitudes.

      The second way of accruing points to obtain a high score will be to make referrals, a step
      designed to enhance the effectiveness of the Internet viral marketing strategy. Upon a
      successful referral, the referrer will receive all of the answer scores of their direct
      referrals (which will constitute their "referral score"). To minimize the chance of
      self-referrals, users will receive no points from making a successful referral. Furthermore,
      to ensure campaign competitiveness, the referral scores of lower-level users will not be
      added to starters' accounts. The answer score and referral score will be summed into a total
      score that will be used for prize distribution. Figure 2 illustrates the point system.

      The campaign website will be based on our previous Internet viral marketing campaign, which
      has shown satisfactory user acceptance. The investigators will make necessary modifications
      such as enhancing the user interface and preventing duplicate registrations for our study.

      Setting the quiz questions will be guided by the Elaboration Likelihood Model (ELM) of
      persuasion. The quiz questions will be designed by youth volunteers to convey accurate and
      interesting facts based on international and local sources such as World Health Organization
      and Hong Kong Department of Health reports and research articles from peer-reviewed journals.
      The questions will be concrete, specific, and of personal relevance to the participants so
      that they will be more likely to adopt a "central path" of message processing, which the ELM
      predicts will induce a more sustainable effect. An experienced clinician and a research
      assistant will examine every set of 100 questions and discuss them with the question setters
      to ensure language accuracy and information reliability. This process will be repeated until
      a total of 1000 quiz questions are generated. Finally, all of the questions will be
      proofread, refined, and approved by a local alcohol research team from the School of Public
      Health, University of Hong Kong.

      Control Arm: Information Package

      A comprehensive package on alcohol-related information will be distributed to all students in
      the control arm. The information package will contain both printed promotional leaflets from
      the Department of Health and an electronic guideline for understanding alcohol-related
      information. The electronic guideline sent through the school intranet system would serve as
      a unidirectional knowledge transfer medium, which would include a brief summary of the most
      recent research regarding alcohol and a comprehensive list of relevant website and
      information sources. The investigators will use these relevant websites and information
      sources in setting the quiz questions for the intervention arm. As a result, both
      intervention and control arms could have comparable accessibility to alcohol-related
      information and the sole contrast between the two groups would be the method of presentation
      (interactive online quiz competition vs unidirectional information package).

      Due to the referral nature of the Internet campaign, it is possible that a small portion of
      students in the control group school would be referred to participate in the quiz
      competition, which could in turn dilute the effect size estimate. As a result, the
      investigators will ask the students in the control group in the postintervention survey
      whether they have participated in the Internet quiz competition campaign and exclude those
      who participate in subsequent data analysis.
    
  