
    
      The interscapular area is used for wet cupping therapy (WCT) and was found to have special
      features: brown adipose tissue, immediate proximity to sympathetic ganglia, passage of the
      thoracic duct, two important acupuncture meridians, and proximity to the main vessel
      divisions carrying blood from the heart and the brain. These features indicate that the
      interscapular application of WCT not only discharges waste materials through a shifting of
      blood to the site after application of a traction force but also invigorates the body's
      metabolism, increases immunity, and regulates blood biochemistry, which are desired
      therapeutic effects of WCT.

      One of known in Sunnah and in Arabic main cupping points of interscapular area is (alkahil),
      opposite to thoracic (T) T1-T3 scapular spine .

      Prophetic medicine was our reference in selecting back points e.g. the Kahel region seems to
      be the most suitable point for practicing Al-hijamah for therapeutic and preventive purposes
      and is regarded as a common place for clearing blood coming to the skin circulation in
      treating many disease conditions. Kahel region is a prominent anatomical landmark and its
      surface marking is easy to be detected on the midline of the back at the junction of the back
      of the neck with the back region. Other related positions can be defined as above kahel
      region, below kahel region, to the right of kahel region and to the left of it.

      Prophetic medicine recommended to practice Alhijamah on mainly skin over 7th cervical (C7)
      vertebral spine to get the maximal therapeutic benefit. Gavernorer vessel (GV) GV 14, one of
      the cardinal points of the governing channel, is also located next to the interscapular site
      on or just below the spinous process of C7. Unblocking this point, which is associated with
      general energy excess, may balance the functions of all body organs. Clearly, more
      investigations are needed to clarify every facet of activating the functions of GV cardinal
      points during WCT applied to the interscapular area.

      Before starting the study, clearance will be obtained from the institutional ethical
      committee and prior informed consent of all the participants will be obtained before
      conducting the study.

      forty smoker men will be randomly selected and divided to 2 groups equal in number for each.
      (Group A) will receive single wet cupping session. (Group B) will receive single dry cupping
      session. The following points will be selected for cupping in both groups. The first site is
      between the two scapulae (interscapular), opposite the T1-T3 scapular spine. This area is
      called Al-Kahil in Arabic. The second site is located on the spinous process of seventh
      cervical vertebra and it is called GV14 in Chinese medicine. The third site is BL-17 (Ge Shu
      Diaphragm Shu) is located 1.5 cun lateral to the lower border of the spinous process of the
      seventh thoracic vertebra (T7). BL 17 can directly act on the septum transversum of
      diaphragm. Cupping of bladder 17 will be done bilaterally.
    
  