
    
      This is a multicenter, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, parallel group Phase 2A
      study with one active dose of PU AD and matching placebo, once daily (qd), designed to assess
      safety, tolerability and pharmacological effects of oral PU AD (dihydrochloride salt) in
      subjects with mild AD. This study will be performed at up to 50 clinical sites in the US and
      approximately 150 subjects are expected to participate in this study, with 75 subjects in
      each treatment arm randomized 1:1. Subjects with mild AD meeting all inclusion criteria and
      none of the exclusion criteria are eligible to participate in this study.

      The study consists of a Screening Period (including Pre treatment) (4 weeks), Treatment
      Period (24 weeks), and a safety Follow up visit (within 30 days [±7 days] after the last dose
      of IMP). The expected study duration is 24 Months.

      The Screening Visit and Pre treatment Visit will take place within 4 weeks of dosing to
      assess eligibility of subjects. Enrolled subjects will return to the site for randomization
      and baseline assessments at Week 1. Subjects will be randomized with a 1:1 ratio to one of
      two treatment arms: 30 mg PU AD or matching 30 mg placebo qd. During the 24 Week Treatment
      Period, subjects will be administered 30 mg PU AD or matching 30 mg placebo qd, orally.
      According to investigator's clinical judgement, subjects experiencing intolerable AEs, if
      medically necessary, may be allowed to adjust the dose regimen from 30 mg qd to 30 mg every
      other day (qod), with approval by the medical monitor. If patients still cannot tolerate the
      adjusted dose regimen, the investigator must discuss early termination with the medical
      monitor.

      Subjects will return to the site at Week 2, Week 4, Week 6, Week 12, Week 18, and Week 24 for
      study assessments as specified PK sampling time points are specified in and will support a
      population PK model. . Any subject who discontinues prior to completion of the study, and
      reached 12 weeks of treatment should have all scheduled assessments of the Week 24/Early
      Termination (ET) Visit completed. All subjects will return to the site for a Follow up Visit,
      within 30 days (±7 days) after the last dose of study for safety assessments at the Week
      28/End of Study (EoS) Visit
    
  