
    
      Botulinum toxin type A has been used clinically in spasticity treatment for over a decade.
      There are, nowadays, three commercial formulations of BTA, wich, though the same type of
      toxin, are different biological products that differ about storage, dilution and dosage. The
      units of one toxin are exclusive of that product, and an international standard-unit lacks.
      Each kind of BTA has been through validation and safety studies, but there are very few
      comparative studies between them. Thus, the purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy
      between two commercial formulations of BTA in the treatment of spasticity. We will also
      evaluate the safety, adverse effects and cost of each formulation. Will be included in this
      study patients currently in treatment with BTA/with indication for BTA treatment for
      spasticity, who must not have any contraindications for the drug, at the Spasticity
      outpatient clinic of the Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre. All patients included must
      agree to participate in the study by signing an informed consent form.Patients will be
      randomized into two groups of 28 individuals each (total of 56 patients) and will receive BTA
      from laboratory Allergan and Lanzhou, one at time of allocation and the other three months
      after, in a crossover model. These drugs are both approved by ANVISA for the treatment of
      spasticity and provided by the national public health system (SUS). Application will be
      performed by a trained investigator, unaware of the kind of BTA in use. Standard dilutions of
      both toxins will be employed, within the usual dose and application spots (for patients
      already in treatment) or standard (for patients yet to start treatment). Identical dose will
      be used, with 2ml of saline solution 0,9% dilution for each 100units, thus, there will be no
      difference for the patient or investigator concerning the applicated volume, assuring
      appropriate masking. Follow-up visits will be performed after four, twelve, sixteen and
      twenty-four weeks, by investigator unaware of the kind of BTA in use. The modified Ashworth
      Scale will be applied at every visit by three medical investigators isolatedly, duly trained
      and blinded to the intervention. Life quality will be assessed at time of allocation, four
      and twelve weeks after, using WHOQOL-Bref, YQOL-R and Children's Life Quality Assessment
      Questionnaire, respecting the age of the patient. Functional capability will also be
      evaluated, through the Functional Independence Measure Scale (FIM) for adults and PEDI scale
      for children, at the same time frames as the life quality assessment instruments. The primary
      end-point consists on the maximum degree of effect assessed through passive measurement of
      muscular tonus and quantified by the modified Ashworth Scale. Secondary end-points are
      presence, kind and duration of adverse effects of each treatment and perception of
      improvement of symptoms by the patient himself or caregiver. Statistical analysis will be
      performed using the SPSS package for Windows and descriptive analysis will be provided by
      absolute and relative frequencies and average±standard deviation for quantitative variables
      and percentages for qualitative ones. The T of Student or Mann-Whitney tests will be used for
      independent samples, and chi-square and Fischer's exact tests will be performed when
      necessary. Significance level will be 5%.There will be no additional risk for the patients,
      since the drugs involved in this trial have already been tested individually for efficacy and
      safety and are currently being used in medical practice for the treatment of these
      conditions. The Public Health State Secretariat will be responsible for providing the drugs,
      according to routine pharmaceutical assistance, and there will be no additional cost for the
      hospital nor health system.
    
  