
    
      Background

      Preventive antibiotic treatment before performing invasive procedures is a basic element in
      preventing infections. The essence of preventive antibiotic treatment is strengthening the
      defense mechanisms of the immune system by preserving a certain drug levels in the blood. The
      timing of giving the antibiotics is very important. Several research groups have tried to
      check the levels of Cefazolin (the most common antibiotics in the field of obstetrics) in
      serum and adipose tissue in women during cesarean. These groups presented conflicting
      research results.

      OBJECTIVE

      This study will discuss the preventive antibiotic treatment levels accepted prior cesareans,
      to determine:

        1. What are the factors affecting the level of drug in the blood?

        2. Is there a fixed time which beyond it, blood drug levels are below the MIC(Minimal
           Inhibitory Concentration)?

        3. Is the provision of usual preventive care also addresses the situations of metabolic
           disorder?

      PATIENTS & METHODS

      Women that meet the inclusion criteria and are about to undergo cesarean in different
      indications, in elective and urgent way.

        1. Before performing TIMEOUT outside the surgery room, The investigators will explanation
           about the process and purpose of the study, and informed consent will be obtained.

        2. Prior to the anesthesia by an anesthesiologist, the women will receive one dose of 1 g
           Cefazolin the usual loading dose. Women with a BMI over 30 will receive Cefazolin of
           about 2 grams.

        3. With the beginning of the first incision in the skin, first blood sample will be taken
           to test levels of antibiotics in serum.

        4. Second blood sample to test drug levels in serum will be taken while closing the
           surgical incision in the skin at the end of the operation.

        5. The continuation of post surgery recovery process will be as usual, in accordance with
           departmental protocols.

      With the results of tissue and serum samples, segmentation which compares the drug levels in
      the different tissues will be performed.Also, the correlation between drug levels in women
      with different BMI and morbidities that may cause measurable or not pharmacokinetic changes
      will be examined.
    
  