
    
      Patients with end stage kidney disease (ESKD) on haemodialysis are more likely to suffer
      poorer outcomes following infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2
      (SARS-CoV-2) infection. This is likely to be because these patients have higher levels of
      co-morbid diseases and they are relatively immunosuppressed due to the effects of advanced
      kidney disease. The humoral response against common viral vaccination is known to be blunted
      in patients with ESKD and there are data to suggest seroconversion following infection with
      COVID-19 is blunted in patients with kidney disease. A successful programme of vaccination
      will undoubtedly improve outcomes for patients on haemodialysis, but vaccine testing
      programmes have not included patients with ESKD. Whilst initial press-coverage of the
      efficacy of vaccines which are available for use is promising, they are untested in patients
      on haemodialysis who are known to be relatively immunosuppressed as a result of their renal
      disease and as such the efficacy for this patient group is not known.

      This study will phenotype the IgG antibody response to vaccination for COVID-19 in 100
      patients on haemodialysis compared to 50 healthy volunteers. Antibody testing will be
      conducted at 1 month post first vaccination dose and 1 month and 6 months post second
      vaccination dose. This will give crucial information as to the efficacy of the vaccine and
      inform possible requirements for re-vaccination.

      This study will:

        1. Phenotype the 1 month IgG antibody response to the first vaccination dose and the 1
           month and 6 month response to the second vaccination dose for COVID-19 in patients on
           haemodialysis

        2. Compare the 1 month IgG antibody response to the first vaccination dose and the 1 month
           and 6 month response to the second vaccination dose for COVID-19 between patients on
           haemodialysis and healthy volunteers
    
  