
    
      The present evaluation study engages digital technology to target young people to impact
      their use of sexual health services. The primary aim of the proposed project is to conduct a
      randomized controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of an intervention tool that enables
      young people to correspond with trained staff via online chat or text messages about urgent
      questions related to sexual/reproductive health. Specifically, Chat/Text is a program
      designed to provide immediate answers to urgent sexual and reproductive health questions from
      a reliable and confidential source and to link young people to sexual and reproductive health
      services. Agents are trained on substantive topics, and on responding compassionately and
      appropriately. They are provided scripted responses to specific topics. Agent performance is
      monitored and evaluated to ensure high-quality responses that meet the goals of the program.
      The program targets groups experiencing sexual and reproductive health disparities,
      particularly Black and Latino/Hispanic teens and young adults. The Chat/Text program was
      launched in September 2010 by Planned Parenthood Federation of America (PPFA). The present
      project is evaluating the efficacy of the Chat/Text program. Specifically, the investigators
      will compare the effect of the Chat/Text program to the standard of care available from PPFA
      (website content) in the absence of the Chat/Text program.

      Participants will be randomized into one of the three arms of the evaluative study
      (experimental, control, and passive control). Participants in the experimental arm will
      receive access to the digital Chat/Text program where they can ask questions and receive
      answers about sexual and reproductive health issues in real-time, immediately followed by a
      combined baseline and follow-up assessment. Participants in the control arm of the study will
      be routed to the Planned Parenthood website to content and information on sexual and
      reproductive health issues, also followed by the combined assessment. Participants in the
      passive control will receive a standalone baseline assessment and then be routed to the
      website. No additional contact will be made with the passive control group.

      The experimental participants will receive booster sessions in the form of e-mail and SMS
      communications. The first (5 days post-intervention) and second (3 weeks post-intervention)
      booster sessions will focus on appointment adherence. The third (2 months post-intervention)
      and fourth (2.5 months post-intervention) booster sessions will focus on effective birth
      control methods in addition to appointment adherence.

      The control condition will not receive booster sessions, but will receive communications that
      aim to obtain additional tracking information. These tracking communications will be sent at
      the same time points as the experimental booster sessions (i.e., 5 days-, 3 weeks-, 2
      months-, and 2.5 months-post website exposure).
    
  