
    
      This is a single center, randomized, single blind therapeutic exploratory study to monitor
      the range of motion of wounds treated with the new nanoparticle hydrogel dressing compared to
      the range of motion of wounds treated with existing treatment standard (sodium
      carboxymethylcellulose dressing) in patients with partial thickness burns. A total of 50
      joints will be studied. The patients will be at least 7 years of age.. The Department of
      Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at Parkland Hospital and Health System, UT Southwestern,
      will be asked to enroll enough patients to meet the proposed 50 joint study sites
      (approximately 3-5 afflicted joints per patient). Children will be included in the patient
      population if possible. Inclusion criteria for the medical condition will be at least one
      partial thickness burn that crosses at least one peripheral joint axial to the proximal
      interphalangeal joints. As a control, the patients will also need to have an unburned
      contralateral joint without major internal or external joint derangement.

      The Primary Investigator will first identify the study site and control site for each patient
      and take the initial measurements. Trained personnel will apply the bandage to the study
      site. No secondary bandage will be applied. Typical meticulous wound care and adequate
      analgesic medical coverage will be provided for the duration of the study. Both the patient
      and medical staff will be trained on patient use instructions for the dressing. The patients
      will be monitored for a short time after application of the bandage as part of standard
      procedure, and the patient is then allowed to go home with instructions for care. Within 2-8
      days after application, the dressing will be inspected and range of motion will be measured
      for both the study site and the control site. Any concomitant treatment (medications, wound
      care) will be thoroughly documented for the duration of the study. Both dressings are
      designed to remain on the wound until the bandage falls off, which indicates
      re-epithelialization of the wound. The dressings should not be removed by the patient or
      medical staff unless there are signs of infection, deterioration of bandage, or other adverse
      event. If the bandage falls off, the patient is instructed to immediately call the medical
      staff.
    
  