
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the feasibility of administering multiple courses of carboplatin and
      topotecan without excessive dose modification or course delay in patients with previously
      untreated ovarian epithelial or primary peritoneal carcinoma. II. Describe the response rate
      and progression-free interval in these patients with this treatment regimen. III. Determine
      pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters related to the sequence of carboplatin and
      topotecan administration in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to one of three treatment regimens. Regimen I: Patients
      receive carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 followed by topotecan IV over 30 minutes on
      days 1-3. Treatment continues every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours
      followed by carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment continues every 21 days for 4
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Regimen II: Patients
      receive topotecan IV over 30 minutes on days 1-3 followed by carboplatin IV over 30 minutes
      on day 3. Treatment continues every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours
      followed by carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment continues every 21 days for 4
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Regimen III: Patients
      receive topotecan IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5 followed by carboplatin IV over 30 minutes
      on day 5. Treatment continues every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours
      followed by carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment continues every 21 days for 4
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients are followed
      at 1 month and then every 3 months for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15-80 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  