
    
      Urease tests such as the Clo test for the diagnosis of Helicobacter pylori infection have
      been widely used because they are simple, cheap, and easy to carry out (1, 2). They can be
      performed during the endoscopic exam and give a relatively rapid result. However, treatment
      with proton pump inhibitors (PPI) may alter the result by changing the milieu where bacteria
      are present, especially in the antrum, by rendering it inhospitable with consequent decrease
      in the bacterial load. In addition, PPI themselves may have antiurease properties (3).
      Another reason for a false-negative result is the presence of intestinal metaplasia (4),
      which also corresponds to an inhospitable environment for Helicobacter pylori. EndoFaster
      test is a new technology that has the advantage, over conventional urease tests, of a
      real-time analysis of the gastric juice that can provide information regarding Helicobacter
      pylori infection and pH value of the gastric contents. Sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV
      of EndoFaster test for Helicobacter pylori infection resulted to be 98.5%, 87.6%, 84.4% and
      98.8 %, respectively. This test may be more accurate than conventional urease tests in the
      diagnosis of Helicobacter pylori infection in subjects on PPI as indeed it should increase
      the analysed area, thereby allowing to evaluating the bacterial density in both the gastric
      antrum and corpus. No data are currently available about the performance of the EndoFaster
      test in subjects on PPI and a well-designed clinical study is warranted.

      The main aim of our study is to conduct a comparative study with the NISO BioMed EndoFaster
      test, the urease-based test (Clo test), histologic diagnosis and the faecal antigen test
      (used as the gold standard) for the diagnosis of Helicobacter pylori infection in PPI-treated
      patients.

      We will perform a clinical study using the NISO BioMed Endofaster test to diagnose
      Helicobacter pylori infection in patients on PPI therapy. The study will be conducted as a
      collaboration between NISO BioMed (Turin, Italy) and Homerton University Hospital (London,
      UK). The study will be performed at the Homerton Hospital.

      One hundred patients on PPI will be enrolled among the patients with dyspepsia referred for
      gastroscopy at Homerton University Hospital (London, United Kingdom). A control group of 50
      patients with dyspepsia, not on PPI, will be also enrolled in the study.

      On the day of the endoscopic procedure the patients will bring a stool sample for the
      detection of Helicobacter pylori antigen. Subsequently, a gastroscopy with multiple biopsies
      will be performed and during the exam NISO Biomed EndoFaster test, as well as the Clo test,
      will be carried out.

      Directed biopsies will be collected from the antrum and corpus, following the protocol of the
      Operative Link for Gastritis Assessment (OLGA) and Sydney classifications for chronic
      gastritis. Biopsies will be examined at the Pathology laboratory of University College London
      Hospital and interpreted using the OLGA staging system as well as the Sydney system for the
      classification of gastritis (5-8).

      The performance of the EndoFaster test for the diagnosis of Helicobacter pylori infection
      will be compared to the Clo test, the histologic diagnosis and the faecal antigen test. In
      particular, statistical analyses will consist of calculations of the performance indicators
      of the EndoFaster test, including ROC analysis for cut-off values that give the optimal
      sensitivity/specificity balance.

      The principal goal of this clinical study is to establish the performance of the EndoFaster
      test in detecting the Helicobacter pylori infection rate in the study population. For this
      endpoint, we will calculate sensitivity (SE), specificity (SP), negative predictive value
      (NPV), positive predictive value (PPV) and AUC (area under ROC curve), collectively and
      individually for each 4 tests. ROC analysis can be used to estimate the best SE/SP balance
      for each single test. One of the aims is to establish the best cut-offs in order to give the
      EndoFaster test an optimal performance.

      Additionally, clinically significant conditions (gastric atrophy, intestinal metaplasia,
      gastric cancer) will be recorded and the association rate with Helicobacter pylori infection
      will be studied (9,10).

      The necessary preparations for the study execution at Homerton University Hospital NHS
      Foundation Trust will start immediately when the hospital has reached the agreement with NISO
      BIOMED. The study plan necessitates a review by the institutional review board (IRB, Ethical
      Committee) before permission to start.

      We aim to obtain unbiased (i.e., 100% confirmed by the gold standard, i.e. faecal antigen
      test) estimate for the performance of EndoFaster test in detecting the Helicobacter pylori
      infection rate in patients on PPI treatment. This will include determining the optimal
      cut-offs that give the optimal SE/SP balance for detecting the study endpoint. Application of
      these cut-offs in clinical practice would lead to optimised performance of EndoFaster test.
    
  