
    
      The acne is a common dermatosis in dermatological practice, affects more than 80% of the
      population during the second and third decades of life. It is found worldwide, with no
      evidence of racial or ethnic differences that influence the susceptibility to its
      development. However there is influence of genetic factors, hormones, the use of certain
      drugs that may have previous or aggravate the disease.

      It is an inflammatory disease of the follicle polissebáceo, which consists of large sebaceous
      glands, multiacinares, rudimentary hair follicle and a channel comprising a acro-infundibulum
      in its upper portion and an infra-infundibulum in the dermal portion.

      This is a benign condition, self-limited, but can cause serious psychological problems or
      disfiguring scars, which can persist for the rest of life.

      The initial change is a disorder of follicular epithelial differentiation, during which the
      cornea cells (keratinocytes) which are the follicle polissebáceo are excessively released in
      the lumen. The result of this event is the appearance of the precursor, microcomedão, from
      which the lesions of acne are developed (closed comedones, open comedones, papules, pustules
      and nodules). The dilation of the follicular infundibulum with the material produces a
      corneal comedão closed. This is the first clinically visible lesions of acne. As
      hyperkeratosis extends to the upper infundibulum, extended its opening, it formed the comedão
      open.

      The pathogenesis of acne is complex and understood only in part. The follicular occlusion
      with adherent keratinocytes and activation of hormone secretion resulting in the formation of
      sebaceous microcomedão. Studies suggest that free fatty acids intrafoliculares control
      inflammation through chemotactic properties on leukocytes, monocytes and neutrophils. The
      free fatty acids may provide the primary stimulus for the retention hyperkeratosis
      follicularis. Moreover, tallow provides a favorable substrate for the proliferation of
      Propiniobacterium acnes (P. acnes). Studies suggest that P. acnes, a microaerophilic
      bacterium (almost anaerobic), Gram-positive, has a lipase able to hydrolyze triglycerides in
      sebum into free fatty acids. Therefore, these pathogens play critical role in the generation
      of inflammatory lesions. The P. acnes produces proteases and neuroaminidases, which may
      increase the permeability of the follicular epithelium. Also produce a chemotactic factor of
      low molecular weight that selects the polymorphonuclear leukocytes. In the process of
      phagocytosis of bacteria are released hydrolases, which break the integrity of the follicular
      wall. Subsequently, the content intrafolicular - fragments of keratin, fat, hair, and P.
      acnes - is expelled to the dermis.

      If surface aggregation of neutrophils, as was a wheal, and with the presence of purulent
      secretion, a pustule. With the infiltration of inflammation deep and extensive, a nodule or
      cyst is produced.

      Clinically, the eruption acnéica is located predominantly in the face (90%) and to a lesser
      extent, in the back (60%) and chest (15%). As young man, mainly affects the face, while in
      older, the back.
    
  