
    
      In collaboration with our three clinical partners, we will first generate two separate
      imaging datasets for a maximum of three patients recruited to participate in CARDIOPROOF. The
      first dataset will include the imaging parameters currently recommended by clinical practice
      guidelines (referred to as "limited dataset"). The second dataset will include an expanded
      list of parameters, inclusive of information that is available from traditional imaging
      parameters (as recommended by the guidelines) and simulation modeling (referred to as
      "image-based modelling dataset").

      We will generate both limited and image-based modelling datasets from fully de-identified
      patients already enrolled in CARDIOPROOF (NCT02591940) who have consented to publication of
      data in anonymized form.

      Using a computerized random-sample function, we will randomly allocate interventional
      cardiologists into two separate groups and present them with one set of imaging data. The
      first group will receive a "limited" dataset including only information that is available
      from traditional diagnostics (as recommended by the clinical practice guidelines) for a
      pre-specified number of patients (maximum of 3). The second group will receive the full,
      detailed dataset inclusive of information that is available from traditional diagnostics (as
      recommended by the guidelines) and simulation modelling for the same set of patients.

      We will then ask the interventional cardiologists in the two groups to make (hypothetical)
      clinical decisions using the dataset of imaging parameters presented to them. The clinical
      decisions will be hypothetical because patients will have been treated according to clinical
      practice guidelines and this experiment will retrospectively involve interventional
      cardiologists who are not directly involved in the care of the patients participating in
      CARDIOPROOF.

      The analysis will focus on each hypothetical scenario and compare the proportions of
      cardiologists making different types of intervention decisions in the two randomly allocated
      groups.
    
  