
    
      The study will be a prospective, multicenter, single-arm study involving up to 4 centers in
      the US.

      The subject population is subjects with an indication for percutaneous coronary intervention
      (PCI) with stent implantation for stable angina and/or silent ischemia. Twelve (12)
      consecutive patients referred for PCI or possible PCI with suspected or proven coronary
      artery disease will be screened and consented.

      Twelve (12) consecutive patients referred for PCI or possible PCI with suspected or proven
      coronary artery disease will be screened and consented. Patients with ACS are not eligible.
      Patients will be considered enrolled and eligible to receive the BioNIR stent after
      successful and uncomplicated crossing of the target lesion and successful and uncomplicated
      lesion preparation (such as pre-dilatation) if needed. At least 30% (4 subjects) will receive
      more than one stent or a sufficiently long stent so that the total implanted stent dose is
      >1.5 times the ridaforolimus dose of the workhorse BioNIR stent (3.0x17 mm).

      For each patient, a total of up to 14 blood samples will be collected at the following time
      points: immediately prior to the first stent implant as time 0, at 10 and 30 minutes, and at
      1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 24±6, 48±12, 72±12, 168±36 (7 days), 336±36 (14 days) and 720±36 hours (30
      days) after the first BioNIR stent implantation. Whole blood concentration of ridaforolimus
      will be determined using a validated high performance liquid chromatography mass
      spectrometry/mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS) method. If two consecutive measurements are
      available and both demonstrate ridaforolimus levels below the detection limit of the assay,
      the levels at all subsequent time points will not need to be measured.

      Relationship to BIONICS STUDY: The general and angiographic inclusion and exclusion criteria
      will be identical to the pivotal BIONICS trial with the exception of Acute Coronary Syndrome
      (ACS) patients who will be excluded. Clinical data will be collected in an identical manner
      to the BIONICS study.

      (Clinical follow-up will be performed at 30 days, 6 months, and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 years post
      enrollment.) The following pharmacokinetic parameters will be evaluated: maximum
      concentration (Cmax), Cmax adjusted by treatment dose, time to maximum concentration (tmax),
      the time of the last quantifiable concentration (tlast ), half-life time ( t1/2), total area
      under the concentration-time curve from time 0 to tlast (AUC0-tlast), total area under the
      concentration-time curve from time 0 to tlast (AUC0-t∞) and total body clearance (CL). AUCs
      normalized by treatment dose will also be derived.

      12 subjects will be enrolled in order to evaluate the pharmacokinetic parameters of
      ridaforolimus release from the BioNIR stent. The number of subjects was chosen based on
      experience in the literature from other 'limus' drug eluting stents as well as specific
      request from FDA.
    
  