
    
      INTRODUCTION Spinal cord injury (SCI) before the age of 15 is rare affecting less than 1 in
      every 100 000 children. Over the past decade the management of pediatric spinal cord injury
      and the long-term outcomes have received increased attention, however, most research has its
      origin from the US. Thus, there is a need for more knowledge about occurrence and causes,
      functional recovery, activity, participation and quality of life in children and adolescents
      in other countries than the US. Moreover, a systematic review 2011 shows that there is
      limited evidence about the effectiveness of interventions for the management of children with
      SCI.

      Knowledge regarding organization of care and rehabilitation is incomplete and differences
      between countries are substantial. Also, comparisons of data between countries and studies
      have been problematic due to differences in case definitions and age limits as to what is
      considered pediatric as opposed to adult SCI. Therefore, there is a need for international
      collaboration and research within the area of pediatric SCI with uniformity in methodology in
      the gathering of information and publication of the data to compare results between
      countries.

      Due to the low incidence of pediatric SCI and the demand for more knowledge and research,
      international cooperation is needed for purposes of building a solid and common understanding
      of the scope of the problem and uniformity in management and methodology.

      To reach this goal in the SIN context there is a need to benchmark between units, to
      highlight opportunities to improve systems of care and service delivery and to provide an
      understanding of the context of the units and the similarities and differences between them
      as this will be important for interpreting the results from subsequent phases of this project
      when patient outcomes are reported.

      Exploration of psycho-social issues from the perspective of the affected young persons and
      their families will assist targeting issues that are clinically and socially relevant for
      future service and future research cooperation. In addition, to be able to gather information
      to compare results between countries it is important to establish use of common outcome
      measures.

      AIMS AND OBJECTIVES Long term aim and objective The long-term goal of this research project
      is to optimize organization, care and rehabilitation in Norway and cooperating rehabilitation
      units internationally, to increase the awareness of subjective perceptions and psychosocial
      aspect of young persons with spinal cord injury, and to establish the use of outcome measures
      in local languages. Participants will be recruited from the rehabilitation hospitals
      cooperating within the Sunnaas International Network for Rehabilitation; Norway, Sweden,
      China, Russia, US, Israel, Palestine (SIN-units).

      Specific aims and objectives

        -  To survey the SIN units in order to describe and compare the organization and delivery
           of inpatient rehabilitation services and systems of care for pediatric SCI patients

        -  To explore qualitatively psychosocial aspects of living with spinal cord injury in
           children and adolescents in SIN units using individual, semi-structured interviews

      MATERIAL AND METHODS Study design This project is a cross sectional international multicenter
      study. A PhD-student is associated with the study (Oslo Metropolitan University/ Sunnaas
      Rehabilitation Hospital, start September 2019).

      The first stage of the project (Phase I) will comprise a descriptive part (Study I, Web
      survey) and an explorative part (Study II, semi-structured interviews) conducted in clinical
      settings in Norway, Sweden, China, Russia, US, Israel and Palestine.

      Recruitment The recruitment will be done within the units cooperating in the Sunnaas
      International Network for Rehabilitation (SIN).

      The local principle investigator in each unit will be responsible for collecting data in
      Study I and recruiting individuals to participate in Study II of the study. Potentially
      eligible individuals with SCI will be identified from the departmental or institutional
      database. If no suitable database is present in an investigative site, recruitment through
      alternative databases will be explored and discussed with project collaborators.

      Once identified, the study coordinator and local investigator will agree participant
      identification codes for the selected individuals. The study coordinator will allocate a
      three letter code (the first two letters will originate from the country of the study site,
      and the third from the name of the institution).

      Inclusion criteria´s for the target group

        -  Children and adolescents (< 18 years)

        -  Diagnoses: either a non-traumatic or traumatic SCI after the age of 7

        -  Has been discharged from initial rehabilitation for 6 months or more

      General Exclusion Criteria

      • Diagnosis of severe neurological conditions affecting the cognition of the child or
      adolescent (e.g. as a result of encephalocele or acquired brain injury)

      Participants Study I (descriptive study/ web survey). Ten rehabilitation units in Norway,
      Sweden, China, Russia, US, Israel and Palestine will be participating. The local principle
      investigator in each unit will be responsible for data collection.

      Study II (explorative study/semi-structured interviews). Two individuals in each of the ten
      SIN units, fulfilling the inclusion criteria's, will be recruited. A maximum of 20 young
      informants 13-17 years will be interviewed and constitute the study group of the
      International qualitative study. In addition, all norwegian youth with SCI rehabilitated at
      Sunnaas Rehabilitation Hospital fulfilling the inclusion criteria and beeing13-17 years of
      age during the inclusion period, will be recruited and constitute the study group of the
      Norwegian qualitative study (6-10 persons). Pilot interviews will be conducted prior to data
      collection.

      Data collection and analyzing Study I (descriptive study/ web survey) A web-survey based on
      clinical expertise and literature review have been developed in cooperation between Dr Peter
      W New, Spinal Rehabilitation Service, Caulfield Hospital, Australia and Norwegian clinicians
      and researchers with experience in pediatric SCI. The survey is a development and an adapted
      version of the survey used to conduct an international comparison of the organization of
      rehabilitation services and systems of care for adult patients with non-traumatic SCI in
      Italy, Ireland, India, Pakistan, Switzerland, the Netherlands, US, Australia and Canada.

      The survey will be used to gather descriptive data to review the various forms of care and
      rehabilitation services available to children and adolescents with SCI in SIN unit catchment
      areas. In addition, telephone or Skype-interviews will be used to complement data when
      necessary.

      The following main issues will be explored (detailed questionnaire is available):

      I. Hospital setting, interaction with acute hospitals and referral processes II.
      Rehabilitation beds and patient case-mix III. Spinal rehabilitation and staffing and therapy
      intensity IV. Availability of secondary staff, ancillary services and support V. Life long
      follow-up

      Also, the following background information will be collected:

        1. SCI-prevention programmes in the region

        2. Brief review of the implementation of child protection in each region

      The questionnaire will be available both electronically and in a paper version in English and
      will be completed by the local principal investigator (PI) or by a representative from each
      of the participating units chosen by the local PI. The local PI will be a bilingual person
      with good local knowledge. Clarification of responses will occur in cooperation between the
      local PI and the project manager at Sunnaas. Descriptive analysis will be performed with the
      median and interquartile range (IQR) reported for numerical data not normally distributed.

      Study II (explorative study/ interviews) An inductive, exploratory study with a qualitative
      design will be chosen to obtain a detailed description and understanding of how children aged
      of 13-17 years, perceive living with SCI in SIN-unit catchment areas.

      Individual, face-to-face interviews will be conducted based on a thematic, semi-structured
      interview guide with relevant follow-up questions. The interviews will take place in the
      informant's home or another place chosen by the informant. Ninety minutes or more will be
      allowed for each interview. Due to Corona restrictions virual interviews on a safe digital
      platform like Teams or Norske Helsenett will be allowed. This apply especially for the
      additional Norwegian interviews as they are planned to take place during the autumn of 2020
      and spring of 2021.

      A semi-structured interview guide has been developed in cooperation between researchers and
      clinicians with experience in working with children and adolescents. Appropriate open ended
      questions are listed within each main area of the interview and key-questions are marked to
      assure that they are asked for. A salutogenic approach with strength based questions built on
      established principles and guidelines for psychosocial screening in young persons has been
      used (EuTEACH; HEEADSSS assessment; HEADSSS assessment, Clinical Practice Guidelines).

      Themes in the semi-structured interview guide (detailed interview guide is available):

        -  The injury/ the accident

        -  Acute care, rehabilitation and follow-up

        -  Daily living with SCI with a pediatric onset

        -  Home, education/employment, eating, activities, drugs, sexuality,
           suicide/depression/self-image, safety (HEEADSSS)

        -  Resources and networks

        -  Health

        -  Peer learning/ role models

        -  The future/ life goals

      Pilot interviews will be conducted to test the interview guide before deciding on a final
      version that will be translated to all relevant languages.

      To assure that all interviews are conducted in a good manner in different units, an
      educational curriculum will be developed. Also, the interviewers will be trained in a 2-day
      seminar. All interviews will be taped with a digital voice recorder and transcribed verbatim
      in each unit. The transcripts will be translated to Norwegian by bilingual translators with
      knowledge of neurological rehabilitation and analyzed using inductive qualitative content
      analysis seeking to identify both manifest categories and underlying, latent meanings.

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS Ethical approval will be applied for in each country (Norway, Sweden,
      China, Russia, US, Israel and Palestine). All encoded material will be entered in a database
      at the Department of Research, Sunnaas Rehabilitation Hospital. Passkey will be stored
      separately and locked in a fireproof safe. Recorded/taped interviews will be transcribed and
      encoded and both the audio file (also encoded) and the transcript will be stored in a locked,
      fireproof safe.

      Candidate participants will be approached and informed about the study by a letter. The
      letter will explain (1) the purpose of the study, (2) the procedures and (3) confidentiality.
      The participant will be informed about their right to withdraw at any time and for any reason
      without affecting your treatment by any means. The letter will include an 'Informed Consent
      Form' that he/she and his/her caregivers must sign and date and return to their study site
      before they can participate.
    
  