
    
      In France the screening is on the regular realization of a papanicolaou test (Pap smear or
      Pap test) in women aged 25 to 65 years. In the event of abnormal Pap smear discovery, the
      diagnostic strategy is based in most cases on colscopy to allow for cervical biopsies if
      necessary to obtain a histological diagnosis for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN )
      High grade (2-3) which, if persistent, may cause cervical cancer. Their findings, also in the
      case of persistence of low-grade lesion or cyto-histological discordance, indicate
      conization. The conization is an intervention realized by resection to the diathermic handle,
      allowing a simple and fast gesture compatible with a charge under local anesthesia. With a
      view to simplify the overall cost of the patient, more and more conizations of the
      Montpellier and Nimes are carried out under local anesthesia. A retrospective study found a
      good overall satisfaction of the patients with conisation under local anesthesia, it is
      interesting to continue this study by an evaluation of the patient's satisfaction in the
      prospective way, including validated rankings and to allow a risk assessment And the
      persistence of lesions.

      The main objective of our study is to evaluate the overall satisfaction of the patients in
      the case of conducting conization under local anesthesia. Secondary endpoints are
      preoperative anxiety assessed using the Visual Analog Scale (EVA) And the Amsterdam
      Preoperative Anxiety and Information Scale (APAIS) score, the occurrence of complications
      during the procedure, surgeon satisfaction, anesthesia tolerance using the Iowa Satisfaction
      with Anesthesia Scale score (ISAIS), and finally A follow-up at 3 months evaluation of
      secondary complications, margins of resections and persistence of lesions.

      This is a prospective multi-centric study (CHU Nîmes and Montpellier). During the day
      hospitalization, a questionnaire of satisfaction will be given to the patient. The primary
      outcome measure is the overall satisfaction of the patient assessed as a question. Secondary
      endpoints are preoperative anxiety assessed using the visual analog scale (EVA) and the
      Amsterdam Preoperative Anxiety and Information scale (APAIS) score, the occurrence of
      complications during gesture, satisfaction of the surgeon , Tolerance of anesthesia using the
      ISAS score, and finally a 3-month follow-up to evaluate secondary complications, resection
      margins and lesions persistence. Currently the only study on the subject is a retrospective
      study of 70 subjects. This study reported a proportion of patients with little or no
      satisfaction of 11.4%. Recruiting 80 patients will confirm this rate with an accuracy of +/-
      7%.

      The questionnaire will be given on the day of surgery and completed before surgery,
      immediately after surgery and before final discharge. Secondarily, the data will be
      supplemented during a postoperative control visit at 3 months of the intervention. The
      expected duration of the inclusions is 10 months with follow-up at 3 months

      The aim is to promote local anesthesia for the management of congested patients, thus
      simplifying the overall management, reducing the cost and reducing the complications
      associated with general anesthesia.
    
  