
    
      Dose-escalation stage (stage 1): Patients participating in the dose-escalation stage will
      take a single dose of HMPL-453 on Day 1 and will be followed for one week for safety
      observations. After one week of observation, if no safety issues occur, patients can continue
      multiple dosing of HMPL-453 QD and start on the DLT assessment cycles. Each cycle consists of
      28-days. Patients are required to draw blood samples for PK and safety analysis at specific
      time points during the treatment.

      The 3+3 design will be employed for the dose escalation and MTD ( maximum tolerated dose)
      determination. To limit the number of patients being exposed to potentially ineffective
      doses, one patient will be enrolled and dosed in the initial dose cohort. If there are no DLT
      or less than grade 2 toxicities of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event ( CTC AE )
      occur in the first treatment cycle, then the study will be escalated to the next dose cohort.
      Otherwise, the trial will revert to a standard 3+3 design.

      Dose-Expansion Stage (Stage 2): This stage is to further evaluate the safety, tolerability,
      pharmacokinetics (PK) profile, and preliminary anti-tumor activity of HMPL-453 at the RP2D in
      approximately 60 patients with advanced solid tumor. Patients with FGFR ( Fibroblast Growth
      Factor Receptor) dysregulated advanced solid tumors, including but not limited to advanced
      urothelial bladder cancer, advanced cholangiocarcinoma (patients with cancers of the
      gallbladder or ampulla of Vater are not eligible) and others solid tumors are preferred to be
      enrolled.

      Expansion stage will begin after dose-escalation stage is completed and the MTD/RP2D has been
      determined. Patients will receive HMPL-453 with 28-day treatment cycles until disease
      progression, death, intolerable toxicity, no longer benefiting from the study treatment per
      investigator's discretion, or withdrawal of consent, whichever comes first.
    
  