
    
      Objectives:

      Main objective: to observe the characteristics of pain, its coping models and its implication
      in the quality of life in patients with congenital coagulopathies. Secondary objectives: to
      evaluate the degree of kinesiofobia and catastrophism in patients with congenital
      coagulopathies; analyze the perception of quality of life, of disease and of anxiety in
      patients with hemophilia and von Willebrand's disease of age; and to identify the ingestion
      and administration of analgesic drugs in patients with hemophilia or von Willebrand's disease
      for the control of pain.

      Design of the investigation Describe the type of study, methodology, research variables
      Cross-sectional and multicentric observational study, carried out in patients with congenital
      coagulopathies, with the aim of knowing the characteristics of pain, its coping strategies
      and its implications for quality of life.

      Collection of information Instruments and data collection process

        -  Numerical scale of pain. The patient assigns pain a numerical value between 0 and 10.
           With this scale pain is considered a simple one-dimensional concept and is measured only
           according to its intensity. The scale is discrete, not continuous.

        -  Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36). Health questionnaire that measures the quality of
           life related to health. Generic instrument consisting of 36 questions, covering 8
           dimensions (physical functioning, physical role, body pain, general health, vitality,
           social functioning, emotional role and mental health of the patient).

        -  State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI). Generic instrument that assesses the current level
           of anxiety and the predisposition of the person to respond to stress. It consists of two
           sections that let you know how you feel at a certain time and how you feel in general.
           The score for each scale can range from 0-30, indicating higher scores, higher levels of
           anxiety.

        -  Tampa Scale of kinesiophobia (TSK-11SV). Through this scale the fear of movement of the
           patients included in the study will be evaluated. This self-report measure contains 17
           items on fear of movement and recurrence of a new lesion. Four of the items have a
           negative wording and carry an inverse notation. The scores of the different items
           evaluated are added to give a total score, where the highest values reflect a greater
           fear of injury or relapse of the same.

        -  Pain catastrophizing scale (PCS). Self-administered scale of 13 items used to assess the
           3-dimensional pain-mapping construct: rumination, magnification and hopelessness. Low
           scores indicate a low catastrophization, and high values, high catastrophization.

        -  Coping Strategies Questionnaire (CSQ). Questionnaire composed of 42 items grouped in 7
           scales of 6 items each. Each item is scored according to a scale of 7 points: deviation
           of attention, reinterpretation of pain sensations, ignorance of pain sensations,
           self-assertive coping, prayer and hope, catastrophism and increased level of activity.

      Subjects of the study Number and characteristics of the sample. The inclusion criteria to
      participate in the present study are patients: with a medical diagnosis of congenital
      coagulopathies (hemophilia A and B, or von Willebrand's disease); adults; in a prophylactic
      or on demand regimen with FVIII / FIX concentrates; and that they have signed the informed
      consent document. On the other hand, those patients with: neurological or cognitive
      alterations that impede the comprehension of the questionnaires will be excluded from the
      study; inability to walk autonomously or with an orthosis; and without access to digital
      media to complement the measuring instruments.

      It is expected to recruit a total of 80 patients for inclusion in the study. The sample size
      is justified with respect to the prevalence of patients with hemophilia (2039 patients with
      hemophilia A and B in Spain). Based on the established selection criteria (n = 678, according
      to the census of the Spanish Federation of Hemophilia) the sample size at the national level
      would be 151, with a level of confidence or 95% confidence and an expected proportion of
      dropouts from the fifteen%. Thus, for the 6 regions of Spain where the study will be
      developed, a sample of 80 patients is established for the established study period (April to
      December 2018).
    
  