
    
      Chinese Americans are the largest group of Asian Americans, the fastest growing racial
      population in the U.S. Colorectal cancer is the second most common cancer among Chinese
      Americans. Screening reduces colorectal cancer mortality and is cost-effective but remains
      underutilized. Asian Americans and Chinese Americans are less likely than non-Hispanic whites
      to be screened for colorectal cancer. Factors associated with lack of screening among Asian
      Americans include recent immigration, lower education, lower English fluency, lack of
      knowledge, patient-physician language discordance, and lack of physician recommendation.

      Although small media and client-reminders are effective in increasing colorectal cancer
      screening in the general population, no randomized controlled trial has assessed the effect
      of such interventions on Chinese Americans, particularly those who are limited English
      proficient. Building on an established community-based participatory research network and
      strong preliminary studies, the team propose to develop a culturally and linguistically
      appropriate booklet (small print media) and an audio-visual application accessible through
      mobile devices and a website (small electronic media) to promote screening. Through an
      innovative approach that links community organizations that have cultural and linguistic
      expertise to healthcare systems that have many Chinese American patients, the investigators
      will test the effect of combining these small media materials and a mailed patient reminder
      on the rate of screening for colorectal cancer screening among Chinese Americans in this
      Small Media Interventions for Limited English Speakers (SMILES). The investigators have
      developed English and Chinese (Cantonese and Mandarin) small print and electronic media
      materials to promote colorectal cancer screening among Chinese Americans. This RCT will
      compare the efficacy of a combination of mailed patient reminder and small print and
      electronic media versus usual care among Chinese American patients who are not up-to-date for
      colorectal cancer screening recruited from 3 healthcare systems in a randomized controlled
      trial.
    
  