
    
      Managing chronic pain in the US costs approximately $635 billion and half of this expenditure
      is for joint and arthritis related pain syndromes. Interestingly, compared with non-Hispanic
      whites (NHWs), Hispanic Americans (HAs) report significantly lower rates of chronic pain with
      consistently higher levels of pain intensity in both population and clinically based studies.
      Chronic musculoskeletal pain (CMP) incidence increases with age and the HA aging population
      is among the fastest growing segments of the US population. Despite reporting more intense
      pain, HA are less likely to seek medical care versus NHWs for acute and chronic pain. Lack of
      access, cultural stoicism and an external locust of control are thought to explain why HAs
      seek care at a reduced rate. Psychological factors play a significant role in pain
      experience, HAs may employ catastrophic thinking and experience more pain related anxiety
      which are predictors of exacerbated pain experience. Pain comorbidities may be amenable to
      treatment with appropriate, culturally sensitive treatment focusing on enhancing
      self-efficacy to manage the complex array of psychological pain comorbidities. There is a
      societal impact of undertreating chronic pain in the HA population. While HAs have the lowest
      rate of short-term sick usage (<1-2 days), they have the highest rate of long-term sick usage
      (>31 days). This increased long-term time off puts HAs at risk of losing their job if the
      time off exceeds Family Leave and Medical Act minimums. Lastly, it is well documented, HAs
      are hesitant to take strong pain medication and there is conflicting evidence surrounding
      taking over-the-counter medications for pain management. There is a need to provide
      culturally sensitive, effective chronic pain management treatments for HAs.

      There have been 5 well designed studies (n=931) demonstrating efficacy of a trans-created
      Spanish version of the Chronic Disease Self-Management Program (CDSMP) for HAs with chronic
      musculoskeletal pain. CDSMP has demonstrated effectiveness in improving pain intensity,
      self-efficacy (SE) and health behaviors in a community setting . The intervention is a
      healthcare provider and/or peer led 2.5 hour self-management training session, 1 time per
      week for 6 weeks taught in a group setting in Spanish. The program is grounded in Bandura's
      Social Cognitive Theory and uses goal setting and problem solving as corner stones to create
      a personalized self-management program. Improvements post-intervention in SE predict
      sustainability of health behaviors and maintenance of improved health status in the long
      term. Additionally, remote non-frequent health care provider feedback has been associated
      with maintenance of health behaviors, however this his not been tested in the HA population.

      The purpose of this study is to test the feasibility (patient satisfaction and change in
      health status) after bringing the CDSMP programming to a large urban hospital based medical
      center that does not currently offer a culturally sensitive, self-management training program
      in Spanish middle to older age HAs with chronic pain. The secondary aim is to pilot the
      effectiveness of an every 6th week phone/video visit feedback visit for 24 months on both
      health status and healthcare utilization.
    
  