
    
      The proposed phase I clinical trial is a parallel-group, placebo-controlled, randomized,
      double-blind ascending dose study of dietary supplementation with Bifidobacterium longum
      subsp. infantis (B. infantis) in healthy breastfed infants to evaluate its safety as well as
      determine the pharmacologically effective dose (ED) of B. infantis producing at least 50% gut
      colonization at six weeks of age. Infants will be enrolled sequentially in groups of five
      (three randomized to receive B. infantis and two to receive placebo). For each group, infants
      will be dosed with B. infantis or placebo on day 7 and day 14 of life. A calculated Maximally
      Recommended Starting Dose (MRSD) will be used to initiate the dose escalation and is defined
      below. Every two weeks, an additional group of five infants (randomized 3:2 to B. infantis
      and placebo) will be enrolled to receive progressively higher doses of B. infantis.
      Calculation of the appropriate dose escalation will be performed using a modified Fibonacci
      series as described below in an effort to identify the ED of B. infantis.

      After the ED of B. infantis has been identified (defined as the dose capable of producing 50%
      gut colonization by six weeks of age) two additional sequential dose escalations will be
      performed. The purpose of the final two dose escalations is to determine if successively
      higher doses of B. infantis result in increased gut colonization or barrier protection; or,
      alternatively, if a Maximum Effective Dose (MaxED) for B. infantis exists above which there
      is no further increase in gut colonization or barrier protection. Following the final dose
      escalation, Hanley's Rule of Three will be applied in order to determine if lower-frequency
      adverse events are caused by B. infantis. Hanley's Rule of Three states that in order to
      identify any adverse events occurring at a frequency of 1:10 or greater with a 95% confidence
      interval, at least 30 subjects must be enrolled.

      Study visits will be scheduled for weeks 1, 2, 6, 24, 36, 52 and 78. Parents will complete
      surveys at each study visit to monitor the infants for potential adverse events associated
      with probiotic administration including feeding intolerance, fevers, or bowel irregularities
      including constipation and diarrhea.

      Stool samples will be collected twice weekly for the first six weeks of life then once weekly
      at weeks 24, 36, 52 and 78. Stool samples will be analyzed to determine the relative
      abundance of B. infantis over time, and the overall diversity of the gut microbiota with and
      without B. infantis supplementation. Stool will also be analyzed for milk oligosaccharides to
      verify consumption of breast milk and to correlate proportion of human milk oligosaccharides
      and free sugar monomers seen in the infant stool at various levels of B. infantis
      colonization.

      At each study visit, infants will receive a full skin examination to evaluate for signs of
      atopic dermatitis (AD). The Infant Dermatitis Quality of Life Index (IDQOLI) will be
      administered to parents at each study visit to screen for possible signs of AD such as infant
      irritability, skin rashes and hypersensitivity. If AD is present, the Scoring Atopic
      Dermatitis (SCORAD) grading system will be used to assess severity. Urine samples will be
      collected at each study visit to measure levels of fatty acid binding proteins (FABPs) and
      glutathione-S-transferase (alpha-GST), which are non-invasive markers of gastrointestinal
      permeability that may indicate the presence of food allergies. Blood will be collected via
      finger or heel stick at weeks 6 and 52 for immune phenotyping (including measuring
      inflammatory cytokines and food-specific IgEs). In addition, levels of serum fatty acid
      binding proteins (FABPs) and glutathione-S-transferase (alpha-GST) will be measured as
      markers of gastrointestinal permeability and potential food allergy. Parents will also
      complete surveys at each study visit to monitor the infants for potential adverse events
      associated with probiotic administration including feeding intolerance, fevers, or bowel
      irregularities including constipation and diarrhea.

      Entry into the study requires the intent to breastfeed exclusively for a minimum of six
      months. If mothers decide to discontinue breastfeeding during the study, the investigators
      will note that in the infant's chart and obtain an additional series of weekly stool samples
      for six weeks after discontinuation of breastfeeding. The purpose of this additional stool
      sample collection is to determine if discontinuation of breastfeeding has an impact on the
      level of existing B. infantis colonization in the infant gut.
    
  