
    
      Post-stroke apathy is a condition where people show reduced emotions and reduced activity
      after their stroke, beyond that expected from their degree of weakness. It can occur with, or
      without, depression, and is associated with more disability and slower recovery. It is
      thought to be due to dysfunction of the front of the brain (prefrontal cortex). Importantly,
      there are no proven medical treatments for post-stroke apathy.

      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a painless, noninvasive brain stimulation
      technique that has the potential for alleviating post-stroke apathy. TDCS involves sending a
      weak electrical current through the head, thereby exciting the brain underneath. This offers
      potential advantages over medications as tDCS directly targets the brain, while medications
      need to travel through the bloodstream to reach the brain. TDCS is not an FDA-approved
      treatment for any condition, but previous trials have shown it may benefit movement and
      language recovery after stroke, as well as improve thinking ability. Studies have shown tDCS
      to be very safe with no serious adverse events in over 10,000 subjects studied.

      This pilot study will involve three visits to Stony Brook University Hospital. The first is a
      baseline session where subjects perform all outcome measures but no tDCS is performed other
      than for familiarization. The second and third sessions are the stimulation sessions where
      subjects undergo the intervention for 20 minutes to test tDCS effects on the outcome
      measures. The effects of tDCS for a single session are expected to only last for few hours.
      Subjects are to receive one type of stimulation in one session and another type in the other
      session. If this study finds a short term benefit of tDCS for post-stroke apathy it will
      support a full clinical trial where multiple sessions of tDCS will be given and may provide a
      long-term benefit.
    
  