
    
      All preoperative and postoperative quality of life data comes from the SATISFY-SOS
      (NCT02032030) surveys, which are administered to patients at the preoperative assessment
      visit and then approximately 30 days after surgery. To maximize the follow-up survey response
      rate, patients are emailed the survey (once), mailed hard copy surveys (two times), and
      phoned (up to five times).

      The twelve items comprising the Veterans RAND 12 (VR-12) are items 24 through 35 on the
      survey, while the self-reported global quality of life question is item 1. The VR-12 is made
      up of two components: a physical component score (PCS), and a mental component score (MCS).
      Both scores are continuous on a scale from 0 to 100 (where higher is greater quality of
      life), and they are calibrated so that a score of 50 represents the US population mean (Kazis
      2006, Selim 2009). The 30-day follow-up questionnaires also ask patients to self-report their
      change in quality of life. The question asks, "How would you rate your quality of life now?"
      with answer choices including "Better than before your procedure," "The same as before your
      procedure," and "Worse than before your procedure." Surgical specialty for the procedure is
      obtained from the electronic medical record. Using queries in MetaVision (iMDsoft, Needham,
      MA), the informaticist will provide the requested survey and medical record data to the
      investigators. He performs rigorous data validation on each queried variable.

      SATISFY-SOS databases are hosted on a firewall-secured network server managed by the
      Department of Anesthesiology. The server is securely housed behind two locked doors within
      the departmental office suite and maintained and managed by the departmental IT team. Only
      the project Informaticist, Data Manager, and Director(s) have full access to these databases,
      which are also password-protected and encrypted for additional protection. Hardcopies of the
      baseline surveys are collected daily from the CPAP clinic and securely stored behind two
      locked doors within the Department of Anesthesiology. Baseline completed paper surveys are
      scanned into a digital image format (compressed TIFF). The digital image files are indexed
      and stored on a research file server that is attached to a private network with no public
      access. Survey email, mail and call lists are generated at Washington University in a similar
      manner to mailing lists for billing services. For each patient and date of service, a unique
      ID is generated and never duplicated. This unique ID is a nonsensical only meaningful to the
      research team.

      Baseline surveys are processed by Solutions Data Systems. The digital image files are
      transmitted to Solutions Data Systems via secure file transfer protocol. When data entry has
      been confirmed, Solutions Data Systems deletes the digital image file from their servers.
      Press Ganey, a vendor specializing in patient survey distribution and collection,
      disseminates, collects, and processes 30-day and 1-year surveys. Paper surveys processed
      through automated scanning are all manually checked, and a manager listens to 10% of
      telephone surveys. All telephone surveys are recorded and available for future quality checks
      for performance improvement. Press Ganey stores the survey hardcopies for 90 days while the
      study team conducts spot-check quality assessments of the scanned data. The company then
      shreds the paper copies. Similarly, Press Ganey will hold copies of the electronic files and
      electronic recordings for 90 days, after which the electronic files are removed permanently
      from their system (and then only maintained by Washington University). During this 90-day
      period, the study team conducts additional quality assessments of the converted data.

      Sample size considerations for this study were based on the primary outcome. The first
      component of the primary endpoint is comparing the median quality of life scores among the
      three self-reported change groups (better/same/worse). Using a minimum important difference
      of five points (Norman 2003), two tails, alpha of 0.05, and 80% power, the required sample
      size is 77 patients per group, or 231 total patients among the three groups. The second
      component of the primary outcome is the agreement between the two quality of life measures,
      as reflected by the kappa statistic. Kappa does not have sample size requirements beyond lack
      of sparse cells. The third component of the primary outcome is comparing the percentage
      agreement across the three different self-reported change groups. Since no studies have
      performed this type of comparison previously, the investigators pre-specified a 10% change as
      the minimum important change. Estimating 80% agreement, and using two tails, alpha=0.05, and
      80% power, the required total sample size is 311 per group, or 933 total patients. Therefore,
      this study has adequate power for all of these endpoints.

      The following statistical analyses will be performed, using alpha=0.05 and 95 percent
      confidence intervals, where appropriate. All analyses will be performed twice, once for VR-12
      physical quality of life, and again for the VR-12 mental quality of life.

        -  Compare change in VR-12 QOL scores for those answering better/same/worse
           (Kruskal-Wallis). If significant, will use Wilcoxon Rank-Sum tests to compare each of
           the three groups, using a Bonferroni correction of alpha=0.017.

        -  Calculate overall agreement between the self-reported and validated quality of life
           measures (using weighted kappa, which penalizes disagreements in proportion to their
           seriousness).

        -  Calculate the overall percent of patients whose self-reported and validated quality of
           life scores matched (descriptive), including stratification by self-reported global
           change better/same/worse (compared using chi-square).

        -  Calculate the quality of life where an equal proportion of patients reported better and
           same quality of life (MCID for improvement), or same and worse quality of life (MCID for
           deterioration). This is an anchor-based approach (Wright 2012)

        -  Describe the change in VR-12 score and percent of patients reporting better, same, and
           worse quality of life for each of the following surgical specialties: neurosurgery,
           orthopedic, plastic, ophthalmologic, general, cardiac, gynecologic, otolaryngology,
           gastrointestinal/hepatobiliary, urologic, and "other."

      Only those answering both the self-reported quality of life question and at least ten out of
      twelve VR-12 questions at baseline and 30 days will be included. The investigators will
      describe the characteristics of those with and without missing data. Multiple imputation will
      be used to fill in missing measurements for those missing two or fewer items on the VR-12
      questionnaire.
    
  