
    
      The investigators will recruit women from a variety of community locations, including grocery
      stores, public schools, churches, local food pantries, and from governmental food assistance
      programs, such as Women, Infants, and Children and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
      Program. Participants will be recruited heavily from settings where low to moderate food
      security is prevalent, but not severe food security. Food insecurity status will be
      determined by completion of the 18-item United State Department of Agriculture (USDA) Food
      Security Module, and will be scored based on standardized scoring techniques. Participants
      will provide informed consent, be weighed and measured, and complete several questionnaires
      that measure diet quality, time since last pay check or food benefits as well as other
      information, such as age, education, ethnicity, employment status, income, marital status,
      intelligence, nicotine dependence, and alcohol and drug use. Participants will complete
      baseline delay and probability discounting tasks for food and money as measures of
      impulsivity.

      Then, food insecure women only will be randomly assigned to one of three arms: mindful
      eating, a nutrition movie, or a control. Participants in the mindful eating group will be
      given four foods and receive a 50 min mindful eating workshop. Individuals in the nutrition
      movie condition also will be given the same four foods, but will view a 50 minute nutrition
      video. The third group (no treatment control) will receive the four foods, but no treatment.
      A Time 2 measures of discounting will be administered immediately after the treatments.

      Then, for the next week after Session 2, participants in the mindful eating group will be
      asked to practice mindful eating throughout the week. Research assistants will send text
      message prompts to participants reminding them to record when they practice mindful eating
      during meals twice per day for one week. Those in the Nutrition movie will receive the same
      number of prompts during a one week period as the mindful eating group, but they will give
      give one-word answers to questions about nutrition. Those in the control group will do
      nothing during the week.

      After one week of mindful eating (or controls), all participants will be asked to return to
      the laboratory and complete a third set of discounting tasks.
    
  