
    
      Bariatric surgery is considered to be most effective in treating morbid obesity for patients
      with BMI≥40 or BMI≥35 with comorbidity for obesity.

      postoperative weight loss following any type of bariatric surgery is largely dependent on the
      extent to which patients can make and sustain changes in their eating habits and activity
      level. Adopting physical activity habits can help to optimize outcomes after bariatric
      surgery, such as contributing to the rate of weight loss after the surgery and maintain lean
      body mass.

      In order to successfully implement a behavioral change regarding the adaptation of healthy
      lifestyle habits in obese patients, it is vital to promote physical activity counseling after
      the surgery, and find an effective intervention that can support habitual physical activity.

      The aim of this trial is to examine the effect physical activity counseling after bariatric
      surgery on the amount and intensity of activity performed, quality of life, anthropometric
      and functional measures during the first year after surgery.

      Up to eighty Participants will be recruited for the trial, and will be randomly assigned to
      one of the two study arms (Control, Intervention). The intervention group will receive
      physical activity counseling and guidelines for six months after the surgery.

      All participants will receive a pedometer to track daily steps for 7 days at different time
      points before and after the intervention. Additional Measurements will be taken at a
      pre-surgical baseline assessment and throughout the trial, and will include anthropometric
      measures (Weight, BMI, and body composition) and functional measures (Handgrip, 6-minute walk
      test, chair stand-up test).

      All participants will fill out a the 7-day international Physical Activity questionnaire,
      Self-efficacy for physical exercise scale, and SF-36 questionnaire, before and after the
      intervention.
    
  