
    
      The hematological toxicity is frequent and sometimes severe complication of chemotherapy used
      in onco-hematology.

      The most frequent is the neutropenia. It is defined by Neutrophils rate lower than 1 Giga/L.
      The patient can then have a risk of fever or serious infection which requires a
      hospitalization, an empiric antibiotic therapy and sometimes a dose reduction of chemotherapy
      which can threaten the patient future. Hospital overall mortality by febrile neutropenia is
      estimated at 9.5%.

      The growth factor allowed to reduce the risk of neutropenia or to shorten the neutropenia. In
      general, they are suggested in primary prophylaxis for chemotherapy whose risk of febrile
      neutropenia is superior at 20%.

      However, only 20 to 30% of post-chemotherapy fever will be documented. A double and early
      empiric antibiotic therapy decreases significantly the risk of mortality.

      Thrombocytopenia is a less frequent complication than the neutropenia but there is a risk of
      spontaneous bleeding for the patient when the platelets rate is below 10 Giga/L.

      The patient is informed at the beginning of his taking care of the neutropenia risk, fever
      and hemorrhagic event which can happen at home between two chemotherapies. The patient is in
      the center of his taking care of and must report quickly all fever or bleeding happening
      after chemotherapy to evaluate the risk of immediate complication and to propose the
      appropriate therapeutic strategy. However too many patient with one or two hematological
      complication during the chemotherapy aren't take care of optimally nor in adapted delay.

      The use of a web-application could allow to febrile patient after chemotherapy to benefit of
      personalized care with a quicker communication of clinical symptoms and blood tests results
      to the oncologist via this tool.

      In practice, patients don't always contact their oncologist in case of fever. On the other
      hand, the delays for transmission of biological tests at the medical team don't always allow
      an optimal taking care of and in appropriate delays of hematological toxicity and febrile
      event of patient during chemotherapy.

      The possibility of using a web-application could allow to detect earlier the possible
      complication of post-chemotherapy hematological toxicity and to suggest a taking care of
      guided by a decisional algorithm managed by the oncologist. The aim is to privilege the care
      at home.

      The expected benefit for each patient is to have an earlier and adapted care in case of
      infection and/or bleeding. The use of this web-application could allow, in optimizing the
      care of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia, to limit the number of hospitalization and the
      prescription of intravenous antibiotic and to achieve optimally the therapeutic project.

      The usual monitoring (oral advice only) would have been proposed at all patient include in
      this study. It is unlikely that post-chemotherapy fever, neutropenia or thrombocytopenia will
      supported later than in the usual practice. Therefore it is expected that the use of the
      web-application will be for the benefit of patient by allowing to detect earlier
      post-chemotherapy complications and so to propose an optimal take care of for included
      patients.

      Patient must have a chemotherapy schema with a global risk of febrile neutropenia < 20% could
      use the web-application.

      Patients will be informing of the risks of neutropenia, fever and bleeding could happen
      beyond the 5th day after chemotherapy.

      Temperature will be taken at home by an infrared forehead thermometer provided in the study
      in a systematic once a day at the same time and in case of unusual fatigue or chills.

      When a fever is detected by the web-application, a questionnaire will be completed by the
      patient to find serious symptoms. The aim is to optimize the taking care of patient.
    
  