
    
      My Retina Tracker provides three different portals for data entry and review. An entry in My
      Retina Tracker is initiated by a participant, not a clinician. Using the Participant Portal,
      the participant establishes a username and password, is guided through on-line informed
      consent, and can then use an interactive guide to record their ophthalmic and family history,
      genotype and other subjective diagnosis-related information. Drop-down menus and standardized
      vocabulary are used for database consistency. They may also attach documents, such as medical
      records, to maintain personal files on their disease. Participants are encouraged to update
      their profiles regularly to create a longitudinal history of their disease. Participants can
      see aggregated data for all other participants in the registry and compare their own disease
      and status to others.

      Once a participant profile has been established, participants may ask their clinician or
      genetic counselor to add specific ophthalmic exam and measurement results to the profile.
      This is done through the Clinical Portal which also uses a series of drop-down menus to
      expedite entry and standardize data. Clinicians cannot see the participant data when adding
      the clinical exam data. Participants are encouraged to collect this data at each medical
      exam, to create a longitudinal clinical data set.

      Access to de-identified data is available through the Research Portal. Investigators may
      apply through the site for research access username and password. This access allows
      searching of both participant provided and clinical data and may also be used to pre-screen
      registrants as potential participants for research studies or clinical trials. A process that
      maintains patient anonymity and privacy protection, exists for researchers with Institutional
      Review Board-approved projects who wish to contact registry participants of interest.
    
  