
    
      Purpose & Justification: Perioperative stroke is a potentially devastating complication that
      is currently poorly characterized with limited clinical tools available to detect and prevent
      its occurrence. To date only two stroke assessment scales have been applied to the
      perioperative setting, though none have been tested in non-cardiac, non-neurologic surgeries.
      One of those assessments, the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS), is lengthy
      and may be impractical in the surgical setting. This is further complicated by several
      factors potentially existing in surgical patients that may alter the assessment, such as pain
      and drowsiness from medications. However, there is a modified simpler version of the NIHSS
      (mNIHSS) that has been shown to have improved reliability than the full version and reduced
      time requirement, thus making it preferable for perioperative stroke screening. To overcome
      the current gaps in knowledge and screening for risk of perioperative stroke, this
      prospective observational study will be assessing the feasibility of applying the mNIHSS in
      the surgical setting.

      Primary Objective: To determine the change in mNIHSS score from baseline to immediately after
      surgery in the absence of diagnosed stroke in patients after surgery.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To determine the components of the mNIHSS most likely to change following surgery;

        2. To determine the feasibility of administering the mNIHSS in surgical patients (e.g.
           acceptability, resources, length of time to complete, completeness).

        3. To determine the relationship between baseline MoCA score and ability to complete the
           mNIHSS screening after surgery

      Research design: This is a prospective observational study involving five testing sessions. A
      cognitive assessment (MoCA) will be conducted at the time of consent to screen for any
      cognitive impairment. There will be 4 additional visits during which the mNIHSS will be
      administered to surgical patients pre and post-operatively.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Sample Size Calculation There is no specific data available on the application of the mNIHSS
      in our study population. We estimate that we will require a sample size of 21 patients,
      assuming a mean difference of 2 (standard deviation 3) points between pre- and
      post-operatively, an alpha error of 0.05 and power of 80%. Anticipating a 20% drop out rate,
      we will recruit 25 patients.

      Statistical Analysis We will describe the patient population using mean (SD), median (IQR)
      and percentage as appropriate. The application of the mNIHSS will be described using percent
      completed for each question, and the time taken to complete the test at each time point
      (mean, SD).

      The change in mNIHSS on postoperative days 0, 1 and 2 will be compared to baseline using a
      Wilcoxon Signed Ranks test for matched pairs.

      All tests will be two-sided with a p-value less than 0.05 considered statistically
      significant. All statistical analysis will be done using STATA 12.1 (StataCorp, Texas, USA).
    
  