
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Overall survival.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Progression-free survival. II. Objective tumor response.

      III. Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA)/quality of life (QOL) related objectives:

      IIIa. Hypothesize that lower scores in functional status assessment tool - instrumental
      activities of daily living (IADL) will correlate with higher rates of grade 3 or higher
      chemotherapy toxicity.

      IV. CGA/QOL related exploratory objectives:

      IVa. Evaluation of other pre-treatment CGA domains including co-morbidities, depression,
      nutrition and cognition as predictors of chemotherapy tolerance.

      IVb. Evaluation of the association between change in functional status during treatment
      course (comparison between activities of daily living [ADL] and IADL score pre-treatment and
      at time of disease evaluation) as predictors of chemotherapy tolerance.

      IVc. Evaluation of the correlation between CGA domains and overall survival by treatment arm.

      IVd. Evaluation of the difference in QOL scores (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy -
      Hepatitis [FACT-Hep] version 4) between baseline measures and assessment during treatment
      course between by treatment arms.

      V. Focused evaluation of toxicities that are of interest for older patients including:
      peripheral neuropathy, fatigue, falls, emergency room visits, hospitalization, treatment
      modification and discontinuation.

      VI. Imaging correlative study objectives:

      VIa. Evaluate the association between baseline and change during treatment of skeletal muscle
      index (SMI) and intermuscular adipose tissue (IMAT) and rates of grade 3 or higher
      chemotherapy toxicity experienced on treatment.

      VIb. Evaluate the association between baseline and change during treatment of skeletal muscle
      index (SMI) and intermuscular adipose tissue (IMAT) and overall survival among older patients
      with metastatic pancreatic cancer.

      VIc. Evaluate the association between baseline and change during treatment of skeletal muscle
      index (SMI) and intermuscular adipose tissue (IMAT) and geriatric assessment scores
      evaluating functional status.

      VII. Laboratory correlative study objectives:

      VIIa. Evaluation of the correlation between base line levels of biomarkers of aging (CRP and
      IL-6) and rates of grade 3 or higher chemotherapy toxicity during therapy.

      VIIb. Evaluation of the correlation between changes in levels of CRP and IL-6 during therapy
      and rates of grade 3 chemotherapy toxicity.

      VIIc. Evaluation of the correlation between baseline levels of biomarkers of aging (CRP and
      IL-6) and overall survival among older patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer.

      VIId. Evaluation of the correlation between levels of baseline biomarkers of aging (CRP and
      IL-6) and geriatric assessments scores evaluation functional status.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive gemcitabine intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes and nab-paclitaxel IV
      over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive fluorouracil IV over 46 hours starting on day 1. Patients also
      receive leucovorin IV over 90-120 minutes and liposomal irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on day
      1. Cycles repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  