
    
      The Study Drug:

      Telavancin is an antibiotic designed to treat a variety of bacterial infections that are
      difficult to treat.

      Central Venous Catheter (CVC):

      A CVC is a sterile flexible tube could have been placed into a large vein while you were
      under local anesthesia.

      If you have a certain type of infection, your doctor may decided to remove or exchange your
      CVC. The decision to remove or exchange the CVC and timing of the placement of the new CVC
      will be decided by your primary doctor.

      If you are to get a new CVC, your doctor will explain this procedure to you in more detail,
      and you will be required to sign a separate consent form.

      Study Treatment:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive telavancin by
      vein over a period of 60 minutes once daily for at least 7 days and for up to 6 weeks. How
      long you receive the study drug will depend on the type of bacterial infection that you have
      and if your doctor thinks you may have a complicated bacterial infection of the blood.

      If the doctor thinks that you have a mixed infection (2 or more certain types of bacteria),
      you may also be given another type of antibiotic (such as aztreonam, cefepime, imipenem,
      meropenem, ciprofloxacin hydrochloride, bactrim, piperacillin/tazobactam and/or
      amoxicillin/clavulanate).

      If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have an echocardiogram to check your heart
      function. This test will only be performed if you have a specific type of infection (to make
      sure you do not have inflammation in the lining of the heart). You will be asked about
      medications you are taking.

      If you are discharged from the hospital before completing the study drug, you will be able to
      take the drug as an outpatient. Your primary doctor may arrange for you to receive medication
      at M. D. Anderson.

      Study Visits:

      Once a week:

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests. It may be drawn from the
           CVC, if the CVC is still in place.

        -  The CVC exit site will be checked at each visit until you have no more signs or symptoms
           of infection.

        -  You will be asked about any symptoms or illnesses that you may have had since your last
           visit.

      Every other day, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to check for the infection until it
      no longer shows signs of infection. Kidney function will be monitored by performing a blood
      test every 2 days for the first week and weekly after that.

      Length of Study:

      You can receive the study drug for up to 6 weeks. You will be taken off this study if the
      infection gets worse or any intolerable side effects occur.

      End-of-Study Visit and Follow-up Visit:

      You will need to return to MD Anderson for your end of treatment visit, within 7 days after
      you last dose of study drug. The end-of-study visit will occur within 7 days after your last
      dose of the study drug.

      The follow-up visit will occur about 32 days (about 1 month) after your last dose of the
      study drug. At each of these visits, you will have the following exams/procedures performed.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests and to check for bacterial
           infection. The blood sample may be drawn from the CVC, if the CVC is still in place. The
           CVC exit site will be examined.

        -  You will be asked about any symptoms or illnesses that you may have had since your last
           visit.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs or therapies that you may be taking until the end of
           your treatment.

        -  If your infection recurs during the follow-up period, and if the doctor thinks it is
           needed, you will have an echocardiogram to check your heart function and to make sure
           you do not have inflammation in the lining of the heart.

      This is an investigational study. Telavancin is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment infections of the skin and soft tissue. Its use to treat blood infections in
      this study is investigational.

      Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  