
    
      The lack of immunologic control is currently recognized as one of the hallmarks of cancer.
      The cancer immunoediting concept has been proposed as a mechanism by which tumors escape
      control. The concept involves three phases: elimination (tumor cell eradication), equilibrium
      (when editing of surviving tumor cells occurs) and escape (when the altered tumor cells
      progress through the shield of the activated immune response).

      When the TCR of a T cell recognizes antigens expressed in the context of the MHC, the immune
      checkpoint modulates signaling: co-stimulatory molecules such as CD28 on T cells enhance the
      signal, whereas co-inhibitory molecules suppress it. Recent research has implicated the
      expression of immunoinhibitory checkpoints such as CTL antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed
      death protein 1 (PD-1) as potential mediators of the equilibrium and escape phases of cancer
      immunoediting described above. These molecules are expressed on activated T cells, but when
      they bind to ligands either on antigen-presenting cells (CTLA-4 binding to CD80/CD86) or
      tumor cells (PD-1 binding to PD-L1), they tend to shut down the anti-tumor response. Efforts
      to use antibodies to target and block these immuno-inhibitory interactions have ushered in a
      new era of immunotherapy.

      Tumors display a wide variety of antigens that can potentially be exploited by harnessing the
      adaptive immune response. The T-cell response to these antigens can be dysregulated by tumor
      cells seeking to evade immunologic detection and destruction by hijacking physiological
      homeostatic immune-checkpoint signaling pathways. In addition to a variety of mechanisms that
      can create an immunosuppressive microenvironment (e.g. secretion of inhibitory cytokines,
      presence of regulatory T cells), many tumor types also express PD-L1.

      Nivolumab and pembrolizumab are the two anti-PD1 monoclonal antibodies currently approved for
      multiple cancers. The application of nivolumab or pembrolizumab alone or in combination with
      chemotherapy has completely changed cancer management.

      HLX10 is a new monoclonal antibody targeting PD1 on T cells, developed from mouse hybridoma
      technology. In vitro studies have demonstrated the growth inhibition of multiple cancer cell
      lines, and shown growth inhibition of tumors in murine xenogeneic studies.

      Nonclinical studies dosing up to 50 mg/kg HLX10 weekly in cynomolgus monkeys for 13 weeks
      have shown good tolerability without evident toxicities (please refer to Investigator's
      Brochure). HLX10 shows cross-reactivity to both monkey and human PD1, but does not bind
      rodent PD1.

      Based on the pharmacology studies and pharmacokinetic and toxicokinetic studies in cynomolgus
      monkeys, this study is a phase-1 study to address the safety and tolerability of HLX10 in
      patients with metastatic or recurrent cancer.

      HLX10 has not yet been tested in human. Therefore, the investigators propose this
      first-in-human phase 1 study. In this study, the investigators intend to investigate the
      safety, and tolerability of HLX10 in humans, and hope to identify the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD), and determine the recommended phase 2 dose in future study. At the same time, the
      investigators would like to gain information of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of
      this drug and its potential immunogenicity.

      To minimize the risk of patients who volunteer to receive this experimental drug, the
      investigators will choose 0.1 mg/kg as the initial starting dose. The selection of starting
      dose is based on the repeat-dose toxicology study on monkey, at 1/166 of the human equivalent
      dose of No-Observed Adverse Effect Level (NOAEL) in cynomolgus studies.

      To investigate the dose required to reach maximal effect, the investigators propose a dose
      escalation sequence. The purpose of the dose escalation is to obtain the pharmacokinetics and
      pharmacodynamics of HLX10 at different dose levels, and investigate its relationship with
      adverse reactions. The investigators also intend to identify the MTD. The information from
      the dose escalation is crucial to determine the optimal dose in future studies and potential
      indications for HLX10.
    
  