
    
      The primary objective of this interventional longitudinal pilot study is to investigate the
      feasibility of using an over-ground wearable robotic system (Indego) for gait rehabilitation
      of people with PH associated with the traditional rehabilitation.

      Secondary objectives of the study are:

        -  To explore the clinical effects of the treatment;

        -  To evaluate the feasibility of implementing this system in clinical practice from
           experienced therapists (Indego Specialists)' point of view.

      Two Sub-Studies (SS) will be conducted with the following aims:

        1. Kinematic gait analysis (in subjects able to walk) associated with surface
           electromyography (sEMG) of 4 muscle groups of the lower limbs in order to evaluate
           changes in the gait pattern and muscle activity following gait rehabilitation through an
           over-ground wearable exoskeleton system;

        2. Electroencephalographic (EEG) analysis in order to: identify prognostic factors for
           walking recovery; investigate the effect of the treatment on functional connectivity.

      30 subjects with PH and walking impairment who meet the research project inclusion and
      exclusion criteria will be recruited for this study. Patients will be evaluated at T0 and at
      T1. Demographic (gender, date of birth, height, weight, education, dominant side, work
      activity, presence of the social network, presence of architectural barriers at home) and
      clinical data (comorbidity, drug therapy, blood pressure, the cardiac frequency at rest, date
      of last acute event, number of previous neurological events, location of acute events) of all
      participants will be recorded at T0. In the case of Sub-Studies, 10 patients (able to walk fo
      4 meters without aids but with supervision) for SS1 and 5 patients for SS2 following the
      first-ever monofocal cerebrovascular acute event will be recruited. These subjects will be
      assessed both clinically and instrumentally (SS1: through the gait analysis and sEMG; SS2:
      through the EEG) at T0 and T1.
    
  