
    
      STUDY POPULATION AND METHODS Population The study population represented individuals screened
      for TB over a 6-month period ending in December 2004 as part of a number of community health
      outreach programs based at the Center of Disease Control in Taichung, Taiwan. Changhwa
      Veterans Home is a government-expense veterans home with totally 519 residents in 2004. Only
      individuals with a properly read TST and signed informed consent were included in the study
      population. If a TST was positive, further evaluation for TB was advised. Anyone found to
      have active TB infection (12 individuals diagnosed, all from household contacts) was
      appropriately treated and were also included from the study. No general population low-risk
      controls were included in the study population. There were no other entry exclusions for the
      study. Before the TST was administered, a short interview including verbal consent and a BCG
      scar count evaluation was conducted by an experienced nurse.

      The TST contained 2 tuberculin units (TU) of RT23 tuberculin with Tween 80 (0.2 ml of 1TU/0.1
      ml) given intradermally on the left forearm volar surface by Mantoux technique. Validity
      measures such as inter-observer performance were done for TST placement or interpretation
      individually by two experienced nurse. A purified protein derivative-Siebert (PPD-S) dose of
      5TU is roughly equivalent to the 2TU of RT23. 2TU is the International Union Against
      Tuberculosis and Lung Disease recommended dose for RT23 TST. TST was also performed on
      BCG-vaccinated health care workers . After 48-72 h of injection, the TST site should be
      evaluated for induration and a transverse measurement was recorded. Any readings made outside
      of the above time period were excluded from the study. All unvaccinated subjects had their
      blood drawn for the QFT-RD1 the same time with applying the first TST. A TST reaction size of
      ≧10 mm was interpreted as a 'positive' TST which guided any further medical evaluation. This
      is the traditional cutoff point used for RT23 tuberculin in Taiwan as well as in most studies
      worldwide. If initial TST diameter less than 10 mm, second TST was repeated within 1-5 weeks
      to observe any 'boosting phenomenon' was possible. Statistical analysis of skin test results
      for each population characteristic was done at this cut-off point, with the exception of one
      analysis specifically done at≧18 mm in BCG-vaccinated health care workers.

      Household contacts of active TB patients were presumably at highest risk for TB infection;
      the group was labeled 'household contact'. No active TB cases have been reported among these
      residents for years.
    
  