
    
      Forward head posture and Rounded Shoulder are related to muscle imbalance, which disturbs
      length tension relationship of muscles. Weak and lengthened muscles in Forward head posture
      and rounded shoulders are deep neck flexors which include longus capitis and longus coli and
      weak scapular stabilizers and retractors which include Rhomboids and middle, lower trapezius,
      Teres Minor and Infraspinatus. The overactive and shortened muscles participating in Forward
      head posture and Rounded shoulders are Deep upper cervical extensors which include
      longissimus capitis, Splenius Capitis, Cervical Multifidus, Upper Trapezius and Shoulder
      protractors and elevators which include Pectoralis minor, Pectoralis major and Levator
      Scapula. Previous researches suggests that weakened postural muscles should be strengthened
      and shortened muscles should be lengthened in order to improve postural alignment and
      alleviate Forward head posture and restoring the normal muscle balance between opposing
      muscle groups (agonists and antagonists). The majority of treatments have focused on the deep
      neck flexors, as they play a major role in stabilizing the alignment of the cervical spine.
      Exercise improved the forward head and Rounded Shoulder significantly.

      The selection of 50º as a reference angle for forward head posture was guided by previous
      studies, with the latter reporting 55.02 ± 2.86 as a normal range. As is well known, subjects
      with forward head posture have a significantly smaller cervical angle when compared with
      normal subjects. In the present study, the investigators considered 52º as the reference
      angle based on a previous study which evaluated 310 participants in a standing position and
      reported 2.6º±15.3 as a normal range, and Brink et al, who evaluated 15 to 17 year-olds and
      reported a mean shoulder angle value of 51.35º ± 17.2º, and based on the premise that
      subjects with protracted shoulder have a significantly smaller shoulder angle when compared
      with normal subjects. Individual will be considered to have rounded shoulder if the angle
      will be less than 52º.
    
  