
    
      Background:

        -  Adoptive cellular therapy with T cells genetically modified using viral-based vectors to
           express chimeric antigen receptors targeting the CD19 molecule have demonstrated
           dramatic clinical responses in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).
           However, not all patients respond and CD19-negative escape has been observed following
           CD19 CAR therapy, as well as anti-CD19/CD3 bispecific antibody therapy. Thus, additional
           targets are needed.

        -  CD22 is a B-lineage-restricted, transmembrane phosphoglycoprotein of the Ig superfamily
           that is widely expressed on B-cell malignancies including 96% to 100% of pediatric
           Bprecursor ALL. Therefore, CD22 represents a promising target. Encouraging responses
           targeting CD22 with an antibody based immunoconjugate have been seen in patients,
           including children, with recurrent and refractory ALL. This will be the first in human
           testing of anti-CD22 CAR adoptive cell therapy.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine the feasibility of producing anti-CD22 CAR cells meeting established
           release criteria. Complete

        -  To assess the safety of administering escalating doses of anti-CD22-CAR engineered T
           cells in children and young adults with recurrent or refractory CD22- expressing B cell
           malignancies following a cyclophosphamide/fludarabine preparative regimen.

      Eligibility:

      - Patients 3-30 years of age, at least 14.5 kg, with CD22-expressing B-cell malignancies that
      have recurred after or not responded to one or more standard regimens and deemed incurable by
      standard therapy. Patients with a history of allogeneic hematopoietic transplantation (SCT)
      who meet all eligibility criteria are eligible to participate. Patients previously treated
      with anti-CD19 CAR engineered T cells are also eligible.

      Design:

        -  PBMC will be obtained by leukapheresis, CD3+ cells enriched and cultured in the presence
           of anti-CD3/-CD28 beads followed by lentiviral vector supernatant containing the
           anti-CD22 (M971BBz) CAR.

        -  On Day -4 (cell infusion is Day 0), patients will begin induction chemotherapy
           comprising fludarabine 25 mg/m2 on Days -4, -3 and -2 and cyclophosphamide 900 mg/m2 on
           day 2.

        -  The CD22-CAR cells will be infused on Day 0, with up to a 72h delay allowed for infusion
           of fresh cells or a 7 day delay if cells are cryopreserved, if needed for resolution of
           clinical toxicities, to generate adequate cell numbers, or to facilitate scheduling.

        -  A phase I cell dose escalation scheme will be performed using 3 dose levels (3 x 10(5)
           transduced T cells/kg; 1 x 10(6) transduced T cells/kg; and 3 x 10(6) transduced T
           cells/kg;). If 2/6 patients have DLT at dose level 1, safety will be evaluated in a
           de-escalated dose of 1 x 10(5) transduced T cells/kg (more or less 20%)). Once the
           maximum tolerated dose (or highest level evaluated) is reached, enrollment into an
           expansion cohort of a total of 58 patients at MTD in (32 with and 26 without previous
           CD19 CAR T cells) will proceed to provide additional information regarding the
           feasibility, safety and efficacy of this treatment. Patients who have previously
           received CD19 CAR T cells will be evaluated separately from CAR-na(SqrRoot) ve patients
           as response may be different in these two groups.

        -  Patients will be monitored for toxicity, response and T cell persistence as well as
           other biologic correlates.
    
  