
    
      1. Eligibility Criteria People with a diagnose of dementia, living at home and having an
           informal caregiver.

           Inclusion criteria

             -  People with a diagnose of dementia

             -  People older than 65 years old

             -  Living at home and receiving public formal care* from Primary Health Care centers.

             -  Having an informal caregiver** identified being capable of understand healthcare
                professional advices (this will be measured by healthcare professional criteria).

             -  Cognitive level having a MMSE score lower of 24 .

             -  Informed consent signed. *We considered public formal care, the health care team
                working on Primary Care (being home care or primary care) (GPs,Registered Nurse,
                Social Worker).

                  -  We considered informal caregiver the person (family or not) who takes care of
                     the PwD and lives together or visit him/her at least three times a week.

           Exclusion criteria

             -  People lower than 65 years old

             -  People with a psychiatric symptom or Korsakov sindrome

             -  People without informal caregiver identified

        2. Outcome measures

             -  preparation for care through the Preparedness for Caregiving Scale (PCS)

             -  Perceived Competence Scale for Care

             -  Inventory Family needs

             -  Zarit Burden Scale

             -  Katz Index of Independence in Activities of Daily Living

             -  positive and negative aspects of care with the Caregiver Reaction assessment (CRA)

             -  Perceived Social Support Questionnaire (Duke-UNK )

             -  Quality of Life Scale (EQ-5D)

             -  General Health Questionnaire (GHQ-12)

             -  Resource Utilization Questionnaire for dementia (RUD)

             -  Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) .

             -  Quality of Life in Alzheimer's Disease (QoL-AD)

             -  Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI)

             -  Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE)

             -  Global Deterioration Scale (GDS)
    
  