
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of Aurora kinase
           inhibitor AT9283 (AT9283) in patients with incurable advanced or metastatic solid tumors
           or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Determine the safety, tolerability, toxicity profile, dose-limiting toxicity, and
           pharmacokinetic profile of this drug in these patients.

        -  Correlate the toxicity profile with the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients.

        -  Assess, preliminarily, evidence of antitumor activity of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacodynamic activity of this drug in these patients and correlate with
           biological endpoints.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-escalation, multicenter study.

      Patients receive Aurora kinase inhibitor AT9283 (AT9283) IV over 24 hours on days 1 and 8 .
      Treatment repeats every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of AT9283 until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. The dose preceding the MTD is the recommended
      phase II dose (RPTD). Up to 8 additional patients are treated at the RPTD.

      Patients treated at the RPTD undergo skin and tumor tissue biopsy and blood collection at
      baseline and on days 2 and/or 3. Samples are examined by pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic
      analysis, including immunohistochemistry, immunocytochemistry, western blotting, immunoenzyme
      techniques, flow cytometry, and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, for
      biological markers.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3 months
      until disease progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Up to 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  