
    
      Patients with type 2 diabetes, obesity, and chronic kidney disease (CKD) are generally
      physically inactive, have a high mortality rate, and may benefit from an exercise program.
      However, there have been no randomized controlled trials to determine the benefits of
      exercise training in this population. This study seeks to substantiate the hypothesis that
      increasing energy expenditure by exercise training in the obese diabetic patient with CKD
      will result in the following benefits:

        1. Renal benefits, including reduction in proteinuria and stabilization of glomerular
           filtration rate (GFR)

        2. Cardiovascular benefits, including decreased blood pressure, decreased heart rate, and
           increased exercise tolerance.

        3. Improved glucose control (lower glycated hemoglobin), lipid control (decreased
           cholesterol with improved atherogenic profile)

        4. Improved body composition (weight loss, increased lean body mass and decreased fat
           mass).

        5. Decreased inflammation (assessed by high-sensitivity C-reactive protein), endothelial
           dysfunction (assessed by flow-mediated dilatation), and oxidative stress (assessed by
           reduced glutathione).

        6. Increased health-related quality of life.

      In preparation for this proposal, the investigators performed a 24-week randomized controlled
      feasibility study comparing aerobic exercise plus optimal medical management to medical
      management alone in patients with type 2 diabetes, obesity (BMI > 30 kg/m2), and stage 2-4
      CKD (eGFR 15-90 mL/min/1.73m2) with persistent proteinuria of > 200 mg/g. Subjects randomized
      to exercise underwent thrice weekly aerobic training for 6 followed by 18 weeks of supervised
      home exercise. The primary outcome variable was change in proteinuria. Exercise training
      resulted in a significant improvement in exercise duration during stress testing which
      persisted until 24 weeks. This was accompanied by significant decreases in resting systolic
      blood pressure and 24-hour proteinuria at 24 weeks. No changes were seen in the control
      group. The investigators concluded that exercise training in obese diabetic patients with CKD
      is feasible and results in a demonstrable training effect (increased exercise duration and
      decreased resting blood pressure). Moreover, it may decrease proteinuria and thus have a
      renoprotective effect.

      The investigators now propose a larger-scale randomized controlled trial to determine the
      effects of exercise on renal functions, cardiovascular fitness, inflammation, and oxidative
      stress in diabetic patients with CKD. This will be a 52-week randomized study based on the
      investigators' pilot study design with some modifications. As opposed to the 6-week training
      period and 18-week home exercise period utilized in the pilot study, subjects randomized to
      exercise will undergo 12 weeks of intensive exercise training in the exercise laboratory
      followed by 40 weeks of supervised home exercise training (total duration of study 1 year).
      Moreover, due to recent recommendations that resistance training be incorporated into
      exercise training regimens in type 2 diabetic patients, the investigators will incorporate
      resistance (strength) training in this proposal. The primary outcome variable will be change
      in proteinuria at 12 and 52 weeks. Secondary outcome variables will be change in albuminuria
      and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) at 12 and 52 weeks. In addition, the
      investigators will measure blood pressure (BP), glycated hemoglobin, lipid profile,
      C-reactive protein (CRP) levels, body weight and composition, endothelial dysfunction (by
      flow-mediated dilatation), and Quality of Life (QoL) evaluations. The Index of Coexistent
      Diseases (ICED) to measure comorbidities to determine if comorbid conditions had any
      influence on the outcomes of the study. The Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale
      (CES-D) will also be used to determine the influence of depression (covariate) on study
      outcomes and adherence with the study objectives.

      This study will directly address the effects of a structured exercise program in a patient
      population at high risk for cardiovascular complications. The investigators will specifically
      address the novel idea that exercise will not only improve cardiovascular fitness but will
      also ameliorate the renal complications resulting from diabetes.
    
  