
    
      Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) is a therapy for patients with Type-1
      diabetes mellitus involving insulin administration via electronic pump. CSII has been shown
      to reduce HbA1c levels and improve blood sugar control and the continuous, unobtrusive
      insulin delivery may potentially allow patients increased dietary flexibility and quality of
      life. However, despite these claims investigatory literature is sparse. This study will
      clarify whether adult CSII patients experience eating behaviour and quality of life
      alterations compared to patients using multiple daily injection (MDI) therapy. This is
      important as differences may be associated with cardiometabolic risk variations; which will
      also be investigated.

      Participants will be a combination of adults with Type-1 diabetes invited from diabetes
      clinics at the Royal Liverpool University Hospital who are a) have been using CSII for over 1
      year or b) have Type 1 diabetes but have never used CSII, have no current plans to use CSII
      and are presently using MDI therapy.

      Following ethical consent participants will be asked to complete one food frequency
      questionnaire (FFQ) and one quality of life (QOL) questionnaire. A subgroup of these
      participants (approximately 10 CSII users and 10 MDI users) will then be asked to take part
      in one interview to investigate quality of life and complete a food diary to explore eating
      behaviours. All participants consenting to the cross-sectional arm of the study will also be
      asked to provide an extra volume of blood for analysis. This will be taken at the same time
      and in addition to their regular diagnostic sample, however where this is unfeasible extra
      occasional appointments may be needed. (Please be aware that the interview, food diary and
      blood sample are all optional and that the minimum requirement for participation in the study
      is the completion of the FFQ and the QOL questionnaires). Results will be compared with
      existing patient medical records, which will also be analysed during the study.
    
  