
    
      Scientific background

      Protein-energy malnutrition (PEM) occurs in 65-90% of patients with chronic liver disease.
      PEM is caused by various factors including poor dietary intake, loss of appetite, decreased
      hepatic protein synthesis, malabsorption and hypermetabolism. It is associated with an
      increased risk of complications including ascites, hepatic encephalopathy, variceal bleeding,
      hepatorenal syndrome and mortality. There is a direct relation between the progression of the
      liver disease and the severity of malnutrition.

      Malnutrition and sarcopenia in liver cirrhosis patients

      PEM leads to sarcopenia as a common, but frequently overlooked, complication. Sarcopenia is
      defined as a decrease in muscle mass two standard deviations below the healthy young adult
      mean. Sarcopenia is associated with aging, chronic diseases and malignancy. To determine the
      severity of muscle wasting, computed tomography scan (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      are an objective and reproducible technique. Sarcopenia negatively impacts on survival,
      correlates with the risk of infections, increases surgical risk and leads to a poor quality
      of life. Besides PEM also inflammation is of importance in the development of sarcopenia.

      Diversity in the microbiome in patients with liver cirrhosis and association with sarcopenia.

      The gut microbiome of liver cirrhosis patients is altered compared to healthy individuals.
      Dysbiosis leads to an increased gut permeability, bacterial translocation and inflammation.
      This contributes to fibrogenesis and may also be related to hepatocarcinogenesis. Hence, new
      treatment approaches in cirrhosis focus on changing the microbial landscape.

      Modulation the gut microbiome may also be a strategy to reverse sarcopenia by reducing
      systematic inflammation.

      Hypothesis and aims

      There is an association between gut microbiome composition, gut permeability and the
      existence of sarcopenia in cirrhotic patients.

      Primary hypothesis: Diversity of the gut microbiome is reduced in liver cirrhosis patients
      with sarcopenia compared to those without sarcopenia or healthy controls.

      Secondary hypotheses: There is an association between gut microbiome composition, biomarker
      of gut permeability and bacterial translocation with the presence of sarcopenia in cirrhosis.
      Oral nutrition supplements (ONS) can influence the composition of the gut microbiome, gut
      permeability, bacterial translocation and inflammation. Sarcopenia can be diagnosed from
      patients portraits.

      Aims: to investigate:

        -  the composition of the gut microbiome

        -  biomarkers of gut permeability, bacterial translocation and inflammation

        -  the incidence and severity of sarcopenia

        -  the impact of oral nutrition supplements (ONS) on the gut microbiome

        -  whether artificial intelligence can be used to diagnose sarcopenia from face portraits.
    
  