
    
      Delayed healing of a neuroischaemic diabetic foot ulcer (DFU) has been related to prolonged
      local inflammatory response, an unstable provisional matrix, increased degradation of the
      extracellular matrix, lack of growth factors and their receptors that are crucial for
      healing, fibroblast dysfunction, impaired neovascularization, increased oxidative stress, and
      cellular apoptosis in the wound bed, all of which collectively hinder re-epithelialisation
      and wound closure.

      Erythropoietin (EPO) is an approved drug which is widely used for treating anaemia. EPO is a
      well-known glycoprotein hormone, which is primarily produced by the tubular cells of the
      kidney. EPO is widely known for regulating the red blood cell mass by stimulating
      differentiation and proliferation of precursor cells and hindering apoptosis of erythroid
      cells in the bone marrow. Millions of people have received EPO since its market approval by
      the US Food and Drug Administration in 1989 as a treatment of anaemia in patients with
      chronic kidney disease and later on as a treatment for chemotherapy-associated anaemia. There
      is growing evidence that both systemic administration and topical EPO application to skin
      wounds in animals with experimentally-induced diabetes mellitus (DM) and in patients with DM
      accelerates the healing of these wounds. This accelerated wound healing is mediated by EPO
      because it concomitantly suppresses the inflammatory response and apoptosis and stimulates
      angiogenesis, re-epithelialization, and collagen deposition.

      Growing studies in experimental healthy and diabetic animals have demonstrated that systemic
      or topical treatment with EPO onto acute and chronic wounds and burns is safe and effective.
      Recently, the molecular mechanisms of EPO action in wound repair have been elucidated. EPO
      acts on all cutaneous cells that are involved in the wound healing process by promoting
      cellular differentiation and proliferation, exerting cytoprotective actions, and inhibiting
      inflammation and apoptosis due to the presence of EPO receptors in these cells [Hamed et al.
      2014].

      The aim of this multicenter, single-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trial is to
      evaluate the safety and efficacy of topical RMD-G1 treatment for DFUs. This study is an
      exploratory proof-of-concept study on RMD-G1 treatment for DFU.
    
  