
    
      The digestive microbiota graft is performed in three clinical circumstances:

        1. Clostridium difficile colitis is responsible for 15,000 deaths each year in the USA. The
           prognosis is very severe in patients > 65 years old. In France, there were 1,800 deaths
           related to this infection in 2014. In 2013, fecal microbiote (or digestive microbiota)
           transplantation showed its superiority compared to the reference treatment in
           recurrences of C. difficile colitis in a randomized trial. Our team has demonstrated the
           value of early grafting in C. difficile-associated colitis associated with ribotype 027.
           This strain is associated with severe cases and high mortality. In view of the major
           benefit observed in these particular clinical situations, investigators have implemented
           since 2013 in C. difficile O27 colitis and then in 2014 in severe C. difficile colitis
           and since May 2016 for all patients. More than 100 transplants were performed in the
           department dividing the risk of mortality by 5. The investigators also demonstrated the
           value of early fecal grafting in severe colitis irrespective of the ribotype involved.
           In addition, the investigators want to evaluate our protocol of fecal microbiote
           transplant from the first episode of C. difficile colitis in the "Unit of contagion at
           the Timone IHU".

        2. Antibiotic-resistant bacteria In the case of digestive colonization with emergent
           multi-resistant bacteria, the fecal transplant has proved its effectiveness both in the
           literature and in our unit.

        3. Chronic diarrhea without etiologies Finally, and after the other etiologies have been
           eliminated, the fecal graft may be used in this indication.

      The purpose of this study is to study the characteristics of patients who have undergone
      treatment by grafting of digestive microbiota according to a protocol standardized either by
      nasogastric tube or by freeze-dried digestive microbiota capsules in 3 indications:
      clostridium difficile Diarrhea, multidrug resistance bacteria and chronic unexplained
      diarrhea without altering patient management elsewhere.

      200 patients (adults) hospitalized for an episode of C. difficile colitis, multidrug
      resistant bacteria or chronic diarrhea without etiologies will be recruited during a period
      of 3 Years.

      After treatment by grafting of digestive microbiota, and after signed consent, data were
      collected during their hospitalization and followed up at one month, 3 months, 6 month and 2
      years. Data were analysed in order to determine the characteristics of patients benefiting
      from a digestive microbiota transplant according to a standardized protocol.
    
  