
    
      It is well-known that non-optimal stent implantation associated with under-expansion or
      incomplete strut apposition during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) leads to a higher
      incidence of restenosis and stent thrombosis. OCT-guided PCI with metallic stent has
      previously been shown to be safe and feasible, resulting in better clinical outcomes compared
      with angiography-only guided PCI. Everolimus-eluting bioabsorbable vascular scaffold (BVS;
      Abbott Vascular, Santa Clara, CA, USA) was made from a bioabsorbable polylactic acid backbone
      which is coated with a more rapidly absorbed polylactic acid layer that contains and controls
      the release of the antiproliferative drug, everolimus. BVS has a number of proposed
      advantages over current metallic stent technology. These include elimination of chronic
      sources of vessel irritation and inflammation, which can reduce the potential risk of late
      scaffold thrombosis after complete scaffold bioresorption. Although the current generation of
      the Absorb BVS have larger strut thickness of 150 μm compared with 80 μm of strut of Xience
      stent, the acute recoil of the polymeric device was similar to that of metallic stent.
      However, operators tented to use dilating devices less aggressively because of the concerns
      about limitation in elongation-at-break of polylactide.

      Previous studies reported 20-30% of under-expansion or malapposition with BVS, which would
      increase the risk of adverse events including late stent thrombosis. OCT-guidance may improve
      more optimized scaffold placement and also better outcomes. However, there is still no
      sufficient evidence that OCT has an inevitable role in optimal implantation of BVS and it
      should be more evaluated in real practice. In the study, the investigators will evaluate an
      incidence of OCT-defined BVS sub-optimization requiring additional PCI+A1.
    
  