
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Identifying individuals at a young age who are at risk for future development of hypertension
      in adult life is a public health issue of great importance. The imperfect nature of blood
      pressure tracking throughout childhood and adolescence, and the fact that the genes which
      determine blood pressure in childhood may not be the same ones which operate in adulthood
      make it clear that improved predicting models are needed. The twin-parent study design
      allowed testing more subtle genetic and environmental hypotheses than was possible with
      nuclear families or twins alone. The longitudinal component permitted an analysis of
      developmental changes in the genetic expression of the hemodynamic determinants of blood
      pressure. The inclusion of unlike sex twins permitted an analysis of the consistency of
      genetic and environmental effects across the sexes.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The longitudinal comparison of the cardiovascular responses of adolescent twins and their
      parents was initialed in 1983. Three cohorts of twin families were enrolled, each cohort
      beginning 18 months apart. Both monozygotic and dizygotic twins were included. Variables
      measured included demographics, family history, personality, blood pressure, anthropometry,
      stage of puberty, dynamic exercise, isometric exercise, psychological stress,
      echocardiography, genotyping, and lipid profiles. Each cohort revisited every 18 months.

      A fourth cohort of 330 preadolescent twin pairs stratified by sex and zygosity was recruited
      from an established population-based twin registry. The hemodynamic determinants of blood
      pressure were assessed by non-invasive measurements of cardiac function including
      echocardiography and response to isometric and dynamic exercise. Zygosity was determined by
      questionnaire and confirmed by dermatoglyphic analysis and blood group tests. Anthropometric
      and hemodynamic measurements in the parents were compared to those in the children. The study
      included up to five sets of longitudinal measurements, thereby permitting an evaluation of
      whether the same or different genes operated at different ages encompassing pre-puberty,
      puberty, and post-puberty.
    
  