
    
      African Americans have a strong cultural history of relying on hymns to overcome oppression
      and mental suffering encountered in their lived experience. This study will evaluate the
      feasibility and acceptability of an intervention using hymns in reducing psychological
      distress among African Americans during treatment for cancer. Study participants will take
      part in 4 data collection sessions and also asked to view and provide feedback on audio- or
      video recorded vignettes of African Americans use of hymns to reduce psychological distress
      during the diagnosis and treatment for cancer. The findings from this preliminary study will
      contribute to the body of research about incorporating spirituality in cancer care to
      achieving optimal patient outcomes.

      This feasibility study uses a randomized control design and qualitative methods to: 1)
      determine feasibility and acceptability, and 2) estimate effect sizes for outcomes of
      psychological distress, spiritual well-being, patient-physician communication, supportive
      family relationships, and quality of life. African American patients with late stage cancer
      and their FCGs will be randomized to receive the Overcoming Psychological Distress through
      Hymns Intervention or usual care for 3 weeks. At the end of the intervention period, the
      usual care study arm usual will receive the 3 week intervention. Participants will have 4
      study visits where they will complete questionnaires and take part in open-ended,
      semi-structured interviews and structured interviews. Questions asked will focus on
      demographic characteristics of the sample such as age, education, whether residence is urban
      or rural, religious affiliation, marital status, proximity to family, type cancer, date of
      diagnosis, date of treatment. Structured interview questions will include measures of
      psychological distress, spiritual well-being, relationship well-being, patient-physician
      communication, and quality of life. Open ended interviews will focus on usefulness and
      satisfaction with the video and audio recordings. Open ended interviews will be
      audio-recorded. Participants will be in the study for 12 weeks to complete all follow up
      visits.
    
  