
    
      This study is composed of one phase. The objective of Phase I is to assess the safety and
      feasibility of performing escalating doses of autologous AC133+ selected bone marrow-derived
      stem cell with intracoronary infusion via epicardial vessels supplying collateral flow to
      areas of viable ischemic myocardium in the distribution of a chronic totally occluded vessel.
      Additionally, focus on the assessment of the benefit achieved from the infusion of stem cells
      and subsequent angiogenesis at 6 months will be observed.

      Potential candidates are patients with a known total occlusion of an epicardial vessel, with
      a documented chronically ischemic territory supplied by collateral conduits.

      Secondary Objectives include:

        1. Improvement in ETT as determined by: total exercise duration on the 6 month ETT in
           seconds time to: onset of angina, one mm ST depression, onset of angina or one mm ST
           depression (whichever occurs first)

        2. Reduction in the area of ischemia will be evaluated by nuclear (sestamibi) stress
           imaging with exercise or pharmacologic stress.

        3. Improvement in viability within the chronically ischemic zone as measured by nuclear
           (sestamibi) stress imaging.

        4. Improvement in angina as per Angina Questionnaire (The Seattle Angina Questionnaire) at
           7, 14, 30, 90, 180, and 365 days.

        5. Major adverse cardiac events (MACE) assessment (composite endpoint including cardiac
           death, myocardial infarction, ischemia-driven target vessel revascularization, CABG,
           CVA, and rehospitalization for angina), MACE definitions:

           Myocardial Infarction (All ST segment elevation MIs as diagnosed on electrocardiogram by
           a staff cardiologist and all non-ST segment elevation MIs as defined by elevation in
           cardiac enzyme markers per the hospital laboratory guidelines) Cerebral Vascular
           Accidents (e.g., acute neurological event).

        6. Concomitant Medication usage (e.g., changes in utilization of PRN or sublingual
           nitroglycerin for angina)

        7. ECG changes at day of discharge, 7, 14, 30, 90, 180, and 365 days.

        8. Functional capacity (e.g., exercise duration (time) and changes in METS achieved on
           treadmill study at 6 month follow-up).

        9. Echocardiogram assessment of left ventricular ejection fraction and regional wall motion
           abnormalities at 180 days (e.g., changes in regional wall motion score and/or changes in
           left ventricular ejection fraction).
    
  