
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the impact of adjuvant epirubicin with or without docetaxel and concurrent or
           sequential tamoxifen on time to relapse and overall survival in postmenopausal women
           with node-positive breast cancer.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in this patient population.

        -  Compare the quality of life in terms of shift in long term toxicity and differences in
           recuperation in women treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the incidence of thromboembolic events during the first 9 months of study and
           the influence of such events on compliance in women treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center. Patients are randomized to one of two adjuvant chemotherapy treatment
      arms within 30 days after surgery.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive adjuvant epirubicin IV on days 1 and 8. Treatment continues
           every 28 days for 6 courses.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive adjuvant epirubicin IV on days 1 and 8. Treatment continues
           every 28 days for 3 courses. Patients then receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1.
           Treatment continues every 21 days for 3 courses.

      Patients may be further randomized to one of two tamoxifen arms. Patients not randomized to
      the tamoxifen arms receive oral tamoxifen daily for 5 years concurrently with adjuvant
      chemotherapy.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive tamoxifen as above concurrently with adjuvant chemotherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive sequential tamoxifen as above after completion of adjuvant
           chemotherapy.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, 9 months, 2 years, and then at 5 years.

      Patients are followed at 9 months, 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2
      years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 800 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  