
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the efficacy (defined as event-free survival) of quizartinib (AC220) in
      combination with cladribine, idarubicin and cytarabine (ara-C) induction chemotherapy in
      newly diagnosed or relapsed/refractory patients with high-risk acute myeloid leukemia (AML)
      and high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).

      II. To determine the safety of the combination.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall survival and disease-free survival of patients treated with this
      combination.

      II. To investigate correlations of response to this combination with a 81-gene panel of gene
      mutations both in patients with and without FLT3 mutations.

      III. To identify individual treatment-resistant cell populations and their signaling state
      that may relate to clinical outcomes using CyTOF (cytometry by time of flight) and single
      cell sequencing.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive idarubicin intravenously (IV) over 1 hours on days 1-3,
      cladribine IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-5, cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 1-5 (or days 1-3
      for patients over age 60), and quizartinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 6-19.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients who achieve complete response (CR) or CR with incomplete platelet
      recovery (CRp) after Induction receive idarubicin IV over 1 hours on days 1-2, cladribine IV
      over 1-2 hours on days 1-3, cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 1-3, and quizartinib PO QD on
      days 4-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 5 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE: Patients who achieve CR or CR with incomplete bone marrow recovery (CRi)/CR with
      partial hematologic recovery (CRh) after Consolidation receive quizartinib PO QD on days
      1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6-12 months.
    
  