
    
      This project will involve an examination of the impact of a mobile intervention to improve
      social functioning in schizophrenia using an evidence-based treatment framework to target
      deficits in social skills and social motivation. Social impairment is a key characteristic of
      schizophrenia, present prior to onset and predictive of long-term course. The approach of the
      current project is to use Ecological Momentary Intervention (EMI), administered by mobile
      phone, to integrate features from social skills training (SST; an evidence-based treatment
      for schizophrenia) with social motivation support to improve social functioning. Aim 1 of the
      project will involve iterative development of the mobile application, using expert panel
      input and conducting usability testing to inform intervention content and approach. As an
      exploratory aim, social sensing technology (e.g., GPS and automated conversation detection)
      will be implemented to test the promise of this technology in identifying and intervening in
      social isolation. In Aim 2, 30 persons with schizophrenia will use the application over a
      2-month period (data collection will occur across 2 sites). The investigators will test the
      impact of the application on social motivation (EMA reports of social anticipatory pleasure
      and presence of social interaction) across the intervention period. Investigators will also
      examine the impact on social functioning, measured with standard clinician-administered
      assessments, from baseline to 90-day follow-up. Additional clinical, neurocognitive, and
      social cognitive assessments will be gathered on study participants to identify potential
      moderators of outcome and predictors of application usability. This study will result in a
      better understanding of the feasibility and initial impact of a scalable intervention
      designed to support lasting, sustainable improvements in social functioning in schizophrenia.
    
  