
    
      Statins have action mechanisms that may work nicely in preventing recurrence during acute
      stage of infarction!

      First, statins have antithrombotic effects and lower thrombogenicity. Statins prolong time to
      arterial thrombosis in endothelial injury model, inhibit P-selectin expression and platelet
      aggregation, reduce platelet PAR-1 thrombin receptor, and reduce tissue factor levels in
      plasma, its expression on monocyte surface, and atherosclerotic plaques. Second, statins
      enhance thrombolysis. They reduce PAI-1, increase t-PA activity and reduce fibrinogen level.
      Combined treatment of statins and t-PA in rats reduces the infarct size and downregulates
      expression of tissue factor, ICAM-1, vWF, and MMP-9. In addition, t-PA induced toxicity is
      reversed by statins.

      Third, statins have anti-inflammatory actions that can stabilize and even regress plaques.
      Statins reduce the number of T-lymphocytes within plaques, inhibit migration and activation
      of monocyte/macrophage system, and reduce matrix metalloproteinase activity that play a
      critical role in plaque rupture. Rosuvastatin 40 mg could regress coronary atheroma burden at
      2 years, and reduce progression of carotid intima-media thickness.

      Benefits of statins in stroke patients are partially proven!

      First, statins are well known to be effective in primary prevention of stroke. Second,
      statins were effective in secondary prevention of stroke. A high dose of statin (atorvastatin
      80 mg) reduced recurrent stroke in patients with recent TIA or ischemic stroke when it was
      administrated 1-6 months after stroke onset. However, it is uncertain whether statins are
      effective during the first month after stroke. Third, outcomes are better in patients under
      statin treatment at the moment of stroke. Patients pretreated with statins showed better
      survival, less severe neurologic deficits, and improved outcomes when they were treated with
      thrombolysis.

      However, it is unknown whether statin treatment in stroke patients is effective when it is
      administrated during the acute stage.

      Based on strong supportive evidence in human and experimental animals which support
      theoretical superiority of rosuvastatin, this study will test a hypothesis that a high dose
      of rosuvastatin is effective in preventing recurrence during the first month after onset in
      ischemic stroke patients and should be given to all patients from their onset.
    
  