
    
      The orthopantomogram or dental panoramic is a routine screening examination in dental
      practice. It is defined as a two-dimensional, inexpensive examination that provides an
      overview of bone and dental structures, temporomandibular joints, nasal cavities and
      maxillary sinuses. While the dentist's attention is focused primarily on dento-maxillary
      structures, careful examination of the dentist may reveal radiopaque images in the
      submandibular region, which Friedlander calls the Carotid Artery Territory and defines as the
      projection region of the common carotid artery, the carotid bifurcation and the internal
      carotid artery. Calcifications observed at this level can be of two types: anatomical and
      pathological. Among the so-called pathological calcifications are the calcifications of the
      carotid artery which are described in the literature as irregular, appearing as vertical,
      heterogeneous, uni- or bilateral lines and located at the angle of the mandible opposite
      C3-C4. A table was proposed by Pornprasertsuk-Damrongsri in 2006 allowing the differential
      diagnosis of these calcifications of the carotid artery with other types of calcifications
      based on an exhaustive a priori analysis of the literature.

      The radiopacities identified as carotid calcifications are in fact calcifications that appear
      on a prior thickening of the vascular wall of a carotid artery corresponding to an atheroma
      plaque. This atheroma plaque can generate occlusions (such as embolism or stenosis).

      In addition, some studies have shown a correlation between the detection of carotid artery
      calcifications from the orthopantomogram and the presence of Doppler stenosis. Currently the
      Doppler is the gold standard test for diagnosing carotid stenosis.

      Romano-sousa in its 2009 study shows a strong correlation between the detection of carotid
      calcifications on the orthopantomogram and Doppler images: calcifications are observed on
      both the orthopantomogram and Doppler in 59.4% of cases. Almog (2002) finds 50% stenosis
      (>50%) in analyzed sides with calcifications; compared to 21% in sides where there is no
      calcification.

      In 1998, Friedlander concluded that dentists could have a role in preventing cardiovascular
      events by screening carotid artery calcifications on the orthopantomogram, and included this
      analysis of the orthopantomogram in a public health approach that would reduce mortality and
      morbidity from ischemic stroke, as well as the costs associated with lost productivity,
      hospitalization and rehabilitation. Indeed, stroke is the third leading cause of death in
      developed countries and a major cause of serious morbidity.

      It therefore seems interesting to be able to detect asymptomatic carotid stenosis in order to
      implement an appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic strategy. On the other hand, the
      accidental discovery of carotid artery calcifications on an orthopantomogram indicates a
      general arterial abnormality. It may therefore be interesting to detect possible
      calcifications of the carotid artery in middle-aged patients with no cardiovascular history
      or risk factors for cardiovascular events.

      On the other hand, some authors mention a link between the presence of calcifications of the
      carotid artery and the existence of periodontal disease. Indeed, both are linked to an
      inflammatory phenomenon. The investigators will therefore try to see if this relationship
      exists in the investigator's population.
    
  