
    
      This is a two-phase, pilot prospective study to determine the effectiveness of a low-cost
      incubator in warming infants and regulating their temperatures.

      During Phase I, the following steps will be taken:

      A trained study nurse will assess the subject for clinical complications before attaching the
      temperature monitoring device.

        1. A trained study nurse or clinician will attach the temperature monitoring device to the
           infant. A trained research assistant from Rice University or from the Biomedical
           Engineering Department at Malawi Polytechnic will observe all procedures and will notify
           the nurse of any observed errors so they may be corrected. They will also be able to
           answer any technical questions from the nurse.

        2. The trained study nurse will attach the temperature probe from the commercial patient
           monitor as well as provide any other care needed.

        3. A research assistant will use a laptop to collect the electrical signals from both
           temperature monitors.

        4. Temperature monitoring will continue for up to 3 days. The research assistant may ask
           the nurse to remove and reapply the temperature monitor during this period.

      Once Phase I is complete, Phase II will begin. During Phase II, the following steps will be
      taken:

      A trained study nurse will assess the subject for clinical complications before beginning
      treatment.

        1. A trained study nurse or research technician will turn the incubator on to begin
           pre-warming.

        2. A trained study nurse or clinician will attach the temperature probe from the IncuBaby
           device to the infant and then place the infant in the incubator. A trained research
           assistant from Rice University or from the Biomedical Engineering Department at Malawi
           Polytechnic will observe all procedures and will notify the nurse of any observed errors
           so they may be corrected. They will also be able to answer any technical questions from
           the nurse.

        3. The trained study nurse will attach the temperature probe from the commercial patient
           monitor as well as provide any other care needed.

        4. A research assistant will use a laptop to collect the data from both devices.

        5. Care will be continued at the discretion of the clinician until the infant can be weaned
           from the IncuBaby device. The infant may be weaned to the standard of care or end
           thermal treatment. The infant will be transitioned to Kangaroo Mother Care (KMC) as soon
           as possible after these eligibility criteria are fulfilled:

             -  Completed other treatment (CPAP, phototherapy, IV)

             -  Mom/caregiver becomes available

             -  Weight increases > 1000g

             -  Become clinically stable

             -  Body temperature is stable and not dipping below normal despite thermal support

      During both phases, a research assistant will be available during the trial to mitigate any
      complications with the device. A nurse will be available to respond to alarms from the
      continuous patient monitor. If the subject's guardian, the nurse, or the research assistant
      indicates concern during the tests, the study treatment can be discontinued and the subject
      will return to the standard of care.
    
  