
    
      Cardiovascular disease continues to be the main cause of death in Western countries, with a
      very high prevalence (affecting >1 in every 3 adult Americans), and contributes as one of the
      highest annual healthcare costs. There is still enormous potential for improving prevention
      although notable efforts have already been made. In the Spanish population, the following
      cardiovascular risk factors have been identified as being most prevalent: arterial
      hypertension, dyslipidemia, having a sedentary lifestyle, tobaccoism, obesity and diabetes.

      Essential Arterial Hypertension (EAH) is the most prevalent cardiovascular risk factor in the
      world and the main cause of cardiovascular disease. There are many clinical practice guides
      which recommend carrying out moderate physical activity to prevent, delay or reduce
      hypertension, given that the practice of community interventions with physical activity have
      been efficient.

      The indication to perform Itinerant Monitorization blood pressure in the diagnosis of
      hypertension is included in the latest draft of the clinical practice guideline from NICE,
      National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence .

      Other cardiovascular risk factor to take into account is dyslipidemia, the prevalence of
      dyslipidemia is 16.2% in adults aged over 20 years. For this condition, physical activity is
      also recommended.

      When faced with a sedentary lifestyle or physical inactivity two intervention measures are
      available for reducing its incidence: verbal healthcare advice (taking advantage of the
      patients visit to the consultation) and the prescription of physical exercise.

      Taking into account the interventions mentioned that can be carried out in the face of risk
      factors, and that a multifactorial intervention is more efficient that individual
      interventions, the investigators have designed a clinical trial which attempts to improve
      most of the principal risk factors. The objective is to reduce the cardiovascular risk of
      patients using a multifactorial intervention on hypertension, dyslipidemia, sedentary
      lifestyle. The investigators will evaluate the efficiency of a program for official
      prescriptions for physical exercise compared to structured verbal advice in hypertense
      patients undergoing treatment and who have another risk factors (dyslipidemia being treated
      for more than one year or they are smokers), including action to improve the treatment
      adaptation for the hypertension (ABPM).
    
  