
    
      Sixty patients (n=60) diagnosed with depressive or anxiety disorder due to another medical
      condition in the context of cancer or palliative care, will be recruited to the study through
      referrals from health care professionals at Kingston Health Sciences Centre (KHSC) including
      cancer centre, Providence Care Hospital (PCH), family physicians, and other health care
      providers or self-referrals. After consenting to take part in the study, a complete
      assessment will be done by one of the psychiatrists on the team to confirm the diagnosis.
      Inclusion criteria include 18-55 years of age at the start of the study, diagnosed with
      depression or anxiety secondary to a general medical condition (in the context of cancer or
      palliative condition) according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders,
      5th Edition (DSM-5) by one of the psychiatrists on the team, competence to consent and
      participate, ability to speak and read English, and consistent and reliable access to the
      internet. Exclusion criteria include acute hypomanic/manic episodes, acute psychosis, severe
      alcohol or substance use disorder, and active suicidal or homicidal ideation or if they have
      received CBT in the past year or are currently receiving CBT. Participants will then be
      randomly assigned to two groups: e-psychotherapy group (online CBT+ mindfulness + problem
      solving) or treatment as usual (TAU, i.e., medication, psychiatric consultation and referrals
      to in-person activities/groups) arms of the study (n=30 for each group). The TAU arm acts as
      the control group of the study.

      Upon completion of the initial assessment, if eligible for the study, participants will
      randomly be assigned to one of the two arms of the study. Patients in the e-CBT group will
      receive an 8-week online program including CBT in combination with mindfulness and
      problem-based therapy in addition to treatment as usual. The content of this program will be
      customized to reflect challenges cancer and palliative patients face through the course of
      their treatment and developed into interactive and engaging therapy modules. All online
      sessions and interactions will occur through a secure online platform (i.e. OPTT). Through
      the platform, the pre-designed therapy modules are assigned to the patients, accessible to
      them at any time throughout the week. Each module consists of approximately 30 slides, which
      take an average of 45-50 minutes to complete. Each weekly module highlights a different topic
      and includes general information, an overview of skills, and homework that is to be completed
      within that week. This homework can be directly submitted through the platform to the
      clinician who will then provide personalized feed-back to the patient. The average time spent
      per week by a clinician with a particular patient is about 15 minutes. The control group will
      receive treatment as usual in the first 8 weeks; if still significantly symptomatic (less
      than 50% response to treatment from baseline), they will then be offered the 8-week
      e-psychotherapy program.
    
  