
    
      Opioid dependent individuals will be recruited for participation in the study. Upon
      recruitment into the randomized trial each participant will be started on an induction dosage
      of medication intended to suppress withdrawal (either buprenorphine-naloxone, morphine, or
      tramadol). Participants will remain on the induction dose for at least 24 hrs. Severity of
      withdrawal will be assessed twice a day using the Clinical Opiate Withdrawal Scale (COWS) and
      the Subjective Opiate Withdrawal Scale (SOWS). Each morning, participants will be given the
      option to progress on the tapering protocol (see below for individual regimens). Time to
      complete detoxification and initiation of naltrexone treatment will be measured. At
      completion of the study each participant will complete a 7-iten Detoxification Treatment
      Satisfaction questionnaire.

      Taper Schedule Dosing Buprenorphine-Naloxone (Suboxone): Patients will get 4mg when
      withdrawal symptoms start. Patients can receive the first 8mg dose as early as 6hrs later,
      and at that point will start on an 8mg twice-a-day schedule. Each morning the patient will be
      assessed regarding their ability to progress to the next stage of the taper.
      Buprenorphine-naloxone will be tapered 2mg/day.

      Tramadol: At enrollment the patients will receive a 100mg dose and can receive another 100mg
      every 6 hrs for 24 hrs. Each morning the patient will be assessed regarding their ability to
      progress to the next stage of the taper. Patients will then be tapered on the following
      schedule 100mg every 8 hrs, 50mg every 6 hrs, 50mg every 8 hrs, 50mg ever 12 hrs, and one
      final daily dose of 50mg.

      Morphine: Patients receive 30mg every 4 hours for 24 hrs from when withdrawal symptoms start.
      Each morning the patient will be assessed regarding their ability to progress to the next
      stage of the taper. Patients will then be tapered on the following schedule: 30 mg every 6
      hours, 30 mg every 8 hours, 30 mg every 12 hours, and one final daily 30 mg dose.

      As Needed Medications: Patients in all groups will have access to the following medications
      as needed gabapentin 400mg every 8 hrs, loperamide 2mg every 3 hrs, odansetron 4mg every 6
      hrs, ibuprofen 600mg ever 8 hrs, and hydroxyzine 25-50mg nightly.

      Naltrexone Test Dose Patients will receive an oral test dose of naltrexone (25mg) either 10
      days after completing the buprenorphine-naloxone taper (standard of care) or 7 days after the
      morphine or tramadol taper. If the oral test dose is tolerated then the patients may choose
      to pursue treatment with an extended release naltrexone intramuscular injection (380mg) 24
      hrs later. Due to the risk for hepatocellular injury with naltrexone, patients with baseline
      elevations in either aspartate transaminase or alanine transaminase greater than three times
      the upper limit of our clinical laboratory's reference range will be ineligible to receive
      extended release naltrexone, but may choose to continue oral naltrexone maintenance therapy
      (50mg daily) (standard of care). As part of the study the investigators will record the time
      to naltrexone maintenance therapy.
    
  