
    
      Purpose:

      To assess the feasibility and preliminary outcomes of a single-blinded randomized clinical
      trial evaluating the effect of laser and traditional acupuncture during the IVF cycle on
      pregnancy outcomes in women undergoing euploid embryo transfer.

      Hypothesis:

      A single-blinded randomized clinical trial evaluating the effects and reproductive outcomes
      of laser and traditional acupuncture during the IVF cycle will be acceptable to patients and
      feasible for a large fertility clinic.

      Justification:

      IVF is a costly treatment option for women, their partners, and the public. Therefore, new
      therapies that improve reproductive and health outcomes are highly desirable. Furthermore,
      the economic burden of IVF is directly related to the number of attempted cycles, and hence
      there is a growing interest in the use of adjuvant therapies to optimize pregnancy outcomes
      on a per cycle basis.

      Acupuncture, both traditional and laser, has become a popular adjuvant therapy for women
      undergoing IVF treatment. Previous studies attempting to validate the effects of traditional
      acupuncture on IVF outcomes have demonstrated contradicting results. Importantly, none of the
      prior studies controlled for the effect of embryonic aneuploidy, which is a major contributor
      to implantation failure and early miscarriage. Further, there are very few studies assessing
      the effects of laser and traditional acupuncture on IVF outcomes and no studies to date that
      take into account embryo genetics.

      Hence, the purpose of this study is to investigate the feasibility of a randomized clinical
      trial assessing the effects of laser and traditional acupuncture on IVF outcomes in women
      undergoing euploid embryo transfer after complete chromosomal screening, thereby controlling
      for a normal karyotype and allowing for a more meaningful analysis of the effect of laser and
      traditional acupuncture on IVF outcomes.

      Objectives:

        1. To assess patient acceptance and clinical feasibility of a well-designed randomized
           clinical pilot study comparing the effects of a clinical-dose (8 total sessions) of
           laser and needle acupuncture on pregnancy outcomes in IVF.

        2. To generate preliminary results based on a feasible study design that may inform the
           implementation of a larger randomized clinical study in the future.

      Research design:

      One hundred patients undergoing IVF with preimplantation genetics screening will be
      randomized using a computer-generated block randomization method to either the laser and
      traditional acupuncture (n = 50) or standard-of-care (n = 50) arm. The laser acupuncture arm
      will be offered treatment 3 times a week starting from menses, plus an additional treatment
      before embryo transfer (ET). The goal is to have completed 7 treatments prior to ET, for a
      total of 8 treatments (last treatment done at Olive Centre right before ET). Patients in the
      standard-of-care arm will receive standard treatment. Physicians and nurses will be blinded
      to the groups assigned and will provide the same standard of care to both groups.
      Participants will be asked to complete a short survey following each laser acupuncture
      treatment.

      Study procedure:

      Participants in the laser and needle acupuncture arm will be offered treatment 2-4 times a
      week starting from menses, plus an additional treatment before ET. The goal is to have
      completed 7 treatments prior to ET, then one one on the day of ET (before and after
      transfer), for a total of 8 treatment sessions. Participants will be asked to complete a
      short survey following each laser and traditional acupuncture session.

      Because the results of the preimplantation genetic screening (PGS) do not return with enough
      time for a fresh embryo transfer, all PGS embryos are transferred as part of a frozen ET.
      Unfortunately, there are no consensus protocols on the use of acupuncture in either frozen or
      fresh embryo IVF transfers. As such, we have used the expert opinions of several registered
      acupuncturists skilled in reproductive health to arrive at a consensus laser acupuncture
      protocol that is appropriate for a frozen-embryo transfer. Full details of the protocol are
      included in the Research Proposal.

      Laser and traditional acupuncture will be performed by a certified acupuncturist skilled in
      reproductive health and experienced with use of laser and needle acupuncture in IVF.
      Physicians and nurses will be blinded to the groups assigned. The following certified
      acupuncturists will be performing the acupunctures:

      Lorne Brown Ryan Funk Emilie Salomons Christina Ceconni Allison Locke Kathleen Lee Bronwyn
      Melville There are fewer variables with laser acupuncture than traditional acupuncture. The
      amount of energy and distance from each acupoint are the same, so there is less variation
      between providers. With traditional acupuncture, there is difference in needle depth of
      penetration, pressure, etc. Additionally, while it would be ideal for the same acupuncturist
      to provide all the treatment, this isn't feasible for the acupuncture clinic.

      The reference arm will receive standard treatment.

      The questionnaire surveys will be given to the patient participants after each laser
      acupuncture session if they are in the acupuncture group, and after their embryo transfer if
      they are from the standard care group. The study participants will be taken to a different
      room/office within the clinic to complete the surveys. To ensure blinding, the questionnaires
      will be provided by research staff not involved in the direct care of the patients. After
      completing the survey, the participant will place it in a sealed envelope.

      This way, the participant responses are anonymized, with only the participant identification
      number on the forms, and no other patient-identifying information. The responses will not be
      made known to the physicians and nurses.

      Statistical analysis:

      Feasibility outcomes to be assessed include recruitment rate, refusal rate, retention rate,
      non-compliance rate, ability to maintain blindedness of healthcare staff, inclusion of all
      important data points, and determination of centre willingness and capacity.

      Success of feasibility will be determined by the following criteria:

        -  At least 70% of all eligible participants choose to participate

        -  At least 90% retention of those that choose to participate

        -  At least 90% of all recruited participants complete six acupuncture sessions and the
           follow up survey

        -  At least 95% maintained blindedness of healthcare providers
    
  