
    
      This is a single-site, prospective pilot study involving the collection of amniotic fluid at
      cesarean delivery followed by the immediate processing and re-application to the closure
      among twenty women at term undergoing cesarean delivery at Duke University Hospital. The
      objective of the study is to determine the feasibility of collection and application of
      autologous amniotic fluid at cesarean delivery.

      VISIT 1: Screening/Enrollment Visit:

      Once informed consent is obtained, demographic information, as well as medical and surgical
      history will be obtained. A medical release form will also be signed so that in the event
      that the subject is seen outside the Duke Health system after delivery, the study team will
      be able to request pertinent medical records.

      VISIT 2: Day of Surgery Visit:

      At presentation for delivery, study team members will reconfirm eligibility criteria.
      Subjects will then undergo cesarean delivery as per standard care.

      The Recibio kit includes the following supplies, all of which are packaged in a sterile kit
      and will be opened onto the sterile surgical field:

        -  Mucous trap

        -  Yankauer suction device

        -  Tubing to connect to wall suction

        -  10 ml syringe

        -  1 ml syringe

        -  Syringe spray applicator and spray tip with attached syringes - the spray device is
           included in sterile packaging and manufactured and distributed by Recibio, Inc. Ratio
           Applicator Kit, Ref # 2101 with an have FDA clearance via Class 1 exempt device FDA
           listing number D377967.

           10% calcium chloride vials will be provided separately. Vials will not be placed on the
           sterile field as it will likely not have sterile packaging. The calcium chloride
           solution will either be poured into a small sterile bowl so that it may be drawn up into
           the1 cc device syringe in a sterile manner OR drawn up into the device syringe directly
           by a member of the sterile surgical team while a member of the study team holds the
           non-sterile portion of the vial.

      The sterile supplies will be placed on the surgical table and set up for use prior to the
      start of the cesarean section. The surgery will begin and be completed as part of standard of
      care.

      Once the uterine incision has been made the following steps will be taken:

      Following incision of the lower uterine segment, the amniotic sac will be opened with an
      amniotic perforator.

      The Yankauer will be used to suction the amniotic fluid into the mucous trap as it escapes
      from the amniotic cavity.

      After delivery of the newborn and placenta and the uterine incision closed, the amniotic
      fluid will be drawn from the mucous trap into the 10 ml syringe

      The 10 mL syringe containing the amniotic fluid will then be observed for gross contamination
      (i.e. vertex, meconium-staining) and then attached to the spray device.

      The 1 ml syringe containing 1 ml of 10% calcium chloride will then also be attached to the
      spray device via the second port (final concentration of 1% once sprayed).

      The amniotic fluid-calcium chloride mixture will then be sprayed (1.5 to 2.0 ml) across the
      closed uterine incision and lower uterine segment.

      Next the fascia will be closed and the fascial incision sprayed (1.5 to 2.0 ml).

      Finally, the subcutaneous tissue will be closed and sprayed (1.5 to 2.0 ml) and then the skin
      will be closed and sprayed (1.5 to 2.0 ml).

      A photo of the closed incision will be taken prior to the application of any bandages.

      The incision will then be dressed as part of standard practice.

      Any extra amniotic fluid will be kept and stored at -80 degrees in the Duke Reproductive
      Biology and Perinatal Research Laboratory for potential future research.

      Since this study is testing product feasibility, only licensed investigators that are
      included as study personnel will be permitted to apply CeaLogic to the various tissue layers
      as described above.

      Data elements regarding certain time points during surgery, use of the CeaLogic, and any
      complications will be recorded. These include, but are not limited to:

      Procedure start time (incision time)

      Time of uterine incision

      Approximate volume of amniotic fluid collected

      Description of amniotic fluid (color, presence/absence of vertex, blood, or
      meconium-staining)

      Time that uterine closure is complete

      Approximate spray volume to closed uterine incision

      Approximate spray volume to closed abdominal fascia

      Approximate spray volume to closed subcutaneous tissue

      Approximate spray volume to closed skin

      Procedure end time

      Estimated blood loss

      Type of skin closure

      VISIT 3: Day of Discharge Visit:

      The subject will receive routine post-operative care during the immediate post-operative
      period. Most cesarean section patients are discharged home on post-operative day 2 or 3. The
      following study activities will occur at this visit:

      A photo of the incision site

      Assessment of the incision site that includes presence of redness, swelling, induration, as
      well as pain at rest and with gentle pressure

      The amount of pain medication used since delivery (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents and
      narcotics)

      The patient will be provided with a memory aid to record pain level and any pain medications
      that she takes once she goes home.

      An instruction form on how to complete the memory aid, as well as study team contact
      information, should the patient have questions or problems related to her incision.

      Scheduling of the first follow up visit that will occur 6-8 days after surgery.

      The study team will monitor the subject's medical record for vital signs and record any
      evidence of post-operative fever (maternal temperature greater than 38 degrees C its source,
      and action taken by the care team.

      Documentation of any adverse events

      VISIT 4: 1 Week Follow Up Visit:

      Subjects will be seen at the Duke Perinatal Research Center approximately one week following
      her procedure (post-operative day 6-8).

      At this visit the following study procedures will occur:

      Photo of the wound

      Assessment of the incision

      Documentation of any signs or symptoms of infection

      Review of the subject's memory aid for pain and pain medication

      Documentation of any adverse events

      Scheduling of the next study visit (approximately 4 weeks post-delivery)

      VISIT 5: 4 Week Follow Up Visit:

      Subjects will be seen during the routine postpartum clinic visit at approximately 4 weeks
      following delivery.

      At this visit the following study procedures will occur:

      Photo of the wound

      Assessment of the incision

      Documentation of any signs or symptoms of infection

      Documentation of any adverse events

      Review of the subject's memory aid for pain and pain medication

      VISIT 6: Phone Call Follow Up Visit:

      The subject will be contacted by telephone by a member of the study team approximately 6
      weeks after delivery to determine if she had any wound complications since her last visit. If
      so, the subject's medical record will be reviewed to determine if there were any
      complications or treatment pertaining to her cesarean section incision. If the subject
      received this care outside of the Duke Health system, the signed medical records release will
      be sent to the applicable health care facility to request pertinent to be reviewed. An
      IRB-approved phone script will be used for this phone call. The subject will also be asked a
      series of questions pertaining to medication use, pain at the incision site, and activity
      level. Adverse events will be documented if they have occurred.

      Unscheduled Study Visit:

      If a study subject contacts the study team with concern for complications with her cesarean
      section wound, an unscheduled visit will be completed. This visit can happen anytime during
      the subject's participation(up to 30 days following the procedure where the procedure day is
      day 1), but after the CeaLogic has been applied.

      During this visit, study staff will perform the following study procedures:

      Photo of the wound

      Assessment of the incision

      Documentation of any signs or symptoms of infection

      Documentation of adverse events

      Review of medical record for any treatment actions taken related to the cesarean section
      wound

      Product Use questionnaire:

      In addition to the above study activities, each time a licensed investigator uses CeaLogic,
      they will be asked to complete a short questionnaire about their experience with using the
      device. No personal identifying information will be captured in this questionnaire.
      Information gathered from these questionnaires will be compiled and given to the sponsor for
      feedback and possible product improvements.
    
  