
    
      This is a multi-center, phase 2, single arm unblinded trial of oral Ponatinib in patients
      with Ph+ Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. Patients will receive daily oral administration of
      Ponatinib at a dose of 45 mg/day for 6 weeks (defined as one course) for 8 courses, same dose
      and schedule, for a total of 48 weeks. Each patient will be followed for the subsequent 24
      months, every 3 month, providing survival information and monitoring serious adverse event.

      Each patient should be treated for a minimum of 6 weeks. Then a patient can be discontinued
      in the following situation:

        -  at the end of first course (6 weeks), in case of lack of CHR;

        -  at the end of third course (18 weeks), in case of lack of CCgR;

        -  any time in case of loss of CHR or CCgR.

      If they remain on therapy after 48 weeks, they will be able to continue treatment during the
      extension phase of the study, if it is of interest of the patient, or they will be allowed to
      receive any treatment that is in their interest. For all the patients remaining on trial,
      response, outcome and toxicity will be followed for the subsequent 24 months.The 6-weeks
      periodicity must be rigidly respected, irrespective of the temporary discontinuation of study
      drug (eg, if a patient will take Ponatinib only for 4 weeks and will remain off-treatment for
      the subsequent two weeks because of AE, when the 7th week begins this patient will restart
      Ponatinib as a second course, as per protocol). Prednisone (P) will be administered to all
      patients for 7-14 days, before Ponatinib, so as to make it possible to wait for the results
      of cytogenetic and molecular tests, and to evaluate the response to P alone, hence for
      another 21 days. Intrathecal therapy (IT) with MTX/AraC/DEX is mandatory, every 28 days, in
      patients without clinical-cytologic evidence of meningeal involvement. In patients with CNS
      disease, IT is performed twice weekly until a complete clearance of cerebrospinal fluid blast
      cells is achieved, hence once weekly for 4 weeks, hence once monthly.
    
  