
    
      Among advanced cancer patients, discussions about prognosis, goals of care (GoC) and
      end-of-life preferences improve quality of life of patients and reduce rates of hospital and
      ICU admission. Yet, few patients know their chemotherapy treatments will not cure their
      disease despite nearly all wishing to receive information- good & bad. Currently, 37% of
      advanced cancer patients have GoC clarifying discussions and when they do, it is often in the
      last 2 months of life when symptoms are uncontrollable and oncologists have no other
      treatments to offer. These discussions do not usually happen with the patient's personal
      oncologist. Current efforts to teach oncologists such skills are impractical, requiring a lot
      of time away from their office practice and do not take into account job pressures.

      The goal of this study is to increase and improve GoC discussions for advanced cancer
      patients by training medical oncologists to conduct these discussions and evaluate its
      effects on patient satisfaction, receipt of care in line with preferences, aggressive care
      utilization, and oncologist communication skill.

      The investigators will recruit 280 patients of which half will come from intervention doctors
      and the other from the control doctors. The investigators will train randomly selected
      oncologists to conduct GoC discussion. Patients will be surveyed at baseline within days of
      their GOC visit and at 6 months. Oncologists will be audio-taped at baseline and after
      training is complete to assess practice and skill to conduct GoC discussions.

      Primary outcomes include patient reported conduct of and satisfaction with GoC discussion.
      Secondary outcomes include oncologist communication skills, feasibility of performing GoC in
      the outpatient setting, receipt of care in line with preferences, use of hospice,
      chemotherapy or ICU in the last 30 days of life.
    
  