
    
      Objective: L-DOPS is a synthetic chemical that can be converted to norepinephrine (NE). NE is
      a key messenger of the sympathetic nervous system. Failure of the sympathetic nervous system
      results in orthostatic hypotension (OH), a fall in blood pressure when the person stands up.
      Patients with Parkinson disease (PD) often have OH that is related to loss of sympathetic
      nerves and to NE deficiency. L-DOPS can help treat OH in these patients. Drugs used commonly
      to treat PD, however, probably influence effects of L-DOPS. Carbidopa, which combined with
      levodopa (brand name Sinemet) is a standard treatment for PD, might prevent L-DOPS from being
      turned into NE outside the brain and therefore interfere with effects of L-DOPS on blood
      pressure. Entacapone (brand name Comtan) might augment production of NE after a dose of
      L-DOPS, by decreasing metabolic breakdown of L-DOPS. The first goal of this study is to test
      these hypotheses in patients with neurogenic OH. NE is also a chemical messenger in the brain
      and is thought to participate in a variety of neuropsychiatric phenomena such as vigilance,
      mood, memory, and transmission of pain sensation. Patients with OH can have evidence of
      central NE deficiency. A second goal of this study is to determine whether depressed mood,
      apathy, fatigue, or pain improve with L-DOPS treatment in these patients. A third goal is to
      test whether carbidopa and entacapone, which both should enhance delivery of L-DOPS to the
      brain, augment L-DOPS effects on these symptoms. Finally, a fourth goal is to verify that
      carbidopa and entacapone augment neurochemical indices of central neural production of NE
      after a dose of L-DOPS.

      Study Population: The subjects are patients with PD+NOH, MSA+NOH, or pure autonomic failure
      (PAF); and healthy volunteers. A total of 55 patients and 15 healthy volunteers are to be
      enrolled.

      Design: Patients and healthy volunteers enter this Protocol after undergoing clinical
      laboratory evaluation under NIH Clinical Protocol 03-N-0004, to confirm the diagnosis,
      identify NOH, and provide data related to central or peripheral NE production. Each subject
      serves as his or her own control. Subjects are tested after taking a single oral dose of 400
      mg of L-DOPS in a randomized crossover design study of three treatment conditions L-DOPS
      alone, L-DOPS after carbidopa (200 mg), and L-DOPS after entacapone (200 mg). Healthy
      volunteers have CSF drawn by lumbar puncture under fluoroscopic guidance about 3 hours after
      administration of each drug combination.

      Outcome Measures:

      Primary: Hemodynamics, plasma catechols and their metabolites, non-motor symptom checklists

      Secondary: (In healthy volunteers) CSF catechols and their metabolites

      Other: (In patients with dysarthria) Speech
    
  