
    
      Despite the term 'emotion' being commonly used in day-to-day language, within the research
      literature on emotion regulation (both within the health field and more broadly) there is
      great variety in the terminology and scales of measurement used. So much so that Buck
      describes the field as "conceptual and definitional chaos" (Buck 1990, p.330). However Gross
      has recently renewed his extended process model of emotion regulation and this is now a
      widely established model although used more frequently in cognition research than in health
      research (see Gross 2015 for a full description of the model)

      In 1998 Gross described emotion regulation as "shaping which emotions one has, when one has
      them, and how one experiences or expresses those emotions" (Gross 1998). One of the key
      points which this model suggests is that each of the 5 steps offer potential for emotion
      regulation and that there is no limit as to the number or type of activities which might
      serve this purpose.

      It is this ability to regulate emotions (i.e. a person's capacity to successfully modify the
      trajectory of their emotions), which has been established as an important but complex concept
      in health research. A number of systematic reviews have explored what is known about emotion
      regulation across a variety of mental health diagnoses (e.g. Sloan et al 2017, Hu et al
      2014). Fernandez et al 2014 argue that it is a key transdiagnostic concept using the Research
      Domain Criteria framework.

      As poor emotion regulation has therefore been implicated in the onset and maintenance of a
      range of mental health conditions, it has subsequently been the target of a number of
      psychological interventions. Given that affective instability and reactivity, and the use of
      problematic regulation strategies, are some of the core criteria for EUPD, many of the
      treatment approaches for this clinical group address emotion regulation. It remains unclear
      what the mediating or moderating role of emotion regulation is in influencing treatment
      outcome. A comprehensive, theoretically and psychometrically sound instrument to measure
      emotion regulation is therefore vital for the development or adaptation of these types of
      interventions and the subsequent research examining mechanisms of action.

      There are numerous self-report questionnaires which are used to quantify emotion regulation.
      However many of these have psychometric and/or theoretical weaknesses which could potentially
      impact on the quality of research and the conclusions drawn from this research. Preece and
      colleagues (2018) describe and evaluate the existing 13 self-report measures relevant to the
      concept of emotion regulation. In summary they argue that none of these scales :

        1. measure emotion regulation across both negative and positive emotions

        2. measure across all four components of emotion regulation

        3. clearly distinguish between emotion recognition/description (alexithymia) and emotion
           regulation.

      Preece and colleagues therefore developed the PERCI on the basis of Gross' model in order to
      overcome these deficits. Preece and colleagues (2018) published research outlining the
      process of scale development and reported good indices of reliability and validity for this
      measure in a non-clinical population. They recommend replication of reliability and validity
      research in clinical populations. Factor structure was examined through the use of a series
      of confirmatory factor analyses. They found the factor structure to be replicable and
      consistent with the theoretical basis of the Gross model. In the non-clinical population (N =
      1175) the PERCI total score had an excellent internal reliability (Cronbach's alpha α) of
      0.95. They also reported excellent internal reliability of the four subscales of the PERCI:
      Negative emotion regulation (α 0.93), Positive emotion regulation (α 0.92), General
      facilitating hedonic goals (α 0.94) and Positive containing emotions (α 0.93). Concurrent and
      criterion validity analyses were also reported and confirmed the hypotheses of the
      researchers in that higher reporting of emotion regulation difficulties on the PERCI was
      associated with measures of maladaptive regulation strategies, higher levels of alexithymia,
      more insecure attachments and higher levels of depression, anxiety and stress.

      The current study will be a cross-sectional survey using online self-report questionnaires.
      The study seeks to test the psychometric properties of the scale in mental health
      populations, as poor emotion regulation is particularly pertinent yet the psychometric
      properties of the scale are unknown in this population. It is possible that the factor
      structure and other psychometric properties of the scale are different between clinical and
      non-clinical populations and this could have important implications for theory, research and
      practice.

      The clinical group will be separated in to people with low and high 'EUPD' traits to allow
      comparison. The diagnosis of EUPD is controversial and frequently stigmatised. Some people
      using mental health services will meet criteria for EUPD but not have been told this directly
      by clinicians, others may have been told they have EUPD informally or after insufficient
      assessment. This complexity and heterogeneity has led to the decision not to rely on reported
      diagnosis but to measure current EUPD symptomatology and allocate people to two clinical
      groups on the basis of clinical cut-offs.

      The population accessing the NHS talking therapies service, Improving Access to Psychological
      Therapy (IAPT), has been found to have high rates of people meeting diagnostic criteria for
      EUPD (Hepgel and colleagues 2016) and even higher levels of people with traits of personality
      disorder. As this is a large and relatively accessible group of people this is the population
      the researchers will target for recruitment for the clinical group.

      The researchers will initially recruit a non-clinical group from NHS staff members as they
      may be more representative of the general population in terms of broad demographics than a
      student sample.
    
  