
    
      The initial study visit will occur in-person two weeks after discharge from the hospital.
      Participants will meet with a member of the study staff (the study "trainer") and complete
      self-report questionnaires assessing health behavior adherence and mental and physical
      health. Then, participants will be randomized to receive the positive psychology +
      motivational interviewing or the motivational interviewing health education interventions. A
      study interventionist will provide a treatment manual specific to their condition, review the
      rationale for the initial exercise, and assign the first exercise. If the participant is in
      the positive psychology + motivational interviewing condition, the trainer will explain the
      rationale for both the positive psychology and goal-setting portions of the program, and will
      be assigned the first exercise. Similarly, if the participant is randomized into the
      motivational interviewing health education program, the interventionist will introduce them
      to the program and assign the first exercise. Participants in both groups will then be given
      an accelerometer, which they will be asked to wear for 7 days to ensure that they are
      comfortable with the device and that useable data can be obtained from the participant.
      Participants in both groups will then complete twelve 30-minute weekly phone sessions with a
      study trainer. The phone sessions primarily will include a review of the prior week's session
      content and a discussion of the rationale and assignment of the next week's
      exercise/assignment. Upon the completion of these calls, and again at a final follow-up
      timepoint at 24 weeks, a blinded member of the study staff will call participants to
      administer self-report outcome measures. Participants will also be asked to wear an
      accelerometer at each of these follow-up timepoints as an objective measure of physical
      activity, which they will return by mail to the study staff.
    
  