
    
      BACKGROUND Heart failure (HF) is a common diagnosis affecting at least 26 million people
      worldwide. Based on available data from the US and Europe, the overall prevalence of HF
      ranges from 1% to 12%. The lifetime risks of developing HF, assessed and reported based on a
      large, diverse, multi-cohort group of 39,578 participants, was shown to be about 30% to 42%
      in white men, 20% to 29% in black men, 32% to 39% in white women, and 24% to 46% in black
      women. Survival rates reported in studies also varied, with data from the US and Europe
      indicating a 1-year survival rate of 89% to 70%, and 5-year survival rates ranging from 59%
      to as low as 35%, reflecting a significant increase in the risk of death compared to the
      general age and gender matched population.

      The discrepancies in the estimates can most likely be attributed to differences in patient
      selection, as well as ascertainment and adjustment approaches, however, irrespective of the
      precise rates, several trends are congruent across studies, including high prevalence,
      reduced life expectancy, worsening profile with aging and, at best, stagnant incidence rates
      over the last several decades. These trends have tremendous implications since HF patients
      are major consumers of healthcare resources.

      Large-scale randomized controlled trials have demonstrated that angiotensin
      receptor-neprilysin inhibitors, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs), angiotensin
      receptor blockers (ARBs), beta-blockers and mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists all
      improve clinical outcomes in HF patients, suggesting that their combination could translate
      to a 60-70% relative risk reduction in all-cause mortality, and clinical guidelines recommend
      up titrating the treatments to maximal tolerated doses. However, in clinical practice,
      evidence from 12,440 HF patients of the European Society of Cardiology Heart Failure
      Long-Term Registry, showed that about 30% of patients were on target doses of ACEIs, 18% were
      on target doses of beta-blockers, and approximately one-third had no documented reason for
      the failure to up-titrate. Barriers to medication titration include health-provider
      knowledge, self-efficacy and attitudes, patient-related factors and limited time and support
      facilities to enable regular monitoring.

      Remote patient monitoring is a potential component in the management of HF that can provide
      reliable and real-time physiological data for clinical decision support, alerting, and
      patient self-management. Telemonitoring enables patients to track their vital signs and
      symptoms, and also to receive automated instruction and clinical intervention during
      "teachable moments" (i.e., clear actions are provided when the context is most appropriate).
      The automated instructions are based on current physiological measurements, self-monitored
      symptoms, and can be readily analyzed. Automated real-time alerts and frequently collected
      and analyzed physiological/symptom data can also support clinical decisions by healthcare
      providers. Several previous studies, including 2 studies conducted by the same research team,
      have shown that the use of telemonitoring interventions for the management of chronic
      conditions can lead to positive health outcomes and significant reductions in healthcare
      costs if the intervention is designed and implemented appropriately. Telemonitoring for HF
      patients has been shown to be particularly beneficial, demonstrating reduced mortality (risk
      ratio=0.64; 95% confidence interval: 0.48-0.85), reduction in the use of health services, and
      similar or improved quality of life and satisfaction compared with standard care.

      In response to this evidence, Medly, a telemonitoring program for patients with Heart Failure
      (HF) has been launched at the University Health Network (UHN). This program is integrated
      into the Ted Rogers Centre of Excellence in Heart Function at the Peter Munk Cardiac Centre
      (PMCC) as part of the standard of care.

      OBJECTIVES The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of
      the implementation of telemonitoring to facilitate HF medication titration and its impact on.

      The telemonitoring titration management strategy will be compared to the standard titration
      management program consisting of regular in-office visits.

      The hypothesis underlying the primary objective of the study is that both management
      strategies will enable a comparable proportion of patients to reach optimal doses of HF
      medications, within similar timeframes, but that telemonitoring will significantly reduce the
      cost of healthcare resource utilization and patient burden.

      The secondary objective of this study is to obtain a deeper understanding of the experience
      of clinicians and HF patients taking part in the remote titration program, in order to
      develop better awareness of the factors that can positively impact the implementation and
      effectiveness of the intervention.

      The mobile phone-based telemonitoring system (Medly) enables patients with HF to take
      clinically relevant physiological measurements with wireless home medical devices in addition
      to answering symptom questions on the mobile phone. The measurements are automatically and
      wirelessly transmitted to the mobile phone and then to a data server. Specifically, patients
      monitor daily weight, blood pressure/heart rate, symptoms, and some patients monitor their
      activity as determined by their cardiologist. Automated self-care instructions/messages that
      have been carefully developed with healthcare specialists are sent to the patient based on
      the readings and reported symptoms. If there are signs of their status deteriorating, an
      alert is sent to a clinician at the Heart Function Clinic. Through a secure web portal,
      clinicians receive all relevant patient data, thereby granting them access to current trends
      and historic data reported by their patients. Clinicians will use information provided by
      Medly to facilitate remote titration of HF medication doses. A predefined titration
      management strategy will be established during the initial clinic visit, in accordance with
      HF management guidelines. Subsequently, telephone contacts will take place at 2-week
      intervals to titrate medication doses, based on patient-reported data.

      PATIENT DATA ACQUISITION Patients will be followed for the duration of their time in the
      Medly Titrate Program. Data acquisition will include telemonitoring data, patient lab test
      and examination results, application usage data, data regarding healthcare utilization.

      All patients randomized into the study group will also be invited to participate in
      individual interviews intended to assess their experiences and perceptions regarding the
      Program upon titration completion.

      PROVIDER AND PROGRAM STAFF DATA ACQUISITION Healthcare providers and program staff will be
      asked to participate in interviews to determine their perceptions of the Medly Titrate
      Program and of its implementation within existing clinic services.

      DATA ANALYSIS Descriptive statistics will be run regularly on all patient outcome measures to
      monitor the program for quality improvement purposes. Parametric and non-parametric tests
      will be performed to compare data at baseline and titration completion.

      Statistical analyses will be performed using the statistical software application SPSS.
      Interview data will be analyzed using a conventional content analysis approach. Two
      evaluators will analyze the transcripts independently and discuss their findings until a
      consensus is reached. The software program NVivo will be used to help organize the transcript
      data for analysis.

      The underlying assumption is that both remote titration and standard in-office visits will
      yield similar clinical outcomes, but that the remote management strategy will significantly
      reduce healthcare resource utilization. Therefore, non-inferiority and superiority analyses
      will be performed. The intention-to-treat-population, which will include all randomized
      patients, shall be the study population used for the non-inferiority analysis. The
      per-protocol-population, which will include all patients who have been treated according to
      protocol, excluding those who: (a) demonstrated inadequate compliance, or (b) withdrew
      randomized therapy prematurely without cause, shall be the study population used for the
      superiority analysis.

      DISSEMINATION STRATEGY Results will be shared with Medly Program and HF Clinic
      decision-makers as they become available, as they will be used for quality improvement
      purposes. In addition, as these results will be of interest to other clinical settings
      intending to implement similar telemonitoring programs, the investigators plan to disseminate
      findings through publications in appropriate scientific journals and through presentations at
      scientific conferences, as well as other relevant media avenues (e.g., news reports).
    
  