
    
      SCD is an inherited blood disorder that mainly affects people of African, Mediterranean, or
      Latin descent. Symptoms include anemia, infections, organ damage, and painful sickle cell
      crises. Adults with SCD who experience frequent painful crises are more likely to die sooner
      than are adults with SCD who have fewer painful crises. Experts suggest that SCD pain be
      treated in the same way that cancer pain is treated because both types of pain are sustained
      and severe. However, unlike the research directed towards cancer pain, research focused on
      the characteristics of SCD pain has been limited. Although medications are available to treat
      SCD pain, the SCD pain management process is complex and often requires more time than what
      is available during the typical medical appointment. Recent advances in computer technologies
      may provide an opportunity to improve the effectiveness of SCD pain management by combining
      online patient education with decision-making support tools for doctors. This study will
      evaluate three touch screen computerized tools that are known collectively as PAINRelieveIt.
      The three tools include the following:

        1. PAINReportIt-a pain assessment data collection tool

        2. PAINUCope-a multimedia patient education program tailored to the participant's SCD pain
           management misconceptions

        3. PAINConsultN-a decision support tool for doctors that will provide algorithm-based pain
           medication therapies tailored to each participant's pain level

      This two-part study will evaluate the effectiveness of PAINReportIt and PAINUCope, alone and
      in combination with PAINConsultN, at improving participants' SCD pain by educating
      participants about their role in pain management and by providing decision-making support to
      doctors.

      This study comprises two parts. Part 1 of the study will enroll patients who are receiving
      care at the University of Illinois at Chicago Sickle Cell Clinic. The patients will be
      randomly assigned to receive 3 months of either access to PAINReportIt and PAINUCope or usual
      care. At baseline and Month 3, participants will complete questionnaires on misconceptions
      about pain, medication adherence, and pain intensity. The same participants from Part 1 of
      the study will be enrolled into Part 2 of the study, which will last 2 years. Part 2
      participants will be randomly assigned to receive either care from doctors who have access to
      PAINConsultN or usual care. All participants will have access to PAINReportIt and PAINUCope.
      At baseline and Year 2, participants will complete questionnaires on pain episodes.
      Information will also be collected from doctors, including pain documentation,
      appropriateness of prescribed pain medications, and the number of emergency department visits
      by and hospitalizations of participants experiencing painful SCD crises.
    
  