
    
      The hypothesis is that mitochondrial DAMPs are good mechanistic biomarkers for mucosal
      inflammation and healing in IBD.

      Complete mucosal healing (total resolution and absence of ulcerations in the gut) is the most
      sought-after treatment target with the best long-term implication in prognosis.

      Up to now IBD clinicians rely on (1) clinical symptoms (how patients feel, their bowel habit,
      presence of blood in stools), (2) clinical tests such as stool calprotectin (FC) and blood
      C-reactive protein (CRP) to inform both themselves and the patients, how well the drug
      treatment is working and importantly, whether the ulcers and inflammation seen in the gut
      lining have healed or not.

      Current evidence shows that these approaches are not fully informative. For example, 30% of
      patients with significant subjective improvement in their symptoms following treatment of
      active CD have evidence of active inflammation in their gut lining when further assessed with
      an ileo-colonoscopy. Blood and stool tests to predict mucosal healing are only useful in
      around 60-70% and very limited, in guiding the doctors in how severely inflamed the bowel
      wall is during active IBD.

      Direct visualisation using ileo-colonoscopy or flexible sigmoidoscopy is the most accurate
      approach to assess disease activity and mucosal healing in response to medical treatment. By
      knowing precisely, how the gut wall inflammation is responding to treatment, the clinician
      can accurately manage the IBD patient (by either changing the dose and type of treatment, and
      whether to carry on with expensive, strong medications with potentially serious side
      effects). However, in the real world, follow-up endoscopic tests are difficult to carry out
      as they are expensive and we lack the capacity to undertake these examinations within NHS.

      Project Goals

      The main goal for the MUSIC study is to investigate the role of mitochondrial DAMPs in the
      clinic as an indicator of gut inflammation and subsequent mucosal healing in response to
      medical treatment in IBD.

      Secondly, further scientific studies will be carried out using blood, stool, saliva and gut
      biopsy samples to investigate how mitochondrial DAMPs (and all known biomarkers and
      biological data such as genetics) contribute to the abnormal development of gut inflammation
      in IBD.

      Primary research questions:

        -  Do mitochondrial DAMPs predict the activity and severity of IBD-inflammation?

        -  Does normalisation of mitochondrial DAMPs reflect complete endoscopic mucosal healing in
           IBD?

        -  How do mitochondrial DAMPs compare to current biomarkers (FC, CRP) and clinical symptoms
           (HBI/Mayo Score) in assessing IBD inflammation and mucosal healing?

        -  Can a simple decision-making model be developed to predict mucosal healing based on
           mitochondrial DAMPs, together with relevant biological data such as genetics, blood
           transcriptomics, microbiome; and current clinical biomarkers such as calprotectin,
           faecal haemoglobin and blood CRP?

      Secondary research questions:

        -  How are mitochondrial DAMPs released from cells in the IBD gut?

        -  What types of cells are important in mitochondrial DAMP release? There are many forms of
           inflammatory cells in affected IBD gut (e.g. macrophage, epithelial, neutrophils). It is
           possible that different cell types may contain more inflammatory DAMPs.

        -  Which type of mitochondrial DAMPs are important in causing inflammation? Can
           mitochondrial DAMPs pinpoint a specific underlying genetic susceptibility (e.g.
           autophagy) or inflammatory mechanism in IBD?

      Rationale

      The focus is to investigate mitochondrial DAMPs' utility in two clinically relevant
      scenarios: (a) How severe or active is the disease? (b) How well are we treating IBD? - with
      endoscopic endpoints of mucosal inflammation and healing respectively. The Simple Endoscopic
      Score for Crohn's Disease (SES-CD) and Endoscopic Mayo Score (eMS) will be used for CD and UC
      respectively. Both have been validated and used widely in research and in clinical trials. By
      using these objective endoscopic endpoints, mtDAMPs (and in combination with current
      biomarkers FC and CRP) can be tested across a range of mucosal inflammation (full healing to
      severe).

      In addition to this, it will be investigated if mitochondrial DAMPs can identify a
      subclinical pathogenic mechanism (e.g. [a] defective autophagy to clear damaged mitochondria;
      [b] de-regulated innate immune response to mitochondrial DAMPs.) These data will pave the way
      for future use of mitochondrial DAMP biomarkers as part of a stratified approach for new
      treatments targeted at mitochondrial DAMPs and their downstream inflammatory mechanisms in
      IBD.

      Study Population

      Presently within usual NHS care, all patients with active IBD, especially those to be
      initiated on biologic or immunomodulator treatment, are followed up where they will have
      documentation of disease activity (Harvey Bradshaw Index [HBI] or UC Mayo Score [MS], stool
      calprotectin, C-reactive protein, albumin and blood count) to assess their well-being and
      response to medical treatment.

      With MUSIC, patients will be followed up prospectively (aligning the usual NHS clinical care
      above) and will receive additional endoscopic follow-up to assess mucosal healing in response
      to medical treatment. Thus, the MUSIC study will incorporate a prospective endoscopic
      evaluation of mucosal inflammation and mucosal healing into IBD clinics.

      The recruitment and subsequent clinical data and sample collection will take place at 0, 3,
      6, 9 and 12 months.
    
  