
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Sodium reduction and weight loss lead to decreased blood pressure (BP). Among hypertensives,
      BP lowering leads to decreased risk of MI, stroke, and cardiovascular death. Nonetheless,
      concerns have been raised about increased numbers of cardiovascular events among individuals
      with low sodium intake or large weight changes.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The prospective observational follow-up of the Trials of Hypertension Prevention (TOHP)
      includes cardiovascular events among the 4, 507 surviving participants from the ten clinical
      centers involved in Phases I and II of TOHP. Phase I was a randomized trial of the effects of
      non- pharmacologic interventions, including sodium reduction and weight loss, on BP over 18
      months of follow-up with 2,182 participants. Phase II examined the effects of sodium
      reduction and weight loss on BP over a longer 36-month period in a randomized 2X2 factorial
      design with 2,382 participants. During follow-up in Phases I and II of TOHP, several measures
      of both weight and sodium excretion were carefully obtained on all participants. The
      prospective observational follow-up specifically examines whether these values, with an
      emphasis on average level of sodium excretion and weight changes are predictive of later
      cardiovascular disease. The follow-up is conducted centrally by mail from the Division of
      Preventive Medicine, which served as the Coordinating Center for Phases I and II, and which
      has been very successful in conducting such large-scale studies by mail. Information on
      cardiovascular events subsequent to the trial periods is collected through June, 2003,
      representing an average follow-up of approximately fourteen years from the end of Phase I and
      eight years from the end of Phase II. This cohort provides a unique resource to address the
      impact in a normotensive population of salt restriction and weight change on subsequent
      cardiovascular events.
    
  