
    
      T-cell lymphoma that has relapsed after primary treatment or is refractory to treatment
      generally requires salvage therapy. In case of partial or complete response to such salvage
      therapy (partial response is determined by CT), consolidation therapy is performed to
      maintain the response and prevent relapse and autologous stem cell transplantation after
      high-dosage chemotherapy is generally adopted. However, autologous stem cell transplantation
      is unavailable if patient is over 65 years of age or not in a good full-body condition and
      additional treatment plans are required to prevent relapse in such cases. Allogenic stem cell
      transplantation after salvage therapy is also available in limited events in case of relapse
      after autologous stem cell transplantation and the effect of allogenic stem cell
      transplantation still not definite but experimental.

      As a result, the treatment results of T-cell lymphoma that has relapsed are very poor despite
      active application of salvage therapy and overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival
      (PFS) have only been 5.5 and 3.1 months as a result of a previous study on 153 patients.
      Also, 3-year PFS after primary relapse was reportedly 16%. Likewise, overall survival (OS) of
      patients with T-cell lymphoma who experienced relapse or progression within first 24 months
      of diagnosis was 4.9 months (95% CI: 3.8-5.9 months). Therefore, additional therapy
      strategies are required to prevent relapse or progression of disease in patients who received
      salvage therapy for relapsed and/or refractory T-cell lymphoma.

      Recently, the results of phase 2 study were reported where progressive survival period was
      effectively extended with Lenalidomide Maintenance for patients with relapsed and/or
      refractory diffuse large B cell lymphoma in cases where autologous stem cell transplantation
      is unattainable after salvage therapy.

      Lenalidomide controls the immune system to activate the T cells or NK cells in the
      microenvironment of tumor for anti-tumor effects. Also, it combines with cerebron to lower
      IKZF1 and IKZF3 and inhibit MYC through the NF-kB route. MYC inhibition by Lenalidomide
      eventually lowers IRF4 to increase apoptosis and inhibit cell proliferation and induce
      anti-cancer effect accordingly . As a result, Lenalidomide was recognized as a treatment for
      multiple myeloma and lymphoma.

      The results of clinical studies on the effect of Lenalidomide for T-cell lymphoma are still
      limited, but 26% OS has been reported for patients with T-cell lymphoma as a result of phase
      2 clinical test where 25 mg (Day 1 - Day21, every 28 days) Lenalidomide was used as the only
      drug. Also, it has been proven that the increase of IRF4/MUM1, one of the major targets of
      Lenalidomide, is related to the poor prognosis of T-cell lymphoma, so the effect of
      Lenalidomide can be expected for T-cell lymphoma. Therefore, this study was conducted to
      evaluate the efficacies and safety of Lenalidomide Maintenance on patients who have shown
      partial response or complete response to salvage therapy for T-cell lymphoma that have been
      progressive after one or more therapies or relapsed after treatment.
    
  