
    
      The patients sit on an upright chair, wear a head-mounted display (HMD) and grab two handheld
      controllers in a motion-tracked three-dimensional space called "room scale" of the
      mediVR-KAGURA (mediVR, Inc. Toyonaka City, Osaka, Japan). mediVR-KAGURA can provide users
      with >90 frames per second (fps) graphic operation with an approximately 110° viewing angle
      and accurate three-dimensional tracking technology.

      First, we evaluate conventional and maximum reaching distances at 0°, 45°, and 90° level
      surface for the left hand (0L, 45L, 90L) and at 90°, 135°, and 180° level surface for the
      right hand (90R, 135R, or 180R) for calibration in a sitting position. During rehabilitation,
      patients are instructed to touch a fixed objects or catch a falling objects at the
      pre-specified height and distance levels in each degree. Horizontal distances were classified
      into three categories, namely long, middle, and short which were calculated using the
      following formulas: 0.9 * maximum reaching distance, 0.9 * (conventional + maximum reaching
      distances)/2, and conventional reaching distance respectively. A falling object disappeared
      at a 20 cm height for safety if the patients missed to catch it. The purpose of reaching
      hands was to stimulate and break down body trunk balance, and to train participants to
      balance for stable walking. By thinking about the timing and distance and recognizing the
      next targets repeatedly, cognitive function was simultaneously stimulated for dual-task
      training.

      The 7 parameters of the rehabilitation programs can be set like as follows: (1) distance
      (short, middle or long), (2) direction (0L, 45L, 90L, 90R, 135R, or 180R), (3) height of
      object, (4) size of object (center or outline), (5) size of sensing sphere of the controller,
      (6) falling speed of the square box (from 0 to 300 cm/s), and (7) intervals for each task.
      Participants first underwent practical programs to familiarize themselves with mediVR-KAGURA
      guided rehabilitation, followed by rehabilitation programs. Provision of the rehabilitation
      programs will be personalized.
    
  