
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF), a heart rhythm disorder, is a major health problem. As many as 3
      million US persons are afflicted; this number is expected to rise significantly in coming
      decades because AF incidence is directly correlated with age1. AF is significantly associated
      with cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

      The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center will be implanting a Left Atrial Appendage filter
      system (the WATCHMAN® Left Atrial Appendage Filter System, manufactured by Atritech, Inc.).
      We aim to follow these patients for six months post implant in order to assess:

        1. Blood tests to monitor biochemical markers of cardiac remodeling and indices of heart
           function. We will assess atrial natriuretic factor; brain natriuretic peptide;
           norepinephrine; matrix metalloproteinases 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, and 13; gelatinases 2 and 9;
           soluble tumor necrotic factor-II; angiotensin; aldosterone; ADH; rennin; interleukin-6;
           TNF-α; homocysteine; C-reactive protein; quantitative D-dimer; fibrin; fibrinogen; and
           fibrin split products. Biochemical markers of cardiac remodeling are being intensively
           studied globally, with novel markers discovered and published frequently. Serum will be
           banked for the duration of the study to allow for retrospective investigation of newly
           published markers.

        2. Echocardiogram to evaluate myocardial function and atrial work.

        3. 24 hour holter monitor to evaluate the subjects' heart rhythm for presence or absence of
           atrial fibrillation.

      This study will be a non-blinded observational study with a control group. Subjects will be
      recruited from the patient pool of the Principal Investigator and Co-Investigators. All
      subjects in the intervention group will have had the WATCHMAN device implanted at UPMC. The
      control group in this trial will be comprised of age-matched controls from the control group
      in the WATCHMAN device trial, also from the patient pool of the Principal Investigator and
      Co-Investigators. Subjects will be approached by one of the Investigators.

      The primary outcome of interest will be left atrial work, measured on a continuous scale.
      Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) will be used to compare mean left atrial work scores at 12
      months between the intervention and non-intervention patient groups adjusting for baseline
      values.
    
  