
    
      Oxycodone is the most commonly used analgesic for the management of moderate and severe
      postoperative pain. The efficacy of Oxycodone as a potent opioid has been confirmed in
      children.

      The principal metabolic pathway of oxycodone in humans is N-demethylation via enzyme CYP3A4
      to generate inactive noroxycodone. A smaller amount (approximately 11%) is O-demethylated by
      cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2D6 to become oxymorphone, the active and potent metabolite which
      exhibits about 40 times the affinity and 8 times the potency on μ-opioid receptors compared
      to the mother substance. Approximate frequencies of cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2D6 phenotypes
      for the Caucasian population are: poor metabolizers 5 - 10%, extensive/intermediate
      metabolizers 65-90%, and ultra-rapid metabolizers 5 - 10%. Kirchheiner and colleagues noticed
      more codeine-related sedative side-effects in ultra-rapid metabolizers. In studies
      investigating extensive and poor metabolizers, codeine side-effects do not seem to be related
      to CYP2D6 genotype. However, clinical investigations of CYP2D6 genotype in the postoperative
      pain setting have shown conflicting results, and well-designed prospective studies are
      lacking. Taken together, these results demonstrate the need for careful pharmacokinetic
      studies in children who received a pharmacologic agent, such as oxycodone, which is
      metabolized by the enzyme CYP2D6.

      The population PK of oxycodone and its metabolites has not been fully established for oral
      oxycodone in pediatric patients. In addition, there is a group of ultra-rapid metabolizers
      (approximately 4.5% of the population, but as high as 20% in some particular ethnic groups;
      East African and Saudi Arabian populations) which may be at risk for serious side effects in
      the commonly prescribed dose (which is extrapolated from adult recommendations). It is
      important to further investigate oral oxycodone to optimize dosing recommendations.
    
  