
    
      Iron demand: The average daily demand to fit the cell biological metabolism is balanced
      between intake and lost which about 1-2 mg. One unit of packed red blood cells contains
      approximately 200-250 mg of iron.Thus, patients who arereceiving an average of 2 to 4 units
      of blood monthly willhave an iron intake of 5000to 10 000 mg of iron per year. Iron
      overload(IO) A condition in which the body takes up and stores more iron than it needs from
      any cause. Iron overload constitutes a major problem in patients receivingregular blood
      transfusion. Patients with β-thalassemia,sickle cell anemia, and congenital and refractory
      anemiasonchronic transfusion programs accumulate iron in variousbody organs. Untreated iron
      overload will eventually lead todamage of the liver, endocrine organs, and most seriously
      theheart(1).Acquired platelet function defect might be one of thecomplications of iron
      overload. This could occur indirectlythrough the effect of iron load on the liver and other
      organsor might occur due to effect of iron load on platelet functiondirectly.
      Dleteriouscomlications contributed by chemical reactive deregulated iron may affect cellular
      homeostasis systematically lead to tissue and organ damage when this toxicity occurred in
      blood cells ,alteration of peripheral hematological profile concerning erythrocyte,leucocyte
      and Platelet. On the other hand, acquired platelet function defects are classified broadly
      into defects that are intrinsic or extrinsic to the platelets. Acquired platelets defect are
      due to medications, medical conditions, underlying hematologic diseases, and are more
      frequent than inherited causes of platelets defects. (2) Platelet function is also influenced
      by changes in membranefluidity that has an important role in the expressionof platelet
      receptors and in modulating the activity ofproteins like phospholipase C or proteinkinase
      C(3). Ithas been shown (4) that changes in membrane fluidityare associated to altered
      aggregation/agglutination functionof freshly prepared platelets. The platelet
      aggregationresponse is modified by monovalent cations (whichalter fibrinogen binding) and
      monovalent anions thatenhance hydroxyl radicals production of platelets inducing platelet
      activation (5) Reactive oxygen species(ROS) are involved in integrin aIIbb3 activation(6,7).
      Moreover, bursts of ROS are generated in platelets exposed to thrombin (8). We herein report
      the case of a patient with acquired plateletfunction defect associated with iron overload as
      a consequenceof chronic blood transfusion. Therefore, we emphasizethe necessity of further
      studies to confirm directcorrelation between iron overload as a causative agent andplatelets
      dysfunction. And we recommend screening forplatelet function in patients receiving chronic
      blood transfusionaiming at possible prevention of any lifethreateningbleeding.

      One of the most commonly used laboratorymarkers to early characterize platelet functionis the
      mean platelet volume (MPV). Increasedplatelet volume mayindicate its greater content
      ingranules, showing a platelet activation also betteraggregation and more reactive than the
      ordinarysize one. Limited study and the inconsistent resultare available regarding the
      platelet function studyin IO complicated condition. Higher MPV wasidentified in heterozygous
      beta-thalassemiapatientswith no correlation with cardiovascularrelatedrisks( 9). However, but
      in line with this study, adefect in platelet aggregation indicated by ahyporeactivityof
      platelet after induction withADP, ristocetin, and collagen was showed in majorthalassemia
      children patients
    
  