
    
      Background:

      Disruption of the blood brain barrier (BBB) is believed to play a critical role in the
      pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS). Cramer et al. (2014) found increased BBB
      permeability in MS patients compared to healthy controls (HC) with values being higher in
      cases with recent relapses (1). Furthermore, BBB permeability can contribute to predicting
      the conversion of optic neuritis (ON) to MS (2). In the same study, significant correlations
      were found between BBB permeability, leukocyte counts and levels of the chemokine CXCL10 in
      cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Chemokines are believed to contribute to MS pathogenesis by
      attracting leukocyte populations to the CNS.

      Sørensen et al. (1999) found elevated levels of the cytokines CXCL9, CXCL10 and CCL5 together
      with their receptors CXCR3 and CCR5 on leukocytes in CSF from MS patients during attacks (3).
      CXCR3 is expressed in human enterocytes, endothelial cells in the BBB and a variety of immune
      cells. Elevated expression of CXCR3 has also been measured on T cells from MS patients
      compared to HC, and in patients during relapses compared to remission (4). Exposure of
      intestinal epithelial cell lines to gliadin has been shown to activate the chemokine receptor
      CXCR3 and hereby leading to release of zonulin (5). Ex vivo experiments illustrated that
      zonulin, which has been identified as pre-haptoglobin 2, leads to a time- and dose dependent,
      reversible reduction of the transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER) of murine small
      intestinal mucosa (6). The effects of zonulin on gut permeability are assumed to be due to
      disruption of tight junctional integrity.

      A pilot study (7) showed a higher proportion of individuals with increased intestinal
      permeability among patients with MS compared to sex-matched HC. A randomized clinical trial
      showed beneficial effects of a gluten-free diet (GFD) on annual relapse rate, lesional
      activity and expanded disability status scale (EDSS) in patients with relapsing-remitting MS
      (RRMS), when compared to a regular diet (8). Additionally, findings of significantly higher
      titers of IgA against gliadin, gluten and casein in MS patients compared to HC, could
      indicate a role of nutritional factors in MS (8).

      The role of gluten in the pathogenesis of celiac disease (CD) is established. In CD dietary
      intake of gluten leads to the development of autoantibodies against the enzyme
      transglutaminase 2 (TG2). White matter autopsies have shown TG2 immunoreactivity in
      astrocytes from activated MS lesions (9). Furthermore, treatment with TG2 inhibitors led to
      attenuation of demyelination and clinical deficits in rats with chronic-relapsing
      experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) (10). A GFD has also been documented to
      protect against type 1 diabetes (T1D) in mice (11) and prolong the asymptomatic period after
      diagnosis of T1D in humans (12).

      Lastly, gliadin fragments have been documented to stimulate the production of TNF-α and IL-8
      in human monocytes directly (13). TNF-α has also been shown to have a regulatory effect on
      zonulin and to increase the permeability of the endothelial and epithelial cell layers (14),
      which could be an indirect mechanism through which gluten can induce alterations of gut and
      possibly also BBB permeability. A high gluten intake could thereby not only increase the
      influx of antigens, but also activate pathways of the innate immune system. This can
      theoretically contribute to establishing an inflammatory milieu and thereby facilitate the
      activation of autoreactive T cells. It could be hypothesized that the role of gluten in
      autoimmunity is not restricted to gluten itself being recognized as an antigen by people with
      specific HLA genotypes, but gluten might also increase the risk of losing tolerance against
      other antigens.

      Purpose:

      The study aims to investigate whether a GFD can contribute to decreasing BBB permeability in
      patients with ON, other clinically isolated syndrome (CIS) and MS. Furthermore, the study
      seeks to identify possible effects of a GFD on markers of systemic as well as CNS
      inflammation. Lastly, gut permeability is measured in order to examine whether there are any
      correlations between the permeability of the gut and the BBB as well as the inflammatory
      state in the intestine and CNS. Evaluating the effects of gluten intake on disease
      progression could contribute to identifying crucial mechanisms that underlie the pathogenesis
      of CIS and MS, directing future research and designing new, optimized treatment protocols.

      Hypothesis:

      Gluten may increase intestinal permeability and thereby elevate antigen influx possibly by
      activating CXCR3 on enterocytes. Increased gut permeability, gut inflammation and absorption
      of larger gliadin molecules may be associated with increased permeability of the BBB.
      Activation of BBB endothelial cells may lead to loss of tight junctional integrity, but also
      increased integrin expression and thereby enhanced extravasation of immune cells into the
      CNS.

      Expected research value:

      The study can contribute to a better understanding of the pathologies of ON and MS and
      provide a basis for the development of new treatment protocols. Conducting evidence-based
      research regarding the possible effects of gluten intake on the progression of autoimmune
      diseases will reduce misinformation as well as shed light on practical challenges associated
      with the implementation of dietary interventions for treatment purposes. The study is
      approved of the Scientific Ethics Committee.

      Methods:

      The trial is a clinically controlled, open label, intervention study including 40 patients
      with newly diagnosed CIS or MS. Patients will be divided into an intervention group and a
      control group, each of 20 patients. The intervention group will abstain from gluten for six
      months, while patients in the control group will retain their usual dietary habits. Before
      and after the intervention period, a variety of measurements will be conducted. These
      include:

        -  Anthropometric measurements: conducted to monitor possible effects of the GFD on
           participants´ body composition.

        -  Diet and lifestyle surveys: used to monitor participants´ dietary habits, smoking
           status, exercise, physical activity, sleeping pattern and quality of life.

        -  Clinical measures: Relapses, expanded disability status scale (EDSS), MS diagnosis,
           disease modifying treatment, T2 lesions count and lesion load. Treatment status and
           recent relapses will be used as covariates in the logistic regression analysis.

        -  Dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI: used to measure the permeability of the BBB in several
           tissue subtypes (normal appearing white matter and grey matter and MS lesions) as
           segmented on high resolution T2 FLAIR and 3D T1 weighted images. The number of new or
           enhancing lesions is being monitored.

        -  Intestinal permeability test: conducted to measure intestinal permeability and
           absorption capacity.

        -  Lumbar puncture: used to determine disease activity in the CNS. Analyses include
           pre-haptoglobin 2, oligoclonal bands, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-8, INF-γ, CXCL9, CXCL10, CCL5,
           immune cell counts, expression of CXCR3 on immune cells.

        -  Blood samples: used to determine the grade of inflammation outside the CNS and diagnose
           celiac disease. Analyses include S100β, pre-haptoglobin 2, anti-gliadin antibodies, CRP,
           TNF-α, IL-1β, INF-γ, immune cell counts, expression of CXCR3 on immune cells, endotoxin,
           intestinal fatty acid binding protein, 25-(OH)-cholecalciferol.

        -  Fecal samples: used to measure gut microbiota profiling and short chain fatty acids.

      BBB and intestinal permeability will not only be measured through an MRI scan and an
      intestinal permeability test respectively, but also using the biomarker zonulin. Of notice is
      that our measurements of zonulin in CSF (for BBB permeability) and serum (for intestinal
      permeability) will be carried out in collaboration with Assistant Professor Dr. Ian Galea,
      who has established a unique analytical method, based on western blotting using a
      non-commercially, proprietary antibody manufactured by Biorad, for this purpose. Every other
      assay used in the scientific community measures both haptoglobin and zonulin, whereas our
      assay measures only zonulin and is therefore characterized by increased accuracy.

      Expected results:

      A gluten-free diet is expected to alleviate CIS symptoms, improve quality of life and reduce
      the risk of CIS progressing into MS. Mechanistically this is expected to be manifested
      through a normalized BBB and intestinal permeability, decreased lesional activity and by
      dampening the activity of a previously overactive immune system. If our hypothesis is proven
      to be correct, MS and CIS patients should be informed about the results of the study and the
      option of following a GFD could potentially become part of the standardized patient treatment
      in hospitals.

      Publication of results:

      Results will be published independent of study outcome. Positive, negative as well as
      inconclusive results will be published. Results are expected to be published in peer-reviewed
      international journals.
    
  