
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate engraftment of human leukocyte antibody (HLA) identical peripheral blood stem
      cell (PBSC) allografts given after conditioning with total-body irradiation (TBI) (200cGy)
      +/- fludarabine (fludarabine phosphate), 90 mg/m^2 and post-grafting immunosuppression with
      cyclosporine (CSP)/mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) in refractory or relapsed lymphoma patients
      following an initial autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) for disease
      cytoreduction.

      II. To determine the non-relapse mortality at day 100 post-non-myeloablative allografting
      following mobilization and high-dose chemotherapy with autografting.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the disease free survival and overall survival of non-myeloablative
      allografting following autologous PBSCT.

      OUTLINE:

      CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients with matched, related stem cell donors receive
      cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) on days -6 and -5 and undergo TBI twice daily (BID) on
      days -3 to -1. Patients with matched, unrelated stem cell donors receive carmustine IV over 3
      hours on day -7, etoposide IV over 2 hours BID on days -6 to -3, and cytarabine IV over 3
      hours BID on days -6 to -3, and melphalan IV over 30 minutes on day -2.

      TRANSPLANTATION: All patients undergo autologous PBSCT on day 0.

      NON-MYELOABLATIVE CONDITIONING: Beginning 40-120 days following PBSC transplant, patients
      with related donors undergo TBI on day 0. Patients with unrelated donors receive fludarabine
      phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -4 to -2 and undergo TBI on day 0.

      TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo non-myeloablative allogeneic PBSCT on day 0.

      IMMUNOSUPPRESSION: Patients receive cyclosporine orally (PO) BID on days -3 to 56 (patients
      with related donors) or 100 (patients with unrelated donors) followed by taper to day 180.
      Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil PO BID on days 0-27 (patients with related
      donors) or thrice daily (TID) on days 0-27, then BID on days 28-40 followed by taper to day
      96 (patients with unrelated donors).

      Some patients may undergo donor lymphocyte infusion if there is evidence of disease
      progression and no evidence of graft-vs-host disease (GVHD).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at day 180, 1 year, 1.5 years,
      2 years, 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  