
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease and non-CMV invasive infection-free survival in
           patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation treated with
           valganciclovir vs placebo.

        -  Compare the incidence of CMV disease in patients treated with these drugs.

        -  Compare the incidence of other severe invasive bacterial and fungal infections and
           overall survival in patients treated with these drugs.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the incidence of CMV infection or disease at baseline and at days 270 and 640
           after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in patients treated with these
           drugs.

        -  Compare the incidence of herpes simplex virus and varicella-zoster virus infections at
           baseline and day 270 in patients treated with these drugs.

        -  Determine the safety of valganciclovir in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these drugs.

        -  Compare CMV-specific immune reconstitution in patients treated with these drugs.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to participating center, prior neutropenia (yes vs no), and presence
      of refractory graft-versus-host disease requiring secondary therapy (yes vs no). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral valganciclovir daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo daily. Treatment begins around day 80-120
           post-transplantation and continues until day 270 post-transplantation in the absence of
           active infection or unacceptable toxicity. Patients developing active cytomegalovirus
           (CMV) infection receive induction doses of ganciclovir IV or open-label oral
           valganciclovir for 1 week followed by open-label oral valganciclovir maintenance dosing
           until CMV can no longer be detected.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and days 180 and 270 post-transplantation.

      Patients are followed at days 400, 520, and 640 post-transplantation.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 184 patients (92 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  