
    
      We plan to grow T cells from the cord blood in the laboratory in a special way, to see if
      they can help prevent or treat infections in transplant patients with these viruses. This
      therapy with specially trained T cells (called CTLs) has had activity against these viruses
      when the cells are made from donor blood and given to patients receiving bone marrow or blood
      stem cell transplants. We want to find out if we can use CTLs that we will make from cord
      blood to prevent or treat viral infections when the patient's immunity is weak after
      receiving the cord blood transplant. These cells are called "CMV/AdV specific CTLs" because
      they can attack those two viruses.

      The doctor will already have found a cord blood unit that is suitable for the patient's
      transplant. If the patient agrees to this study we will take 5-10 ml (1-2 teaspoons) from
      this cord blood unit before the transplant. We will only take as much cord blood as is
      available in a specially frozen small fraction of the cord blood unit.

      We will use this cord blood to grow T cells in the lab. From this blood we will first grow
      special type of cells called dendritic cells and we will put a specially produced human virus
      (adenovirus) that carries the CMVpp65 gene into these dendritic cells. The dendritic cells
      will be irradiated so they cannot grow and then used to stimulate the T cells. This
      stimulation will train the T cells to kill cells with CMV and adenovirus on their surface.

      We will then grow large numbers of these AdV/CMV-specific CTLs by more stimulation with EBV
      infected B cells (which we will make from the cord blood by infecting them with EBV in the
      laboratory). We will also put the special virus into these B cells so that they too have
      AdV/CMV. Again, these B cells will be treated with radiation so they cannot grow. Once we
      have made enough T cells we will test them to make sure they kill cells infected with
      Adenovirus and CMV. To make sure that these cells won't attack the patient's own healthy
      tissues, we test these cells against some of the blood cells that we will grow in the
      laboratory. These will be used to check to see if the AdV/CMV CTL can attack them.
      Alternatively, we may take blood from a first degree relative or take a small piece of skin
      from the patient to grow skin cells, which can also to be used to check if AdV/CMV CTL can
      attack them. The skin biopsy can be done at the same time as another procedure such as a bone
      marrow biopsy.

      The cord donor's AdV/CMV CTL cells will be thawed and injected into the IV line over a period
      of up to 10 minutes.Patients may be premedicated with Benadryl and Tylenol. If the patient
      agrees and if he/she is well enough, one dose of CTL will be given on or after day 30
      following transplant. If the patient does not have AdV/CMV infection we will not give
      antiviral medications to them during this study but we will monitor the patient closely to
      check for AdV/CMV infection. If the patient does have AdV/CMV infection before CTL infusion
      they may also be treated with antiviral medications during this study. We will monitor the
      patients closely for AdV/CMV infection by collecting blood and possibly urine and stool and
      testing them for AdV/CMV.
    
  