
    
      Background:

      Mechanical ventilation in patients with acute lung impairment further injures the lungs by
      inspiration forces and inflammatory response. Large efforts have been invested in reducing
      ventilator-associated lung damage by lower tidal volumes. However, benefits are limited by
      potential harms of permissive hypercapnia.

      Therefore, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) and CO2-removal have been studied for
      more than 40 years. However, ECMO remained restricted to few specialized centres capable to
      provide extensive resources. Transfer of patients implicates loss of time and risks of
      transportation. Therefore, less invasive devices have been developed, including "pump-less
      "extracorporeal lung assist" (pECLA) and pump-driven ECLA (e.g. iLA activve). Despite pilot
      trials supporting feasibility, safety and efficient oxygenation and decarboxylation by
      pump-driven ECLA, there are no randomized controlled trials (RCT) proving a benefit regarding
      long-term endpoints.

      Objectives:

      Therefore, the aim of this multicentre RCT is to compare the outcome of 150 patients with
      early (after ≤96h of mechanical ventilation) acute lung impairment treated by pump-driven
      ECLA with iLA activve with a blood flow of at least 1L/min vs. 150 controls with standard
      intensive care including low tidal volume ventilation.

      Main inclusion and exclusion criteria:

      While most trials on ECMO and (p)ECLA included patients in a rescue scenario with severe and
      persisting ARDS, earlier inclusion also implicates modified inclusion criteria: A cumulative
      Murray score of ≥6 points without radiological points is the most important inclusion
      criterion. At least four points must result from pO2/FiO2 (mandatory pO2/FiO2<300mmHg) and
      PEEP criteria of the Murray score. In order to provide sufficient time for conservative
      attempts to optimize ventilation, inclusion criteria can be fulfilled for a maximum of 48h
      before inclusion as long as the patient can be included within a maximum of 96h of mechanical
      ventilation.

      Primary efficacy endpoint:

      Incidence of an increase in SOFA-Score ≥3 points or death within 28 days.

      Statistical analyses:

      Generalized linear mixed model (logit link function) will be used to compare the primary
      efficacy endpoint, the proportion of patients with an increase in SOFA of ≥3 points or death
      within 28d, between the two groups. In this analysis the random factor variable study centre
      and anticoagulation therapy will be considered as adjustment variables. The test of group
      effect estimated by the multivariable mixed logistic model will be conducted at a two-sided
      0.05 level of significance.

      The primary efficacy analysis will be based on the intention-to-treat population. Missing
      values of SOFA score will be replaced by last-value carry forward approach.

      Survival status of lost to follow-up patients will be replaced conservatively: missing
      survival status will be replaced by attribute "death" for patients in the verum arm and
      replaced by attribute "alive" for patients in the standard treatment arm.

      A supportive complete case and per-protocol analysis will be conducted for purpose of
      sensitivity analysis of the primary endpoint. Further sensitivity analyses will be provided
      to evaluate robustness of results in regard to unexpected circumstances (e.g. impact of
      'cross-over' patients who are not treated as randomized but are required to be analyzed as
      randomized (ITT-principle)). Secondary endpoints will be analyzed in an exploratory manner.

      Chi-Square test or Fisher-exact test will be used to compare categorical data. For
      comparisons of continuous data between groups non-parametric tests (Kruskal-Wallis test,
      Mann-Whitney-U test) will be performed. 95% confidence intervals will be calculated for
      relevant measurements. SAS software (version 4.9 or future follow-up version).
    
  