
    
      Rhus coriaria L.(Rhus) is a well-known spice widely consumed in the world which has also been
      utilized extensively for medicinal purposes. The antioxidant components of this plant made it
      a favorable target for laboratory and animal studies in different conditions such as
      oxidative stress cytotoxicity, diabetes and hyperlipidemia. Rhus (Somagh) is found in
      temperate and tropical regions worldwide, often growing in areas of marginal agricultural
      capacity. Rhus is used as an herbal remedy in traditional medicine because of its assumed
      analgesic, antidiarrheic, antiseptic, anorexic and antihyperglycemic properties. The fruits
      of Rhus contain flavonols, phenolic acids, hydrolysable tannins, anthocyans and organic acids
      such as malice, citric and tartaric acids. Some studies have shown that polyphenols could
      have beneficial effects on cardiovascular disease and cancer and could be regarded as
      bioactive compounds with a high potential health-promoting capacity. Phenolic compounds
      inhibit lipid peroxidation, scavenge the superoxide anion and hydroxyl radical, and enhance
      the activities of detoxifying enzymes.

      Uric acid (UA; 7,9-dihydro-1H-purine-2,6,8(3H)-trione) has been implicated as a risk factor
      and cause of numerous disease states. Some disease states, such as gout, hypertension, and
      cardiovascular disease, have been shown to result when UA levels in the blood are too high.
      Hyperuricemia predicts the development of hypertension in the general population, and an
      independent positive correlation between UA levels and the occurrence of hypertension has
      been reported. Hyperuricemia may also be a risk factor for cardiovascular disease, myocardial
      infarction, and stroke.

      The manipulation of serum UA levels has become a popular strategy in the treatment of a
      variety of diseases. This is either accomplished through dietary and lifestyle changes or
      through treatment with UA reducing drugs.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of Rhus coriaria L. (Rhus) commonly known as
      Somagh on serum uric acid levels.
    
  