
    
      This was an open-label, multi-center, international, non-comparative study with adult
      patients with confirmed diagnosis of Cushing's disease. Given the fact that CD patients may
      need a multimodality treatment approach, the trial design aimed to mimic CD treatment by
      using a medical stepwise approach. Therefore, the whole patient population started treatment
      with Pasireotide and only in patients within this population who did not achieve biochemical
      control, cabergoline was added.

      The whole patient population had never received pasireotide or had received it in the past
      (reasons of discontinuation not related to safety).

      Core Phase

        -  Pasireotide naïve patients started pasireotide monotherapy at the dose of 0.6 mg s.c.
           bid. If at the end of the 8 week treatment period, the biochemical control was not
           achieved and the 0.6mg bid dose was well tolerated, the pasireotide dose was increased
           to 0.9mg bid. If the 0.9mg bid dose of pasireotide did not lead to biochemical control,
           cabergoline was added with a starting dose of 0.5mg qd. If the combination dose of 0.9mg
           bid of pasireotide plus 0.5mg qd cabergolinedid not achieve biochemical control, the
           cabergoline dose will be increased to 1.0mg qd.

        -  Patients who were currently being treated with maximal tolerated doses of pasireotide
           monotherapy for at least 8 weeks at screening without achieving normal mUFC, entered the
           study with a combination therapy starting with cabergoline 0.5mg qd.

      Extension Phase

      • After 35 weeks of treatment in core phase, patients had the option to continue study
      treatment if pasireotide was not yet approved for commercial use and/or reimbursed - if
      country reimbursement was applicable - in each respective country, or until 31st December
      2017, or once an applicable roll over protocol became available, or whichever occurred first.

      Novartis had a local transition plan in order to ensure that all trial patients had access to
      the study medication without any delay in their treatment
    
  