
    
      The purpose of this study is to understand and improve naloxone implementation within Syringe
      Service Programs (SSPs) to reduce opioid overdose mortality in the United States. To achieve
      this goal, we will implement an external facilitation intervention that has been shown to
      improve implementation in HIV service settings. The intervention will leverage a naloxone
      implementation expert who will work with SSP organizational directors to identify barriers to
      and facilitators of achieving naloxone implementation quality and maximizing reach. We
      propose to assess the effectiveness of external facilitation, compared to dissemination of an
      implementation manual, in a national sample of SSPs in a randomized controlled trial (RCT).
      Our proposed specific aims are as follows:

      Aim 1: To characterize United States syringe service programs along the exploration,
      preparation, implementation and sustainment (EPIS) continuum for delivering naloxone.

      Aim 2: To test the effectiveness of external facilitation + dissemination of the naloxone
      implementation manual, compared with dissemination of the naloxone implementation manual
      alone, to improve the advancement of naloxone along the EPIS continuum among United States
      syringe service programs.

      Hypothesis. The dissemination and external facilitation arm will be more effective in
      advancing naloxone implementation along the EPIS continuum between baseline and 12-month
      follow-up, than the dissemination-only arm.

      To achieve these aims, 425 SSPs that are registered with the North American Syringe Exchange
      Network (NASEN) and /or receive information from harm reduction related web-based forums
      (e.g., online discussion groups, newsletters and listservs)will be asked to participate in an
      on-line cross-sectional survey and will be sent a hyperlink to the initial screening survey.
      We will use the on-line survey results to characterize the SSPs along the exploration,
      preparation, implementation and sustainment (EPIS) continuum for delivering the naloxone
      intervention (AIM 1).

      The on-line survey includes a set of questions designed to collect information to evaluate
      where the SSP falls along the EPIS continuum for naloxone delivery. SSPs in the
      Implementation (I) phase of the EPIS continuum (estimated n = 100) will be contacted by
      research staff and offered the opportunity to participate in the RCT. SSPs that are
      interested in participating in the RCT will be enrolled in the study. For those SSPs who
      agree to participate, study staff will confirm eligibility by reviewing and documenting
      responses to the screening survey.

      Following informed consent procedures, the study staff will administer the baseline survey to
      the SSP representative. The baseline survey will include questions about programmatic
      capacity, organizational culture, potential for internal champion or leader, perceived need
      for naloxone distribution within their community, and community acceptance of peer naloxone
      distribution programming. The study staff will then randomize SSPs into one of the one of the
      two study arms: (1) dissemination of the implementation manual and external facilitation for
      12 months (experimental arm; n=50) and (2) dissemination of the implementation manual only
      (control arm; n=50).

      All SSPs enrolled in the RCT will be sent a copy of the naloxone implementation manual either
      via email, hyperlink or the U.S. postal service depending on the preference of the
      participant. Those SSPs in the experimental arm will be enrolled in the EF intervention
      during which they will work directly with an OC to advance naloxone delivery as far along the
      EPIS continuum as possible during a 12-month period. The intervention will be delivered via
      phone calls, web-enabled audio and screen-sharing technology, and site visits. The key
      activities of the EF intervention include, initial SSP engagement, knowledge enhancement,
      capacity assessment, information gathering, identification of barriers and facilitators,
      development of action plans and provision of feedback, identification of funding and linkage
      to resources, and training of SSP staff.

      At the end of the 12-month intervention period, SSPs in both study arms will participate in a
      follow-up survey, conducted by study staff, to evaluate advancement of naloxone
      implementation along the EPIS continuum.
    
  