
    
      Hepatic resection surgery is especially painful and requires optimal postoperative pain
      control for early mobilization and improved respiratory function. While there are many
      options for pain control, including IV opioids and thoracic epidurals, their utility is often
      limited by decreased metabolism and coagulopathy respectively. Our institution's current
      regimen including multimodal analgesia combined with intrathecal morphine and physician
      discretion with ESP catheters to facilitate postoperative pain management. However, the
      duration of intrathecal morphine is 24 hours, which is not cover the duration of significant
      post-operative leading to an increase in intravenous opioid consumption. ESP block is a
      paraspinal fascial plane between the erector spinae muscle and the thoracic transverse
      processes blocking the dorsal and ventral rami of the spinal nerves. This provides a
      multi-dermatomal sensory block of the anterior, posterior and lateral thoracic and abdominal
      walls. The addition of a catheter allows for a continuous infusion of local anesthetic. In
      addition, unlike a hepatic resection with a thoracic epidural coagulation status is not a
      concern. We believe that if patients' have improved post-operative pain control they will
      have better participation in physical therapy, require less opioids and potentially have
      shorter hospital length of stay.

      Specific Aim: To determine if the addition of ESP catheters to multimodal pain regimen with
      intrathecal morphine, would provide superior postoperative analgesia beyond the morphine's
      twenty-four hour duration in patients undergoing hepatic resection compared to patients not
      receiving ESP catheters.

      Hypothesis 1: Patients undergoing hepatic resection will have improved postoperative
      analgesia - based on mean opioid consumption and numeric rating scale pain scores - during
      postoperative day (POD) 1, as defined by 24 hours after intrathecal morphine, to POD 3
      following surgery when receiving routine multimodal analgesia with intrathecal morphine and
      multimodal pain management with addition of ESP catheters versus multimodal analgesia with
      intrathecal morphine alone.

      Hypothesis 2: Patients undergoing hepatic resection will have decreased incidence of
      persistent postoperative pain - based on mean opioid consumption and standard of care numeric
      rating scale pain scores during their hospital stay and at home- when receiving routine
      multimodal analgesia with intrathecal morphine with addition ESP catheters versus multimodal
      analgesia with intrathecal morphine alone.

      This will be randomized, subject-masked, placebo-controlled, human subjects clinical trial.

      Enrollment. Consenting adults undergoing hepatic resection will be offered enrollment. Study
      inclusion will be proposed to eligible patients prior to surgery. If a patient desires study
      participation, written, informed consent will be obtained using a current UCSD Institutional
      Review Board (IRB)-approved Informed Consent Form (ICF). Selection for inclusion will not be
      based on gender, race, or socioeconomic status.

      This will be a single-center (UCSD), randomized, controlled investigation.

      Preoperative Procedures. Following written, informed consent, we will record baseline
      anthropomorphic information (age, sex, height, and weight) that is already provided by all
      patients having surgery. After consenting and prior to surgery, patients will be randomized
      (utilizing sealed envelopes with 1:1 ratio) to either intrathecal morphine and sham ESP
      catheters or intrathecal morphine and active ESP catheters. Currently the decision to place
      ESP catheters is at the discretion of the attending physician. The only difference for
      subjects participating in the study (vs those not participating) will be that the placement
      of ESP catheters and decision to activate them-currently standard-of-care and used daily at
      UCSD because of clinical equipoise-will be determined randomly, instead of the physician
      simply choosing him/herself.

      Intrathecal morphine and sham ESP catheter group: In the preoperative holding area, all
      subjects in this cohort, will have a peripheral intravenous (IV) catheter inserted, standard
      noninvasive monitors applied, supplemental oxygen administered via a nasal cannula or face
      mask, and positioned sitting. Midazolam and fentanyl (IV) will be titrated for patient
      comfort, while ensuring that patients remain responsive to verbal cues. The area of insertion
      will be cleaned with iodine povacrylex and isopropyl alcohol (DuraPrep Surgical Prepping
      Solution, 3M St. Paul, MN USA), and a clear, sterile, fenestrated drape applied. After
      identifying with palpation the desired interspace using sterile techniques with the midline
      single shot spinal approach a 25g pencil point needle spinal needle is passed through an
      introducer needle. After free flow of cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) is established 300mcg of
      intrathecal morphine is slowly injected with additional aspiration of CSF at the midpoint and
      end of injection to confirm continued subarachnoid administration. Then bilateral T7-8 ESP
      catheters will be taped onto the patient's back after administration of local anesthetic at
      the site. The 0.2% ropivacaine infusions will be started at the ESP block catheter
      immediately after catheter insertion with a total rate of 0.1ml per hour.

      Intrathecal morphine and ESP catheter group: Catheter insertion will adhere to current UCSD
      standard-of-care. In the preoperative holding area, all subjects in this cohort, will have a
      peripheral intravenous (IV) catheter inserted, standard noninvasive monitors applied,
      supplemental oxygen administered via a nasal cannula or face mask, and positioned sitting. In
      the preoperative holding area, all subjects in this cohort, will have a peripheral
      intravenous (IV) catheter inserted, standard noninvasive monitors applied, supplemental
      oxygen administered via a nasal cannula or face mask, and positioned sitting. Midazolam and
      fentanyl (IV) will be titrated for patient comfort, while ensuring that patients remain
      responsive to verbal cues. The area of insertion will be cleaned with iodine povacrylex and
      isopropyl alcohol (DuraPrep Surgical Prepping Solution, 3M St. Paul, MN USA), and a clear,
      sterile, fenestrated drape applied. After identifying with palpation the desired interspace
      using sterile techniques with the midline single shot spinal approach a 25g pencil point
      needle spinal needle is passed through an introducer needle. After free flow of CSF is
      established 300mcg of intrathecal morphine is slowly injected with additional aspiration of
      CSF at the midpoint and end of injection to confirm continued subarachnoid administration.
      Then bilateral T7-8 ESP catheters will be placed under ultrasound guidance. A catheter will
      be placed with saline with 1:200,000 of epinephrine. To confirm catheter location 15 mls of
      1% lidocaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine will be injected and the block sensory level will be
      confirmed with ice. A total of 30mls of 1% lidocaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine will be used
      for bilateral catheter placement (15mls per side). A Ropivacaine 0.2% infusions will be
      started at the ESP block catheter immediately after catheter insertion with a total rate of
      12mls per hour, 2mls/hr continuous infusion and 10ml set bolus every 60mins.

      Additional Postoperative Pain Interventions: Intraoperatively the patient will have general
      anesthesia. Postoperatively, both groups will be started on the same multimodal oral regimen
      and followed by the Acute Pain Service (APS) as per APS standard of care.

      Current Standard Care: Currently, all patients undergoing hepatic resection receive
      preoperative intrathecal morphine and at the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist the
      patient may or may not receive ESP catheters as well as multimodal pain regimen managed by
      APS. Intraoperatively general anesthesia. The only difference for subjects participating in
      the study (vs those not participating) will be that they will be randomized to whether or not
      they get ESP catheters. We will ensure that there are no patient contraindications to either
      intervention.

      Data collection: All data collection will be through standard UCSD nursing/therapy EPIC notes
      and patient interviews in-person during hospitalization or via telephone call.
    
  