
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the changes in bone of the spine and femur in postmenopausal women with ductal
           carcinoma in situ treated with anastrozole vs placebo on protocol CRUK-IBIS-II-DCIS.

        -  Determine the effect of bisphosphonate treatment on bone mineral density and bone
           metabolism in patients who are receiving anastrozole on protocol CRUK-IBIS-II-DCIS and
           are osteoporotic or moderately to severely osteopenic at baseline.

      Secondary

        -  Correlate changes in levels of biochemical markers of bone metabolism with longer-term
           changes in bone mineral density, as measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA).

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, partially randomized, double-blind study. Patients are
      stratified according to bone mineral density (T-score) measurements (≥ -1.5 vs -2.5 to < -1.5
      vs -4.0 to < -2.5 or ≤ 2 low-trauma vertebral fractures). Patients in stratum I are further
      stratified according to calcium and cholecalciferol (vitamin D) supplementation (yes vs no)
      and use of risedronate on this study (yes vs no). Patients in stratum II are further
      stratified according to randomized treatment on protocol CRUK-IBIS-II-DCIS (yes vs no).

        -  Stratum I (T-score ≥ -1.5): Patients undergo dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA)
           scanning at baseline and then at 1, 3, 5, and 7 years. Patients who develop osteoporosis
           (T-score < -2.5) are removed from the study and receive open-label bisphosphonates.

        -  Stratum II (T-score -2.5 to < -1.5 [moderate to severe osteopenia]): Patients undergo
           DXA scanning as in stratum I. Patients are also randomized (double-blind) to 1 of 2
           treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oral risedronate once a week for 5 years.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo once a week for 5 years. Patients in either
                arm who develop osteoporosis AND a drop in T-score of more than 1 unit are removed
                from the study and receive open-label bisphosphonates.

        -  Stratum III (T-score -4.0 to < -2.5 OR ≤ 2 low trauma vertebral fractures
           [osteoporosis]): Patients undergo DXA scanning as in stratum I. Patients also receive
           oral risedronate (or their current bisphosphonate) once a week for 5 years.

      Blood samples for correlative studies (e.g., bone biomarkers, serum estradiol) are collected
      at baseline and at 6 and 12 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,000 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  