
    
      This is a Multi-centre prospective observational cohort study assessing biodegradable stents
      in the drainage of bile duct. The participating organisations are Nottingham university
      hospitals NHS trust which is the host and sponsor of this study, University college London
      Hospitals NHS foundation trust and Leeds teaching hospitals NHS trust.

      The population studied will be patients who need temporary bile duct stent insertion for bile
      leak and patients who had ERCP for removal of CBD stones and have stones either in the neck
      of gall bladder or cystic duct and awaiting cholecystectomy. These are the group of patients
      who may not benefit from a repeat endoscopic procedure to remove the stent. As the target
      population is rare, all consecutive patients with above condition will be recruited to the
      study.

      All patients who are referred for ERCP will be screened to see if they meet the eligibility
      criteria to participate in the study. The patient information sheet (PIS) will be sent to the
      patient along with the endoscopy appointment. The pateints will be consented both for the
      procedure and the study on the day of the procedure. Then the patients will have the
      procedure in their respective endoscopic units. All ERCP procedures will be done either by an
      accredited endoscopist or by a trainee under the close supervision of the accredited
      endoscopist.

      Once the patients have their treatment, the patients will be observed for four hours for
      complications. Then discharged home if they are well and do not have any symptoms such as
      pain, persistent low blood pressure (defined as systolic less than 100) and have recovered
      from the effects of sedation. If at all the pateints develop any of the above symptoms, then
      the patients will be admitted for an overnight observation. The patients will have a
      telephone consultation by research specialist nurses the next day to assess if they have
      symptoms such as abdominal pain, vomiting, vomiting of blood and dark tarry stools. If the
      patients develop any of these symptoms, the patients will be assessed in the bio-medical
      research centre or respective inpatient facility in relevant centres. The patients will then
      have a blood test including full blood count, liver function and renal function. Amylase will
      be done only if they complain of abdominal pain as a proportion of patients will have
      hyper-amylasaemia following ERCP. The patients will also receive a telephone consultation
      (Research nurse) on day 7 post procedure to assess if they have any of the above symptoms. A
      quality of life questionnaire will be completed at this stage.

      The investigators will be using slow degrading stents so, therefore the patients will have an
      abdominal x-ray 90 days after the procedure and if the stent is not visible on abdominal
      X-ray then they would have completed the study. As recent studies have shown that the stent
      appear partially degraded in some patients, if the stent is visible on x-ray then the
      patients will have one more follow up visit with an abdominal x-ray at 180 days. The
      invetstigator will not remove the stent as the stent would have partially degraded and would
      have lost its tensile strength.

      Almost all bile leaks are inpatients so the resolution of bile leak will be assessed while
      they are inpatients. The resolution of bile leak is defined as no output from the external
      drain that was inserted through the skin under radiological guidance. For bile duct stones it
      is the prevention of bile duct infection (Cholangitis). The pateints will have telephone
      consultations on days 1,30,60,90 and 180 to asses if they have symptoms such as abdominal
      pain, jaundice. A quality of life questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L) will be completed at all these
      visits. Once the patient completes all of the above, they will have completed the study.
    
  