
    
      This study's primary purpose is to determine if an improvised dressing, made from inexpensive
      materials available for purchase in rural as well as urban settings, is a safe and effective,
      culturally and medically acceptable choice for managing sickle cell leg ulcers in a tropical
      climate. Three research questions will be addressed:

        1. Is the improvised dressing, consisting of a cut-to-fit new plastic bag sealed at the
           periwound with zinc oxide paste, safe and effective (see definitions, below) when
           compared with usual practice (saline-soaked gauze) and when compared with an advanced
           wound dressing (PMD), on sickle cell leg ulcers (SCLUs) in Jamaica?

        2. Does use of the improvised dressing, when compared with usual practice, improve the
           quality of life of patients (decrease pain, increase ability to engage in desirable
           activities, decrease wound-related materials costs, decrease time required to perform
           dressing changes, improve Wound QoL scores, and improve ASCQ-Me pencil-and-paper
           interview scores) with SCLUs in Jamaica?

        3. Is the improvised dressing culturally acceptable to health care providers, patients, and
           families for managing SCLUs in Jamaica?

      The expected study outcome is improvised dressing superior effectiveness and quality of life,
      when compared with usual practice, without increased safety and acceptability issues. The
      improvised dressing is likely to be the least expensive choice, with the added benefit of
      being available as first aid treatment throughout Jamaica. The advanced dressing is likely to
      be more expensive with respect to materials costs, although fewer dressing changes are
      anticipated and pain medication expenses are likely to be reduced. Based upon the review of
      the literature, no serious infections or other safety issues are anticipated for any group.
      However, to ensure that complications are not overlooked, in addition to the onsite
      researchers' vigilance, weekly wound photos will be assessed for complications (signs of
      infection, wound deterioration, or clinically relevant maceration) by two off-site blinded
      wound experts.

      Definitions:

      Sickle cell leg ulcer - a wound in a HbSS or HbSβ0 positive patient, open greater than one
      month, below the level of the knee excluding the plantar surface of the foot.

      Closed wound - 100% epithelialized with no discernible scab or exudate production (paper
      napkin remains dry when lightly pressed against area, and no recurrence in the subsequent two
      weeks)

      Safe - infection and other complications (healing-impairing maceration, keloid, and
      contracture rates) not statistically significantly higher than usual practice, with no major
      adverse events attributable to the method

      Effective - ulcer closure rates or ulcer surface area reduction rates not statistically
      significantly lower than usual practice

      Acceptable - average acceptability scores of 4 or higher on a 1 - 5 scale
    
  