
    
      Approximately 80 patients will be enrolled, of which, 12 with normal HF will be able to
      continue from Monotherapy to Combination therapy. Up to 66 patients with normal HF will
      receive combination therapy in total. Patients with impaired hepatic function can only
      participate in the Monotherapy part of the study.

      Monotherapy Period:

      For the Monotherapy Period of Study KCP-330-027, patients with normal hepatic function
      (n=12), will be allocated to one of two test formulation treatment arms, and will receive a
      cross-over once weekly oral dosing, with either 1x100 mg or 5x20 mg selinexor, for 2 weeks,
      and then will have the option to move on to the combination treatment part of the study.
      Patients with either moderately or severely impaired hepatic functions will be treated with
      2x20 mg selinexor weekly (with an option to increase the dose every 3 weeks by 20 mg
      increments, up to 80 mg).

      For Weeks 1 and 2, following an overnight fast of at least 10 hours, patients will be fed a
      standard low-fat meal 30 minutes prior to administration of once weekly selinexor. Patients
      should finish the meal in 30 minutes or less; however, selinexor dose should be administered
      30 minutes after start of the meal.

      Blood sampling for selinexor PK analyses will be collected ≤10 minutes (m) pre selinexor
      dose, and at 15m (±5m), 30m (±5m), 1 hour (h) (±5m), 1.5h (±5m), 2h (±10m), 3h (±10m), 4h
      (±10m), 5h (±10m), 6h (±10m), 8h (±20m), 10h (±20m; optional), 24h (±1h), 30h (±1h), and 48h
      (±2h) post selinexor dose. Practitioners must record the actual clock time for selinexor dose
      and each sample drawn.

      If a patient experiences emesis during the first 6 hours of the PK sampling, the PK results
      for that week will be excluded from the PK analysis dataset, and all testing timepoints must
      be re-collected during the following week (in this case, the same dosing formulation should
      be repeated on the following week, and other dosing formulation will be given the week after
      that).

      Patients who will complete the Monotherapy Period will be reassessed for continuation to the
      Combination Therapy Period, as long as their Hepatic Function remains normal.

      If a patient experiences significant toxicity related to selinexor and can't start the
      combination therapy immediately following monotherapy, dose interruption and weekly retesting
      are allowed for up to 21 days after the end of Monotherapy treatment visit. Patients
      requiring >21 days to recover from toxicities related to selinexor should be discussed with
      the Sponsor's Medical Monitor for documented approval to continue to the Combination Therapy
      Period. Reassessment may be extended then and following Medical Monitor approval up to 28
      days.

      Combination Therapy Period:

      In the combination treatment period of the study, patients with normal hepatic functions will
      be allocated to one of 3 arms (with Arm C divided into 2 cohorts): Arm A (n=20): Patients
      with NSCLC who have had up to 2 lines of prior systemic treatment with 1 line containing a
      CPI will receive 60 mg selinexor weekly, in combination with docetaxel 75 milligrams per
      meter square (mg/m^2) once every 3 weeks; Arm B (n=20): Patients with CRC (KRAT WT) who have
      had up to 3 lines of prior systemic treatment or patients with CRC (KRAS mutant [KRAS Mut])
      who have had up to 2 lines of prior systemic treatment, with no lines containing a checkpoint
      inhibitor (CPI) will receive 80 milligrams (mg) selinexor weekly, in combination with
      pembrolizumab 200 mg once every 3 weeks; Arm C (n<=26): Patients with CRC (regardless of KRAS
      status) who have had up to 2 lines of prior systemic treatment (regardless of CPI use) will
      receive either: (Cohort 1) selinexor 40 mg on days 1, 3, 15 and 18 in 28-day cycle + FOLFIRI;
      or (Cohort 2) selinexor 80 mg on days 1 and 15 in 28-day cycle + FOLFIRI.

      Combination Therapy Period Patients will receive combination treatment until progressive
      disease (PD) or intolerable toxicity.

      During both study periods, safety will be assessed through continuous reporting of adverse
      events (AEs), treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), regularly scheduled clinical
      laboratory tests (hematologic and chemical), and physical examinations.

      Tumor assessment will be performed with either computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) (CT with contrast preferred; for each patient, the imaging method should remain
      the same throughout the study).

      Following treatment, patients will come in for a safety visit (approximately 30 days after
      the last dose of combination therapy) and will be followed for up to 1 year after that.
      Patients who discontinued due to PD will be followed for survival, and patients who
      discontinued for reasons other than PD will have tumor assessments until PD or until the
      start of new anti-neoplastic therapy, after which they will be followed for survival.
    
  