
    
      In urban communities, the prevalence of tobacco use among adults visiting a hospital
      emergency department (ED) nears 40%, well in excess of the 25% smoking prevalence rate of the
      general population. Many of these patients lack easy access to primary care, suggesting the
      ED may be an attractive locus to initiate tobacco cessation efforts. With over 100 million
      annual visits to U.S. EDs, it may be possible to engage millions of smokers in tobacco
      cessation efforts. The major purpose of this study is to examine whether a multicomponent
      intervention delivered in the ED by a Lay Educator to adult smokers interested in quitting is
      more likely to result in cessation than usual care. A secondary goal is to test whether
      patients who present to the ED with a tobacco-related illness (as indicated by ICD9 code) are
      more likely to quit than ED smokers with a non-tobacco-related condition. This will allow us
      to test the validity of the "teachable moment" as an opportune time to engage patients in
      considering a behavioral change. The proposed study is a randomized trial of a motivational
      interview, provision of six weeks' worth of nicotine patches, literature, and post-visit
      follow-up (Enhanced Care) vs. referral to a cessation clinic (Minimal Care) for ED patients
      who smoke. Eligibility criteria: age > 21 years, contemplation or preparation stage of
      change, not admitted to hospital. All patients will undergo a standardized stage of change
      assessment, and measurements of nicotine dependence and exhaled carbon monoxide. All will
      receive a cessation fact sheet and referral card to the smoking cessation clinic; the cards
      of those in the Enhanced Care group will have a specific appointment date and time. The
      Enhanced Care group will receive a language-appropriate pamphlet discussing smoking
      cessation. We will record the ICD9 codes associated with each visit. Major outcome measure:
      cessation within 3 months of the ED visit, stratified by treatment group. Secondary outcome
      measure: cessation within 3 months of the ED visit, stratified by whether the visit was
      smoking-related. If smokers receiving Enhanced Care are more likely to quit, then the ED
      could be considered a new, effective locus for tobacco control, potentially reaching several
      million smokers. If patients with a smoking-related diagnosis for the ED visit are more
      likely to quit than those with non-smoking-related ICD9, then this supports the construct of
      the teachable moment.
    
  