
    
      Sleep is the essential component to maintain good health of an individual. Insomnia is
      defined as a condition that affects an individual by inability to get sufficient quality
      sleep or problem in maintaining sleep that is important for healthy functioning, performance
      and well being. Insomnia can exist in healthy individual or comorbidly with other medical
      diseases. Latest researches indicate that intolerance of glucose in the body, resistance to
      insulin hormone, decreased acute response of insulin to glucose and increased chances of
      having type 2 diabetes are reasons for reduced or interrupted sleep. Several electrolytes and
      minerals influence the sleep cycle. Magnesium is important in regulation of central nervous
      system excitability, through ion channel conductivity. Magnesium is a muscle relaxant and
      inducer of the deeper sleep. Hypomagnesemia is a common feature in patients with type 2
      diabetes. Although diabetes can induce hypomagnesemia, magnesium deficiency has also been
      proposed as a risk factor for type 2 diabetes. Magnesium supplementation improves sleep
      efficiency, sleep time and sleep onset latency, early morning awakening, and insomnia
      objective measures such as the concentration of serum renin, melatonin, and serum cortisol,
      in older adults. High ambient potassium levels have been shown to shorten the period of
      circadian rhythms in a variety of organisms. Little is known about the effects of dietary
      mineral nutrients on human sleep quality. Potassium depletion has been shown to cause glucose
      intolerance, which is associated with impaired insulin secretion . Recently, there has been
      growing evidence from both animal and human studies indicating that high sodium and low
      potassium intakes are associated with a high risk of insulin resistance or diabetes.

      The Study is aimed to:

        1. To compare the effect of magnesium and/ or potassium on insomnia patients with diabetes
           mellitus

        2. To compare the gender and age based response to magnesium and/ or potassium on insomnia
           patients with diabetes mellitus

        3. To compare the effect of magnesium and/ or potassium on insulin resistance among
           insomnia patients with diabetes mellitus

        4. To compare the effect of magnesium and/ or potassium on sleep hormones among insomnia
           patients with diabetes mellitus

        5. To compare the effect of magnesium and/ or potassium on serum electrolytes (Mg, K) among
           insomnia patients with diabetes mellitus

        6. To compare the effect of magnesium and/ or potassium on quality of life (QOL) among
           insomnia patients with diabetes mellitus MATERIAL AND METHODS Study Design: Randomized
           Controlled Trial (single blind) Settings: Study will be conducted at

      1. Akhuwat Health Services, Lahore Duration of Study: 18 months (after the approval of
      synopsis) Sample Size: is 280 and with expected 20% drop out: 320 Sampling Technique: Non
      probability purposive sampling

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Patients of diabetes mellitus with insomnia

        -  Adult diabetic patients aged between 19 to 65 years

        -  Patients of both genders

        -  Diabetic patients of insomnia with or without antidiabetic drugs
    
  