
    
      Assessment of the function and dimensions of the right and left ventricles is a key part of
      Point-of-Care ultrasound in critically ill patients. According to the recent guidelines, this
      evaluation is performed from apical and parasternal views. However, these views may not be
      clearly visible in the clinical setting of critical illness and subcostal view is often
      preferred for its higher feasibility. Before clinical adoption, it is necessary to assess
      whether the isolated examination from subcostal view is reliable enough in the detection of
      the impairment of systolic function and the size of both ventricles and the investigators
      decided to evaluate this issue.

      Transverse and longitudinal dimensions and function of both ventricles will be measured
      calculated by transthoracic echocardiography in critically ill patients in the intensive care
      unit from parasternal and apical views following the recent guidelines. Systolic function of
      the left ventricle will be expressed by the left ventricular ejection fraction (calculated by
      biplane method of disc summation) and by the fraction shortening. Systolic function of the
      right ventricle will be assessed by the tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion,
      fractional area change, tricuspid lateral annular systolic velocity, and right ventricular
      index of myocardial performance. From subcostal view, transverse dimensions of both
      ventricles and novel parameters of systolic function (subcostal tricuspid annular plane
      systolic excursion, right ventricular subcostal fraction shortening, right ventricular
      modified subcostal fraction shortening, left ventricular subcostal fraction shortening and
      left ventricular modified fraction shortening) will be measured.

      Then, the reliability of parameters measured in subcostal view will be tested by comparison
      with conventional parameters taken from apical and parasternal view by correlation analysis
      and diagnostic test evaluation. The most reliable thresholds of parameters from subcostal
      view will be calculated by receiver operating characteristic analysis.
    
  