
    
      Background: Patients with refractory and/or recurrent solid tumors have poor prognosis
      despite complex multimodal therapy; therefore, novel curative approaches are needed. The
      investigators are attempting to use T cells obtained directly from the patient, which can be
      genetically modified to express a 4th generation CD276-specific chimeric antigen receptor
      (4SCAR-276). The CAR molecules enable the T cells to recognize and kill tumor cells through
      the recognition of the surface CD276, which is expressed at high levels on tumor cells
      including brain tumors, Ewing's sarcoma (PNET) and many other tumors but not at significant
      levels on normal tissues. This study will evaluate the side effects and the best dose of a
      novel 4th generation anti-CD276 CAR T cells to target refractory and/or recurrent solid
      tumors.

      Design:

        1. Participants will be screened through physical exam and medical history. Blood and tumor
           tissue samples will be collected. Imaging studies will be performed.

        2. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) will be obtained by apheresis, and T cells
           will be activated and modified to express the 4SCAR-276 gene.

        3. On Day -5 to -7, PBMC will be activated and enriched for T cells, which will be followed
           by 4SCAR-276 lentiviral transduction. The total culture time is approximately 5-7 days.

        4. Participants will receive a preparative conditioning regimen comprising
           cyclophosphamide/fludarabine to prepare their immune system to accept the modified CAR T
           cells. The preparative regimen will be based on patient immune condition and consistent
           with standard chemotherapy conditioning regimen.

        5. The patients will receive ~10^6 CART cells/kg body weight per infusion, and may receive
           additional booster CART infusions if positive outcome is recorded.
    
  