
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of adult disability. Even after discharge from rehabilitation,
      residual gait deficits are prevalent in stroke survivors, leading to decreased walking speed
      and endurance. Because gait dysfunctions limit community mobility, stroke survivors and
      rehabilitation clinicians consider restoration of walking a major goal of rehabilitation.
      Several challenges and research gaps limit the effectiveness of current clinical gait
      rehabilitation practices. While there is consensus that stroke survivors benefit from gait
      rehabilitation, agreement is lacking on which specific training interventions are most
      efficacious. The long-term goal of this proposal is to address these challenges by developing
      personalized, engaging, salient gait training treatments founded on evidence from
      neuroscience, biomechanics, motor learning, and gaming.

      Real-time biofeedback is a promising gait training intervention for targeting specific
      biomechanical impairments. Biofeedback can enhance an individual's awareness of the
      impairment targeted during gait training, enabling self-correction of aberrant gait patterns.

      In response to treadmill training combined with visual and auditory real-time biofeedback,
      able-bodied individuals can increase AGRF unilaterally for the targeted limb. Thus, AGRF
      biofeedback may be a beneficial strategy to target unilateral propulsive deficits in people
      post-stroke. Incorporation of gaming interfaces for gait biofeedback can increase patient
      motivation, distract participants from fatigue or boredom, and encourage greater numbers of
      repetitions during gait training.

      The long-term goal of this study is to develop a more engaging, motivating gait biofeedback
      methodologies specifically designed for post-stroke gait training. The researchers aim to
      address a major challenge for rehabilitation clinicians - to make gait training appealing and
      meaningful so that patients engage in sufficient repetitions, intensity, and challenge to
      maximize therapeutic effectiveness. The study premise is that post-stroke individuals will
      demonstrate greater engagement, motivation, and therapeutic benefits during gait training
      sessions involving biofeedback when training incorporates intuitive, entertaining, game-based
      interfaces. Outcomes of the study will include measures of participant engagement,
      user-reports and survey-responses on motivation, fatigue, game characteristics, and adverse
      effects (e.g. nausea, dizziness) during game exposure. In addition to this clinical trial
      with stroke survivor participants, data about the game interface will be collected by having
      able-bodied neuro-rehabilitation clinicians try the 3 types of biofeedback interventions.
    
  