
    
      In June 2016, a patient who developed a Staphylococcus aureus mediastinitis died of a
      superinfection by Achromobacter xylosoxidans. This germ is an hydrotelluric bacteria
      described as emergent and multi-resistant, involved in nosocomial infections. It is known to
      be responsible for severe nosocomial infections in immunocompromised individuals
      (endocarditis, bacteriemia, wound infections, pneumonia) associated with high morbidity and
      mortality but it is also able to infect immunocompetent patients. According to literature, it
      is capable of developing in antiseptic and disinfectant solutions due to the acquisition of
      resistance to these products. Moreover it has a great ability to form biofilms, resulting in
      major eradication difficulties, both on the environmental and clinical level.

      Various environmental sources of contamination have been identified, including dental units
      water lines, dialysis water, nebulizers, reusable boxes of disinfectant wipes, siphons of
      patient's rooms, vials of heparin...

      There is no evidence for the existence of a possible portage in humans, but ACHX has already
      been isolated from the intestine of a 3-month-old baby who has never received antibiotic
      treatment. On the other hand, this germ colonizes the respiratory system of patients with
      cystic fibrosis. The frequency of isolation in sputum of these patients is increasing for a
      decade for still unknown reasons. ACHX surgical site infections are rare and to our knowledge
      only two cases of ACHX mediastinitis have been reported in the literature to date, either
      because cases are indeed rare or because the high mortality rate restricts publications. The
      clinical case of our CHU caught our attention and the investigators contacted the laboratory
      of bacteriology to inquire about the existence of other cases of infection with this germ.
      The investigators have then seen that ACHX seems to evolve in low noise for more than 10
      years in our hospital with about 10 cases of infection per year.

      Also, the investigators wanted to learn more and propose a study articulated around two axes:

        -  An epidemiological axis, in which the investigators detail local epidemiology, calculate
           rates of impact and analyze their evolution over 10 years, identify the most affected
           units, identify the types of most common infections, identify a population at risk,
           study profiles of resistance of the isolated strains,

        -  An environmental axis with identification of potential sources after development of
           appropriate analytical methods.

      The ultimate goal of this study is the protection of patients by the fight against ACHX
      nosocomial infections and other related germs, by preventive eradication methods of
      environmental sources once they have been identified. The investigators want to avoid a new
      fatal infection episode.

      A research of ACHX natural reservoirs in Martinique is also conceivable subsequently, the
      hypothesis being that this germ, particularly greedy of heat and humidity, is very present in
      a tropical environment.
    
  