
    
      Rationale and Purpose: The unacceptably high prevalence of burnout during residency has made
      training programs desperate for evidence-based programs designed to prevent burnout during
      residency. Mindfulness training programs have been shown to reduce burnout and depression
      among primary care physicians as well as in a myriad of other professions. The investigators'
      longitudinal pilot test of implementing an innovative mindfulness curriculum in a large busy
      pediatric internship was determined to be feasible and acceptable. However, the absence of a
      control group, small sample size, and single residency program site limited the detection of
      meaningful statistically significant differences in levels of burnout, mindfulness, or
      empathy that could have generalizable value.

      Study Objectives: A methodologically rigorous study will be conducted to determine if a
      6-month mindfulness curriculum implemented during pediatric internship can reduce physician
      burnout and increase mindfulness practice and empathy. The investigators hypothesize that
      completing a mindfulness curriculum during internship will reduce interns' levels of
      physician burnout and increase their mindfulness practice and empathy.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome measure will be physician burnout, assessed by the
      emotional-exhaustion sub-scale of Maslach Burnout Inventory (MBI). Many studies use this
      sub-scale as the sole measure of burnout because "emotional-exhaustion is considered the most
      central aspect of burnout." Secondary outcomes will include: burnout as a dichotomous
      measure, defined as emotional exhaustion scores >=27 or depersonalization scores >=10, per
      MBI guidelines; participants' levels of mindfulness, based on the Five Facet Mindfulness
      Questionnaire; and empathy, assessed by the Jefferson Scale of Physician Empathy. These
      measures were selected based on prior conceptual frameworks and the model of factors related
      to burnout.

      Study Design: A large multi-center, stratified, cluster, randomized, controlled trial of the
      7-session mindfulness curriculum in pediatric residency programs will be implemented and
      analyzed. To ensure that interns training in the same program have the same educational
      experience, clustered randomization will be conducted centrally using a computer-generated
      random allocation sequence. After pairing pediatric residency programs based on size as a
      proxy for baseline burnout, the clusters of interns in each program will be randomized to
      experience either: 1) the enhanced mindfulness curriculum over a 6-month period or 2) usual
      educational curriculum (control). Control group subjects will be blinded to knowing what the
      intervention group received, but the intervention subjects will not be blinded to
      participating in the mindfulness sessions.

      Study Intervention: Programs randomized to the intervention arm will be asked to deliver the
      mindfulness curriculum to interns over their first 6 months of training (from July through
      December of the academic year)following the MINDI facilitator guide, which includes
      facilitator preparation materials, frequently asked questions, and detailed instructions for
      running the seven sessions of the mindfulness curriculum. . The lack of a robust impact on
      mindfulness practice in the previous pilot implementation of the MINDI curriculum suggests
      that hour-long mindfulness sessions delivered once a month over 6 months may not be a
      frequent enough intervention to change interns' behavior. Thus, the investigators will
      enhance the intervention by including 10 minutes of guided meditation at the start of
      regularly scheduled clinical didactic sessions (e.g. noontime conference) two weeks after
      each of the 7 MINDI sessions. Programs randomized to the control arm will not change their
      current curriculum but will be given the facilitator guide after the study is completed.

      Study Procedures: Subjects in the intervention arm will experience the seven-session
      mindfulness curriculum over a 6-month period. These sessions will be delivered during the
      routine didactic schedule that the residency program uses to educate their interns (e.g. noon
      conferences and/or weekly educational afternoons, etc). Subjects in the Control arm will
      receive the usual educational curriculum. The investigators will assess independent and
      dependent measures by inviting subjects to complete voluntary, de-identified surveys three
      times duringthe one-year study period: at baseline (before the 1st MINDI session, which may
      be given during intern orientation), and at 6-months and then 15-months after course
      initiation. Non-investigator staff will offer a modest incentive to subjects who return
      completed surveys to maximize the completion rates.

      Statistical Methods: The numbers and rates of physician burnout, and the mean, median, and
      range of the scores for mindfulness, empathy, and the emotional-exhaustion sub-scale of
      burnout will be calculated. Bivariate comparisons will be done between these outcome measures
      and selected demographic measures. Comparisons between the control and intervention groups
      will be performed using chi-square tests for dichotomous outcomes (such as burnout) and
      t-tests for continuous measures. Multivariate clustered logistic and linear regressions
      analysis will be conducted to determine independent predictors of dichotomous outcomes and
      continuous measures, while controlling for randomization group assignment and dependent
      measures associated with the outcomes. the size of clusters in the study to vary since
      cluster randomization of nequal numbers of subjects typically produces uneven group-sizes.
      All unadjusted and adjusted regressions will be clustered on residency program.
    
  