
    
      Screening/Eligibility Visit:

      If it is determined that a patient with a diagnosis of OAB has failed therapy with at least
      one anti-cholinergic agent, the potential participant will be screened and eligibility will
      be confirmed by a study investigator. A signed, IRB-approved informed consent will be
      obtained.

      Randomization:

      Randomization will be performed after the patient has agreed to participate and discussed and
      signed the informed consent form. Patients will be randomized in random blocks of 4, 6 and 8
      into either the acupuncture group or mirabegron group. Once patient participation is
      confirmed, an enveloped marked with the study participant number will be opened by one of the
      study investigators in front of the patient.

      Acupuncture Protocol:

      All acupuncture sessions will be performed by a licensed acupuncturist employed by University
      Hospitals Connor Integrative Health Network. All acupuncturists involved in the study
      protocol will be trained and supervised in the correct technique by Christine Kaiser, MS,
      LAc, Dipl.OM. Acupuncture session will be performed weekly for 6 weeks and will be scheduled
      to accommodate both the patient's and acupuncturists' schedules. Acupuncture sessions will
      last for 30 minutes. Selected points will include kidney 3, kidney 6, spleen 6, and ren 4.
      The current delivery with electroacupuncture is approximately 10-20 mA (adjusted to patient
      sensation) delivery at 10 Hz for 30 minutes per session. After completion of 6 weeks of
      treatments patients will be contacted by phone at 2 week intervals to determine duration of
      symptomatic relief after cessation of treatment..

      Mirabegron Protocol:

      Patients assigned to the medication group will be prescribed 50 mg of myrbetriq daily to take
      for 6 weeks. At the completion of the study, if patients are satisfied with the effect of
      mirabegron they may continue to use it at their discretion.
    
  