
    
      This study will enroll ten pediatric patients who have their umbilical cord blood banked with
      Cord Blood Registry, Inc. (CBR), who have been diagnosed with an arterial ischemic stroke
      (AIS), and whose caregivers contacted CBR, Inc. to notify them that the child has experienced
      an AIS around the time of birth.

      After receiving permission to release the patient's contact information, the CBR team will
      then relay the contact information to the Stem Cell Study Group at the University of Texas -
      Houston (UT) / Children's Memorial Hermann Hospital (CMHH) who will contact the family,
      explain the study, and send a consent form for their review.

      Several weeks prior to the scheduled procedure date, the patient will go to their family
      doctor for a physical evaluation and have blood drawn to rule out problems with the child's
      health.

      After successfully meeting initial pre-screening criteria, the patient's family will make
      their own arrangements to travel to Houston for the study procedures.

      Once the patient is in Houston, he/she will undergo baseline assessments, including physical,
      neurological exams and tests, speech therapy testing, laboratory tests, and imaging (MRI) of
      the brain. If any of the blood tests are abnormal, or the patient has an active infection,
      the procedure may be postponed or the patient may possibly be excluded from the study.

      If the patient continues to meet all criteria, the frozen cord blood will be shipped
      overnight to a special lab in Houston, TX for processing. Once release criteria have been
      met, the cells will be brought to the CMHH for infusion into the patient's vein. The patient
      will remain at CHMM for 24 hours of monitoring, after which they will be allowed to go home.
      Patients will be called daily by the research staff through Day 14, and once a month after
      that.

      Patients will return to Houston, Texas for 6 month, 1 year and 2 year follow-up visits for
      repeat assessments, tests, and exams just like at the baseline visit. The MRI of the brain
      will only be repeated at the 6 month visit.
    
  