
    
      Hispanics, a group that shows higher type 2 diabetes (T2D) prevalence, and poor
      self-management and clinical outcomes, have been disproportionally adversely impacted by
      COVID-19. The California Department of Public Health reports that Hispanics make up 39% of
      California's population but an unprecedented 57% of the confirmed COVID-19 cases. This
      devastating finding is especially notable on the US/Mexico border. Diabetes has emerged as a
      leading risk factor for severe COVID-19 illness leading to hospitalization, is associated
      with greater disease severity and mortality and is an independent predictor of intensive care
      placement and invasive ventilation. It is becoming increasingly clear that maintaining good
      glucose control improves prognosis of COVID-19 among people with pre-existing T2D. However,
      social distancing, quarantine, and stay-at-home/lockdown guidelines may impact one's ability
      to maintain adequate glycemic control. Research is needed to evaluate the effect and clinical
      outcomes of a flexible, easily adopted low cost digital intervention that improves glucose
      excursions and provides urgently needed COVID-19 mitigation strategies, among rapidly rising
      groups of high-risk Hispanics with poorly controlled T2D in US/Mexico border communities.
      Strong evidence from our parent grant Dulce Digital-Me (DD-ME), supports the use of
      technology (such as text messaging) alone or in combination with coaching interventions as a
      viable and desired method of delivering tailored diabetes self-management education and COVID
      awareness messaging to high-risk, underserved populations in a manner that is more convenient
      for both patients and staff while having the added benefit of being cost-effective for health
      systems, especially within low resource settings. However, effective interventions may
      encounter barriers which preclude guaranteed success upon implementation in the real world.
      This project, taking place along the San Diego/Tijuana border, historically the busiest land
      port of entry in the Western Hemisphere, will assess the effect of providing an enhanced
      digital texting intervention-Dulce Digital-COVID Aware (DD-CA) to N = 172 Hispanic patients
      with T2D upon discharge from a recent hospitalization. Key outcomes will assess the impact of
      DD-CA on hospital readmissions at 30, 90 and 180 days post-discharge, glucose control and
      patient reported outcomes at 90 and 180 days post-discharge while also assessing COVID status
      and the implementation process. Given that DD-CA offers the potential to address many of the
      practical barriers to access and extend the reach of diabetes services, while additionally
      providing COVID awareness support, it offers an ideal low-cost and flexible solution to
      reduce hospital admissions and re-admissions in US/Mexico border communities significantly
      and simultaneously affected by COVID-19 and T2D. Implemented in a typical hospital and
      post-discharge setting, it augments existing care team processes, thus providing a valuable
      test of real-world effectiveness. More importantly, by helping to reduce existing inequities
      in access to diabetes and COVID-19 care, this program aims to improve health outcomes on a
      larger scale.
    
  