
    
      Patients will be recruited up to 21 days prior to the day of surgery. The consent form will
      be reviewed with the patient, and the patient will be allowed to take a copy home. If the
      patient does not have an EKG within the past 6 weeks in her medical record, an EKG will be
      obtained at the time of recruitment. At the time of recruitment, the patient will be
      randomized using a computer-generated code. Group A will receive lidocaine during surgery,
      and Group B will receive saline (placebo) during surgery.The study drug will be prepared by
      the investigator(s). The anesthesiologist and research nurse will be blinded. If necessary in
      the event of an emergency, these individuals may be unblinded.

      Group A (Lidocaine):

      Induction: 1.5 mg/kg IV (IBW) bolus, administered prior to Propofol. The maximum loading dose
      administered will not exceed 150 mg IV Infusion: 33.3 mcg/kg/min IV (IBW), initiated before
      surgical incision.Discontinue infusion 1 hour after skin closure complete.No other local
      anesthetics administered intra-operatively

      Group B (Saline):

      Induction: IV bolus, administered prior to Propofol Infusion: Initiate before surgical
      incision (rate calculated as if for lidocaine infusion). Discontinue infusion 1 hour after
      skin closure complete No local anesthetics administered intra-operatively. Baseline thermal
      quantitative sensory testing (QST) scores will be obtained pre-operatively using TSA-II Neuro
      Sensory Analyzer (Medoc Advanced Medical Systems, Durham, NC).

      Baseline Modified Quality of Recovery (MQoR-40) Survey will be obtained on the morning of
      surgery.

      Preoperative anxiety, depression, and pain characterization will be measured within 24 hours
      of the time of surgery using a validated questionnaire (Hospital Anxiety and Depression
      Scale). If the questionnaire responses indicate the patient is experiencing depressive
      symptoms, the patient will be notified of the results and instructed to follow up with her
      primary care physician.

      Intraoperatively, patients will receive a standardized anesthetic (management protocol
      attached).

      Two blood samples for lidocaine levels will be obtained on subjects. The first lidocaine
      blood sample will be collected after the lidocaine/placebo bolus in the operating room. The
      second lidocaine blood sample will be obtained when the lidocaine/placebo infusion has been
      discontinued (one hour after skin closure). A total of 5 mLs of blood will be obtained.

      Patients will be examined daily by a research nurse while admitted to the hospital. Daily
      pain scores will be noted, as will complications related to the perioperative period. If the
      subject is discharged within 24 hours the research nurse will call by phone to ask the
      subject about pain 0-10 and type and amount of pain relievers used since discharge.MQoR-40
      will be administered on the day of discharge. It will be repeated at 6 weeks, 6 months, and
      12 months after surgery. Patients will complete the Mastectomy Patient Follow-Up, Modified
      LANNS Pain Scale, and McGill Pain questionnaires at 6 months and 12 months after surgery for
      detection of Post-Mastectomy Pain Syndrome (PMPS).

      The definition of PMPS will be: The presence of a dull, burning,and aching sensation in the
      anterior chest, arm, and axilla exacerbated by movement of the shoulder girdle.

      Appendix 1-Anesthetic Management Protocol Appendix 2-HADS Appendix 3-MQoR-40 Appendix
      4-Modified LANNS and McGill Appendix 5-Follow-Up Questionnaire
    
  