
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum-tolerated dose of everolimus in combination with standard
           remission-induction therapy comprising mitoxantrone hydrochloride, cytarabine, and
           etoposide (MICE-regimen) followed by consolidation therapy comprising idarubicin,
           cytarabine, and etoposide in older patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the safety profile of this regimen in these patients.

        -  To determine the anti-leukemic activity (complete remission rate [complete remission and
           complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery]) following one or two induction
           courses.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of everolimus.

        -  Standard remission-induction therapy: Patients receive mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV
           over 30 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5; cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-7; etoposide
           IV over 1 hour on days 1-3; and oral everolimus once a day on days 1-21. Patients with
           partial remission (PR) receive a second induction course, beginning 7-17 days after
           completion of induction course 1. Patients with complete remission or complete remission
           with incomplete blood count recovery (CR/CRi) after induction therapy proceed to
           consolidation therapy; patients who have failed to achieve PR after induction course 1
           or a CR/CRi after induction course 2 are removed from study.

        -  Consolidation therapy: Beginning within 3 weeks from CR/CRi documentation, patients
           receive idarubicin IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5; cytarabine IV continuously on
           days 1-5; etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-3; and oral everolimus once a day on days
           1-10. Patients may receive another course of the consolidation therapy, beginning at
           least 4 weeks after initiation of consolidation therapy course 1.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up once a month for 1 year, every
      3 months for 1 year, and then periodically thereafter.
    
  