
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed complete response and partial
           response) in patients with recurrent and unresectable or metastatic chondrosarcoma
           treated with pemetrexed disodium.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients.

        -  Correlate, preliminarily, response rates with deletions of methylthioadenosine
           phosphorylase (MTAP), as analyzed by fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH), in
           patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior chemotherapy
      (yes vs no).

      Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21
      days* in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 7 days before
      the first dose of pemetrexed disodium and continuing until 21 days after the completion of
      pemetrexed disodium, patients receive cyanocobalamin (vitamin B_12) intramuscularly once
      every 63 days and oral folic acid once daily.

      NOTE: *The duration of course 1 is 28 days; the duration of all subsequent courses is 21
      days.

      Patients achieving a complete response (CR) receive 2 additional courses beyond CR. Patients
      achieving a confirmed partial response (PR) that is resectable, proceed to surgical resection
      and then receive 2 additional courses of therapy after recovering from surgery. Patients
      achieving a confirmed PR that is not resectable continue treatment in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months until disease
      progression and then every 6 months for up to 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40-75 patients (20-40 in the previously treated stratum and
      20-35 in the previously untreated stratum) will be accrued for this study within 20-37.5
      months.
    
  