
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Phase II Component: To evaluate if there is sufficient evidence to continue to the phase
      III component by evaluating the objective response rate (ORR) for PI3K Genentech
      (GNE)-positive patients registered to S1400B treated with GDC-0032. (Phase II)

      II. Phase III Component: If the study meets the criteria specified in S1400, the study will
      be amended to include a follow-on randomized phase III trial.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate investigator-assessed progression free survival (IA-PFS) and overall survival
      (OS) in both the subset of patients defined to be PI3K GNE-positive and in the entire S1400B
      (PI3K Foundation Medicine [FMI] positive) study population treated with GDC-0032. (Phase II)

      II. To evaluate ORR in the entire S1400B (PI3K FMI positive) study population treated with
      GDC-0032 to evaluate the duration of response (DoR) both in GNE positive and FMI positive.
      (Phase II)

      III. To evaluate the DoR both in the entire S1400B PI3K FMI positive study population and in
      GNE positive patients treated with GDC-0032 who achieve a complete response (CR) or partial
      response (PR) (confirmed and unconfirmed) by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) 1.1. (Phase II)

      IV. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with GDC-0032. (Phase II)

      TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify additional predictive tumor/blood biomarkers that may modify response or
      define resistance to the GDC-0032 beyond the chosen biomarker for biomarker-driven
      sub-studies.

      II. To identify potential resistance biomarkers at disease progression.

      III. To establish a tissue/ blood repository from patients with refractory squamous cell
      carcinoma (SCCA) of the lung.

      OUTLINE: As of 12/18/2015, patients are assigned to Arm I.

      ARM I: Patients receive taselisib orally (PO) daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 12/18/2015): Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) on day
      1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Upon progression, patients may be eligible to re-register to Arm III.

      Re-registration ARM III: Patients in Arm II eligible for re-registration receive taselisib
      orally (PO) on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, all patients are followed up every 6 months for the
      first 2 years and then at the end of the year 3 from date of sub-study/re-registration.
    
  