
    
      1. This International-European, investigator-initiated, multicenter, prospective,
           observational study will be performed in centers that belong to the European Foundation
           for the Study of Chronic Liver failure (EF-CLIF)-European Association for Study of the
           Liver (EASL)-EASL-CLIF Consortium.

        2. The population of patients would include ca. 1,200 cirrhotic patients over a
           twelve-months period. These patients will be admitted/referred to the study center
           because of acute decompensation (AD) of cirrhosis (ascites, overt encephalopathy,
           GI-hemorrhage, new onset of non-obstructive jaundice and/or bacterial infections),
           without ACLF (as defined according to the Canonic study ) at hospitalization.

        3. After the enrolment visit, the patients will be stratified into two groups: Group 1
           patients with high risk of ACLF development (CLIF-C AD score ≥ 50) and in Group 2
           patients with low risk of ACLF (CLIF-C AD score <50). The whole cohort will be followed
           for 3 months, while Group 1 will be followed more closely. Development of ACLF is an
           end-point and in this case a final visit 7-10 days after ACLF development is planned.
           Data on liver transplantation, mortality and causes of mortality 3 months, 6 months and
           12 months will be collected in the whole cohort.

        4. Prospective collection of biological material and performance of ancillary studies
           investigating predictors for development and pathogenesis of ACLF.

      Specific goals of the study:

        -  To identify early clinical predictors, biomarkers, mechanisms and precipitating events
           during the critical period prior to and involved in the development and clinical course
           of ACLF (with special emphasis to medical trajectory and drug history) in patients
           admitted/referred to study center with acute decompensation of cirrhosis (ascites,
           GI-hemorrhage, overt encephalopathy, new onset of non-obstructive jaundice and/or
           bacterial infections) and the chronological relationship of the events with occurrence
           and dynamics of ACLF development.

        -  To develop a score predicting ACLF development (CLIF-PREDICT score) and assess 28-day,
           90-day, 6-month and 1-year all-cause mortality in cirrhotic patients with acute AD, but
           without ACLF.

        -  To serve as a core (hub) study for prospective ancillary studies regarding diagnosis,
           prognosis and pathogenesis of AD and ACLF.

      Main endpoints

        -  Assessment of the critical period prior to ACLF development

             -  Characterization of mechanisms responsible for ACLF development

             -  Predictors of clinical course dynamics of ACLF evolution and mortality.

             -  Identification and role of precipitating events for ACLF development.

        -  To elaborate a CLIF-PREDICT score 2. Secondary endpoints

        -  Prospective core ancillary studies to investigate the pathogenesis of ACLF.
    
  