
    
      Therapy with oral glucocorticoids often plays an important role in the management of
      rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The American College of Rheumatology (ACR) Ad Hoc Committee on
      Clinical Guidelines recently concluded that glucocorticoids are highly effective in relieving
      symptoms among people with active RA and that these medications may retard the rate of joint
      damage. Despite these obvious benefits, therapy with oral glucocorticoids is a
      well-established risk factor for osteoporosis, as highlighted by the recently published ACR
      Guidelines on the Prevention of Glucocorticoid-induced Osteoporosis. The ultimate objective
      of the proposed research is to improve the health-related quality of life of individuals with
      RA by reducing their risk of developing osteoporosis secondary to glucocorticoid therapy. The
      study has four specific aims: (1) to obtain descriptive information concerning patients'
      knowledge, beliefs and behaviors with respect to osteoporosis and osteoporosis prevention;
      (2) to identify factors that discriminate among patients in different stages of change with
      respect to each behavior of interest; (3) to compare the effects of tailored versus generic
      educational materials on patient adherence to the ACR Guidelines for the Prevention
      Glucocorticoid-induced Osteoporosis; and (4) to determine if the effects of tailored
      educational materials is enhanced by concurrent feedback of information concerning patients'
      behavioral risk factor status to their physicians. A sample of 273 patients with RA currently
      taking an oral glucocorticoid were recruited to participate in the study. Data were collected
      via mailed questionnaires and telephone interviews. The study used an experimental research
      design. Following baseline data collection, participants were randomly assigned to one of
      four experimental groups. Patients in one group received standard care only. Patients in the
      second group received generic educational materials about osteoporosis and osteoporosis
      prevention in addition to standard care. Patients in the third group received educational
      materials tailored to their stage in the behavior change process in addition to standard
      care. Finally, patients in the fourth group received the same tailored educational materials
      and care received by patients in the third group. In addition, each patient's physician
      received feedback concerning the patient's status with respect to behavioral risk factors for
      osteoporosis (e.g., inadequate calcium intake). Follow-up data were collected one year after
      baseline data collection. Variables assessed included: (1) behavior, (2) stage of change, (3)
      knowledge and counseling received concerning osteoporosis, (4) health beliefs, (5) physical
      health status, (6) osteoporosis risk factors, (7) background characteristics, and (8)
      information seeking. To accomplish the specific aims of the study, data will be analyzed
      using descriptive statistics, multivariate analysis of variance, and discriminant analyses.
    
  