
    
      Hypnotics such as benzodiazepines and benzodiazepine receptor agonists are often prescribed
      for insomnia. Among Veterans attending outpatient clinics, approximately one-quarter use
      hypnotics (or bedtime alcohol). Hypnotics use is associated with an increased risk of falls
      and worse cognition in older adults. Discontinuing hypnotics often attenuates or reverses
      these negative effects, and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has initiatives to reduce
      hypnotic use among older adults. Current discontinuation strategies focus on tapering off the
      hypnotic and/or treating insomnia symptoms. Common strategies include supervised gradual
      taper (SGT), cognitive behavioral therapy targeting hypnotic withdrawal (CBT-HW), cognitive
      behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBTI), and combination therapy (SGT+CBTI). Yet up to 40% of
      patients eventually resume use of hypnotics with these strategies, suggesting that other
      mechanisms need to be targeted to achieve and sustain high rates of non-use.

      Objectives: 1) To assess the efficacy of a novel taper plus cognitive behavioral
      therapy-augmented program on hypnotic discontinuation among older Veterans, 2) to determine
      the impact of the the novel taper intervention on insomnia severity, 3) to assess the impact
      of the novel taper intervention on participants' beliefs and expectancies for using hypnotics
      to improve sleep quality and daytime function, and 4) to assess the efficacy of the novel
      taper intervention on balance and cognition.

      To achieve these objectives, we propose to conduct a randomized clinical trial in older
      Veterans recruited from a single VA site. Veterans will undergo a 3-step screening process
      (letter with opt-out card, telephone screen, and in-person screen). Eligible participants (N
      = 132) will be randomized to 8 weeks of the novel taper intervention (CBTI+taper method A) or
      CBTI+taper method B. Follow-up assessments will be conducted at post-treatment and 6-months.
      Key 6-month outcomes will include hypnotic discontinuation and use (measured objectively
      through lab testing and medical record review/state prescription monitoring database query,
      and subjectively through sleep diary), insomnia severity, beliefs and expectations about
      hypnotics, balance, and cognition.

      This hypnotic discontinuation program could be an important tool to help older Veterans who
      want to discontinue hypnotics to achieve this goal.
    
  