
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the
      combination of ruxolitinib and a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) in patients with chronic
      myeloid leukemia (CML). (Phase I) II. To determine the clinical activity of the combination
      of ruxolitinib and a TKI in patients with CML in complete cytogenetic remission (CCyR) with
      minimal residual disease (MRD). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the clinical activity of the combination of ruxolitinib and a TKI in patients
      with CML. (Phase I) II. To determine the safety of the combination of ruxolitinib and a TKI
      in patients with CML in CCyR with minimal residual disease. (Phase II) III. Determine the
      overall survival, event-free survival and survival free from transformation to accelerated
      and blast phase. (Phase I and II) IV. Determine the effect of therapy on bone marrow
      progenitors in clonogenic assays. (Phase I and II) V. Investigate the effect of therapy on
      molecular responses as assessed by genomic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR). (Phase I and II) VI. Determine the effect of therapy on TKI-resistant
      quiescent leukemic Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)+ stem cells (CFSEmax/CD34+) by flow
      cytometric evaluation of activated Crkl and Jak2. (Phase I and II) VII. Assess the effect of
      therapy on self-renewal and/or survival of leukemic stem cells by fluorescence in situ
      hybridization (FISH) analysis on colonies. (Phase I and II) VIII. Assess ruxolitinib
      pharmacokinetics (PK) in preselected time intervals during co-administration of this agent
      with TKIs. (Phase I and II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of ruxolitinib followed by a phase II
      study.

      Participants receive commercially available TKIs (imatinib mesylate, nilotinib, or dasatinib)
      as they had been receiving during the last 6 months and ruxolitinib orally (PO) twice daily
      (BID). Courses repeat every 28 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up for 30 days.
    
  