
    
      Despite adequate epidural analgesia, up to 97% of patients undergoing thoracotomy will
      experience ipsilateral shoulder pain. Although this pain is well recognized, its cause
      remains unclear. Several mechanisms have been suggested to explain this pain, including
      somatic and visceral as well as phrenic nerve nociception. The phrenic nerve arises from the
      third to the fifth cervical nerves and provides the sensory innervation for the mediastinal
      and diaphragmatic pleura and pericardium. Patients will complain of a constant, moderate to
      severe aching pain, in the posterior deltoid and in the suprascapular region, ipsilateral to
      the surgery. Different treatments have been used to alleviate post-thoracotomy shoulder pain,
      but few of these efforts have been proven effective and safe.

      A mixture of epidural bupivacaine and fentanyl is considered the standard of care for
      post-thoracotomy analgesia in our center. The infusion is started after induction of
      anesthesia with a bolus dose followed with a continuous infusion and bolus doses as needed
      for the following days. To optimize the use of epidural analgesia after thoracotomy, it would
      seem well-advised to try to reach higher dermatomes. This could possibly be achieved by using
      a different opioid in combination with bupivacaine in the epidural infusion. Morphine could
      be an interesting agent in order to reach cervical spinous dermatomes probably involved in
      the genesis of post-thoracotomy shoulder pain.

      Methods: The anesthetic technique and monitoring will be standardized. Prior to the induction
      of general anesthesia, a thoracic epidural catheter will be inserted under local anesthesia
      between the fourth and the eight spinous processes. Correct placement of the epidural will be
      assessed. A bolus dose of fentanyl 100 mcg or morphine 3 mg will be given by the epidural
      catheter as per randomization. The epidural infusion will be initiated at a rate of 0.1
      mL/kg/hr before surgery and continued postoperatively until the surgical drains are removed
      or for a maximum of five days. To relieve thoracic pain, the epidural infusion rate will be
      adjusted up to a maximum of 12 mL/hr, with boluses of 0.05 mL/kg as needed. Hydromorphone
      will be used postoperatively as rescue analgesia for shoulder pain. All patients will receive
      standardised doses of acetaminophen for the first 48 hours following surgery.

      On arrival in the recovery room, correct placement of the epidural will be reassessed. During
      the immediate postoperative period, the intensity of pain will be assessed using a Verbal
      Numeric Pain Scale (0-10). Pain will be assessed at 2,4,8,12 and 24 hours after surgery and
      daily thereafter, for a total duration of 4 postoperative days. Interference of pain with
      daily activities will be assessed using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) at 24 hours following
      surgery. Signs of neuropathic pain will be assessed using the Leeds Assessment of Neuropathic
      Symptoms and Signs (LANSS) scale at 24 hours following surgery.

      Side-effects attributable to analgesia will be recorded. Arterial blood samples will be
      collected every 8 hours for the first 24 hours postoperatively.
    
  