
    
      Rotator cuff tears occur in approximately 20% of patients older than 65 years and increase
      with age. These non-traumatic RCTs are generally caused by normal age-related degeneration.
      Surgical treatment is effective, however recurrence of injury is common especially when the
      original tear was caused by age related degeneration. Non-surgical treatment options are
      designed to decrease pain and improve performance of activities of daily living and may be an
      effective alternative to surgery. If non-surgical treatment options are unsuccessful,
      surgical treatment may be considered. When rotator cuff tears are treated surgically,
      postoperative rehabilitation is an important factor in determining outcome success, however
      there is uncertainty regarding the best protocols for post-surgery rehabilitation. Evidence
      suggests that a more complete understanding of motion and muscle activation is necessary to
      design effective and reliable rehabilitation programs for rotator cuff injuries.

      These data will enable medical professionals to better answer a range of clinical questions.
      They will provide health care professionals and researchers with a knowledge of relative
      muscle contributions to specific joint motions required to perform activities of daily
      living. This information is well suited to refine input variables for computer models and
      robotic testing platforms which can improve virtual and cadaver testing of shoulder
      impairment and repair models. Understanding the limitations to movement caused by RCT, and
      the resulting muscle activation patterns, will inform better surgical indications and enable
      therapists to better design rehabilitation protocols to enhance recovery from rotator cuff
      tears with or without surgery, as well as develop programs to limit future tears. Knowledge
      of muscle activation patterns during activities of daily living will also allow
      pre-habilitation protocols to be tailored for a subsequent surgical procedure such as reverse
      shoulder arthroplasty. These data will also assist in the design of shoulder prostheses whose
      biomechanical characteristics will compensate for deficiencies present in a shoulder joint
      impaired by rotator cuff injury. The knowledge gained from this study will provide a basis
      for future studies investigating traumatic shoulder injuries and the design of effective
      rehabilitation protocols for such injuries.
    
  