
    
      New York State has awarded grants to several regional health information exchange
      organizations (RHIOs), organizations established to create the technical and policy
      infrastructure needed to exchange health data between providers, payers, and public health
      agencies within a particular geographic region, to build an interoperable system for people
      to manage their own health information. Two of these grant recipients are the Brooklyn Health
      Information Exchange (BHIX) and Long Island Patient Information Xchange (LIPIX).

      Since no off-the shelf technology currently exists to create such a system, BHIX is working
      with a commercial vendor to develop a unique system that is tailored toward the needs of
      their consumers and providers, while LIPIX is developing their own unique system in-house.
      Both BHIX's and LIPIX's interoperable personal health management systems will offer various
      features to consumers and providers in their community. Consumers may be able to perform
      tasks such as viewing their lab results, scheduling an appointment, or sending a message
      directly to their physician through a SMS. Conversely, the PHR can also allow physicians to
      engage in communications with their patient, release data to their patient(s) (e.g. lab test
      result); and view patient inputted-data.

      The usage patterns of these personal health managements systems is not well understood
      (Ralson et al., 2009; Kim et al., 2007). Understanding consumers and providers' use of these
      interoperable systems can help aid in improving current systems and developing future
      systems.

      Specific Aims

      The specific aims of this study are to describe the usage of BHIX's and LIPIX's novel
      interoperable personal health management systems, specifically:

        1. To quantify adoption of and frequency of use of novel technological platforms designed
           to give consumers (patients) access to RHIO-based health information exchange (HIE)
           data;

        2. To quantify usage of HIE-specific data elements within these platforms;

        3. To explore associations between usage and user demographics/clinical characteristics;

        4. To explore trends in usage over time.
    
  