
    
      Aims and objectives

        1. The primary objective of the RCT study is to evaluate the relative efficacies of two
           online, theory-based and interactive interventions [health communication (HC) and health
           communication plus MI (HC-MI)] in increasing uptake of three required doses of HPV
           vaccination within a 9-month follow-up period among Hong Kong Chinese MSM who had not
           previously taken up any dose of HPV vaccination, as compared to the control group (Group
           C)

        2. Secondary objectives are to evaluate the relative efficacies of the interventions in
           increasing the following responses at the end of the 9-month follow up period:

           i) Intention to take up all doses of HPV vaccination in the next 12 months. ii)
           Theory-based cognitions supportive of HPV vaccination [e.g. those of the Health Belief
           Model (HBM)].

           Study design A three-arm parallel RCT will be conducted. Background information and
           potential confounder(s) are recorded at baseline. Three post-intervention evaluations
           will be performed through short telephone surveys 3, 6 and 9 months after exposure to
           the intervention. Participants who have already taken up all three doses of HPV
           vaccination at Month 3 or 6 will be asked the termination questionnaire (same as that
           for Month 9). Interviewers and data analysts are blinded from participants'
           randomization status.

           Subject Inclusion criteria: 1) Hong Kong Chinese speaking men of aged ≥18, 2)
           self-reported oral or anal intercourse with ≥1 man (last six months); 3) no intention to
           leave Hong Kong for >1 month consecutively within the next nine months, 4) regular
           internet access and 5) willing to be followed up by phone. Those who have ever received
           HPV vaccination will be excluded.

           Recruitment procedures Participants will be recruited by outreaching in local
           gay-friendly venues. The fieldworkers will explain the study's detail to participants.
           Verbal instead of written informed consent will be obtained due to the need to maintain
           anonymity; the fieldworkers will sign a form pledging that participants have been fully
           briefed and participants' verbal informed consent was obtained. Fieldworkers obtain
           multiple contacts (mobile, email and/or other e-contact) from prospective participants.
           Participants will also be recruited via the Internet by comparable procedures.

           Ethical considerations Fieldworkers guarantee anonymity, the right to quit at any time
           and that refusal will not affect participants' chance in using any services. Verbal
           instead of written informed consent will be obtained due to the need to maintain
           anonymity; the fieldworkers will sign a form pledging that participants have been fully
           briefed. In addition, all participants will reconfirm informed consent online before
           receiving the online intervention; if the participants select "refuse" for the online
           informed consent form, the program will close automatically. Ethics approval was
           obtained from the Survey and Behavioral Research Ethics Committee of the CUHK and the
           Joint CUHK-NTEC Clinical Research Ethics Committee. All information will be kept in
           locked areas.

           Randomization In the pre-arranged phone call, fieldworkers brief prospective
           participants again and reconfirm participants' informed consent. Participants are
           randomly allocated into one of the three groups, with a sealed opaque envelop drawn by
           the research staff. Computerized random numbers and block randomization (block size of
           12) will be used.

           Primary and secondary outcomes The primary outcome of the study is whether the
           participant has taken up all three doses of HPV vaccination (at any clinic) within a
           9-months follow-up period. Secondary outcomes include intention to take up all three
           doses of HPV vaccination in the next 12 months and changes in HBM-related cognitions on
           HPV.

           The baseline survey After randomization takes place, the fieldworker will administer a
           baseline telephone survey to record information on potential confounders (Questionnaire
           A: 10-15 minutes).

           Evaluation surveys at Months 3, 6 and 9 A short interim phone interview will be
           administered at Month 3 and 6 to those who have not taken up three doses of HPV
           vaccination at Months 3 and 6 (non-termination) after exposure to intervention,
           recording only uptake of HPV vaccination (one dose or two doses, price, venue and date)
           during the inter-survey intervals and intention to take up three doses of vaccination in
           the next 12 months (Questionnaire B, <5 minutes). Participants present at Month 9 or
           having taken up all three dose at Month 3 and 6 (termination) will be asked about HPV
           vaccination history, as well as cognitive perceptions and emotional factors included in
           the baseline survey (Questionnaire C, about 10 minutes). To reduce loss-to-follow-up,
           the investigators will show these questionnaires to the participants at baseline.

           Information for validating vaccine uptake All participants, including those who are
           vaccinated at the collaborating clinic, will be requested to send the research team an
           image of the receipt, hiding personal identification and via the same smartphone number,
           social media account, or email previous used in this project, after participants have
           taken up each dose of HPV vaccines.

           Intervention of the Group HC (Online Health Communication Only Group) Participants will
           watch two short health promotion videos (five minutes each), which contain health
           communication messages about HPV and HPV vaccination and complete a self-administered
           exercise which attempts to increase related knowledge and supportive cognitions. After
           completing the tutorials, participants will be requested to answer an online
           questionnaire that contains only three simple questions asking about some details of the
           two videos. This is to verify exposure to the videos. One's login time for the tutorial
           will be recorded by the computer program (another way to cross-check exposure).

           Intervention of the Group HC-MI (Online Health Communication Plus MI Group) In addition
           to the components received by the Group HC, Group HC-MI will receive motivational
           interviewing (MI) of 15 minutes. To increase involvement of the interviewer and rapport,
           the interviewer will "wait for" the participants while the participants are performing
           the tutorial. [The interviewer will hold (via third line holding) or hang up the phone
           while the participant is doing the tutorial and call back 20 minutes afterwards]. The
           interviewer will discuss briefly about the tutorial (e.g. participants' responses or
           questions) with the participants to enhance support and also to verify exposure to the
           tutorial. The interviewer will then conduct a 15-minute MI session with the participant
           over phone.

           Maintenance of motivation for Group HC and Group HC-MI In order to maintain motivation
           formed during the intervention, tailored reminders will be sent by Whatsapp or emails to
           all participants of the Group HC and Group HC-MI. A link to the project webpage will be
           included in such reminders, prompting participants to access a webpage where
           participants can watch a testimonial video about HPV experience presented by a peer MSM,
           read comments made by other participants, add participants' own comments and feedback on
           others' comments. Such arrangements will provide continuous cues to action for
           maintaining motivation. The number of reminders will be standardized to five (at month
           1, 2, 4, 6 & 8). The number of reminders sending to participants who have taken up all
           three doses of HPV vaccination will be recorded.

           The control group (Group C) The health communication messages in Group C will consist of
           online messages about prevalence of some common mental health problems among MSM and
           introduction of stress reduction exercises. No reminder will be given.

           Sample size planning For planning purpose, the investigators conservatively assume 30%
           of the automated health communication intervention (Group HC) would show an intention,
           and 40% of those with such an intention would actually take up HPV vaccination (i.e. 12%
           of Group HC). Regarding the Group HC-MI, the investigators assume the intention would
           increase to 60% as MI is a powerful tool; the investigators assume that 50% of its
           members with an intention would actually take up the vaccine (hence 30% of Group HC-MI
           would be vaccinated). A sample size of 113 per group is needed to achieve the planned
           effect sizes and power of .8 and alpha of .0125 for all comparisons (taking into account
           multiple comparisons). With an expected loss-to-follow up rate of 35% at month 9, a
           sample size of about 174 per group is required (total n=522). To be conservative, the
           investigators keep the target sample size of 208 per group (624 in total); which can
           detect smallest between-group difference of 16.2% between Group HC (12%) and Group HC-MI
           (~28.2%), and detect smallest between-group difference of 10% between Group HC (12%) and
           Group C (~2%), at power of .8 and alpha of .0125 (taking into account multiple
           comparisons).

           Data processing and analysis Test-retest reliability of the baseline questionnaire will
           be assessed. For categorical responses, Cohen's Kappa statistics will be tested, while
           for continuous responses, intra-class correlation coefficient will be used. Chi-square
           test or one-way ANOVA will be conducted to compare differences in background
           characteristics of those being followed up and loss to follow-up, and differences in
           potential confounders recorded at baseline among the three groups.

           Intention-to-treat analysis will be performed to assess relative efficacy of the two
           interventions Generalized Estimation Equation (GEE) models will be fit to investigate
           significance of differences in primary and secondary outcomes across the three groups,
           adjusted for any significant potential confounders. Absolute and relative risk
           reductions and corresponding 95% CI will be derived. Cox regression analysis will also
           be performed, treating those who are loss to follow-up during the follow-up period and
           those who had not taken up all three doses of HPV vaccination at the end of the 9-month
           follow-up period as censored cases, and completion of all three doses of HPV vaccination
           as the event (endpoint), and intervention group membership as the covariate. Adjustment
           for potential confounders (found to be significant at baseline analysis) will be
           performed if necessary.
    
  