
    
      Heyland et al. previously proposed a novel scoring tool, the Nutrition Risk in Critically ill
      (NUTRIC) score, which is the first nutritional risk assessment tool developed and validated
      specifically for intensive care unit (ICU) patients. Many other risk scores and assessment
      tools exist to quantify nutrition risk but none have been specifically designed for ICU
      patients. Indeed, they generally consider all critically ill patients to be at high
      nutritional risk. However, the recognition that not all ICU patients will respond the same to
      nutritional interventions was the critical concept behind the NUTRIC score. There was an
      interaction between mortality, nutritional intake and NUTRIC score suggesting that those with
      higher NUTRIC scores benefited the most from increasing nutritional intake. However, the
      inferences about the validity of the NUTRIC score are limited in Chinese patients because of
      no data.

      The current outbreak of novel coronavirus was first reported from Wuhan, China on Dec ember
      31 , 2019 . This virus was named as 2019 nCoV by World Health Organization ( on Jan uary 12 ,
      2020). Following the advice of the Emergency Committee, the WHO declared the outbreak of 2019
      nCoV a Public Health Emergency of International Concern . Patients show fever and / or
      respiratory symptoms, with the imaging characteristics of pneumonia, and other symptoms
      include hemoptysis muscle pain, headache, confusion, chest pain, and diarrhea. About 16%
      patients need ICU admission.

      The objective of this study is to validation of the "NUTRIC" nutritional risk assessment tool
      in Chinese ICU patients diagnosed as COVID-19. This is a single-center, prospective cohort
      study of ICU patients with COVID-19. Data for all variables of the NUTRIC score will be
      collected. These include age, APACHE II score, SOFA score, number of co-morbidities, days
      from hospital admission to ICU admission. A logistic model including the NUTRIC score, the
      nutritional adequacy and their interaction will be estimated to assess if the NUTRIC score
      modified the association between nutritional adequacy and 28-day mortality.
    
  