
    
      The primary goals of this proposal are to investigate the etiological mechanisms associated
      with antidepressant-related dysfunctional emotional arousal and to characterize baseline
      neurobiological risk factors that predict the development of dysfunctional emotional arousal
      in treatment seeking youth with a family history of BD.

      Antidepressants have moderate benefit for treating mood and anxiety disorders in childhood
      but their effects on the developing brain are largely unknown. Antidepressants are among the
      most commonly prescribed medications used by youth in the United States and are used to treat
      many psychiatric disorders including depression, dysthymia and anxiety. However, recent
      reviews suggest that antidepressants provide only mild to moderate benefit. Moreover, a
      growing number of case reports and clinical studies have described antidepressant-related
      psychiatric adverse events such as aggression, psychosis, agitation, suicidal ideation,
      hypomania or mania, all behaviors associated with increased emotional arousal. Importantly,
      these adverse events are more likely to occur in children than adults. With younger ages of
      treatment combined with increased and repeated exposure during critical sensitive periods of
      neurodevelopment, these adverse events are becoming a rising concern for youth, and may lead
      to the development of serious psychopathologies in youth that carry an enormous burden of
      illness, such as bipolar disorder (BD). Given that BD typically begins before 18 years of age
      and with a depressive episode, there are millions of youth in the U.S. each year who
      experience their first bipolar episode as a depressive episode that is routinely treated with
      antidepressants. However, the mechanisms and risk factors through which antidepressants
      increase risk for developing adverse outcomes are largely unknown.

      Youth with a family history of BD have a high likelihood of developing adverse responses to
      antidepressants, possibly because such youth are already vulnerable to developing
      dysfunctional emotional arousal and may use antidepressants to treat mood and anxiety
      symptoms. Indeed, a family history of BD is among the strongest risk factors for developing
      disorders of emotional arousal in youth. Twin and family studies have provided compelling
      evidence that having a parent with BD is associated with dramatic increases in risk for the
      offspring's development of disorders of emotional arousal compared with the general
      population. Moreover, when these offspring develop dysfunctional emotional arousal, their
      risk of developing BD increases even further. Antidepressants are commonly used to treat
      initial mood presentations; however, they may also accelerate the onset of dysfunctional
      emotional arousal in these high-risk youth. In this context, it becomes difficult to
      disentangle a natural illness progression from an antidepressant-related dysfunction leading
      to BD. Thus, there is a significant clinical dilemma regarding whether antidepressants should
      be prescribed to treat youth with a family history of BD, who also have DSM-5 (Diagnostic and
      Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders) depressive and anxiety disorders.
    
  