
    
      The placement of central venous catheters (CVCs) is a common procedure performed in
      critically ill patients, with millions placed annually. The routine use of chest radiographs
      for CVC confirmation is outdated. Chest radiographs are associated with delays in initiating
      time-critical interventions and present an unexamined opportunity for improving resource
      utilization and associated costs. Radiography has been used for over 50 years for this
      purpose in the absence of other options. Emerging evidence suggests that a post-procedure
      chest radiographs are unnecessary when ultrasound is used to confirm catheter position and
      exclude pneumothorax (PCEP). Yet few in the medical community are likely aware of these data
      and even among those who are aware, chest radiographs continues to be the routine modality
      used for CVC PCEP.

      The average 17 years it takes to translate clinical research into practice is too long and
      presents an opportunity to expedite implementation of innovations in critical care medicine.
      For the proposed project, "De-Implementation Of Routine Chest Radiographs After Adoption of
      Ultrasound Guided Insertion and Confirmation of Central Venous Catheter Protocol (DRAUP)",
      the hypothesis is that identifying determinants of behavior for intervention development (Aim
      1) will increase the likelihood of developing successful strategies that will yield faster
      clinical adoption. Understanding the behavioral adaptations that have to occur is key to
      developing strategies that increase the uptake of evidence into healthcare practice and
      improving health outcomes. These strategies (targeting adoption and substitution) will then
      be implemented in a local Emergency Department (Aim 2) to determine if these selected
      implementation strategies will increase provider adoption, fidelity, and organizational
      penetrance (Aim 3) of ultrasound-guided CVC PCEP. A good clinical outcome would be a decrease
      in provider dependence on chest radiographs after ultrasound-guided CVC PCEP.
    
  