
    
      Pain and depression are conditions that impact substantial proportions of the US population.
      Finding safe and effective drug therapies for both conditions is challenging. In the case of
      treatment for acute and chronic pain, the challenge is finding effective therapy while
      minimizing adverse effects or opioid addiction (and the ensuing consequences). For
      depression, there are few clinically relevant predictors of successful treatment leading to
      multiple trials of inadequate therapy for some patients. Both opioid and antidepressant
      prescriptions can be guided by pharmacogenetics (PGx) data based on existing guidelines from
      the Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC).

      This study is designed to evaluate the impact of pharmacogenetic testing and genotype-guided
      pain or anti-depressant therapy on pain control or depression symptoms in a pragmatic
      setting.

      The rationale for examining a genotype-guided approach to acute and chronic pain management
      is based on the importance of CYP2D6 for the bioactivation of tramadol, codeine, and
      hydrocodone and data from a pilot study supporting improved pain control in intermediate and
      poor CYP2D6 metabolizers in the genotype-guided arm who are taking these drugs at baseline.
      Similarly, the rationale for examining a genotype-guided approach to depression medication
      therapy is based on the demonstrated role of CYP2D6 in the bio inactivation and CYP2C19
      oxidation of select, commonly used SSRIs. Secondly, data from industry sponsored trials
      support the hypothesis of improved depression symptom control in a genotype-guided arm.

      Study objectives:

      Acute Pain Trial: Determine if a genotype-guided approach to acute post-surgical pain therapy
      leads to improved pain control compared to usual care, as defined by a decrease in the SIA
      score. Secondarily, The investigators will evaluate whether this approach leads to reduced
      use of DEA Schedule II opioids and reduced pain intensity.

      Chronic Pain Trial: Determine if a genotype-guided approach to pain therapy in participants
      with at least 3 months of chronic pain leads to improved pain control compared to usual care.

      Depression Trial: Determine if genotype-guided dosing or selection of antidepressants among
      participants with at least 3 months of depressive symptoms who require new or revised
      antidepressant therapy leads to improved control of depression, compared to usual care.
    
  