
    
      Context: Each year, more than 30 million children are evaluated at >5,000 US Emergency
      Departments (EDs); more than 85% present to general EDs. Pediatric resuscitation is
      particularly high-stakes aspect of emergency care for which non-pediatric-specialized EDs are
      often unprepared. Evidence shows differential outcomes as well, including a difference in
      mortality in pediatric resuscitation between general EDs (40%) and pediatric EDs (22%). The
      toll goes beyond physical health outcomes - about 1 in 6 seriously ill children (and their
      parents) will go on to have persistent posttraumatic stress symptoms related to their medical
      condition and treatment experiences.

      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE:

      This research is part of a larger project to create and disseminate the "Self-Assessment
      through Video Evaluation for Performance improvement in Emergency Department-based Pediatric
      Resuscitation" (SAVE PEDS) Toolkit. This web-based resource will enable general emergency
      departments (EDs) across the US to reliably self-assess, measure and iteratively improve
      their performance in pediatric resuscitation via video review, assessment and debriefing of
      simulated or actual patient care emergencies, and accessible training materials. The current
      trial will test an online skills training module intended to be delivered as part of SAVE
      PEDS. Aimed at healthcare professionals, the Family-centered & Trauma-informed Support in
      Pediatric Resuscitation (FACETS: Pediatric Resuscitation) training combines didactic
      information and scenario-based learning with opportunities for the learner to practice
      applying his/her knowledge at key choice points in realistic pediatric resuscitation
      scenarios.

      Medical resuscitation is a high-stakes, fast-moving environment in which a variable team of
      health care professionals and ancillary staff must work together seamlessly to maximize
      patient outcomes. Pediatric resuscitation is a relatively rare occurrence across all
      emergency care, and especially true in the general hospital where providers may have less
      comfort and experience with the care of children, and hospitals have fewer pediatric-specific
      resources. Yet the general hospital, where 85% of children are seen for emergency care, must
      be constantly ready for the resuscitation of a critically ill/injured child.

      Gaps are known to exist in accessibility of pediatric resuscitation equipment, resuscitation
      skill performance and guideline adherence. The reported difference in mortality in pediatric
      resuscitation between general (40%) and pediatric (22%) EDs may be directly related to these
      gaps. Significant gaps also exist in the delivery of family-centered care (FCC) in the ED.
      FCC has been defined as care that emphasizes respect for patient and family perspectives
      regarding health care, and encouragement of patient and family participation in care and
      decision-making. Only half of general EDs report having FCC policies for children. FCC can be
      a particular challenge in the resuscitation setting, with many competing priorities for the
      medical team's attention and focus.

      For patients and families, pediatric resuscitation is an extremely stressful experience.
      Symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are common in children (and family) in the
      aftermath of pediatric critical illness and injury, and these symptoms have been associated
      with medication non-adherence, lower quality of life and poorer functional outcomes. There is
      strong support for the positive impact of family presence and family involvement in care /
      decision-making - on patient safety, patient and family satisfaction, and child and family
      emotional health. Meaningful implementation of FCC during resuscitation requires a set of
      skills for which few ED providers have had systematic training. Providers in general EDs have
      even fewer opportunities to learn or practice these skills as they relate to pediatric
      resuscitation.

      Study Design: this is a multi-site RCT

      Setting/Participants include a total of 6-8 general EDs - in community or
      non-pediatric-specialized hospitals - will participate. Within each ED, Investigators will
      enroll individual health care professionals who are involved in pediatric resuscitation in
      the ED.

      Study Interventions and Measures:

      Investigators will gather information on site level factors relative to hospital resources
      and ED volumes to categorize and describe EDs.

      Participants will complete demographics and pre-survey assessing self-rated confidence and
      practice of FCC and pediatric resuscitation. 2-3 teams at each site will then participate in
      two simulated pediatric resuscitation scenarios incorporating family presence. At
      Intervention group sites, participants will then complete the online FCC training. At Control
      group sites, participants will complete an online training on national pediatric readiness
      standards for EDs. Teams will then complete two additional simulated scenarios, after which a
      debriefing session will be held. Participants not present for the simulation sessions will
      complete the intervention or control training online. Afterwards, participants will complete
      a post-survey assessing self-rated confidence and practice of FCC and pediatric
      resuscitation. Four to twelve weeks post-training, teams at each site will participate in two
      additional simulation scenarios incorporating family presence.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      This randomized controlled trial (RCT) will be conducted in general ED settings, to evaluate
      the impact of the FACETS: Pediatric Resuscitation training module on:

        1. individual providers' confidence and use of FCC skills in pediatric resuscitation
           (primary objective)

        2. team performance of FCC and resuscitative care skills during simulated pediatric
           resuscitations (secondary objective).

      STUDY PLAN

      Investigators will conduct an RCT of the FACETS online training module (intervention) vs. an
      online training module reviewing pediatric readiness standards for all EDs (control) in six
      to eight participating institutions that are general non-pediatric-specialized EDs.

      Randomization of the participating EDs will occur at the site level, with half allocated to
      the intervention condition and half to the control condition. All participants will be
      blinded as to treatment condition and as to the specific study goal of evaluating FCC. Study
      staff who rate team performance from videotaped simulated pediatric resuscitations will be
      blinded as to study condition.

      Within each institution, Investigators will enroll individual health care professionals who
      are involved in pediatric resuscitation in the ED. An email invitation to all eligible staff
      will include a link to study consent and to the study pre-survey, both administered via
      REDCap.

      All participants will complete the pre-training survey, either the intervention or the
      control training module, and the post-training survey. A subset of participants (based on
      availability) will additionally take part in in situ simulated pediatric resuscitation
      scenarios, as part of a team, at their institution.

      STUDY PROCEDURES

      Pre-Baseline Visit (online) A. Online survey (REDCap), up to 4 weeks prior to training,
      online questionnaires - self-report by individual providers. Time: 20-30 minutes.

      Baseline Visit B. In situ simulations, team of providers participates in 2 simulated
      pediatric resuscitation scenarios conducted in ED. Time: 1 - 1.5 hours C. Online training
      module (intervention or control), individual providers will complete independently, a subset
      of participants present for in situ study visit will complete online training module
      individually between simulation sessions. Those not present for in situ study visit will
      complete online training module on their own. Time: 1 hour D. Post training in situ
      simulations, team of providers participates in 2 simulated pediatric resuscitation scenarios
      conducted in ED. Time: 1 - 1.5 hours Follow-up Phase (online) E. Online survey (REDCap), up
      to 6 weeks after online training module, online questionnaires - self-report by individual
      providers. Time: 20-30 minutes

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS

      The primary endpoint is at the provider level: pre- to post-training changes in individual
      providers' self-rated confidence in providing FCC in pediatric resuscitation. Investigators
      will also examine pre- to post-training changes in self-reported use of FCC skills in
      practice.

      The secondary endpoint is at the site level: pre- to post-training changes in team
      performance of FCC, as measured by the presence and quality of family-centered care behaviors
      exhibited during video-recorded simulated pediatric resuscitation scenarios. Team performance
      measures of technical and non-technical resuscitative care skills will also be examined as a
      balancing measure to this endpoint.

      Sample Size and Power Investigators will attempt to enroll all available providers meeting
      inclusion criteria at each participating ED, and estimate that approximately 300 individual
      participants will be enrolled, averaging 40-50 participants from each general ED site. Power
      analysis is based on our analyses for the primary endpoint. A sample size of 300 individuals
      (~150 per group) provides 80% power to detect a between-group effect size as small as .24
      between groups in post-training scores, using ANCOVA.

      Efficacy Analyses To evaluate the primary outcome, Investigators will examine scores on
      self-report surveys completed by participants before and after training. Investigators will
      calculate pre- to post-training change scores for individual providers, and summarize these
      for the total sample and by treatment group. Investigators will examine training effects on
      participant outcomes (self-rated confidence in providing FCC) by means of analysis of
      covariance (ANCOVA). In each ANCOVA, study condition will be the grouping factor and the
      corresponding pre-training score for the outcome measure will be included as a covariate.
      ANCOVA allows us to examine the potential impact of key co-variates that may vary by group
      despite random assignment to condition. Investigators will also estimate effect sizes for
      each group for pre- to post-training change in self-rated confidence in FCC skills.
      Investigators will then conduct parallel analyses for pre- to post-training changes in
      self-rated use and intentions to use FCC skills in practice with pediatric patients.

      To evaluate the secondary outcome, Investigators will rate team performance based on review
      of video-recorded simulated pediatric resuscitations conducted before and after training.
      Investigators will calculate each participating site's pre- to post-intervention change in
      global ratings for each domain in specific aspect of FCC performance (FCC Assessment Tool),
      averaged across simulations and teams at that site. Investigators will also assess pre- to
      post-training changes in patient/scenario-specific resuscitative care (e.g., time to
      important interventions, success in interventions, guideline-consistent care) and in team
      performance (i.e. crew resource management, or CRM) using validated team performance measures
      (CPT and BAT). This balancing measure will allow investigators to confirm that any observed
      improvements in FCC do not come at the cost of poorer medical care.

      Additional analyses To better understand training effects, Investigators will conduct
      exploratory subgroup analyses within high- and low-resource ED settings. Investigators will
      also conduct exploratory analyses to understand the potential impact of participation in
      simulated practice on clinicians' technical and non-technical resuscitation skills.
      Investigators will describe baseline and follow-up scores on confidence measures in these
      areas, and examine pre- to post changes for the subset of participants who take part in the
      simulation scenarios.
    
  