
    
      There is a wide scoop for treatment of SCD ranging from medical treatment with hydroxyurea,
      simple transfusion with chelation therapy, exchange transfusion either manual or automated
      and stem cell transplantation which need highly equipped institutes.

      The goals of treatment of SCD are symptom control with early detection and management of
      disease complications. Although several pharmacological agents have been studied for the
      treatment of SCD, the only drug currently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA) for the treatment of SCD is hydroxyurea. Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT)
      can cure SCD, but it is difficult to decide which patients should be offered BMT. Many risks
      are associated with BMT, and the risk-to-benefit ratio must be assessed carefully. The lack
      of availability of a matched donor may limit the utility of BMT. Transfusions are not needed
      for the usual anemia or episodes of pain associated with SCD. Urgent replacement of blood is
      often required for sudden severe anemia and regular blood transfusions are used for primary
      and secondary stroke prevention in children with SCD. With continued transfusion, iron
      overload inevitably develops and can result in heart and liver failure, and multiple other
      complications necessitate the use of chelation therapy.

      Erythrocytapheresis is an automated red cell exchange procedure that removes blood that
      contains HbS from the patient while simultaneously replacing that same volume with packed red
      cells free of HbS. Transfusion usually consists of sickle-negative, leuco-reduced, and
      phenotypically matched blood for red cell antigens. Erythrocytapheresis thus has the
      advantage of controlling iron accumulation in patients with SCD who undergo long-term
      transfusion, as well as the ability to allow rapid reduction of HbS concentrations to less
      than 30% without significantly increasing total hemoglobin concentration post transfusion.
      This precision is achieved because, before the start of the transfusion, the computer in the
      pheresis machine calculates the expected amount of packed RBCs required to obtain a specific
      post-transfusion hemoglobin level, using various physiologic parameters (eg, height, weight,
      Hb level). Further, erythrocytapheresis requires less time than simple transfusion of similar
      blood volumes. Although erythrocytapheresis is more expensive than simple transfusion, the
      additional costs associated with simple transfusions (ie, those of chelation and organ damage
      due to iron overload) make erythrocytapheresis more cost-effective than simple transfusion
      programs. Central venous access devices can safely be used for long-term erythrocytapheresis
      in patients with SCD with a low rate of complications.
    
  