
    
      Objectives To determine the effects of exercise training on insulin resistance in CAD
      subjects without diabetes, independent of changes in weight, diet, or the effect of acute
      exercise.

      The study was approved by the Research Ethics Review Boards at London and Hamilton. All
      participants provided written and verbal informed consent.

      Inclusion Criteria The study population will include men and women over 18 years of age
      identified from the practices of local cardiologists, whose fasting plasma glucose
      concentration is 5.4-7.7 mmol/L, and who had confirmed CAD (diagnosed on the basis of a
      previous myocardial perfusion study or cardiac catheterization, or a history of a myocardial
      infarction or coronary artery angioplasty or coronary artery bypass surgery).

      Exclusion Criteria Individuals will be excluded if they had known type 1 or 2 diabetes,
      clinical heart failure, uncorrected significant valvular or congenital heart disease,
      significant obstructive pulmonary disease (forced expiratory volume in 1 sec / forced vital
      capacity < 0.5), uncontrolled hypertension (blood pressure > 220 / 120 mm Hg), participation
      in a regular exercise program within the preceding three months, inability to perform
      exercise training, atrial fibrillation, a permanent pacemaker or regularly used
      corticosteroid. Individuals who had experienced a myocardial infarction, unstable angina,
      coronary artery bypass graft surgery, or coronary artery angioplasty within the 3 months
      prior to study entry were also excluded. Furthermore, individuals were excluded if their
      run-in phase fasting blood glucose was < 5.4 mmol/L or > 11.1 mmol/L at 2 hours following the
      75 gram oral glucose load.

      Screening Visit Individuals who satisfied the above criteria underwent a screening visit
      comprising a full explanation of the study, appropriate history and physical evaluation by
      one of the study physicians (NGS or RSM). Height (m), weight (kg), waist and hip
      circumference (cm), and percentage body fat using bioelectrical impedance were measured. A
      75g OGTT, using fasting and 2 hour samples, was then performed following an overnight (≥12
      hour) fast. Participants satisfying the study selection criteria subsequently entered the
      run-in-phase.

      Run-in Phase The study dietician assessed all participants and administered a 24-hour food
      recall and semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire. An individualized isocaloric AHA
      Phase I diet with written and verbal instructions was prescribed to each patient.
      Participants were also taught how to complete a three-day measured food record. The purpose
      of the run-in phase was to have participants follow an AHA Phase I diet for at least 3 weeks,
      therefore the duration of the run-in phase was zero, three, or six weeks depending on the
      patient's current diet as determined by the study dietician. At the midpoint of the run-in
      phase, food records were reviewed to ensure completeness of food descriptions, preparation
      methods, portion sizes, and additional dietary counseling was provided as required. Baseline
      testing was carried out on completion of the run-in diet phase.

      Baseline Testing Measurements included OGTT, waist circumference, body fat, a symptom-limited
      CET with measurement of oxygen consumption, and the 3-hour FSIGT to determine insulin
      resistance. The CET was performed on the first day of the subject's baseline assessments. On
      the morning of the CET participants were instructed to take their usual medications, to eat
      only a light breakfast and to abstain from caffeine. VO2 was continuously measured throughout
      the CET and the peak VO2 served as the index of exercise capacity. The CET was conducted
      according to accepted guidelines.

      The FSIGT was performed 72 hours following the baseline CET after an overnight fast.
      Intravenous cannulas were placed in the antecubital vein of each arm. A glucose injection
      (500mg/kg as a 50% solution) was given over 1 minute starting at time 0 minutes. Blood
      samples for the determination of glucose and insulin were taken at -10, -5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8,
      10, 12, 14, 16, 19, 22, 24, 25, 27, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 120, 140, 160, and 180
      minutes following the conclusion of the glucose infusion. Twenty minutes following the start
      of the intravenous glucose, 0.04 U/kg of human insulin (Novolin R) was injected. Insulin
      sensitivity was determined using the validated MINMOD-IS technique. The MINMOD-IS
      determination was made by one of the investigators (DF) blinded to the patient's group
      allocation.

      After satisfactory completion of baseline testing, participants were randomized to either
      12-weeks of ET or UA. Randomization was computer generated following a non-blocked strategy
      and delivered using sealed envelopes. All individuals recording the outcome measurements were
      blinded to the group allocations of the participants. In order to maintain a stable weight
      throughout the study and in addition to the well-controlled AHA Phase I diet, ET participants
      underwent supervised weekly weigh-ins and were prescribed supplemental food in proportion to
      the AHA Phase I diet by the study dietician if weight loss of ≥ 1 kg occurred on two
      consecutive weekly supervised weigh-ins.

      Participants in the UA group were instructed to continue their usual activity and to follow
      the AHA Phase I diet that was used in the week prior to randomization and to weigh themselves
      weekly on the same home scale, first thing in the morning with minimal attire. Participants
      contacted the study dietician if ≥ 1 kg weight change occurred over two weeks. Appropriate
      dietary adjustments were then made to ensure a stable weight. The ET group was prescribed
      exercise 4 times/week for 12 weeks. This exercise comprised walking, stationary cycling or
      treadmill exercise for 40 minutes per session at 75% of their baseline CET peak heart rate
      with 5-minute warm up and cool down periods. Participants were taught how to monitor their
      heart rate during exercise and to adjust their exercise intensity accordingly. Two of these
      sessions were conducted under supervision at the Hamilton Health Science Cardiac
      Rehabilitation Program while the remaining sessions were carried out at home.

      Ten to 12 weeks following randomization all participants underwent endpoint assessments,
      which comprised the same testing as baseline. These assessments were OGTT & clinical
      evaluation (week 11), CET (week 12) and FSIGT (72 hours after CET). All participants were
      instructed not to perform any exercise training between the final CET and FSIGT.

      Statistical Issues Fifty subjects overall were required to satisfy the study's sample size
      assumptions that at least a 15% decrease of insulin resistance with ET compared to UA could
      be demonstrated with 80% power, a 2-tailed alpha error of 5%, and a potential 20% loss to
      follow up rate. A Wilcoxon Rank-Sum Test was used to compare the change in MINMOD-IS over the
      course of the study between the ET and UA groups. Remaining analyses comparing outcomes
      between the ET and UA groups utilized independent t-tests for continuous data with normal
      distributions and Wilcoxon Rank-Sum Tests for continuous data that were not normally
      distributed. Regression analyses were done to evaluate relationships between the change of
      MINMOD-IS during the study and other important study variables such as changes in weight and
      peak VO2. Analyses were deemed significant if a two-tailed P-value of < 0.05 was achieved.
      All values are reported as the mean +/- standard deviation unless otherwise specified.
    
  