
    
      Rationale for this Non-Interventional Study Allergic diseases, including allergic asthma,
      allergic rhinitis and anaphylaxis are not properly classified in current classifications of
      diseases. We here propose a project based on the evaluation of medical records of hospital
      databases of patients suffering for allergic and hypersensitivity conditions coded with the
      current and a new coming version of the international classification of diseases, no patient
      or intervention will be analized.

      Objectives of this Non-Interventional Study Main Objectives: To assess the stability of codes
      for ICD-10 allergic diseases and hypersensitivity to ICD-11 using the medical-administrative
      databases of 3 hospitals.

      Secondary Objectives: (I) To adjust the terms and links for allergic diseases and
      hypersensitivity and thus continue the on-line implementation process of ICD-11 based on the
      lessons learned on the main objective; (II) To estimate the economic impact of ICD-10 and
      ICD-11 transition for health care facilities; (III) To electronically align ICD-10 codes (and
      CM adaptation in the USA) with ICD-11.

      Study design All the consecutive cases of allergies over a year and registered in the DIM
      bases of 3 healthcare establishments (the university hospital of Montpellier (CHRUM), Paris
      (APHP), Toulouse) will be individualized. Depending on the size of the facility, ½ to 1/10 of
      the cases will be included in the study. All cases will be selected anonymously. Two
      professional coders will encode the selected cases twice. The analysis of the data will be
      based on the degree of inter-encoder agreement using Cohen's Kappa coefficient. At the end of
      this process, we will be able to identify the correspondence between the codes recorded in
      the DIM database (ICD-10) and those of the new classification. In the event of discordant
      results, consensus will be reached by involving other coding experts from CHRUM. The economic
      impact of the transition from ICD-10 to ICD-11 will be approximated by estimating the average
      costs per ICD code used in the main diagnosis.

      Target subject population Our project is focused on allergic and hypersensitivity sufferers.
      Although we intend to validate the classification of allergic and hypersensitivity
      conditions, the international classification systems are for global use and our methodology
      might be helpful for other diseases and for the program of medicalization and information
      system (PMSI).

      Statistical methods In order to reach the inter and intra-variability testing, the data
      analysis will be based on the degree of inter-rater agreement using Cohen's Kappa.

      The economic impact of the transition from ICD-10 to ICD-11 will be analized based on average
      estimated cost per day of each principal diagnosis and the effect of the classification
      change will be quantified by the cost variance of inter or intra diagnosis of ICD-10 and
      ICD-11.
    
  