
    
      Immunotherapy, in the shape of immune checkpoint inhibitors, is now being investigated as an
      adjuvant therapy in resected NSCLC, with issues unsolved with respect to the optimal duration
      of treatment, in addition to the unpredictable nature of side-effects with this class of
      compounds. Also, it is known from advanced disease stages that only a minority of patients
      respond to checkpoint inhibitors.

      An alternative, highly targeted immunotherapeutic approach with an excellent safety track
      record consists of vaccination. Cancer vaccines aims to prime and/or expand tumor
      antigen-targeting T-cells and induce immunological memory against later disease relapse.
      Whereas immune checkpoint blockade boosts inactivated responses of effector T cells,
      vaccination can potentially activate naive T cells with tumor specificity and in this way
      broaden the tumor-specific immune responses. However, simple protein-based cancer vaccines
      have failed in lung cancer so-far, suggesting that the optimal vaccination modality for NSCLC
      still needs to be established.

      Dendritic cells (DCs) are specialized antigen presenting leukocytes that are now recognized
      as the central controllers of the immune response. The DCs unique capacity to induce robust,
      highly antigen-specific cytotoxic T-cell responses has led to the use of in vitro-generated
      autologous DCs as cancer vaccines.

      The investigators have developed a novel DC vaccine design that combines robust
      immunogenicity together with the targeting of patient-tumor specific mutations, also known as
      neoantigens. The DC vaccine is produced in 2 stages: (1) First, DNA and RNA is isolated from
      the surgical tumor specimen, sequenced and the sequence is compared to blood cell DNA. In
      this way, the tumor-specific mutations are identified and the most immunogenic mutated
      sequences are synthetized. This process takes 3-4 months starting from surgical resection of
      the tumor. (2) Next, patients undergo a leukapheresis for the harvest of monocytes which are
      differentiated in vitro into activated DCs. The DCs are finally loaded with the
      neoantigen-encoding sequences, producing the IMP, MIDRIXNEO.
    
  