
    
      Major clinical trials including multicentre Stop Imatinib (STIM) trial, According to Stop
      Imatinib (A-STIM), TWISTER, Korean Imatinib Discontinuation Study (KIDS), European Stop
      Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor Trial (EURO-SKI), and stop second generation (2G-TKI) showed that
      it is safe to stop TKI in patients who achieve stable deep molecular response (DMR) as
      defined by respective study groups. Around 40-60% of study participants managed to remain in
      treatment-free remission (TFR). For patients who experience molecular relapse after TKI
      withdrawal, most do so within the first 6 months. In addition, they all remained sensitive to
      TKI and majority of them were able to achieve the original molecular response. No loss of
      complete haematological response or progression to advanced phase CML was observed when the
      TKI was stopped.

      Cessation of TKI in selected CML patients leads to freedom from treatment-related toxic
      effects. It is expected that at least 40% of enrolled patients will be in a sustained
      molecular remission after stopping TKI. Successful cessation would also reduce long-term
      treatment costs.

      After cessation of TKI, fluctuation in molecular response, or even molecular relapse of the
      disease might bring about anxiety and distress in the patients. Some patients, estimated at
      around 40-60%, would experience molecular relapse and require resumption of TKI. Close
      molecular monitoring real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-QPCR) after stopping TKI (every
      month in the first year and every 2 months in the second year) will allow early detection of
      possible molecular relapse and thus prompt resumption of TKI. Long-term risks of disease
      progression and drug resistance are uncertain, though the safety data from the TFR studies
      reported to date are sufficiently reassuring. Some patients might have musculoskeletal pain
      and pruritus after cessation of TKI, especially imatinib, which is also commonly known as
      "imatinib withdrawal syndrome".

      Patients with chronic-phase CML who have been treated with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor for
      more than 3 years and had deep molecular response (breakpoint cluster region/Abelson murine
      leukemia (BCR-ABL1) transcript ≤0.0032% IS ratio, i.e. molecular response (MR4.5) for at
      least 2 years
    
  