
    
      Multiple sclerosis is known to be the first non traumatic cause of disability in young
      people. Multiple sclerosis is described as a chronic inflammatory immune-mediated disease of
      the central nervous system.

      Only a few disease modifying treatments where available before 1994, but in two decades, the
      therapeutic armamentarium was reinforced by many more and more effective drugs for RRMS .They
      tend to extend time to conversion towards a defined MS after the first relapse and between
      relapses and have a notable action on the decreasing clinical and radiological disease
      activity.

      First line of disease modifying treatments (DMTs), IFN β-1a and glatiramer acetate are known
      to have a favorable benefit-to-risk profile in RRMS, they reduce relapse rate and MRI
      activity of the disease, but their efficacy remains limited. They do not stop the disease
      progression but only slow down it for a while. Otherwise four drugs cyclophosphamide,
      mitoxantrone, natalizumab and fingolimod were used as second-line therapy or as first-line
      for rapidly evolving RRMS. Whereas second line DMTs cyclophosphamide and mitoxantrone were
      merely an alternative to pharmacological run away, natalizumab and fingolimod proved to be
      two effective drugs of second line DMTs. Natalizumab impressively inhibits inflammatory
      process of MS, with >65% reduction in relapses during 2 years of treat¬ment, and >90%
      suppression of new inflammatory MRI lesions and fingolimod suppresses MS disease activity
      with 55-60% of lower relapses rates and a remarkable decrease of visible MRI activity . In
      2014 alemtuzumab received FDA approval and joined the other second line treatment but it is
      still not commercialized in France. Recently years two new first line treatments
      teriflunomide and dimethyl fumarate have made their entry on the market. The main advantage
      of these both treatments is their mode of administration. Whereas the two first line
      treatments are under injectable form, teriflunomide and dimethyl fumarate can be administered
      per os, and so facilitate the therapy compliance for newly-diagnosed RRMS patients. In TEMSO,
      a phase III multicentric double-blinded study with teriflunomide 14 mg once a day versus
      placebo, teriflunomide shows both efficacy in reducing from 31,5% relapse rate in 2 years and
      a significant 80.4% of reduction of MRI activity for T1 enhanced lesions by gadolinium. Risk
      of disability progression is also significantly reduced of 29.8%, as compared with placebo.
      Efficacy and safety phase 3 trial study DEFINE assessed efficacy of BG-12 (dimethyl fumarate)
      240 mg given orally either twice daily significantly reduced the risk of relapse by 49% or
      compared with placebo at 2 years. On ARR, there were relative reductions of 53% .The
      probability of confirmed 12-week disability progression was reduced by 38%. In an MRI
      sub-study the mean number of new or newly enlarging T2 lesions was reduced by 85% . A clear
      efficacy on disease activity is shown when comparing respectively dimethylfumarate and
      teriflunomide with placebo.

      However the efficacy on clinical symptoms and disease activity isn't significantly better
      than that of the first line's treatments of references. Compare to glatiramer acetate,
      dimethyl fumarate shows no significant greater clinical effect on the disease . No
      significant annual relapses rate difference was shown either between teriflunomide and
      interferon ß-1a . The most interesting progress of these two molecules lies in their easier
      mode of administration and the inherent change of medical practices.

      Diagnosis and therapeutic delays have already proved to be some remarkable health indicators
      in numerous chronic or serious diseases. In cancers, "diagnostic delays" and "therapeutics
      delays" are demonstrated to have an negative impact survival and mortality . Various delays
      may occur at different stages of health care. On the one hand diagnosis delays are a complex
      association of "patients delay" (from onset of symptoms to their first presentation),
      depending on patients factors as behavior or social background, "referral delay" (from
      general practician's medical consultation to a specialist one), and finally "delay to lead a
      diagnosis" (time required to undergo specialized medical examinations). On the other hand
      therapeutics delays (from diagnosis to start of the treatment) are more associated with
      health system process (15,16).

      Evolution of diagnosis criteria and especially last revision of McDonald 2010 criteria, that
      show high sensibility and specificity, obviously influence healthcare delays by allowing
      early diagnosis and indirectly early treatment initiation. .

      Treatment delays are also shorten by the evidence of a favorable impact of early treatment
      initiation for patients with RRMS . Early DMT initiation seems to be beneficial for MS
      patients. Early treatment with INF-1b reduced the risk of clinically determined Multiple
      Sclerosis (CDMS) by 37% compared with delayed treatment after a 5 year follow-up . Early
      treatment with glatiramer acetate is efficacious in delaying conversion to CDMS in patients
      presenting with clinically isolated symptoms (CIS) and brain lesions detected by MRI. Time
      for 25% of patients to convert to CDMS was prolonged from 336 days for Placebo to 722 days
      for glatiramer acetate. Similar data have been found with early treatment with glatiramer
      acetate 40 mg injected 3 times a week: reductions in annual relapses rate, lesion activity,
      and evolution of active lesions to chronic black holes over 3 years. For new oral treatments,
      same significant results highlight the benefit of an early teriflunomide initiation. In an
      extension of TOWER study in patients receiving teriflunomide 14 mg for up to 5.5 years,
      comparisons of early versus s delayed treatment initiation was made. An estimated 26.7% of
      patients in the early treatment group experienced disability progression confirmed for ≥12
      weeks versus an estimated 30.2% in the delayed treatment group. Moreover a relative reduction
      of 29.9% of annual relapses rate was significantly proved between early treatment group and
      the delayed treatment group. And time of first relapse is significantly longer in the early
      treatment group than in the delayed one.

      Social determinants in public health issues have interested worldwide many researchers, and
      international comparisons show that social inequalities in health are particularly pronounced
      in France despite a global good quality health system.

      Previous studies in the US have found that depending on insurance status and social position
      (education, employment status ) there were a difference in accessing specialty MS care .
      Patients followed by MS multidisciplinary network benefit of a better global care, they are
      more likely to undergo diagnosis tests and be prescribed DMT's. As patients socially deprived
      have a limited access to MS multidisciplinary network, they benefit of a lower global health
      care quality.

      In survey studies lead in 50 states of the United Sates significant differences appears
      between urban/rural on residency in accessing specialty MS care providers. MS patients who
      live in more remote rural areas received MS focused areas at the same place than their
      routine health care, whereas their urban counterparts have an easier access to MS clinics or
      MS health centers. Most of geographically isolated patients haven't recourse to MS related
      cares because of greater travel times to receive MS care from specialist (27). There are
      differences in the use of physician services patients according to urban or rural on
      residency. In more remote rural areas one on three patients does not consult a neurologist or
      MS specialist as much as they would like. Patients who lives in rural areas do not received
      the same appropriate MS focused cares than their urban counterparts . Distances and travel
      times to access MS related cares may also act as a loss of chances for patients.

      In the last two decades, there was a progressive evolution of therapies and every new drugs
      type arrival on the market being synonymous of medical practices evolutions and patients
      healthcare. First line oral DMT(s) obviously represent an improvement in ease of treatments'
      administration. So an impact of the recent treatments teriflunomide and dimethyl fumarate
      arrival in reducing therapeutic healthcare delays can be hypothesized.

      Addition to complete this study, a second hypothesis can be formulated. Social inequalities
      and geographic disparities strongly have an impact on patients medical and treatment
      initiation, so improving drug delivery will probably moderate this impact.
    
  