
    
      This is a randomized clinical trial of HIV-uninfected transgender, female, and male sex
      workers. The overall goal is to test if HIV self-testing increases PrEP adherence (Aim 1),
      changes sexual risk behavior (Aim 2), and influences HIV prevention choices (Aim 3) in
      HIV-uninfected sex workers and their partners. For Aim 1, the investigators will recruit
      HIV-uninfected sex workers in Kampala, Uganda and randomize them to the intervention (monthly
      HIVST with quarterly clinic-based testing) or the control arm (quarterly clinic-based
      testing). Study participants will be trained how to use and interpret HIVST and be provided
      with 4 kits at enrollment and each quarterly visit: 2 kits for own use and 2 for sexual
      partners, with additional kits provided as needed. They will be instructed to self-test
      before opening a new PrEP bottle. The investigators will use Wise pill technology to evaluate
      patterns of PrEP use, and mobile phone interviews to assess HIVST use and confidence in PrEP
      effectiveness. The investigators will conduct Aim 2 within the randomized trial in Aim 1 and
      test whether HIVST changes sexual risk behavior. The investigators will use mobile phone
      interviews and semi-structured questionnaires to collect the behavioral data. In Aim 3 the
      investigators will use qualitative methods to assess how HIVST empowers use of HIV prevention
      interventions among sex workers and their partners.

      Aim 1: To test if HIV self-testing versus clinic-based testing increases PrEP adherence among
      HIV-uninfected sex workers.

      Approach: To evaluate the impact of HIVST on PrEP adherence, the investigators will randomize
      110 HIV-uninfected transgender, female and male sex workers initiating PrEP in a 1:1 ratio to
      either monthly HIVST with quarterly in-clinic testing (intervention) or quarterly in-clinic
      HIV testing (standard of care). PrEP medications will be dispensed quarterly. Sex workers in
      the intervention arm will be instructed to self-test before starting each monthly course of
      PrEP. In this study, participants will receive counseling on the importance of strict PrEP
      adherence for HIV protection.

      Hypothesis: Monthly HIVST will empower HIV prevention and motivate PrEP adherence among
      HIV-uninfected sex workers.

      Aim 2: To test the effect of HIV self-testing on sexual risk behavior in sex workers taking
      PrEP.

      Approach: Within the randomized trial in Aim 1, the investigators will provide HIVST kits to
      sex workers for own use, and with partners (primary and commercial). The investigators will
      use monthly live phone interviews and semi-structured questionnaires to collect data on
      high-risk sexual behaviors (e.g. sexual frequency, unprotected sex).

      Hypothesis: Use of HIVST will be associated with decreased frequency of unprotected sex and
      sexually transmitted infections.

      Aim 3: To explore how HIV self-testing influences prevention choices among sex workers and
      partners.

      Approach: The investigators will conduct in-depth interviews with sex workers and their
      primary and commercial partners to assess perceptions and experiences with HIVST, explore how
      HIVST influences status disclosure, behavior change and PrEP use, and to better understand
      how mobile technology can be leveraged to motivate repeat testing in individuals at high
      ongoing risk of HIV.

      Hypothesis: HIVST will empower sex workers to adopt protective behaviors, facilitate partner
      testing, and efficiently identify individuals with undiagnosed HIV infection.
    
  