
    
      This study will provide clinical testing of therapeutic training for the remediation of
      cognitive disorders caused by a concussion. We will extend previous results from a pilot
      study of 4 mTBI subjects (Lawton & Huang, 2019) to a much larger sample of mTBI subjects.
      During Phase II we will determine whether these results are sustained over time. The proposed
      study tests the feasibility (Phase I) and efficacy (Phase II) of PATH neurotraining to
      improve working memory (primary outcome) and attention (secondary outcome) in mTBI subjects
      rapidly and effectively. This study will compare PATH training (C.3.1), presenting dim gray
      patterns moving left or right to activate the dorsal stream (Ungerleider & Mishkin, 1982;
      Livingstone & Hubel, 1988; Kaplan & Shapley, 1986), with sham training (C.3.2), presenting
      high contrast colored stationary patterns tilted left or right to activate the parvocells in
      the ventral stream. We predict that sham training does not improve attention and working
      memory in mTBI. Since PATH training must be followed by cognitive exercises to improve
      cognitive function (Lawton, 2011, 2015, 2016), a complementary strategy consisting of 15
      minutes of working memory practice, recalling the correct sequence of digits, each presented
      for 500 msec, from 5 digits up to 10 digits will be completed for 15 minutes following PATH
      and Sham training. MEG recordings (Huang et al., 2014, 2016, 2018) before and after training
      will provide a biomarker to determine whether PATH training improves the function of the
      dorsal, attention, and working memory networks more than found after a sham treatment. MEG
      recordings will also be used to determine whether PATH training strengthens coupled theta/
      gamma activity, and/or alpha/ gamma activity. To increase its commercialization ability, PATH
      neurotraining must be shown to improve brain function using a biomarker, as stated by
      neurologists and therapists in letters of support. During Phase II the impact of PATH
      neurotraining will be evaluated on a much larger sample of mTBI subjects and will be offered
      to mTBI subjects after they finish the sham training. Whether cognitive improvements are
      sustained over time will be evaluated by measuring whether mTBI subjects improve on
      neuropsychological tests of cognitive function 3, 6, and 9 months after PATH neurotraining.
    
  