
    
      Stenosis of the lumbar canal is a degenerative disorder, occurring most often in the elderly
      or middle aged, after 50 years. It most often results from the combination of 2 pathologies:
      the congenital narrowness of the lumbar canal is decompensated over time by the anatomical
      reorganizations generated by osteoarthritis. It is classically manifested by pain in the
      lower limbs, occurring almost exclusively in walking or in case of prolonged standing. This
      postural and dynamic character of the symptomatology is very characteristic of this
      pathology. The levels most often involved are L4 / L5 and L3 / L4. But, in case of extensive
      stenosis, other levels may be involved (L2 / L3, L5S1 or even L1 / L2).

      Surgical treatment is obviously indicated from the outset in emergency situations or in cases
      of severe functional disability. It is most often proposed in case of failure of a complete
      and well-conducted medical treatment. In practice, in cases of tight canal stenosis, only a
      surgical operation can relieve the patient of pain and recover a normal walk.

      A minimal invasive technique: lumbar recalibration, which consists of decompression of the
      roots of the horse's tail under a microscope without fusion, without arthrodesis, provides a
      short-term functional benefit, even when Grade 1 spondylisthesis exists. The interest of this
      technique for the patient is twofold: first aesthetic because the incision is much smaller
      than in the classical technique and becomes almost invisible after a few months; then and
      above all it is functional because, by preserving the paravertebral muscles that it allows,
      this procedure is less painful and allows a lift the same day and an earlier recovery
      activities.

      Very few scientific publications compare different surgical techniques, and even fewer
      results are available on the long-term future of patients.
    
  