
    
      Gastroenteritis in children utilizes significant health care resources and has a significant
      impact on children, caregivers and society. In the United States, gastroenteritis accounts
      for more than 1.5 million outpatient visits and 200,000 hospitalizations per year. Data from
      British Columbia indicate that gastroenteritis annually accounts for 12 million missed
      workdays by adults and 10 million missed school days by children in this province alone.
      Canadian data, including the cost of work absenteeism, report the mean annual
      cost/gastroenteritis case to be $1,089.

      Although medications have not routinely been recommended, acute gastroenteritis in children
      can result in significant morbidity. Thus, physicians and caregivers desire treatment options
      to reduce the burden of disease. Recently, ondansetron, an antiemetic agent has been found to
      be effective in pediatric gastroenteritis, and is now frequently employed to reduce vomiting.
      Probiotics agents may represent another valuable treatment option. Since the early 1990s,
      research has been conducted on the effects of probiotics, defined as viable microbial
      preparations that have a beneficial effect on the health and well being of the host.

      A recent Cochrane Database systematic review recently concluded that "probiotics appear to be
      a useful adjunct to rehydration therapy in treating acute, infectious diarrhea." However, the
      review also concluded that more research is needed to determine which specific probiotic
      regimens should be employed in specific patient groups. The later statement is of particular
      importance in North America as probiotics are not a mainstay of clinical practice. While only
      18% of Canadian physicians are aware of research on probiotics, 82% feel that more probiotic
      research is needed, and 76% feel there is a role for probiotics in their practice. This
      discrepancy likely is due to the absence of probiotic trials in North American patients and
      because the outcome measures evaluated often have had limited clinical applicability. Since
      most episodes of acute diarrhea require no specific treatment, cost-effectiveness analyses
      are also required before the widespread use of probiotics can be endorsed.
    
  