
    
      After consumption of a meal, pancreatic secretions of various digestive enzymes results in
      the breakdown of carbohydrates into monosaccharides including glucose. These sugars are
      subsequently absorbed through the intestinal lumen, resulting in an increased plasma glucose
      concentration. In response to high glucose levels, pancreatic beta-cells are stimulated to
      release the hormone insulin which circulates through the bloodstream and binds to
      insulin-responsive cells including adipocytes (fat tissue), myocytes (muscle tissue), and
      hepatocytes (liver). The resulting insulin-mediated signaling cascade initiates intracellular
      glucose uptake within peripheral tissues leading to a corresponding decrease in circulating
      plasma glucose.

      In insulin responsive cells glucose uptake stimulation begins after the binding of insulin to
      Insulin Receptors (IR), which are found on the membrane surface of cells in insulin
      responsive tissues such as fat, muscle and liver. The IR consists of an extracellular domain
      which binds to insulin, and an intracellular domain that has a protein tyrosine kinase
      activity. The binding of Insulin to the IR initiates a series of auto-phosphorylation events
      within the protein kinase domain that permit interaction and phosphorylation of downstream
      signaling proteins in the cell that mediate the cellular response to insulin. The resulting
      signaling complex includes proteins in the Insulin Receptor Substrate (IRS) family known as
      IRS-1 and IRS-2. These key targets of the insulin signaling pathway link IR activation to
      downstream signaling cascades that mediate intracellular processes including GLUT4-mediated
      glucose uptake.

      Prediabetes and Type II diabetes involve an impaired post-receptor response to insulin that
      hinders the glucose uptake response after meal consumption. Chronic hyperglycemia and the
      resulting compensatory hyperinsulinemia promote a cohort of acute and chronic sequelae
      including cardiovascular disease, liver complications, central nervous system degeneration
      and hyperglycemic osmotic stress. Axulin is a natural health product consisting of a mixture
      of extracts from herbs and vegetables present in normal diets which was identified by
      screening more than 100,000 compounds and extracts in a patented cell-culture based assay
      system targeting the IRS proteins. In vitro, Axulin's active ingredient, HP-211, has marked
      effects on the IRS-2 branch of the insulin signaling cascade to enhance downstream insulin
      signaling. HP-211 has been shown in animal models to increase glucose uptake in peripheral
      tissues and decrease circulating blood glucose and triglyceride concentrations. Regular
      supplementation of the diet with Axulin would be expected to reduce the incidence of
      associated prediabetic and diabetic complications, resulting in an increased quality of life
      for patients without resorting to current anti-diabetic prescription drugs such as metformin
      and others that may have substantial unwanted side effects in patients.

      HYPOTHESES Axulin will reduce postprandial glucose and insulin responses in a dose-dependent
      fashion in healthy subjects without diabetes. The reduction in glucose and insulin will be
      relatively greater in insulin-resistant than insulin-sensitive subjects.

      Subjects will take 0g, 2g, or 4g of capsules or tablets in the morning after an overnight
      fast; 40 minutes later they will consume 75g glucose dissolved in 300ml water. Blood glucose,
      insulin and triglycerides will be measured fasting and at intervals for 2 hours after the
      glucose drink.
    
  