
    
      1. SELECTION OF SUBJECTS • Inclusion Criteria: Adult patients (18 years of age or greater)
           undergoing primary anatomic or reverse total shoulder arthroplasty secondary to
           osteoarthritis, cuff tear arthropathy, or massive irreparable rotator cuff tear.

           • Exclusion Criteria :

             -  Narcotic dependent

             -  Previous ipsilateral open shoulder surgery

             -  Chronic pain syndromes (fibromyalgia)

             -  Contraindication to regional anesthesia

             -  Cervical radiculopathy

             -  Unable to give consent; Prisoner

             -  Workers compensation insurance

             -  Mentally Disabled.

             -  Pregnant Patients

        2. STUDY PROCEDURE • Timeline: 2 weeks of data collection

           • Study subjects: Study candidates will be identified as they present to the clinic at
           the Missouri Orthopaedic Institute at the University of Missouri, and will be evaluated
           by the principle investigator. Informed consent will be obtained as per IRB protocol.
           Enrollees will receive a copy of the study protocol, consent, and HIPAA form. Background
           patient information will be collected including age, sex, BMI and co-morbidities.
           American Society of Anesthesiologist (ASA) classification will be assigned by the
           involved anesthesiologist.

           Interscalene regional block is routinely administered at our institution prior to total
           shoulder arthroplasty. Patients will be randomized prior to their scheduled surgery date
           by our research team using a randomization protocol developed by our department
           biostatistics team. The surgeon and surgical assistants will be blinded about the group
           assignment until the morning of the surgery day. The group assignment will be sealed in
           an envelope and delivered to the surgeon. If randomized to the interscalene block group,
           the anesthesia team will administer the block preoperatively in routine fashion. The
           standard anesthesia protocol for total shoulder arthroplasty patients is as follows:

           • Preoperative: Acetaminophen 1000mg PO Gabapentin 300mg PO Interscalene block: 3-5mL of
           0.5% bupivacaine plus 10mL Exparel (1-2 mg of midazolam and/or 50-100 mcg of fentanyl IV
           for sedation)

           If randomized to local infiltration analgesia, the patient will receive local
           infiltration injection intraoperatively prior to closing during the procedure. A
           standardized dose of 100 mL of infiltration will be utilized according to the following
           formula. The mixture will be injected into the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles and
           fasciae, and subcutaneous tissues using an 18-guage needle.

           Total dose 100mL Ropivacaine 0.5% 40mL Epinephrine 1mg/mL 0.1mL Ketorolac 30mg/mL 1mL
           Morphine 10mg/mL 0.5mL Normal saline 0.9% 58.4mL

             -  Anesthesia protocol All surgery will be performed with standard general anesthesia.
                Induction will be achieved and general anesthesia maintained based on the following
                protocol

           (Doses vary based on patient specifics such as age, weight and comorbid disease):
           Lidocaine 50 - 100mg Fentanyl 50 - 100mcg Propofol 100 - 200 mg Rocuronium 50 - 100mg

             -  Intraoperative:

           Sevoflurane 1 - 2% or desflurane 4 - 6% Fentanyl, hydromorphone, ketorolac and / or
           ketamine IV as needed on suspicion of pain.

           antibiotics were given intravenously 2g of cefazolin or 900mg of clindamycin.

             -  Surgical procedure All surgery will be performed in beach chair position by a
                single shoulder and elbow fellowship trained surgeon. A standard deltopectoral
                approach will be used. A subscapularis peel-off will be used for all anatomic total
                shoulder arthroplasty cases and repaired back to the lesser tuberosity with
                transosseous sutures. For reverse shoulder arthroplasty cases, the subscapularis
                will be repaired if there is a reparable subscapularis tendon. Following the
                surgery, the shoulder will be immobilized in an abduction pillow-sling. A mixture
                of 1g of tranexamic acid and 30mL of normal saline will be poured into the wound
                for postoperative bleeding control purposes. Patients will follow the routine
                postoperative rehabilitation protocols. Patients will return to the shoulder and
                elbow clinic for routine clinical follow-up visits and x-ray exams following their
                surgery at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 12 weeks, and 6 months, which is the standard of care.
                The study data collection will be completed at 2 week time point when the patient
                comes back for their first postoperative appointment.

             -  Data collection: Following surgery, the patient's pain level will be recorded in a
                visual analog scale (VAS) at 4, 8, 12, 24 hours, once a day for the following 6
                days, and at 14 days following surgery. Patient's daily opiate consumption during
                the first 7 days and the total cumulative amount of consumption up to 14 days
                following surgery will also be recorded, quantified and converted to morphine
                equivalents units (MEU) for standardization. Time to discharge from PACU as well as
                adverse opioid reactions will be reported (nausea, hypoxia/O2 requirement). The
                inpatient portion of the pain VAS and opiate consumption data will be obtained from
                the medical record while the post-discharge part of the data will be collected via
                a physical log given to patients upon discharge as well as an automated
                patient-reported outcome data collection system (PatientIQ®, Chicago, IL, USA). The
                research team will contact patients every other day following discharge to ensure
                proper documentation of pain VAS and opiate consumption by patients. Additionally,
                data regarding the time in the operating room, length of hospital stay,
                intraoperative complications (fracture, vascular injury, and anesthesia-related),
                acute postoperative complications (medical, nerve injury, dislocation, hematoma,
                and wound complications) will be collected. The average costs of LIA and
                interscalene regional block will be obtained through our billing department.

           Data analysis The pain score and opiate consumption data at each time point will be
           compared between the two groups using either unpaired t-test or Mann-Whitney U test
           depending on the data normality. The chronological changes in the pain score and opiate
           consumption in each patient will be analyzed using repeated measures ANOVA or Friedman
           test depending on the data normality. Categorical variables will be compared using
           chi-square test or Fisher's Exact test. The data will be analyzed by our biostatistics
           team within Department of Orthopaedic Surgery. The primary outcome of the study is the
           average pain VAS scores during the first 12 hours following surgery. The secondary
           outcome is the opioid consumption during the first 2 days following surgery.
           Non-inferiority of the local infiltration group compared to the interscalene block group
           in these two outcomes will be tested using a non-inferiority test.

           • Sample size calculation and power: The primary outcome of the study is the average
           pain VAS scores during the first 12 hours following surgery. Based on the recent
           research finding that a 1.4-point difference in pain VAS scores is a minimally
           clinically important difference (MCID) following shoulder arthroplasty, a priori sample
           size calculation was performed with a power of 0.8 and a standard deviation of 2.4 at an
           alpha of 0.05 to examine the study hypothesis that the average pain VAS score during the
           first 12 hours in the local infiltration analgesia group would not be significantly
           different than that of the interscalene block group (or the difference between the two
           groups would be less than 1.5 points). The result showed a minimum of 37 patients would
           be needed in each group (total number of patients =74).
    
  