
    
      This feasibility randomized controlled trial was designed to address the following aims:

      Specific Aim 1 examines if education on central pain mechanisms (i.e. biopsychosocial
      approach) compared to education on peripheral pain mechanisms (i.e. standard of care
      utilizing a biomedical approach) is more effective at reducing pain and disability in a pilot
      RCT exercise program for Achilles tendinopathy. We hypothesize that a biopsychosocial
      approach to education will decrease pain (NPRS) and disability (PROMIS physical function)
      more than the standard of care for patients with AT.

      Specific Aim 2 determines which central pain mechanisms (nociplastic pain, pain psychology,
      motor dysfunction) are improved by an exercise program, regardless of education group. We
      hypothesize that exercise will improve all three central pain mechanisms (increased PPT,
      decreased kinesiophobia, increased number of heel raises).

      A total of 66 adults with chronic Achilles tendinopathy (AT) will be enrolled (consented and
      randomized) in this single-site pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT). All data will be
      collected at a single site within an academic medical center. A pilot RCT comparing
      effectiveness of exercise with pain education to standard of care, i.e. exercise with
      biomedical education. Participants will be randomized to treatment group using a permuted
      block randomization scheme stratified by sex and AT type (insertional and midportion).
      Participants will complete up to 7 treatment sessions over an 8-week period. With an
      anticipated 10% dropout rate, we plan to analyze data on 30 adults with chronic AT per group.

      Participants will complete 2 evaluation sessions at baseline and 8-week follow-up. Evaluation
      sessions will involve the following 4 types of testing.

        1. Clinical exam (including ultrasound imaging)

        2. Questionnaires (demographics, symptom description, and psychological) Private,
           identifiable information will be collected via questionnaires administered online and
           in-person. All data will be entered into a University of Iowa REDCap database, which is
           maintained by University of Iowa ITS staff.

      2) Movement analysis and verbal pain rating Participants' motion and force will be captured
      as they walk, perform heel raises, hop, and do calf stretches within a 3-dimensional motion
      analysis with force plates flush with the floor. To monitor pain level throughout
      participation, we will have participants verbally rate their pain with each task.

      3) Sensory testing (Pain pressure threshold at the hamstring and Achilles bilaterally;
      Conditioned pain modulation at the Achilles)

      In addition, participants will complete questionnaires at 12-weeks. Participants will attend
      7 treatment sessions over approximately 8 weeks. Over this time period participants will
      complete the following procedures

        1. Questionnaires (exercise adherence, educational quizzes, symptom description) This
           private, identifiable information will be collected via questionnaires administered
           online and in-person. All data will be entered into a University of Iowa REDCap
           database, which is maintained by University of Iowa ITS staff.

        2. Exercise participation Participants will be given exercises to do at home in between
           treatment sessions. Participants will receive instruction from a physical therapist
           prior to doing the exercise at home.

        3. Education Participants will be given homework and online quizzes to do at home in
           between treatment sessions. The physical therapist will review the educational material
           with the participant at each visit.

      In addition, a research team member will access the medical records of participants with
      Achilles tendinopathy to gain information about the participant's medical history and imaging
      related to Achilles tendinopathy.

      The sample size was based on a power analysis for the primary outcome measures of Specific
      Aims 1 and 2.

      Specific Aim 1: This analysis will compare the between group (biopsychosocial vs biomedical
      approach to education) changes in pain and disability scores from baseline to 8 weeks and to
      12-week follow-up for participants with AT participating in an exercise program. Based on
      findings from Moseley et al. for an RCT comparing a 4-week exercise program with education on
      central pain mechanisms to standard of care in 49 patients with chronic low back pain, we
      anticipate between group differences with Cohen's d greater than or equal to 0.36 for pain
      (between group difference across 2 time points=0.75, SD of 1.05 on the NPRS, effect size of
      f=0.36) and disability (between group difference across 2 time points=1.95, SD of 2.33 on low
      back pain-specific measure, effect size of f=0.42). Under these assumptions, a sample size of
      30 patients per group would be needed to reach 80% power for the time averaged difference
      between two group means in a repeated measures design with alpha equal to 0.025 (Bonferroni
      correction of 0.05/2 for 2 outcomes in Aim 1) to detect a between group effect size of 0.36.

      Specific Aim 2: This analysis will compare the within group changes (baseline to 8-weeks and
      to 12 weeks) in central pain mechanisms (nociplastic pain, psychosocial factors, motor
      dysfunction) with an exercise intervention for participants with AT, regardless of
      educational group. The power analysis for this aim is based on data from 3 studies that have
      had a moderate to large (Cohen's d greater than or equal to 0.51) treatment effects on
      central pain mechanisms. A study led by Dr. Sluka previously found that massage improved PPTs
      2 days after an intense exercise protocol with a large effect size (27.6%, SD=14.7%, effect
      size= 1.88). Cai et al. found that a 4-week cognitive behavioral therapy program reduced fear
      of movement by 8.1 points with a SD of 5.44 (effect size= 1.5). Based on our preliminary data
      from the K99 phase, there was a mean improvement of 3.4 repetitions (SD of change= 6.7) in
      heel rise performance after an anesthetic injection for the AT group (effect size=0.51). We
      used the smallest and population-specific anticipated effect size of 0.51 to calculate the
      sample size for Aim 2. Type I error rate of alpha equal to 0.017 (Bonferroni correction of
      0.05/3 for 3 outcomes in Aim 2) will be used for this aim to adjust for the multiple
      comparisons. The sample size of 60 patients calculated for Aim 1 would allow us to detect an
      effect size of d greater than or equal to 0.43 with 80% power under these assumptions.

      The normality of the continuous data will be tested by the Shapiro-Wilk test and by examining
      the quantile-quantile plot. Normally distributed Continuous variables will be presented as
      mean plus or minus SD for normally distributed data and median with interquartile ranges for
      non-normally distributed data. When the normality assumption is not met, transformation, such
      as log, will be used to complete planned parametric analyses. Type I error rate will be
      maintained at 0.05 by using Bonferroni adjustment for multiple comparisons. First, potential
      differences between group demographics at baseline will be examined univariately using two
      independent samples t-tests and chi-square tests, as appropriate. If differences are
      observed, these variables will be used as covariates in the multivariable models.

      A modified intention-to-treat principle will be followed, which will include outcome data on
      all participants based on the group they were randomized and complete evaluation at 8 weeks.
      We will also compare patient characteristics of those who remained in the study to those who
      dropped out to determine if data at subsequent time points is consistent with missing at
      random.

      For Aim 1 we will assess the effect of the interventions on the primary outcomes for pain
      (NPRS) and disability (PROMIS physical function) from baseline to 8-weeks and to 12-week
      follow-up using linear mixed model for repeated measures. Similarly, for Aim 2 a linear mixed
      model for repeated measures will assess the effect of the interventions by group on the
      primary outcomes for central pain mechanisms (nociplastic pain: PPT, psychosocial factors:
      TSK, motor control: heel raises) from baseline to 8 weeks. For Aims 1 and 2, the factors in
      the linear mixed model will include group and time effects. In addition, the significance of
      the group*time interaction term, where the group*time interaction tests if the change over
      time differs between groups, will also be tested. We will also assess for normality,
      linearity, homoscedasticity, and independence of residuals for the multiple regression models
      (dependent variables: pain and disability). Statistical significance will be defined by alpha
      greater than or equal to 0.05.

      Analyses for secondary outcome measures of central sensitization, psychological factors,
      motor control, pain and disability for Aims 1 and 2 will be performed using the same
      statistical tests described above. Secondary analyses on sex will examine potential sex-based
      differences in both Aims 1 and 2 to inform sample size estimates for future clinical trials.
      The analyses described above for each aim will be expanded to explore the effect of sex as a
      fixed factor and examine interactions with group and time. Using the same data analysis
      strategy as described for sex, a secondary analysis on AT type (insertional vs. midportion)
      will also be assessed for Aims 1 and 2 to inform recruitment strategies for future clinical
      trials.
    
  