
    
      Breast cancer is the most common cancer among survivors in the US. Most patients with breast
      cancer receive help from family in making complex decisions about treatment, handling
      logistically demanding care coordination, and managing symptoms and side effects. Although
      family members (as defined by each patient) play a vital role in cancer care, they are not
      formally recognized or assessed in care delivery, and their need for information and support
      is typically unmet. Lack of attention to family in care delivery is an important gap that too
      often leaves families without adequate information about patient health and treatments. This
      may prevent families and patients from engaging in open conversations, cause them unnecessary
      anxiety, and negatively affect the quality of cancer care and delivery.

      Communication is particularly important in cancer care, as the optimal course of action is
      determined through longitudinal discussion of prognosis, treatments, and patient goals,
      preferences, and concerns. Strategies to improve communication for serious illnesses such as
      cancer have been developed, but typically target a specific decision, conversation, or
      setting, most often the inpatient hospital. There is growing agreement that communication
      among patients, families, and providers should be initiated early and continue throughout the
      disease trajectory. However, little is known about how to provide both patients and families
      with access to timely information about patient health and mechanisms to communicate directly
      with health care providers, as proposed in this study.

      The goal of this study is to test a multicomponent intervention to strengthen communication
      and longitudinal partnerships among women with breast cancer and their family members. Recent
      work by the study team has demonstrated the feasibility, acceptability, and benefit of
      intervention components which will be combined into a single model of care. The study team's
      preliminary studies indicate that clarifying patient and family expectations regarding the
      role of family and providing family with timely and comprehensive information about patient
      health (as desired by the patient) leads to more effective family involvement, more frequent
      patient-family-provider interactions, more patient-centered communication, and greater
      preparedness to manage care.

      This study will evaluate the feasibility of delivering a multicomponent communication
      intervention in the outpatient setting comprising: 1.) a patient-family agenda-setting
      checklist completed immediately before a regularly scheduled medical oncology visit with a
      participating medical oncologist, 2.) facilitated registration for the patient portal (for
      patient and family member, as desired by the patient), and 3.) education (as relevant) on
      access to doctor's electronic visit notes. The study will focus on patients who typically
      attend medical oncology visits with a family member or trusted friend who are already present
      and involved in communication. This study will enroll up to 132 patients who are on active
      treatment for breast cancer, up to 132 family member/friend "companions" and up to 14 medical
      oncology providers. The study team will compare patients and companions who are in the
      intervention group (n=60 dyads) with patients and companions who are in the control group and
      receive usual medical oncology care (n=60 dyads). This study will compare quality of
      communication with medical oncology providers, understanding of patient's cancer, confidence
      in managing patient's care, satisfaction with cancer care, and symptoms of anxiety after 3
      months, 9 months, and 12 months of follow-up.
    
  