
    
      This is a prospective non-randomised Phase I/II cohort study; please see above for Radiation
      Therapy and Chemotherapy treatment details

      Each cohort will require a minimum of 6 and a maximum of 12 patients. Once 6 patients have
      been treated in a cohort a two-month break is taken before toxicity is analysed.

        -  If 2 or fewer patients experience a grade ≥3 toxicity, the next cohort will be enrolled
           and will receive an escalated dose (an additional +5 Gy at each escalation up to a
           maximum of 75 Gy)

        -  If 3 of the 6 patients experience a grade ≥3 toxicity, a further 6 patients will be
           recruited into that dose level

        -  If 4 or more patients experience a grade ≥3 toxicity then the MTD is fixed at the dose
           level of the previous cohort

      If the cohort is extended to 12 patients, the following rules apply:

        -  If 4 or fewer patients experience a grade ≥3 toxicity, the next cohort will be enrolled
           and will receive an escalated dose.

        -  If 5 of the 12 patients experience a grade ≥3 toxicity, then the MTD is fixed at that
           dose level and recruitment continues up to a total of 24 patients at that dose level.

        -  If 6 or more patients experience a grade ≥3 toxicity, then the MTD is fixed at the dose
           level of the previous cohort.

      Once the maximum dose cohort is established, patients will continue to be recruited at that
      dose level up to a total of 24 patients.

      There will be two treatment arms; one with patients who are planned to receive neo-adjuvant
      or no chemotherapy, and th eother with patients who are planned to receive concurrent
      chemotherapy.

      The concurrent and neo-adjuvant /no chemotherapy arms will then be escalated independently of
      each other.

      For each arm the following number of patients will be required:

        -  Minimum number (if maximum dose level reached) = 36 (6 at 65 Gy, 6 at 70 Gy and 24 at 75
           Gy)

        -  Maximum number (if maximum dose level reached) = 48 (12 at 65 Gy, 12 at 70 Gy and 24 at
           75 Gy) A maximum of 48 patients are required to complete each arm (neo-adjuvant or none
           /concurrent chemotherapy) of the trial.

      Acute toxicity will be assessed weekly during treatment and at 2, 4 and 8 weeks
      post-treatment Late toxicities will be assessed at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 months
      post-treatment and annually thereafter until disease relapse / patient withdrawal / patient
      death.
    
  