
    
      Patients with acute decompensated HF (ADHF) are generally admitted due to symptoms of
      congestion and 90% are treated with a loop diuretic. However at least one-third of these
      patients are inadequately decongested due primarily to "diuretic resistance" and/ or
      "cardiorenal syndrome". The inability to achieve decongestion is associated with a worse
      prognosis and a higher rate of re-hospitalization for ADHF. More than 40% of all patients
      admitted with ADHF have diabetes and that percentage is growing both in Heart Failure with
      Reduced Ejection Fraction (HFrEF) and Preserved Ejection Fraction (HFpEF).

      The admission blood glucose is elevated in approximately one-half of ADHF hospitalizations.
      We recently demonstrated the admission blood glucose was within 50mg/dl of the chronic
      average blood glucose in 66% of patients with diabetes admitted with ADHF. The median (IQR)
      admission blood glucose change from the chronic blood glucose was only -7 (-29, 26) mg/dl.
      Thus, the acute glucose in patients with T2DM presenting with acute heart failure is most
      often related to poor chronic glucose control suggesting that these patients would benefit
      from attempts to initiate therapies to improve chronic glucose control while in the hospital.

      No new therapies have been introduced in the United States for ADHF in several decades.
      Natriuretic peptides such as nesiritide and ularitide have failed to improve outcomes in
      either the chronic or acute heart failure patients. Diuretic resistance and hyperglycemia are
      common problems in ADHF admissions and represent a therapeutic opportunity for new therapies.

      The sodium-glucose cotransporter-2(SGLT2) inhibitors, now approved for the anti-hyperglycemic
      therapies also have an osmotic diuretic and natriuretic effect. In the chronic setting SGLT2
      inhibitors reduce weight with modest decrements in systolic and diastolic blood pressure with
      a marked drop in albuminuria and a small drop in estimated GFR (-5 mL min-1.1.73 m-2) which
      returns to baseline over time. In patients with diabetes the SGLT2 transporter likely
      accounts for as much as 14% of total sodium chloride absorption. In the acute setting
      following a single dose, SGLT2 inhibitors did not increase urine volume. However, the acute
      diuretic effects have not been studied in a population with heart failure with or without
      concomitant hyperglycemia who are undergoing diuresis. To our knowledge, no current trials
      are investigating the effects of SGLT2 inhibition in ADHF. The current studies planned in HF
      are investigating the acute effects of SGLT2 on stable HF (NCT03027960), the chronic effects
      of SGLT2 inhibition in compensated, chronic HF (NCT03619213, NCT02653482, NCT03030235,
      NCT03057977), changes in pulmonary pressure hemodynamics in patients monitored by CardioMEMs
      devices (NCT03030222), and effects on cardiopulmonary exercise fitness in chronic HF
      (NCT02862067).

      Congestion remains the major cause of hospital readmission for heart failure and an inpatient
      plan of care that allowed more effective decongestion would be rapidly and widely adopted by
      the medical community. Therefore, we propose to test the decongesting effects of the SGLT2
      inhibitor dapagliflozin in patients with Type II diabetes admitted with an acute
      decompensation of chronic heart failure.
    
  