
    
      Aim of this study is to perform a profound molecular analysis of the tumor before beginning
      therapy and after failure of the approved targeted first-and second line therapy (standard
      therapy). The tumor sample will be analyzed by using profound molecular analysis to identify
      target structures which will predict the efficacy of a specific therapy (substance group)and
      therefore have a predictive value. The analysis of molecular biomarkers include the genomic
      sequencing of targeted areas or of the entire DNA of the tumor tissue comparative to the DNA
      of healthy cells, the measurement of DNA-regulatory elements (methylation, mi-RNA expression,
      protein expression analytics, functional tumorcell analysis in-vitro, efficacy analysis in
      cell culture or in animal model) who are supposed to inspect the biological influence of the
      molecular biomarkers and measurements of free tumor DNA out of the blood.

      The response to the established standard therapy in the first and second line will be
      acquired due to all clinical and radiological established standard parameters. The
      clinical-radiological response will be correlated with the molecular changes and their
      changes in therapy process to allow predictive prognosis for a further therapy.

      There is no approved clinical standard for third line therapy. However there are further
      medications approved without any scientific evidence of their efficacy in this therapy
      situation (third line treatment after failure of first and second line treatment) and for
      which a response of under 6 weeks is expected.

      For these patients the third line therapy will be adjusted to the molecular profiles of the
      previous therapies. Therefore the oncological history of the noticed marker profiles and the
      presence of target structures (from whom it is known that they are influenced by certain
      substances) will be considered.

      The therapy will use substances which are approved in general for the treatment of metastatic
      renal cell cancer.
    
  