
    
      Obesity is defined as a body mass index (BMI) of more than 30 (1). Its frequency varies
      according to social, economical and cultural situations. Approximately 15%-20% of the
      population of Europe, 40% of the United States, and up to 80% of some Native American and
      Pacific Islands populations (1) are morbidly obese, defined as a BMI more than 39 (2).

      The laparoscopic adjustable silicone banding (LAP-BAND) procedure has rapidly gained
      acceptance and is now considered the most common bariatric operation. In the literature,
      there are rare case reports about respiratory complications following LAP-BAND. Hofer et al.
      (3) reported a case of recurrent aspiration pneumonia. Nemni reported a case of chronic cough
      that was eliminated after LAP-BAND deflation (4). Almoudi reported a case of left lower lobe
      pneumonia 3 years following LAP-BAND. The patient had presented with asthma-like symptoms
      (5).

      However, there are no studies in the literature addressing long-term pulmonary complications
      following LAP-BAND. Reports on most previous studies with a medium-term follow-up of 4 years
      have focused on weight loss as a deciding factor for the success of the surgery, rather than
      on long-term complications.

      Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) is an innovative approach to the surgical management of
      morbid obesity (6). Early data suggest LSG is efficacious in the management of morbid obesity
      and may have an important role either as a staged or definitive procedure. A systematic
      review of the literature analyzing the clinical and operational outcomes of LSG was completed
      to further define the status of LSG as an emerging treatment modality for morbid obesity (7).
      Data from LSG were compared to benchmark clinical data and local operational data from
      laparoscopic adjustable gastric band (LAP-BAND) and laparoscopic gastric bypass (LRYGB)
      procedures.

      A systematic review of the literature identified 15 studies (940 patients). The percent
      excessive weight loss (%EWL) for LSG varied from 33% to 90% and appeared to be sustained up
      to 3 years. The mortality rate was 0-3.3% and major complications ranged from 0% to 29%
      (average 12.1%). Operative time ranged from 49 to 143 min (average 100.4 min). Hospital stay
      varied from 1.9 to 8 days (average 4.4 days).

      The operational impact of LSG has not been described in the literature. Early, non-randomized
      data suggest that LSG is efficacious in the surgical management of morbid obesity (8).
      However, it is not clear if weight loss following LSG is sustained long term and therefore,
      it is not possible to determine what percentage of patients may require additional revisional
      surgery following LSG. The operational impact of LSG as a staged or definitive procedure is
      poorly defined and must be analyzed further to establish its overall health care costs and
      operational impact. Although LSG is a promising treatment option for patients with morbid
      obesity, its role remains undefined and it should be considered an investigational procedure
      that may require revision in a subset of patients (9).

      Although previous studies reported that both LSG and LAP-BAND resulted in postoperative
      improvement or resolution of comorbid conditions associated with obesity, LSG statistically
      showed a significantly higher rate of resolution or improvement of DM, HTN, and LPD. There
      was no significant difference between the groups for DJD, GERD, OSA, or asthma (2). The
      incidence of pulmonary complications was not reported.

      This study will retrospectively compare the rates of pulmonary complications following
      LAP-BAND and LSG surgeries. The effect of the surgery on the comorbid conditions of type 2
      diabetes mellitus (DM), hypertension (HTN), hyperlipidemia (LPD), degenerative joint disease
      (DJD), gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), and asthma in
      the two subpopulations will also be assessed.
    
  