
    
      Objective

      This protocol is being performed to 1) study the natural history and disease pathogenesis in
      patients with tumor related epilepsy, 2) collect prospective data on seizure outcomes
      following standard surgical treatment of brain tumors with associated seizures2, 3) follow
      the clinical course of patients after surgical resection of brain tumors with associated
      seizures, such as outcomes in seizure activity as they relate to type of tumor and extent of
      resection, 4) investigate neuropsychological and cognitive outcomes as they relate to
      surgical and seizure outcomes, 5) evaluate patient reported outcomes such as symptom burden
      changes as a result of surgical resection in patients with tumor-related epilepsy, 6) examine
      changes in structural and, when available, functional imaging in the context of tumor related
      epilepsy before and after surgical resection, 8) investigate molecular markers of
      tumor-related seizures in tumor and peritumoral specimens and, when available, to compare
      them to electrophysiological markers of tumor-related seizure activity.

      Study Population

      Patients 8 years and older with brain tumors and associated seizures may participate in this
      study.

      Study Design

      Patients will be screened by study neurosurgeon or neuro-oncologists to verify their
      confirmed or likely diagnosis of brain tumor and associated seizures. Patients confirmed to
      have a brain tumor with associated seizures will be offered standard diagnostic and surgical
      procedures. Non-invasive diagnostic procedures include structural MRI and neuropsychological,
      cognitive, and outcome assessments which may be performed under other NIH protocols. Some
      patients may receive functional MRI when clinically indicated, which will be performed under
      separate NIH protocols. Prior to tumor resection, diagnostic invasive monitoring with
      intracranial electrodes for further localization of seizure focus and identification of
      eloquent cortex may be clinically required. In these cases, invasive monitoring will be
      performed under a separate protocol, 11-N-0051 Epilepsy Surgery. Patients will be followed
      for three-six months after the surgical procedure to collect prospective data on seizure
      outcomes following standard surgical treatment of brain

      tumors with associated seizures. Patients may also be seen at one year following surgery if
      medically stable and healthy. Participants in this protocol will not forego other standard
      treatments for their brain tumor, including chemotherapy and radiation treatment.
      Participation in this protocol will not preclude eligibility or participation in other NIH
      clinical trials.

      Outcome Measures

      The primary outcome measure is the change in seizure frequency, as measured by the Engel
      scale before and 3-6 months after treatment. Secondary outcome measures include 1) mean Engel
      Class and absolute and relative change in seizure frequency three-six months after surgery
      stratified by the type of brain tumor and location and Engel scale, seizure frequency, and
      mean Engel Class and absolute and relative change in seizure frequency one year after surgery
      stratified by the type of brain tumor and location; 2) extent of tumor and peri-tumoral
      resection as seen on MRI imaging and correlation with seizure outcome; 3) changes in
      neuropsychological and cognitive assessment following surgical resection stratified by
      location and type of tumor and extent of resection; 4) longitudinal changes in symptom burden
      and interference scores using established instruments in brain tumor patients; 5) changes in
      structural imaging following surgical resection; 6) change in the use of anti-epileptic
      medication; and 7) percentage of patients with permanent neurological side-effects from
      surgical treatment.
    
  