
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To assess the effect of rosiglitazone maleate on the core biochemical parameter, 24-hour
           urinary free cortisol levels, in patients with recurrent or uncured pituitary-dependent
           Cushing disease. (Group 1)

        -  To assess the effect of this drug on corticotropin-releasing hormone-stimulated
           pituitary tumor ACTH secretion in patients with recurrent or uncured pituitary-dependent
           Cushing disease. (Group 1)

        -  To assess the effect of this drug on tumor growth in patients with non-secreting
           pituitary macroadenoma (> 10 mm) using RECIST criteria. (Group 2)

        -  To assess the effect of this drug on pituitary tumor gonadotropin (i.e.,
           follicle-stimulating hormone, leuteinizing hormone, and alpha-subunit) secretion in
           patients with non-secreting macroadenoma. (Group 2)

        -  To assess the overall safety and tolerability of this drug in both cohorts of patients.

        -  To assess the overall quality of life, in terms of performance status during treatment,
           of both cohorts of patients using the Karnofsky performance index.

      OUTLINE: Patients are grouped according to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-secreting
      status (yes [Group 1] vs no [Group 2]).

        -  Group 1 (ACTH-secreting adenomas): Patients receive 4 mg oral rosiglitazone maleate once
           daily in week 1 and then 8 mg once daily beginning in week 2 and continuing for up to 6
           months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Group 2 (non-secreting macroadenomas): Patients receive 4 mg oral rosiglitazone maleate
           once daily in week 1 and then 8 mg once daily beginning in week 2 and continuing for up
           to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo collection of blood and urine samples at baseline and after completion of
      study therapy to assess pituitary function, thyroid function, and 24-hour urinary free
      cortisol levels. Additional assessments include corticotrophin-stimulation testing, dynamic
      pituitary function testing (i.e., arginine/growth-hormone releasing-hormone testing) to
      measure growth hormone secretion, and overnight 1 mg dexamethasone suppression testing to
      measure 8 a.m. serum cortisol levels. Patients also undergo MRI at baseline and after
      completion of study therapy to examine the effects of rosiglitazone maleate treatment on
      pituitary tumor size.

      Patients complete a questionnaire at baseline and monthly during study for evaluation of
      headaches.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15 patients with ACTH-secreting pituitary tumor and 15 patients
      with non-secreting pituitary macroadenomas will be accrued for this study.
    
  