
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) carries significant morbidity as a result of red blood cell (RBC)
      sickling and hemolysis. Stroke is one of the most devastating sequelae of SCD. Chronic
      transfusion therapy (CTT) reduces stroke risk by (1) supplying normal, non-sickle RBC to
      circulation, thereby reducing the percentage of endogenous sickle RBC in circulation, and (2)
      maintaining a higher hemoglobin (Hb), thereby suppressing erythropoiesis of new sickle RBC.
      While the efficacy of CTT in stroke prophylaxis is well-established, nearly 45% of children
      continue to have silent or overt strokes despite CTT. The failure of CTT to prevent stroke
      events may be related to inadequate reduction of circulating sickle RBC and erythropoiesis.
      The amount of circulating sickle-RBC is related to the survival kinetics of both transfused
      RBC and endogenous sickle RBC.

      In a large, longitudinal analysis of CTT in SCD, the researchers found wide variation in the
      survival of donor RBC following transfusion, with faster clearance associated with patient
      immune features (historical RBC alloimmunization and spleen presence) and with donor RBC
      glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. To better understand the roles of
      patient and donor factors in the survival and clearance of transfused RBC, the researchers
      propose a mechanistic, clinical trial during chronic transfusion episodes in patients with
      SCD, in which a small aliquot of each transfused unit is labeled with biotin conjugated to
      RBC surface proteins, to safely identify and measure the in vivo survival of donor RBC.

      Aim 1 will examine the relationships of the recipient's immune system (past alloimmunization,
      splenic volume, and markers of reticuloendothelial system function) on the post-transfusion
      survival of biotin-labeled donor RBC.

      Aim 2 will examine the relationships of donor RBC G6PD levels and donor RBC metabolomics with
      the in vivo survival and changes in donor RBC senescence markers. Completion of these aims
      will increase the understanding of mechanisms for the variability in RBC survival during CTT,
      identifying donor and recipient risk factors for decreased RBC survival. Ultimately this
      knowledge will inform the management of CTT to improve the prevention of strokes in SCD.
    
  