
    
      Anthocyanins (ANT), a particular class of flavonoids that can be found in red wine and red
      fruits, have been associated with relevant health benefits. It has become clear that the
      flavonoid bioactive forms in vivo are not necessarily those which occur in nature, but
      metabolites arising from them after absorption. Therefore, it is important to identify which
      ANT metabolites are responsible for their health benefits. Since ANT can prevent/treat some
      of the metabolic features of obesity it is also crucial to study whether ANT bioavailability
      is not compromised in obesity.

      An anthropometric evaluation will allow the classification of subjects according to their
      body mass index (BMI). A complete medical examination including the assessment of clinical
      laboratory parameters will also be performed to characterize the health status of recruited
      subjects.

      Before the beginning of the study, the last fecal sample obtained will be collected. Urine
      samples and peripheral venous blood (10 ml) will be collected from 10 h-fasting subjects.
      Afterwards, each volunteer will consume 250 ml of blackberry juice with or without ethanol
      (visit 1 and 2) and blood samples will be collected 15, 30, 60 and 120 min after juice
      ingestion. Another urine sample will be collected at 120 min. The first fecal sample obtained
      at least 6 h after juice ingestion will be collected. Blood pressure (0 and 120 min) and
      glycaemic response (0, 15, 30, 60 and 120 min) will be measured in each visit.

      Ethanol was added to the blackberry juice to mimic the concentration presented in red wine
      (12%).

      A thorough screening analysis for ANT will be performed in plasma and urine samples collected
      from the volunteers at different time points. Fecal samples will also be collected to
      evaluate the relationship between the presence of ANT metabolites and the gut microbiota
      composition.
    
  