
    
      For the randomized controlled trial (RCT), n=120 consecutive patients of 4 centers, for whom
      a brain (or brain and spine) MRI scan is planned within the next 6 months, will be invited to
      participate in the trial. Eligible patients will be asked to participate, and, if willing,
      will receive information about the study by the recruiting physician and written consent will
      be obtained. Participants will then answer a baseline questionnaire including demographic
      data, numeracy, attitude and emotions towards MRI (MRI-emotions and attitude questionnaire,
      MRI-EMA, newly developed) and MRI-specific knowledge (MRI-risk knowledge questionnaire 2.0,
      MRI-RIKNO 2.0, newly developed).

      Patients will then be randomized into two groups: The intervention group of n=60 participants
      gets access to the web-based educational tool, the control group of n=60 to a sham
      intervention with standard information on MRI.

      Participants will be asked to provide an e-mail address via which the login for the
      educational tool will be delivered. After two weeks participants will be asked to fill out
      the following tools:

      Primary endpoint

        -  MRI-risk knowledge questionnaire 2.0 (MRI-RIKNO 2.0) (newly developed)

        -  MRI-emotions and attitude questionnaire (MRI-EMA) (newly developed)

        -  Threat by MS

        -  Autonomy preferences (Control Preference Scale)

        -  Subjective knowledge (VAS scale) (22)

      Within the course of 2 weeks to 6 months the scheduled MRI will take place, followed by a
      patient-physician encounter, in which the MRI results are discussed. Directly after this
      encounter patients and physicians will be asked to answer MAPPIN'SDM questionnaires to assess
      perceived shared decision making behaviour and realization of autonomy preferences (Control
      reference scale). All patients will also be asked questions concerning any decisions taken
      based on the MRI, either a start/change of treatment or agreement on a new MRI in a defined
      time-frame. N=5 patients of each arm in the study center in Hamburg will be randomly selected
      and the communication of results during this consultation will be audiotaped and evaluated
      using the MAPPIN'SDM observer rating approach.

      In a telephone follow-up after 6 months, implementation of the decisions will be checked.
    
  