
    
      The leishmaniases are poverty-related neglected diseases with a major impact on health
      worldwide. They affect the poorest of the poor and present a severe barrier to socio-economic
      development. Caused by infection with one of several species of Leishmania parasite, these
      diseases occur in 98 countries worldwide and can be broadly classified as tegumentary
      leishmaniases (TL; affecting the skin and mucosa) and visceral leishmaniasis (VL; affecting
      internal organs). Worldwide, over 1 million reported cases of TL and 0.5 million reported
      cases of VL occur each year. Whereas TL are chronic and non-life-threatening, VL is
      responsible for over 20,000 deaths per year, second only to malaria amongst parasites with
      regard to mortality. Collectively, approximately 2.4 million disability-adjusted life years
      are lost to the leishmaniases. No vaccines are currently licensed for any form of human
      leishmaniasis and the drug arsenal is limited and increasingly compromised by drug
      resistance.

      The format of the LEISH3 trial is randomised, controlled, double blind Phase II clinical
      trial.

      The primary objective is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of vaccination with ChAd63-KH in
      the prevention of post-kala azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) in 262 Sudanese visceral
      leishmaniasis (VL) patients aged between 12 and 50 years who have been previously treated
      with sodium stibogluconate / paromomycin (SSG / PM). Follow up is 12 months from vaccination.
      The secondary objectives are:

        1. To compare systemic immune responses in vaccine vs placebo arms.

        2. In all subjects, after treatment of VL, to measure skin Leishmania parasite load and
           multi-parameter immune phenotypes as predictors of PKDL development and in relation to
           receipt of vaccine or placebo

        3. In subjects developing PKDL within the trial, to delineate the pathogenesis of PKDL by
           comparing skin Leishmania parasite load and multi-parameter immune phenotypes
           pre-vaccination and at PKDL onset, and in relation to receipt of vaccine or placebo.
    
  