
    
      The BALANCE Program will investigate the effect of the Program in reducing cardiovascular
      events, such as cardiac arrest, acute myocardial infarction, stroke, myocardial
      revascularization, amputation for peripheral arterial disease, hospitalization for unstable
      angina, or death in patients with established cardiovascular disease. Moreover the aim is to
      evaluate the effect of the dietary program on reducing cardiovascular risk factors, such as
      body mass index, waist circumference, blood pressure, total cholesterol, low density
      lipoprotein (LDL), triglycerides and fasting glucose. Also the objective is to compare the
      dietary patterns after interventions, the effect of the intervention among nutrients and
      energy consumption and, finally, to evaluate the BALANCE Program comprehension.

      The BALANCE Program is a randomized, multicenter, national trial with allocation concealment
      and intention-to-treat analysis. The elegibility criteria is patients aged 45 years or more
      with any evidence of established cardiovascular disease to the BALANCE program or control
      groups. BALANCE Program is composed by 3 concepts: a) a diet that provides 50-60% of energy
      from carbohydrate, 10-15% from protein, 25-35% from total fat, <7% from saturated fatty
      acids, <10% polyunsaturated fatty acids, <20% monounsaturated fatty acids, <1% trans fats,
      <200 mg/day cholesterol, 20-30 g/day fiber, and <2,400 mg/day sodium; b) Nutrition education
      program based on ludic strategies and indication of affordable foods; c) An intense follow up
      by individual and group visits and phone calls. For Control group, generalized advices to
      follow a low fat, low energy, low sodium and low cholesterol diet are given. The primary
      composite outcome is the occurrence of of death (any cause), cardiac arrest, acute myocardial
      infarction, stroke, myocardial revascularization, amputation for peripheral arterial disease
      or hospitalization for unstable angina. Blinded assessors will adjudicate clinical events and
      analysis will follow the intention-to-treat principle. Were enrolled 2534 patients in 35
      sites. Enrollment was open in March 2013 and ended in March 2015 and patients will be
      followed up to 48 months.
    
  