
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Macrovascular disease is the leading cause of death due to IDDM. Risk markers have been
      identified in non-diabetic populations, but may not apply to IDDM. The theme of the program
      project is that hyperglycemia interacts with specific factors to augment vascular risk and
      establish novel mechanisms of atherogenesis.

      Patients under study originally participated in the DCCT, a recently concluded NIKKD clinical
      trial that demonstrated dramatic reductions in microvascular complications with intensive
      glucose control. The DCCT, conducted from 1983 to 1993 in 1,441 insulin dependent diabetes
      mellitus subjects at 209 medical centers, showed that keeping blood sugar levels as close to
      normal as possible slows the onset and progression of eye, kidney, and nerve diseases cause
      by diabetes.

      The study is part of the initiative, The Etiology of Excess Cardiovascular Disease in
      Diabetes Mellitus, which was released in December 1995. The initiative originated after
      discussions between the NHLBI and the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International (JDFI), a
      voluntary organization that supports research on diabetes. Both agreed that a combination of
      advances in understanding the etiology of diabetes and of cardiovascular diseases made this
      an oppportune time to stimulate further research to understand the reasons for the excessive
      macrovascular complications associated with diabetes.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In this program project grant, three of five subprojects are epidemiological studies. In the
      first subproject, Glycoxidation and Macrovascular Disease in Diabetes, Timothy J. Lyons,
      subproject principal investigator, investigates the mechanisms underlying accelerated
      atherosclerosis in diabetes, specifically, the modification of lipids, proteins, and
      carbohydrates by interrelated oxidation and glycation (glycoxidation). The cross-sectional
      and longitudinal study uses approximately 900 Type 1 diabetic patients from the Epidemiology
      of Diabetes Intervention and Complications Study (EDIC), a multicenter study which follows
      patients from the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT), both of which were
      supported by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK).
      Cross-sectional studies are performed for a detailed analysis of potentially atherogenic low
      density lipoproteins and triglyceride-rich lipoproteins in patients with and without
      microalbuminuria and macrovascular disease. In a smaller cohort of the same patients,
      categorized as prone or resistant to macrovascular disease, levels of glycation and oxidation
      products are determined in insoluble skin collagen, a long-lived protein in which
      modifications may reflect integrated glycoxidation over many years. In the longitudinal arm
      of the study, characterizations of lipoproteins in selected patients are repeated in selected
      patients who progress either to microalbuminuria or macrovascular disease. By combining
      cross-sectional and longitudinal information, the investigators hope to identify new markers
      to identify diabetic patients at particular risk of disease progression.

      In Subproject 4, The Role of Thrombosis in Macrovascular Disease in IDDM, John Colwell as
      subproject principal investigator, investigates abnormalities in hemostasis as contributors
      to the excess cardiovascular morbidity and mortality associated with diabetes mellitus. Each
      of 200 EDIC patient enrolled in the study and non-diabetic, control subjects are assessed for
      endogenous fibrinolysis and are evaluated for prothrombin activation fragment F1+2 as an
      index of thrombin generation and fibrinogen and hematocrit as basic hemorheologic parameters.
      The studies are conducted cross-sectionally in the total EDIC cohort, and longitudinally in
      selected EDIC patients whose diabetes either has not progressed or has progressed to
      microalbuminuria or macrovascular disease. Hemostasis parameters are correlated with other
      metabolic characteristics measured in the program project grant and with PAI-1 and fibrinogen
      gene polymorphism.

      In Subproject 5, Metabolic and Genetic Factors in IDDM Vascular Disease, W. Timothy Garvey
      subproject principal investigator, investigates whether metabolic and genetic factors are
      associated with the development of macrovascular disease or albuminuria in approximately 60
      IDDM patients. The investigators have developed the concept, based on published and pre-data,
      that patients with upper body fat distribution who become diabetic exhibit primary
      abnormalities in fatty acid metabolism which secondarily exacerbate insulin resistance via
      alterations in fatty acid composition of skeletal muscle membranes, vascular reactivity via
      functional and structural changes in the vessel wall, and consequently vascular disease risk.
      They are testing the hypothesis that, in patients with vascular complications, poor glycemic
      control alters both circulating free fatty acids and fatty acid composition of muscle
      membranes to enhance vascular reactivity and induce insulin resistance. They are performing
      hyperinsulinemic glucose clamps in three IDDM subgroups (without complications, with
      albuminuria, and with macrovascular disease) under conditions of poor glycemic control and
      after intensive therapy to asses both glycemia-dependent and independent components of
      insulin resistance. They are also testing the hypothesis that insulin resistance and
      candidate gene polymorphisms determine in part which IDDM patients develop macrovascular
      disease and albuminuria. They are assessing candidate gene polymorphisms in all DCCT
      patients, and testing for linkage/association with macro- and microvascular disease outcomes,
      as well as for abnormalities in encoded proteins.

      The study was renewed in FY 2001 and is scheduled to end in 2006.
    
  