
    
      The occurrence and diagnosis of DM2 and its complications is increasing, leading to rising
      treatment costs that represent a considerable portion of the U.S. health care budget.
      Although treatment of impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) is not common, an IGT diagnosis
      increases the likelihood of progression to DM2. Careful attention to glycemic control is a
      primary treatment goal for DM2 patients, as glucose control reduces the severity of
      microvascular, macrovascular, and other complications.

      Recent research has indicated that sleep loss could be a previously unrecognized risk factor
      for DM2. As sleep restriction has become an endemic condition in developed countries, it is
      possible that sleep loss contributes to the recent epidemic of DM2. Protecting sleep by
      increasing sleep duration and quality in DM2 and IGT patients may provide an inexpensive,
      relatively easy to implement intervention to reduce the risk of disease onset or delay
      disease progression by improving glucose tolerance. Furthermore, measurement of endocrine,
      metabolic, and cardiovascular parameters in the proposed studies may provide insights into
      the mechanisms by which sleep extension improves glucose tolerance under pathophysiological
      conditions.

      The proposed study examines and quantifies in adults the link between insufficient sleep and
      increased insulin resistance, impaired insulin secretion, and reduced non-insulin-dependent
      glucose utilization by the sleepy brain. The proposed study capitalizes upon the unique
      pharmacological characteristics of modafinil to reverse excessive sleepiness to address the
      mechanisms by which sleep restriction may impact metabolism via excessive sleepiness. This
      study may lead to countermeasures to the adverse health impact of chronic insufficient sleep,
      an increasingly common lifestyle that may ultimately contribute to the development of the
      Metabolic Syndrome or DM2 via alterations of glucose metabolism and brain glucose
      utilization.
    
  