
    
      The structured home program will consist of activities determined by the family members
      according to the functional level of the child and the activities child can't do, and which
      are determined according to the goals specific to the child. In order to ensure that the
      structured home program created can be implemented by the family, a 1 hour family training
      will be provided.

      After the structured home program training, a 45-minute video interview will be held with one
      of the family members (mother-father-caregiver) once a week, in order to check by the
      physiotherapist whether the home program is implemented correctly. Video interviews will be
      the telerehabilitation part of the study.

      During routine physiotherapy and rehabilitation practices, activities organized by
      physiotherapists as one or two sessions per week according to the functional levels of
      children with CP. Routine physiotherapy and rehabilitation applications include increasing
      postural control, gaining motor development steps, strengthening training, balance training,
      long-term stretching training, manual therapy, hydrotherapy, hippotherapy and
      neurodevelopmental therapy approaches. Telerehabilitation-based structured home program
      applications, which are given in addition to routine physiotherapy and rehabilitation
      applications, and only individuals who receive routine physiotherapy and rehabilitation will
      be followed for 24 weeks. Individuals who receive routine physiotherapy and rehabilitation
      will be monitored only for control purposes, and a structured home program will be given to
      the group that receives Telerehabilitation Based Structured Home Program Practices, which are
      given in addition to routine physiotherapy and rehabilitation applications. The researcher
      will not be included in the program of the group that only benefits from routine
      physiotherapy and rehabilitation practices. A total of three evaluations will be made for
      both groups, after the training before the training and after 12 weeks from the training.
    
  