
    
      The current study is a prospective, interventional, randomized, treatment-controlled study,
      evaluating the use of MM to decrease anxiety levels and improve Quality of Life (QOL) in
      prostate cancer patients receiving radiation treatment. The study will be conducted across 6
      radiation treatment sessions in men with newly diagnosed prostate cancer, Stage 1 to 3A, and
      men with recurrent prostate cancer. Approximately forty-six patients will be recruited to
      allow for forty patients to complete assessments. Twenty-three patients will receive six
      radiation sessions with MM and will be the Test Group. Twenty-three will receive usual care
      without MM and will be the Control Group. The Test Group will be taught how to meditate using
      a standard one-word mantra (Om). The first MM session would be a 30-minute introductory
      session prior to the first radiation treatment followed by five 20-minute sessions prior to
      each of the remaining five radiation treatments. The Control Group will receive radiation
      treatments without MM. During the five 20-minute sessions, the patients will receive a
      meditation refresher and reinforcement to continue to practice meditation at home. The
      teaching of MM during all sessions will be done by a dedicated research assistant with a
      Master of Science in Yoga Therapy. Test Group patients will be given a log at the beginning
      of the study to record how long they are meditating and if they found meditation beneficial.
      The General Anxiety Disorder-7 scale (GAD-7) is a validated tool and will be used to assess
      anxiety in all participants. The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate, Version 4
      (FACT-P) is a validated measure of QOL in prostate cancer patients and will be used to assess
      QOL in all participants. The GAD-7 and FACT-P will be assessed at baseline, radiation Session
      3 and radiation Session 6 to determine the impact of MM on anxiety and QOL, respectively, in
      the Test Group compared to the Control Group. A one month follow up phone call will determine
      if the patients are continuing to use the MM and if they found the practice of MM useful not
      only in their radiation treatment sessions but in their everyday lives.
    
  