
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Each year approximately 5400 individuals suffer from Out-of-Hospital Cardiac Arrest (OHCA) in
      Denmark and despite an improved prognosis 30-day mortality is around 90%. For OHCA patients
      resuscitated successfully and admitted to an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) the 30-day mortality
      remains higher than 50% due to a complicated systemic response, referred to as the Post
      Cardiac Arrest Syndrome (PCAS). PCAS consists of four interacting components: 1)
      ischemic/reperfusion brain injury, 2) myocardial dysfunction, 3) a systemic inflammatory
      response and 4) persistent stress from the triggering cause of the cardiac arrest, e.g. acute
      myocardial infarction. PCAS progresses during the first 1-2 days following resuscitated
      cardiac arrest, and the treatment aims to reduce neurologic injury by cooling the patient to
      33-36° C, circulatory support with vasopressors, inotropics or mechanical devices as well as
      identification and treatment of reversible causes to the cardiac arrest, e.g. acute
      revascularization of an AMI.

      Several studies have shown that the systemic inflammatory response is associated with a high
      risk of poor outcome following OHCA. Inflammatory markers associated with poor outcome
      include interleukin (IL) 6, high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP), leucocytes, IL-1b,
      IL-10, IL-13, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and procalcitonin. Despite of this,
      there is no specific treatment that addresses this complicated and life-threatening systemic
      response, and guidelines remain inconclusive in this field.

      Anoxic irreversible brain injury remains the leading cause of death following resuscitated
      OHCA. The complex mechanism is one of the components in the PCAS and is thought to develop
      due to neuron apoptosis and reperfusion/ischemic injury. Further, the biomarker
      neuron-specific enolase (NSE) is correlated to neuron damage in the blood stream and has a
      strong predictive value for poor outcome following OHCA. Inhibiting the causes of the
      systemic inflammatory response and thereby potentially the brain injury in the very early
      stages following resuscitation from OHCA may therefore be key to optimizing post-cardiac
      arrest care.

      Following resuscitated OHCA, the function of the adrenal gland is compromised due to global
      ischemia and reduced levels of the hormone steroid, glucocorticoid, are produced.
      Glucocorticoid has an important role in several physiologic processes including an
      anti-inflammatory systemic response. As a result, resuscitated cardiac arrest patients are
      affected by a severe inflammatory response, while the natural defense mechanism of the body
      to modulate inflammation is suppressed. Systemic treatment with steroids serves as an
      anti-inflammatory mediator and counteracts acute microcirculation injury and free radical
      formation, resulting in diminished vasodilation and reduction of edema, e.g. brain edema. Two
      small studies have shown signs of improved survival and neurologic outcome among patients who
      was given injections with glucocorticoids after in-hospital cardiac arrest. The incidence of
      adverse events was not higher in patients receiving glucocorticoids. Long-term treatment with
      glucocorticoids is associated with a series of side effects, whereas short-term treatment
      only has a few side effects. Systemic treatment with glucocorticoids could therefore be an
      important and safe factor in the treatment of resuscitated cardiac arrest patients that could
      potentially improve survival and neurological outcome.

      Methylprednisolone and other glucocorticoids are used in pulse doses (>250 mg prednisolone
      equivalent a day) in various acute immunologically mediated conditions/diseases such as organ
      transplantation to prevent organ rejection and certain rheumatic diseases with acute
      deterioration. All these conditions are associated with a severe inflammatory response, as
      seen in PCAS, and therefore methylprednisolone doses as high as 30 mg/kg (equivalent of 2.1 g
      for a person weighing 70 kg) are used in pulse therapy to obtain an adequate response and
      effect. Further, the advantage of pulse dose glucocorticoid treatment is better efficacy, but
      also a decrease in side effects due to a reduced need for longer lasting therapy exceeding
      days or weeks. The literature reports of possible cardiovascular side effects as bradycardia
      and arrhythmias associated to infusion of pulse doses of methylprednisolone/glucocorticoids
      if given within a short period of time, but the evidence is limited and not well supported.
      The Danish summary of product characteristics recommends an initial infusion of Solu-Medrol
      to be administered over a period of at least five minutes.

      Based on the above knowledge the intervention in this study is 250 mg of methylprednisolone
      administered intravenously as a bolus infusion over five minutes.

      In summary, following resuscitated OHCA, PCAS, a severe and life-threatening condition, is
      often developed. PCAS is associated with increased mortality and poor neurological outcome.
      Inhibition of this inflammatory response may have an important, yet relatively unknown, role
      in post-cardiac arrest care.

      HYPOTHESIS:

      Bolus infusion of 250 mg methylprednisolone in the pre-hospital setting will inhibit the
      systemic inflammatory response and minimize the degree of neurological injury in comatose,
      resuscitated Out-of-Hospital Cardiac Arrest (OHCA) patients.

      SAMPLE SIZE:

      The trial is powered at the co-primary endpoint. The investigators chose a priori to power
      the trial at the 'weakest' of the two endpoints, ensuring a sufficient power for both
      endpoints. As the investigators were not able to find data regarding the effect of
      methylprednisolone on IL-6 levels or NSE levels from OHCA admission, the trial was powered
      towards a single measurement drawn 48 hours after admission. In 171 patients from the
      investigators institution the mean (logarithmically transformed to approximate normal
      distribution) IL-6 level after 48 hours from admission was 4.19±1.27 (unpublished data). The
      investigators assumed that methylprednisolone would reduce the IL-6 level by 20%. With an
      α-level of 0.025, the trial would achieve a power of 0.90 if 112 patients were included. The
      mean (logarithmically transformed to approximate normal distribution) NSE level after 48
      hours was 3.21±0.96 after 48 hours from admission (unpublished data). The investigators
      assumed that methylprednisolone would reduce the NSE level by 20%. With an α-level of 0.025,
      the trial would achieve a power of 0.90 if 114 patients were included. The investigators
      aimed to include 120 patients, to adjust for missingness due to withdrawn consent. Further,
      since a proportion of the patients were expected to die before complete assessment of the
      co-primary endpoint (i.e. blood sampling at 72 hours), randomization of patients will
      continue until a total of 120 patients have survived to blood sampling at 72 hours.
    
  