
    
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive
      impairment in daily life, cognitive deterioration, and a variety of neuropsychiatric and
      behavioural symptoms. The diagnosis of AD is based on clinical criteria, but these have low
      sensitivity and specificity for AD in the early stages of the disease. Therefore, there is a
      great need for a method to identify the pathological process of AD at an earlier, preclinical
      stage. In-vivo imaging and quantification of pathological beta-amyloid (Aß) accumulation may
      provide such a method as the production and accumulation of Aß is thought to be central to
      the pathogenesis of AD. The view is widely held that Aß may be present in the brain at
      sublethal concentrations for extended periods before the overt manifestation of AD.
      Therefore, early, in-vivo detection of pathological Aß accumulation is warranted and may
      identify subjects at risk for AD. Neuroimaging with Positron Emission Tomography (PET)
      permits in-vivo imaging and quantification of cerebral amyloid load, which is a novel
      application of PET. Recently, several PET tracers ([18F]FDDNP and [11C]PIB) have been
      developed for this purpose and the first clinical studies in patients with AD are
      encouraging. For both tracers, many methodological issues still need to be resolved and the
      clinical value of in-vivo amyloid imaging remains to be established. The most important
      objectives of this project are twofold: to provide an independent and unbiased evaluation of
      the value of in-vivo amyloid imaging in the (early) diagnosis of AD and to optimize methods
      for quantification of the in-vivo cerebral amyloid load. To investigate the value in the
      early diagnosis, identification of subjects at risk for AD is essential. Patients with
      amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI), i.e patients suffering only from memory problems
      but without the other symptoms of AD, are recruited for this purpose. MCI is a disease state
      considered to be a transitional state between normal aging and dementia. It is generally
      accepted that the ability to identify the presence of Alzheimer type pathology in the MCI
      stage will benefit disease management. Twenty patients with amnestic MCI, 15 patients with AD
      and 15 age and sex matched healthy controls will be included in this study. Only consecutive
      new patients fulfilling criteria of amnestic MCI will be included. Patients with MCI will
      remain under clinical observation during two years after participation in order to monitor
      conversion to clinical dementia. All subjects will receive [11C]PIB and [18F]FDDNP PET scans
      on a single day. In addition, patients will receive a [18F]FDG PET scan. Furthermore, an MRI
      scan, a neuropsychological evaluation and CSF analysis for diagnostic purposes will be
      performed in all subjects.
    
  