
    
      Four million Americans have chronic hepatitis C (HCV), and 30% of HIV+ patients are
      co-infected with HCV. Until May 2011, the standard treatment for HCV was the combination of
      alpha interferon (injected weekly) and ribavirin (daily pills) (IFN/RBV) for 48 weeks in
      order to achieve sustained virologic remission (cure). HCV treatment initiation was low,
      often because of concern about severe treatment side effects as well as high rates of
      virologic failure. Among the minority of medically eligible HCV+ patients (with or without
      co-morbid HIV/AIDS) who actually began treatment with IFN/RBV, side effects cause substantial
      attrition (about 20% by Week 12, 40% by Week 24). The most common adverse events are flu-like
      symptoms, of which fatigue is most prominent. Depressed mood is also common (mostly somatic
      symptoms).

      Two new medications, telaprevir and boceprevir (protease inhibitors) have been successful in
      treatment of HCV in clinical trials, and both were approved by the FDA for those patients
      with genotype 1 HCV, and are marketed as of May 2011. One of the new drugs will be added to
      the current regimen for genotype 1 infection. Because both drugs are protease inhibitors,
      which develop rapid resistance when administered alone, they must be added to the current
      standard of care rather than replace it. This is expected to vastly increase willingness of
      doctors to recommend treatment, and for patients to agree to treatment. The investigators
      expect that most hepatologists will recommend, and patients agree to the addition of one of
      these medications from now on. However, it should be noted that both commonly cause fatigue
      if it isn't already present because of HCV itself, or peginterferon or ribavirin. The major
      adverse event associated with telaprevir is rash, and with boceprevir, anemia.

      This is a 14-week placebo controlled double blind trial of armodafinil for patients about to
      begin HCV treatment, starting armodafinil or placebo 2 weeks prior to initiation of HCV
      treatment. Patients are recruited from the hepatology clinics at the respective sites.
      Randomization is 1:1. Placebo patients who continue HCV treatment are offered 14 weeks of
      armodafinil starting at Week 12 of HCV treatment when the armodafinil/placebo blind is
      broken.

      Patients will be seen weekly for the first 4 weeks to titrate armodafinil dose and manage
      side effects, if any, and then biweekly, with telephone contact on the intervening weeks
      through Week 12. After that, monthly telephone calls through Week 24 will be conducted with
      patients randomized to armodafinil, and biweekly visits with placebo patients beginning
      armodafinil at Week 12.

      The primary outcome measures concern non-adherence to INF/RBV treatment: 1) missed doses; 2)
      dose reductions, and 3) attrition due to side effects. Secondary outcomes include ratings of
      fatigue on the Fatigue Severity Scale, depression on the Patient Health Questionnaire
      (PHQ-9), and quality of life on the Endicott Quality of Life Enjoyment and Satisfaction
      Questionnaire.
    
  