
    
      Objectives The overarching aim of the study is to stimulate the hypothalamus-cognitive brain
      network to improve insulin sensitivity and eating behavior.

      Specific Objectives- Feasibility study:

        1. Implement resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging to identify individual
           medial and lateral hypothalamic cognitive functional networks.

        2. Evaluate and test different non-invasive brain stimulation paradigms by tDCS to
           stimulate lateral and medial hypothalamus cognitive network on eating behavior and
           metabolism.

           20 participants with overweight and obesity will receive five different tDCS stimulation
           protocols on five separate days (separated by one week) in a single-blind
           cluster-randomized order to reduce sequence effects. Optimal stimulation sites are
           assessed of the lateral and medial hypothalamus-cognitive network based on a modelling
           approach. Since this is the first study to stimulate the hypothalamus-cognitive network,
           excitatory as well as inhibitory stimulation is used. To reduce the number of
           conditions, participant are randomized based on the three main conditions: sham
           stimulation, anodal and cathodal stimulation. Medial hypothalamus-cognitive network
           versus lateral hypothalamus-cognitive network stimulation are pseudo-randomised.

           Participants will come in the morning, after an overnight fast, to receive a 20 min
           non-invasive brain stimulation, using tDCS. During the stimulation, participants will
           perform a stop-signal task on an tablet.

           Subsequently, participants will receive a breakfast buffet. The caloric intake from fat,
           carbohydrates and protein will be documented. Subjective feeling of hunger and food
           craving will be assessed using a visual analogue scale before stimulation, directly
           after stimulation and after breakfast. Food pictures will be rated on a laptop for taste
           and healthiness.
    
  