
    
      Research Plan Design: Blinded FODMAP reintroduction study Duration of study: 1 year

      Patient population:

      Eligible IBS patients

      Visit 1 (-2 weeks): After providing written informed consent, baseline and descriptive data
      will be obtained including age, sex, race, pertinent medical history, prior IBS treatments,
      vital signs, weight, use of concurrent medications and supplements, duration of symptoms, and
      baseline symptoms. The investigators will also collect blood, stool and urine for a series of
      separately funded translational studies assessing immune activation, permeability, and
      microbiome.

      After this visit, patients will enter a two-week screening period during which severity of
      symptoms will be assessed. Eligible patients will rate their average daily abdominal
      pain/discomfort as a 4 or higher on an 11 point numerical rating scale (NRS) (0-no pain,
      10-intolerable pain) and IBS subtype of constipation-predominant, diarrhea- predominant, or
      mixed bowel habits (by Rome IV criteria19). Patients with an indeterminate subtype will be
      excluded. Patients will record symptoms (Table 1) daily using a web-based survey instrument.
      Experience from previous diet trials suggests that approximately 50% of participants will not
      fulfill these inclusion criteria after the screening period, and will be termed screen
      failures.

      Visit 2 (weeks 0-2): IBS patients who fulfill the entry criteria will be invited to
      participate in the remainder of the trial. Instruction from an experienced research dietitian
      pertaining to the low FODMAP diet will be administered to all participants in an open-label
      fashion for 2 weeks. Patients are to continue to record symptoms daily. Our previous work has
      demonstrated that abdominal pain and bloating are the most responsive symptoms to the low
      FODMAP diet. As such, the primary measure for this study will be improvement in abdominal
      pain with improvement in bloating as a key secondary endpoint. If a subject experiences a
      ≥30% reduction in abdominal pain during the 2-week low FODMAP intervention compared to
      baseline, they will be invited to participate in the blinded, FODMAP reintroduction phase
      (below). If this ≥30% reduction is not obtained, this period of open-label low FODMAP diet
      will be extended an additional 2 weeks to ascertain if their symptoms improve to qualify for
      continuation.

      Standard dietary compliance measures used in the counseling environment are to include
      prospectively recorded 3-day food diaries before and after the open label period. Body weight
      over the course of the study will also be followed. Food diaries will be analyzed for
      compliance via the Nutrition Data System for Research (NDSR) computer program, measuring
      fructose, lactose, sucrose, pectins, sorbitol, and added sugars. Blood, stool and urine
      samples will be collected for translational studies (separately funded).

      Week 2: If a ≥30% reduction in abdominal pain is obtained from the low FODMAP diet, subjects
      will be eligible to continue in the study during which they will remain on a full FODMAP
      elimination diet. For 7 days (week 2-3) prior to the reintroduction of individual FODMAPs,
      subjects will ingest 1 daily servings of a low FODMAP nutrition drink (Pronourish, 170
      calories each, Nestlé S.A., Vevey, Switzerland) to validate the low FODMAP content of this
      dietary supplement. Daily symptoms will be measured as above. If a participant does not
      experience a flare of symptoms with the supplement, they will continue onto the
      reintroduction phase. If the participant does experience a flare in symptoms, they will
      discontinue the product for 1 week before continuing in to the next phase (reintroduction
      phase) of the study. The supplement will be supplied with an unbranded label. Adverse events
      will be monitored during weeks 2-3 and significant adverse events (discontinuation of the
      supplement, worsening of GI symptoms back to baseline) will be recorded.

      Visit 3 (weeks 3-13): FODMAP reintroduction (lactose, fructose, fructans, polyols, galactans)
      will be achieved by providing subjects with similar appearing and similar tasting snacks
      which will contain specific types of supplemental FODMAPs prepared by research dieticians at
      MCRU. The study team will ask the participants to continue on their low FODMAP diet during
      this reintroduction phase, with the addition of 1-2 supplemental low FODMAP drinks per day
      for convenience. The re-introduction of FODMAP containing foods will be conducted in a
      double-blind fashion where both subjects and investigators will be unaware of the type of
      FODMAP being reintroduced. The study dietitians will remain un-blinded to the subjects'
      FODMAP treatment since they will be responsible for preparing and providing the FODMAP
      containing supplement to the subjects. For the first 7 days of the re-introduction phase,
      subjects will receive a FODMAP containing food item; this treatment will be followed by a
      7-day wash out period during which subjects will receive a similar food or supplement that
      does not contain the targeted FODMAP. The daily dose of fermentable carbohydrate contained in
      the study food or supplement will be administered in 2 doses (moderate for the first 3 days
      and higher amount for the later 4 days of the 7 day reintroduction period), with the content
      similar to that found in the typical American diet (internal data from healthy study
      subjects, published data18,20). To determine optimal dosing, the study team will conduct a
      careful systematic review and interviews with experienced dieticians and GIs to determine the
      optimal dose to each FODMAP with which to challenge. The order in which each specific FODMAP
      is tested will be randomized to minimize the chances of an order effect. Throughout the study
      period, symptom data will continue to be recorded on a daily basis (Table 1). If a subject is
      unable to tolerate any portion of the reintroduction phase, they will discontinue
      reintroduction of that specific FODMAP and revert again to a low FODMAP diet for washout.

      Visit 4: Final study visit (13 weeks). Subjects will be unblinded as to which FODMAP
      components exacerbated symptoms, if any. This information will be disseminated to study
      participants by our dietitians immediately after their completion of the study period. The
      primary investigators remain blinded to this information through analysis of data. A
      three-day food diary will be obtained to ensure ongoing compliance with the low FODMAP diet.
      Serum samples for immune activation, stool for microbiome analysis, urine for metabolome
      analysis will be collected at Visit 2 and 3 and analyzed with funding from alternate sources.
      Body weight will again be assessed.
    
  