
    
      Research Questions:

      Maternal:

      Is a strength training group class (with babies) in postpartum women associated with (I)
      strength and lean body mass improvement, (II) improvement aerobic capacity, (III) more
      spontaneous physical activity, (IV) better self efficacy and (V) better mood?

      Baby:

      Does maternal lifestyle affect the baby's (0-12 months) physical activity level?

      Hypothesis:

      It is hypothesized that women who complete the 10 week exercise program will have improved
      strength from pre-intervention to post intervention. It is also hypothesized that women who
      are adherent to the exercise program will have more active babies.

      Methods:

      Participants train 60 min per session for 10 weeks on non consecutive days (Tues and Thurs).
      All training sessions will be supervised by a qualified exercise instructor (graduate in
      kinesiology) to ensure proper technique and to minimize the risk of injury. Each training
      session will include a warm up phase of 5 minutes of dynamic and static stretching and a cool
      down phase consisting of 5 minutes of static stretching. The strength training protocol is
      based on the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) guidelines. Whole-body exercises and
      different equipment such as weights, elastic bands and balls will be used. Babies will also
      be included in the exercise routine. Participants will perform 1-3 sets per exercise, 8-12
      repetitions per set and a 90-s rest interval between sets. The principle of progressive
      overload will follow a linear increase as described in ACSM position stand.

      All participants will be tested at time points t0 , t1 ( after 5 weeks) and t2 (after 10
      weeks; at the and of the study) on: i) strength and body composition; ii) aerobic capacity;
      iii) objective and subjective physical activity level; vi) exercise self efficacy; v)
      depressive symptoms and vi) dietary habits.

      I. Strength/Body composition assessment At each time point, strength will be assessed for the
      upper body (push-ups), lower body (squats), and trunk (abdominal curl-up test). The
      participants will perform push-ups (as many as possible using a fixed pattern of 40 beats per
      minute - time and number will be recorded up to a maximum of 1 minute). This will be repeated
      for the number of lower body squat position performed (as many squats as possible using a
      fixed pattern of 40 beats per minute -time and number will be recorded up to a maximum of 1
      minute); these methods have been chosen to reduce the likelihood of any adverse events. The
      participant will also complete the ACSM-recommended partial curl-up test to assess abdominal
      strength and endurance. Briefly, as many abdominal curl-ups as possible has to be performed
      until the participant either stops, or cannot stay in rhythm with a fixed cadence (40
      beats/min) up to 1 minute as per ACSM guidelines.

      Body composition assessment will include body mass, height, BMI and body fat (sum of five
      skinfolds: triceps, biceps, subscapular, suprailiac, thigh) measures.

      II. Aerobic capacity Briefly, participants perform a 5- min. bout of exercise, stepping up
      and down from a standard step (height 30 cm) following a specific cadence. During the step
      test, heart rate (HR) is measured continuously using a heart-rate monitor. Then, VO2max is
      estimated based on HR and a target exercise intensity (estimated VO2).

      III. Physical activity assessment At each time point, participants will to complete two self-
      reported questionnaires regarding physical activity level, the International Physical
      Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ; and the Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire (PAR-Q+).The
      IPAQ asks participants to recall their levels of physical activity within five domains
      (leisure, work, transportation, household, recreation) and three intensity categories over a
      7-day recall period. The PAR-Q+ determines if it is safe to start an exercise program.
      Additionally, at t0, t1 and t2 each participant will complete an individual physical activity
      diary for 7 days. Moreover, during this period participants will continuously wear a
      pedometer .

      IV. Exercise self efficacy Exercise self-efficacy will be measured at each time point (t0,t1
      and t2). This survey includes five separate items targeting self-efficacy.

      V. Depressive symptoms Levels of postpartum mood will be assessed through the Edinburgh
      Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS).

      VI. Eating Habits Mother's eating habits will be measured through the Short-Form Frequency
      Questionnaire (SFFFQ).

      VII. Breastfeeding habits will be measured through a Breastfeeding and Infant Feeding
      Questionnaire.

      Baby At each time point, a Rothbart Infant Behavior Questionnaire- Revised (IBQ-R) will be
      completed by the participants to measure temperament and gross motor activity in infants
      between the ages of 3 and 12 months.

      This study will take place at the Canadian Centre for Activity and Aging gymnasium on Tuesday
      and Thursday afternoons (time to be determined). Women who contact us will be asked when
      their baby was born. Those women whose babies are less than 20 weeks of age will be placed in
      Group A and those women whose babies are older than 20 weeks will be placed in Group B. These
      groups were divided by baby age because early postpartum women and babies are a different
      group than those women with babies 6 months and older.
    
  