
    
      Background:

      Genetic and sporadic mutations on one allele of the GATA2 gene lead to a syndrome termed
      MonoMAC. MonoMAC is characterized by: 1) infections with Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC)
      and other opportunistic infections, 2) deficiency of monocytes, B-lymphocytes, and Natural
      Killer (NK) cells in the peripheral blood, and 3) progression to myelodysplastic syndrome
      (MDS), chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), and acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), and 4)
      mutations on one allele of GATA2 in most participants. We propose to evaluate the efficacy
      and safety of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) using different
      conditioning regimens from different donor sources in reconstituting normal hematopoiesis and
      reversing the disease phenotype in participants with mutations in GATA2, or the clinical
      syndrome of MonoMAC.

      Objectives: Primary:

      -To determine whether allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) approach
      reconstitutes normal hematopoiesis and reverses the disease phenotype by one year
      posttransplant in participants with mutations in GATA2 or the clinical syndrome of MonoMAC.

      Eligibility:

        -  Recipients ages 8-70 years old with mutations in GATA2 or the clinical syndrome of
           MonoMAC. Clinical history of at least one serious or disfiguring infection and GATA2
           bone marrow immuneodeficiency disorder with loss of one or more immune populations in
           the bone marrow including monocytes, Natural Killer (NK) cells, and B-lymphocytes, with
           or without additional cytopenias involving the red blood cell, neutrophil, or platelet
           compartment.

        -  Have a 10/10 or a 9/10 or an 8/10 HLA-matched related or unrelated donor (HLA -A, -B,
           -C, DRB1, DQB1 by high resolution typing) or a haploidentical related donor; unrelated
           donors are identified through the National Marrow Donor Program.

      Design: Two Arms

        -  Participants with mutations in GATA2, or the clinical syndrome of MonoMAC, with a 10/10
           (or 9/10 matched if the mismatch is at DQ) HLA-matched related or unrelated donor will
           receive a pre-transplant conditioning regimen consisting of fludarabine 40 mg/m2 IV once
           daily for 4 days on day s -6, -5, -4, and -3, busulfan based on pharmacokinetic levels
           from test dose (3.2 mg/kg IV will be the default dose) once daily on days -6, -5, -4,
           and -3, and HSCT on day 0.

        -  Participants with mutations in GATA2, or the clinical syndrome of MonoMAC, with a 9/10
           or an 8/10 HLA-matched related or unrelated (if the mismatch is not at DQ), or with a
           haploidentical related donor, will receive a pre-transplant conditioning regimen
           consisting of cyclophosphamide 14.5 mg/kg IV once daily for 2 days on days -6 and -5,
           busulfan based on pharmacokinetic levels from test dose ( 3.2 mg/kg IV will be the
           default dose) once daily on days -4, -3, (if poor or very poor risk clonal cytogenetic
           abnormalities are present, then three days of busulfan IV once daily on days -4, -3, and
           -2 will be given), fludarabine 30 mg/m2 IV once daily for 5 days on days -6 to -2, 200
           cGy TBI on day -1, and HSCT on day 0.

        -  Post-transplant immunosuppression for GVHD prophylaxis for recipients of all groups will
           consist of cyclophosphamide 50 mg/kg IV once daily for 2 days on day's +3 and +4, along
           with mycophenolate mofetil from day +5 to approximately day +35 and tacrolimus from day
           +5 to approximately day +180. If there is no evidence of graft-versus- host disease,
           tacrolimus will be stopped or tapered at approximately day +180.
    
  