
    
      Schizophrenia is a chronic and disabling disease with a prevalence of 0.5%~1.5% in the
      general population. It's estimated 98% of patients with schizophrenia exhibit variable
      degrees of cognitive deficits which have been well established to be predictive of patient
      functioning. A number of treatments had been developed for cognitive enhancement in patients
      with schizophrenia, nevertheless none of them showed satisfying results.

      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a safe and convenient treatment which has
      showed some evidence of beneficial effects on working memory (WM) in both healthy and
      neuropsychiatric populations. However, studies of tDCS for cognitive enhancement in patients
      with schizophrenia are still quiet limited. The results of our previous studies in healthy
      participants and patients with diabetic polyneuropathy suggest that the anodal tDCS over
      right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) improved spatial WM capacity, particularly when
      task difficulty demands more complex mental manipulations and for the low-performing patients
      in baseline assessments. Thus, we hypothesize that in the baseline the more severe the
      patients' cognitive deficit are, the greater their WM capacity improvement would be after
      applying the anodal Tdcs over right DLPFC.

      The investigators plan to recruit 40 patients with chronic schizophrenia. First, the
      investigators will collect baseline characteristics including disease severity, cognitive
      deficits and brain connectivity. Then the investigators will adopt a sham-active crossover
      design for tDCS treatment with the order of the two sessions (sham and active)
      counterbalanced across participants. The investigators will perform pre- tDCS and post- tDCS
      assessments of their spatial WM and verbal WM as well as statistical analyses to see if the
      effect of cognitive enhancement reaches a significant level. In addition, the investigators
      will explore the possible predictive indicators of effective treatment.
    
  