
    
      In this research study, the participant will be given a study drug-dosing diary for each
      treatment cycle. Each treatment cycle lasts 21 days (3 weeks) . The diary will also include
      special instructions for taking the study drug(s).

      The investigator are looking for the highest dose of the study drug that can be administered
      safely without severe or unmanageable side effects in participants that have multiple
      myeloma, not everyone who participates in this research study will receive the same dose of
      the study drug. The dose each participant will get will depend on the number of participants
      who have been enrolled in the study before each participant and how well they have tolerated
      their doses.

      Each treatment cycle will be 21 days long. The participant will have to come to the clinic on
      days 1, 4, 5, 8, 10 and 11 in Cycle 1 and on days 1, 4, 8 and 11 in Cycles 2 and beyond. Days
      1 and 5 of Cycle 1 will take about 8 hours. Every other visit should take about 1-4 hours,
      however there is always the possibility that it could take longer.

      Study Drugs:

        -  Panobinostat is a capsule that the participant will take three times a week for the
           first two the weeks of each cycle. Then participant will have one week off study
           medication.

        -  Bortezomib will be administered in clinic as a subcutaneous injection twice a week
           during the first two weeks of each 21 day cycle.

        -  Lenalidomide will be taken orally once daily on days 1-14 of each cycle.

        -  Dexamethasone will be taken orally on the days of and after bortezomib administration
           during Cycles 1-8, and on days 1, 8 and 15 for Cycles 9 and beyond.

      Planned Follow-up: The investigators would like to monitor the participant's medical
      condition even after the participants are no longer participating in the study. The
      investigators would like to do this by calling the participants on the telephone once every 6
      months to see how the participant is doing. Keeping in touch with the participant and
      checking on their condition helps the investigator look at the long-term effects of the
      research study.
    
  