
    
      The Jackson Heart Study (JHS) initiated in 1998, is a longitudinal investigation of genetic
      and environmental risk factors associated with the disproportionate burden of cardiovascular
      disease (CVD) in African-Americans. In addition, the JHS conducts community education and
      outreach activities to promote healthy lifestyles and reduce disease risk burden,
      undergraduate- and graduate-level research training programs, and high school science and
      math enrichment programs to prepare and encourage underrepresented minority students to
      pursue biomedical careers. The JHS represents an expansion of the Jackson Field Center of the
      Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities study, to broaden data collection in an African- American
      population and to increase access to and participation of African American populations and
      scientists in biomedical research and professions. The study recruited 5306 African-American
      residents living in the Jackson, MS, metropolitan statistical area (MSA) of Hinds, Madison,
      and Rankin Counties. Participants were enrolled from each of 4 recruitment pools: random,
      17%; volunteer, 30%; currently enrolled in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC)
      Study, 31% (shared JHS/ARIC cohort); and secondary family members, 22%. Recruitment was
      limited to non-institutionalized adult African Americans 35-84 years old, except in a nested
      family cohort where those 21 to 34 years of age were also eligible. The final cohort of
      participants included 6.59% of all African American Jackson MSA residents aged 35-84 during
      the baseline exam (N-76,426, US Census 2000). Among these, approximately 3,700 gave consent
      that allows genetic research and deposition of data into dbGaP. Enrolled JHS participants
      received three back-to-back clinical examinations (Exam 1, 2000-04; Exam 2, 2005-08; and Exam
      3, 2009-13) that have generated extensive longitudinal data on: traditional and putative CVD
      risk factors, socioeconomic and sociocultural factors, and biochemical analytes; and measures
      of subclinical disease from echocardiography, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and
      computed tomography (CT) scans of the heart, aorta, and abdomen. Stored biological samples
      have been assayed for putative biochemical risk factors and stored for future research. DNA
      has been extracted and lymphocytes cryopreserved for study of candidate genes, genome-wide
      scanning, expression, and other -omics investigations. Participants have been contacted
      annually to: update information; confirm vital statistics; document interim medical events,
      hospitalizations, and functional status; and obtain additional sociocultural information.
      Ongoing cohort surveillance includes abstraction of medical records and death certificates
      for relevant International Classification of Diseases (ICD) codes and adjudication of
      nonfatal events and deaths. The JHS serves as a resource to the scientific community for
      novel research, promotes cardiovascular health in the local community, and encourages
      underrepresented minority students to pursue biomedical careers.
    
  