
    
      This study will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of imatinib mesylate in reducing the
      number of eosinophils (a type of white blood cell) in patients with hypereosinophilic
      syndrome (HES). Patients with HES have elevated counts of eosinophils in the blood and body
      tissues, which can cause damage to these tissues. Although HES can involve any tissues, the
      heart, nerves, and skin are most often affected. Several drugs, including steroids,
      interferon, and hydroxyurea can lower eosinophil counts; however, these drugs have drawbacks
      in that they do not work in all patients with HES, or they may work only temporarily, or
      patients may develop side effects that require stopping the drugs. Imatinib mesylate is a new
      drug approved to treat gastrointestinal tumors and chronic myelogenous leukemia. Some data
      suggest that imatinib mesylate may be useful in treating a subgroup of patients with HES.

      Patients with HES who are 18 years of age and older may be eligible for this study.
      Candidates will be screened with a medical history, physical examination, blood tests,
      electrocardiogram (EKG), echocardiogram (ultrasound examination of the heart), pulmonary
      (lung) function tests, eye exam and a bone marrow examination to determine if they fall into
      the subgroup of patients likely to respond to this therapy. For the bone marrow procedure, an
      area of skin and bone is numbed and a very sharp needle is inserted into the bone to draw out
      a sample of bone marrow for evaluation under the microscope.

      Patients enrolled in the study will take imatinib mesylate daily. Any other drugs they may be
      taking for HES, as well as other drugs they are taking that may interact with imatinib
      mesylate, will be tapered and stopped. If it is not possible to stop taking certain drugs for
      other conditions, their dosages may be adjusted. Patients will be monitored weekly with
      laboratory testing during the first month of treatment and whenever neutrophil counts drop
      below 1500/mm3 or platelets fall below 100,000/mm3. If blood counts remain high enough,
      monitoring will be reduced to every 2 weeks for 3 months and once a month after that.
      Patients will have a clinic visit at NIH 1 month after beginning the drug for a clinical and
      laboratory evaluation, including a repeat bone marrow examination. Patients whose eosinophil
      counts are not lowered after 4 weeks of treatment will leave the study. Those who respond to
      therapy will return to NIH every 3 months for a history and physical examination, laboratory
      tests, EKG, echocardiogram, and pulmonary function testing to determine how treatment is
      affecting disease progression. In some participants with stable disease where an optimal dose
      of imatinib mesylate has been identified, visits may be extended to every six months. In
      addition, the following procedures will be done solely for research purposes:

        -  Blood tests to determine the effects of imatinib mesylate on immune cells, including
           eosinophils.

        -  Leukapheresis to study the effects of imatinib mesylate on eosinophils: For this
           procedure, whole blood is collected through a needle in an arm vein, similar to donating
           blood. The blood circulates through a machine that separates it into its components, and
           the white cells are removed. The rest of the blood is returned to the body, either
           through the same needle or through another needle in the other arm.

        -  Bone marrow examinations will be done during the screening tests and again 1 month after
           starting treatment to look at newly developing cells in the bone marrow.

        -  Genetic testing to determine how imatinib mesylate is able to lower eosinophil counts in
           patients with HES.
    
  