
    
      This will be a 12 week, single blinded Randomized controlled trial (RCT) in children and
      adolescents with mild to moderate Ulcerative Collitis (UC) comparing 5ASA (recommended dosing
      60-75 mg/kg/day; minimum 2.5 maximum 4 grams/day) with fiber restriction for 6 weeks followed
      by free diet (Group 1) to 5ASA with Ulcerative Collitis Diet (UCD) for 6 weeks, followed by
      the step down UCD for the next 6 weeks. Inclusion criteria will include children weighing
      >30kg, Pediatric Ulcerative Collitis Activity index (PUCAI) 10-45, no treatment with 5ASA
      (treatment naïve or treated with thiopurines for example) or currently treatment with 5ASA
      but <2 grams/day, ages 10-19 years, with disease extent E2-E4 by the Paris Classification.
      Patients on thiopurines may continue existing dose if dose is stable for at least 8 weeks.

      Exclusion criteria are Patients with acute severe colitis (ASC) in the previous year,
      requiring oral or intravenous steroids in the previous 3 months, or patients treated with
      Anti- Tumor necrosis factor alfa (TNFa) regimens. Importantly, there is no placebo arm and
      both groups will be treated with the same currently recommended drug at currently recommended
      doses; the only difference between groups being their diets.

      The primary endpoint will be remission defined as PUCAI<10 at week 6; Secondary endpoints
      will be response defined as a drop in PUCAI of 10 or remission at week 6, sustained steroid
      free remission week 12 and improvement in mucosal healing by Ulcerative Colitis Endoscopic
      Index of Severity (UCEIS) at week 12 as well as safety and tolerance. Intolerance will be
      defined as patients stopping the diet because of refusal to continue diet. Patients will be
      seen at weeks 0, 3, 6, and 12. PUCAI will be assessed at every visit; fecal calprotectin will
      be assessed at baseline, week 6 and 12. Sigmoidoscopy to assess mucosal healing will be
      performed at week 12 in patients who had a baseline colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy.
      Sigmoidoscopies to evaluate healing will be voluntary and patients will not be excluded if
      they do not consent to have a follow up sigmoidoscopy.
    
  