
    
      Osteoporosis is a growing health problem. The most commonly used treatment options are
      anti-resorptive agents, which give a bone density increase of the lumbar spine in the 6-8%
      range over a 3-5 year period. A 100 % increase in bone mass would be needed to restore bone
      mass to peak, premenopausal levels. The ideal drug to treat osteoporosis would be a pure
      skeletal anabolic agent; however, the only currently approved anabolic agent, parathyroid
      hormone [PTH(1-34)] appears to only increase lumbar spine mass by 12-15% over a 2-3 year
      period when given alone.

      Parathyroid hormone-related protein, [PTHrP(1-36)], is a peptide secreted by almost all
      normal tissues and cells that shares significant homology with Parathyroid Hormone (PTH); and
      the investigators believe that it shares anabolic properties with PTH. In a previous study,
      PTHrP(1-36) administered subcutaneously to postmenopausal women for two weeks increased
      markers of bone formation (osteocalcin) while decreasing markers of osteoclastic bone
      resorption. In a subsequent study, postmenopausal osteoporotic women on estrogen received
      6.56 mcg/kg PTHrP(1-36) subcutaneously for 3 months daily. They experienced a 4.7% increase
      in bone mineral density (BMD) of the lumbar spine compared to those taking placebo. The also
      displayed an increase in serum osteocalcin, a marker of bone formation, with no change in
      several markers of bone resorption. As a result of both rat and human research studies, the
      investigators feel the rapid absorption and clearance of PTHrP(1-36) likely plays a central
      role in its anabolic effect in humans.

      In order to further assess the absorption of PTHrP, the investigators are doing this
      pharmacokinetic study using bolus intravenous PTHrP. It combines both pharmacokinetic and
      dose escalation methods for studying intravenous PTHrP given via a one-time bolus injection.
      Subcutaneous PTHrP has been shown to increase bone mass in previous studies done and would be
      the preferred route for administration of PTHrP in the treatment of osteoporosis. Comparing
      intravenous with subcutaneous PTHrP will yield much information about the bioavailability of
      PTHrP in vivo.

      This six hour study has been designed to achieve the goals of (1) determining what is the
      maximum safe dose of PTHrP(1-36) that can be given intravenously as a one time bolus dose;
      and (2) what is the pharmacokinetic profile of a one-time intravenous bolus dose of PTHrP. A
      placebo group of 5 subjects will initially serve as a control. The investigators feel it is
      important to begin with very small amounts of intravenous PTHrP and gradually increase the
      dose for safety reasons. The initial single bolus intravenous dose to be tested is
      intentionally low (4 micrograms). Subsequent doses of PTHrP will be gradually increased using
      a standard dose escalation scale in groups of three subjects until a maximal dose of 400 mcg
      is reached or a dose limiting toxicity occurs at a dose lower than 400 mcg. The maximum
      determined safely tolerated dose will then be administered to a total of 10 normal healthy
      volunteers.

      In all subjects at different dosing groups, frequent blood sampling within the first 20
      minutes after IV administration of PTHrP will yield pharmacokinetic data about peak PTHrP
      blood levels and time to peak level T(max). After research subjects receive an intravenous
      bolus of PTHrP; blood samples will be collected for pharmacokinetic analysis of PTHrP at
      intervals of 2 minutes for the first 20 minutes, than at 25, 30, 45 and 60 minutes, then
      hourly for the next five hours. Measurement of calcium, creatinine, phosphorus, PTH, 1,25
      Vitamin D and markers of bone metabolism will be obtained at baseline, and at hours one and
      three. After the baseline urine sample is obtained, urine will be collected at two hour
      intervals for calcium, creatinine, phosphorus, and markers of bone metabolism.

      All subjects will be assigned in a single-blinded manner to receive either placebo or study
      drug. Initial subjects will be assigned to receive placebo or the starting dose of PTHrP: 4
      micrograms. all groups of subjects will receive of PTHrP or placebo via intravenous bolus
      injection followed by a 3 ml normal saline solution flush over a 30-60 period. If subjects in
      the initial groups do not experience any adverse effects, doses of intravenous PTHrP will be
      increased in subsequent groups of three subjects each, and the doses for these groups will be
      10, 40, 75, 150, 250 and lastly, 400 micrograms. 400 micrograms is the highest possible dose
      that will be given in this study. The dose that causes no dose-limiting toxicities will be
      given to a total of 10 healthy subjects. Data from this dosing group will be used to compare
      data from the investigator's previous pharmacokinetic and dose escalation studies, including
      recently completed a double-blind, crossover pharmacokinetic study comparing peak serum
      levels of PTH(1-34) and PTHrP(1-36) after a single subcutaneous injection. Preliminary
      results from that study indicated that PTHrP peaks earlier than PTH (6-15 minutes verses 45
      minutes), despite the fact that the dose of PTHrP (~420 mcg) was 20 times greater than the
      dose of PTH (20 mcg).

      This study will be performed in healthy young adults, ages 24-35 years. It is anticipated
      that we will need to screen 100 subjects to achieve a maximum of 52 evaluable subjects, to
      answer the questions posed by this study.
    
  