
    
      Glioma is the most common primary malignant Brain Tumor.High grade glioma (HGG) has the
      characteristics of high morbidity, high relapse and high incidence of causing
      disability.Despite the progress in the combined treatment of surgery, radiotherapy and
      chemotherapy, the 2-year survival rate and 2-year non-progression survival rate were only
      27.2% and 11.2%, respectively.

      TMZ is the standard first-line chemotherapy, which can prolong the overall survival time and
      the progression-free survival time. Although TMZ has achieved satisfactory therapeutic effect
      since its application, the overall response rate of TMZ alone is still low which related to
      the methylation level of MGMT promoter.

      On the basis of a lot of exploration, the union medication has become a hot spot. Malignant
      glioma has obvious neovascularization and inhibiting angiogenesis can inhibit tumor
      proliferation and invasion.

      In recent years, antiangiogenic drugs have become a new treatment for malignant glioma. In
      recent years, studies have found that inhibiting VEGFR-2 can improve the sensitivity of
      glioma to TMZ chemotherapy. NCCN clinical practice guidelines recommend bevacizumab(BEV) for
      the treatment of recurrent malignant gliomas. Numerous clinical trials have studied the role
      of bevacizumab on glioma, and proved that bevacizumab can effectively prolong PFS without
      significant benefit to OS. AVAglio＆RTOG 0825 subgroup analysis showed that TMZ combined with
      antiangiogenic drugs may have advantages in the first-line treatment of patients with IDH1
      wild-type high grade glioma.

      However, some studies have shown that bevacizumab can lead to rapid deterioration due to
      hypoxia or phenotypic changes. So it is urgent to find new antiangiogenic drugs. Apatinib is
      an oral small molecule antiangiogenic targeted drug developed in China. As a specific vegfr-2
      receptor inhibitor, apatinib plus temozolomide has been shown to be effective and tolerable
      in patients with recurrent glioma, but high-level evidence is still lacking. So the
      investigators conducted this clinical trial aimed to explore the new first-line treatment of
      high-grade glioma. The combination of TMZ and apatinib may have synergistic effect especially
      to TMZ insensitivity patients(MGMT gene promoter unmethylated) and poor prognosis (IDH1 wild
      type) population, as the high-level evidence is imminent.

      From the perspective of molecular mechanism, A large number of studies have shown that
      vascular microenvironment closely related to glioma stem cell-like cells (GSLCs) and GSLCs
      can stimulate the proliferation by releasing VEGF to promote angiogenesis.. There was a
      correlation between the expression of vegfr-2 and CD133, a molecular biomarker of cancer stem
      cells. Therefore, CD133 may be an indirect target for the treatment of apatinib, and the
      therapeutic effect of apatinib may be related to the expression of CD133, not only vegfr-2.
      Monitoring the expression of CD133 can reflect the content of glioma stem cells on the one
      hand and indirectly reflect the therapeutic effect of vegfr-2 blocker apatinib on the other
      hand.
    
  