
    
      Patients with acute central retinal artery occlusion (CRAO) generally present with a history
      of painless visual loss that occurred over several seconds. In some instances amaurosis fugax
      is also present. At the time of initial examination, visual acuity in 90% of patients with
      CRAO can vary from counting fingers to light perception. Acute CRAO is considered an
      emergency situation, and therapy must be started as soon as possible. There are different
      reports where different treatments were proved for the acute phase for example: ocular
      massage, anterior chamber paracentesis, intravenous mannitol, acetazolamide, hyperbaric
      oxygenation, microcatheter urokinase infusion, and carbogen 1,2,3. Electrophysiological
      occlusion of the ophthalmic artery, central retinal artery occlusion, or central retinal vein
      has a profound impact on the ERG. ERG can provide an objective assessment of severity if
      occlusion occurs, the b wave is eliminated and a reduction in the "a" wave can be observed.

      In addition, a traumatic optic neuropathy, together with retinal ganglion cell death, can
      induce a loss of vision which progresses rapidly within several hours l. It is known that the
      visual prognosis following treatment of acute central retinal artery occlusion is not as good
      as we would like 2; the patient must go to any emergency department to be treated
      immediately3, in order to preserve maximal visual function. It has been prove that the
      retinal function recovers after an ischemic event lasting up to 97 minutes, 4 and irreparable
      damage may occur after 105 minutes. This is why this study intervene during the chronic phase
      between 4 hrs and 14 days; where demonstrable clinical improvements in the magnitude of
      retinal damage where seen5, 6, 7 However recently research reports have shown that,
      electrical stimulation can rescue injured retinal ganglion cells from death cells and can
      preserve visual function after an optic nerve crush. 8 There is no ideal treatment in the
      chronic phase of the CRAO. That is the reason why most recent papers suggest different
      treatment approaches in the chronic phase of this pathology. One of these treatments that
      were described is the application of electrical stimulation on the patient's cornea who
      present with CRAO. It has been reported in the literature that transcorneal, retinal 9,10 or
      cerebral visual cortex 11 electrical stimulation (ES) results in evoked visual sensations
      (phosphenes),6,9,10,12 however, this intervention requires surgical electrode implantation.
    
  