
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the toxicities and assess the tolerability of recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion
      protein (sEphB4-HSA) in combination with an approved hypomethylating agent (HMA) among
      patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) who are refractory to or have lost their
      response to one or more HMAs and among patients with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML) previously treated with a HMA.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure the expression of EphB4 among marrow and peripheral blood blasts in patients
      with MDS & AML at baseline and over the course of treatment.

      II. To measure the expression of immune check-point activating ligands (such as PD-L1, PD-L2)
      on marrow and peripheral blood blasts in patients treated with HMA and sEphB4-HSA in
      combination.

      III. To profile immune subsets (activated and exhausted T cells, natural killer [NK] cells, T
      regulatory cells, and myeloid derived suppressor cells) in the peripheral blood and marrow in
      patients treated with HMA and sEphB4-HSA in combination.

      IV. To assess efficacy of sEphB4-HSA in combination with an HMA as manifest by International
      Working Group (IWG) response criteria, as well as time to development of acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML) in patients with MDS and time to progression.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on
      days 1 and 15. Patients also receive azacitidine IV or subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-7 or
      days 1-5 and 8-9, or decitabine IV on days 1-5. Administration of recombinant EphB4-HSA
      fusion protein occurs before or after the HMA (not concurrently). Treatment repeats every 28
      days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months.
    
  