
    
      In order to demonstrate oxytocin as a causal mechanism in socioemotional aging, the
      investigators propose to temporarily elevate oxytocin levels and then measure activity in the
      brain while participants engage in socially relevant tasks. Participants in this study will
      be randomly assigned (much like flipping a coin) to receive either a single administration of
      oxytocin or a placebo (a substance that looks like the oxytocin but does not have any active
      drug). Neither participants nor the investigator will know to which condition each
      participant is assigned. Prior to being enrolled into the study a screening to determine
      eligibility will be conducted. Once the screening visit is completed and it has been
      determined that subjects can be randomized into the study, an appointment will be scheduled
      for the full study visit.

      The purpose of the screening is to determine whether the individual is eligible for
      participation in the study and will consist of a series of questions about demographics and
      health history, two saliva samples, two short tasks, blood test, and brief meeting with a
      licensed clinician to ensure that it is safe for the individual to take part in the magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) and drug administration.

      The study visit will comprise two collections of saliva for laboratory tests prior to and
      following the oxytocin administration in order to measure levels of the hormone in the body
      at baseline and after the spray. Saliva samples will also allow for an examination of how
      oxytocin-related genes may impact cognition and behavior during study tasks. Participants
      will work on various social tasks while in the MRI scanner, and response accuracy, response
      time, and brain activity will be recorded. After the scan, participants will complete a
      series of brief questionnaires on paper and on the computer.
    
  