
    
      The present study is a pilot parent coaching intervention (PI). The investigators will enroll
      N = 40 pairs of youth and parents enrolled in an adolescent psychiatric inpatient program.
      This program, called the Stanford at Mills-Peninsula Hospital (STAM), is jointly run by
      Stanford and Mills-Peninsula Hospital. All research procedures will be conducted by Stanford
      faculty and staff. Parents and youth who provide informed consent will be randomly assigned
      to receive the PI + standard Inpatient treatment or standard inpatient treatment only.
      Parents assigned to the PI + inpatient treatment will be offered 4 sessions of DBT-based
      parenting interventions which include safety planning, behavioral parenting interventions,
      and support for care linkage. Youth will participate in study assessments only and will not
      receive additional treatment as part of the study (i.e., they will receive treatment as
      usual). Study participation is optional and will not impact the family's ability to
      participate in the inpatient treatment. Youth will stay admitted to the inpatient program as
      part of standard clinical practices, regardless of whether or not they choose to participate
      in the study. Assessments will be conducted at baseline, 3-month follow-up, 6 month
      follow-up, and 12-month follow-up. Both parents will be encouraged to take part in the
      intervention, however; the participation of only one parent will be required. The
      intervention will consist of 4 individual parent sessions, to be completed within one month
      of youth discharge from the hospital or of care linkage whichever coms first. Sessions will
      be 60 to 90 minutes in length and will be offered weekly. Therapists may see parents more
      than once a week if needed, as long as the total number of sessions does not exceed 4.
      Sessions will focus on safety planning and care linkage, Parent skills building, parent
      conflict resolution, and parent self-care using adolescent DBT handouts.
    
  