
    
      Endothelial dysfunction, a pro-thrombotic, inflammatory condition that causes impaired
      vascular reactivity is an early reversible step in the development of atherosclerosis and
      cardiovascular disease (CVD). Multiple studies consistently shown that African Americans
      (AAs) have impaired endothelial function compared to whites. African Americans also
      experience disproportionately higher CV morbidity and 20% higher mortality than whites or
      Hispanics. Endothelial dysfunction is caused by the overproduction of reactive oxygen species
      (ROS), particularly superoxide which interferes with endothelial-derived nitric oxide
      signaling pathways. One of the major sources of superoxide is NADPH oxidase; our previous
      work found that activation of NADPH oxidase contributes to vascular oxidation through the
      formation of highly immunogenic isolevuglandins (IsoLG-protein adducts) in peripheral
      mononuclear cells (PBMCs), which stimulates antigen presenting cells (APC) and inflammatory
      mediators. Inflammation and oxidative stress are modulated by the parasympathetic nervous
      system (PNS). The investigators and others found that AAs have reduced PNS activity compared
      with whites.

      The investigators preliminary data in obese AA women found that stimulation of the PNS
      cholinergic transmission with the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, galantamine, blocked the
      production of oxidative stress and inflammatory cytokines induced by lipids.

      The overall goal of the current proposal is to determine if prolonged treatment with
      galantamine improves endothelial dysfunction and vascular oxidative stress in AAs. For this
      purpose, the investigators will conduct a proof-of-concept, blinded, randomized,
      placebo-controlled study to test the effect of 3-month treatment with galantamine (16 mg/day)
      on vascular oxidative stress and impaired vascular reactivity in AAs.

      Specifically, the investigators will evaluate whether galantamine treatment inhibits the
      activation of NADPH-IsoLG formation and the subsequent immunogenic responses in PBMCs.
      Furthermore, the investigators will determine if galantamine decreases markers of oxidative
      stress and inflammation in harvested endothelial cells (ECs) and improves vascular reactivity
      in the same study subjects. The planned studies will provide a comprehensive assessment of
      the mechanism underlying the effect of increased PNS cholinergic transmission on endothelial
      dysfunction.

      If the investigators' hypothesis is correct, and galantamine improves endothelial dysfunction
      in AAs, a population with a high risk for CVD, they will discover a novel mechanism that
      could alter the oxidative and immunogenic responses in this population and will offer a
      potential pathway for the development of more effective therapies aimed at decreasing CVD.
    
  