
    
      Current rehabilitation strategies to prevent falls in people with MS are inadequate.
      Protective step training is a novel and promising treatment in which people are exposed to
      repeated slips. This training aims to improve automatic postural control including quick,
      protective steps, which are a critical aspect of fall avoidance, and are delayed in people
      with MS. This therapy has been shown to prevent falls in healthy older adults. However, the
      effectiveness of perturbation training in Veterans with MS is unknown. Identifying effective
      methods of fall prevention in people with MS, such as perturbation training, can lead to
      fewer falls in this population.

      People with MS often exhibit considerable variability in their "responsiveness" to
      rehabilitation. Said differently, improvement in performance through training is variable
      across individuals. The ability to predict responsiveness to treatment would be extremely
      beneficial for clinicians; improving the efficiency by which they provide care. Recent work
      suggests cognitive ability and structural brain connectivity may predict responsiveness to
      motor rehabilitation. However, the degree to which these characteristics predict
      responsiveness in people with MS is currently unknown.

      Therefore, the overall goals of this project are to understand 1) whether people with MS can
      improve postural control and reduce falls through perturbation training, and 2) whether the
      investigators can predict (via cognitive testing and neuroimaging), who will benefit most
      from treatment. The investigators will achieve these goals through three specific aims. Aim
      1: identify whether people with MS can improve protective stepping, a critical skill for fall
      prevention, through 2 weeks of protective step training. Aim 2: determine if cognitive
      capacity predicts postural improvement through training in people with MS. Aim 3: determine
      if brain structural connectivity predicts postural improvements through training. The imaging
      data collected will also allow the investigators to investigate whether MS-related changes in
      brain connectivity contributes to postural response dysfunction.

      The efficacy of perturbation training in people with MS (Aim 1) will be studied by measuring
      protective stepping performance before and after a 2-week perturbation training protocol. In
      addition, the investigators will gather prospective falls data through a falls calendar over
      the course of 8 weeks prior to and 8 weeks after the perturbation training to gain
      preliminary data regarding the effect of this training on falls. To determine which baseline
      characteristics predict "responsiveness" to training (Aims 2 and 3), the investigators will
      also assess baseline cognitive capacity and brain structural integrity (via diffusion tensor
      imaging; DTI). The investigators will determine whether these baseline participant
      characteristics predict which participants exhibit the most improvement through the course of
      training.

      This project will provide insight into 1) the effectiveness of a promising fall prevention
      intervention, and 2) the ability to predict which patients will benefit most from the
      intervention. This knowledge will be an important step toward improving care of people with
      MS who are at risk for falls.
    
  