
    
      Variceal hemorrhage is the serious complication in patients with compensated advanced chronic
      liver disease (cACLD). To evaluate the bleeding risk of varices, esophagogastroduodenoscopy
      (EGD) should be performed. However, EGD is limited by its invasiveness and uncomfortableness.
      The Baveno VI criteria recommended that EGD could be spared in patients with liver stiffness
      (LS) based on transient elastography (TE) < 20 kPa and platelet count >150000/mm3. However,
      only 30% of patients can spare EGD. In order to expand the screening criteria,
      Expanded-Baveno VI proposed that by using LS (TE)<25 kPa and platelet count >110000/mm3, 40%
      of patients can safely avoid EGD. It is worth noting that the Baveno VI criteria is based on
      the European and American compensatory cirrhosis cohort (55% for hepatitis C, 14% for
      non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, 13% for alcoholic hepatitis, 8% for hepatitis B),
      Expanded-Baveno VI is also of good diagnostic value for hepatitis C, alcoholic, and
      non-alcoholic steatohepatitis of cACLD. About 257 million people worldwide are infected with
      hepatitis B virus, and about 80 million people in China alone are infected with hepatitis B
      virus. Infected with hepatitis B virus is the main etiology of patients with cACLD in china.
      Hence, Baveno VI and Expanded-Baveno VI may not be suitable for patients with hepatitis B
      virus-dominant cACLD.

      Previous studies have shown that LS has a significant correlation with the severity of portal
      hypertension. Nevertheless, LS only has a good correlation with portal pressure in the early
      stage of portal hypertension (hepatic vein pressure gradient ≤10mm Hg), because liver
      fibrosis is the main cause of portal hypertension in this period. In the late stage of liver
      cirrhosis, the involvement of hyperdynamic circulation and increased portal blood flow,
      spleen stiffness (SS) may have a better correlation with HVPG than that of LS. Therefore, SS
      provides a reliable basis for the hemodynamic changes that occur during the development of
      liver cirrhosis and avoids the limitations caused by the measurement of LS. Previous study
      has found that changes in SS before and after non-selective beta-blockers (NSBBs) as primary
      prophylaxis may be a promising non-invasive tool for predicting hemodynamic response in
      patients with high-risk varices.

      Since SS is much higher than LS, the maximum threshold of 75 kPa measured with TE may not be
      sufficient to evaluate the hardness of the spleen. Numerous studies have found that the
      success rate of measuring SS and LS based on two-dimensional shear wave elastography is
      higher than that of TE. Hence, CHESS2004 study in seven centers including LanZhou University,
      Tianjin Second People's Hospital, Sixth People's Hospital of Shenyang, Hospital of the
      Chengdu Office of the People's Government of Tibet Autonomous Region, The Central Hospital of
      Lishui City and Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, aims to establish a standard for predicting
      high-risk varices that is more suitable in patients with hepatitis B virus-dominant cACLD. In
      addition, non-invasive means of SS is used to evaluate the hemodynamic response of patients
      with high-risk varices receiving prophylaxis NSBBs therapy.
    
  