
    
      The incidence, mortality, and prevalence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are
      high, with a prevalence among people 40 years of age or older of 10.1% worldwide and 13.7% in
      China. COPD has become the third leading cause of death worldwide. Acute exacerbations of
      COPD (AECOPD) are important events in the management of COPD because they negatively impact
      health status, readmission, and disease progression.

      Due to the non-random and non-accidental occurrence of AECOPD，with acute exacerbations
      occurring mainly in a centralized period after an acute exacerbation, and wide open to attack
      easily in this period, we call this "highly dangerous period" as "AECOPD Risk Window". The
      AECOPD Risk Window has persistent systemic inflammation and unstable lung function, which
      increases the risk of AECOPD recurrence and readmission.

      At present, western medicine has relatively mature treatment measures for COPD at the acute
      exacerbation stage and stable stage, however, there is no specific guidance on the medication
      of AECOPD Risk Window. COPD have been effectively treated with Chinese medicine for a long
      time. The study of syndrome regularity of "AECOPD Risk Window" provides a basis for the
      formulation of syndrome differentiation plan.

      This is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, controlled trial to compare the efficacy of
      two therapies for patients with AECOPD Risk Window. 336 subjects will be randomly assigned in
      a 1:1 ratio to experimental group or control group for 8 weeks treatment and 18 weeks
      follow-up. On the basis of health education and conventional treatment, the experimental
      group will receive TCM granule according to the TCM syndrome, while the control group will
      receive TCM placebo granule according to the TCM syndrom. The primary outcomes are acute
      exacerbation rate in the AECOPD Risk Window, COPD Assessment Test (CAT) in the AECOPD Risk
      Window; and secondary outcomes are time to the first acute exacerbation, degree of acute
      exacerbation in the AECOPD Risk Window, acute exacerbation rate in the follow-up period,
      degree of acute exacerbation in the follow-up period, COPD Assessment Test (CAT) in the
      follow-up period, lung function, clinical symptom scores, mMRC, quality of life and index of
      security.
    
  