
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the time to disease progression in women with HER2-positive stage IIIB, IIIC, or
           IV breast cancer treated with docetaxel and trastuzumab (Herceptin) with or without
           carboplatin.

        -  Compare the response rate and duration of overall response in patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare rate of clinical benefit, defined as complete response, partial response, or
           stable disease for more than 24 weeks, in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Determine pathologic and molecular markers for predicting efficacy of these regimens in
           these patients.

        -  Determine genetic and biochemical markers for predicting risk of cardiac dysfunction and
           later cardiac events in patients receiving these regimens.

        -  Determine whether peripheral levels of shed HER2 extracellular domain constitute a
           prognostic and/or predictive factor of time to progression and survival of patients
           receiving these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to prior adjuvant and/or neoadjuvant chemotherapy (none vs with taxanes vs without
      taxanes) and participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I:

             -  Course 1: Patients receive trastuzumab (Herceptin) IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1,
                8, and 15. Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 30-60
                minutes on day 2.

             -  Courses 2 and all subsequent courses: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour and
                carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 and trastuzumab IV over 30 minutes on
                days 1, 8, and 15.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive docetaxel and trastuzumab as in arm I. In both arms, treatment
           repeats every 21 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity. After completion of 8 courses, patients continue to receive
           trastuzumab IV over 30 minutes every 21 days in the absence of disease progression.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 250 patients (125 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 18 months.
    
  