
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease characterized by
      progressive joint destruction, associated with extra-articular manifestations, affecting
      different internal organs .

      Interestingly, these patients show an increased risk of mortality when compared to general
      population and recent evidence clearly confirmed that this risk is largely due to
      cerebro-cardiovascular events (CV Es), this may be explained by the greater prevalence,
      severity, burden and different composition of occult coronary lesions in RA compared with
      age- and gender-matched controls.

      RA is associated with traditional CV risk factors ,subclinical atherosclerosis,arrhythmias ,
      and coronary calcifications .

      Increased subclinical atherosclerosis, mainly carotid artery plaques, may be observed in RA
      patients, the increased carotid intima-media thickness (cIMT) and presence of plaques are
      accepted as strong predictors of generalized atherosclerosis and major CVEs in both non-RA
      and RA subjects.

      The evidence of traditional CV risk factors and subclinical atherosclerosis does not fully
      explain the increased incidence of CVEs in these patients; suggesting that the CV risk may be
      independently associated with RA and in fact, this risk has been shown to be associated with
      additional features specific of RA, such as the systemic inflammatory process, disease
      duration and therapeutic strategies .

      Chronic inflammation and high disease activity are reportedly associated with atherosclerotic
      burden, higher incidence of cerebrovascular disease (CVD), chronic heart failure (CHF), and
      mortality of patients with RA . Residual disease activity may further associate with more
      advanced, complex and prone-to-rupture coronary plaques .

      Pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), reflect clinical
      activity and structural damage in RA and are elevated in the blood of RA patients compared
      with controls , the same cytokine have been identified in atherosclerotic plaque and
      correlated with subclinical atherosclerosis independent of cardiac risk factors coronary
      plaque complexity , plaque destabilization and CVEs in subjects without autoimmune disease .

      Cardiac troponins (cTn) are components of the cardiomyocyte contractile apparatus, and
      circulating concentrations are elevated in the setting of myocardial injury, such as acute
      coronary syndromes (ACS) .

      High-sensitivity (hs) cTn assays allow measurement of troponin concentrations below
      conventional levels of detection and have revealed a spectrum of circulating cTn
      concentrations spanning low and high levels in both healthy subjects and in patients with
      overt cardiovascular disease

      Additionally, both high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (hs-cTnT) and high-sensitivity cardiac
      troponin I (hs-cTnI) predicted a greater risk of fatal and non-fatal coronary heart disease,
      heart failure hospitalization and overall mortality in the general population .

      Aim of the study

        1. Detection of subclinical atherosclerosis in RA patients by means of carotid Doppler

        2. Detection of level of high sensitive cardiac troponin I in RA patients and it΄s relation
           to sub clinical atherosclerosis and disease activity

        3. Correlation between high sensitive cardiac troponin I and TNF α as a pro inflammatory
           cytokine to the presence of subclinical atherosclerosis in RA patients
    
  