
    
      Delirium is an acute cognitive disorder with features of inattention, disorganized thinking,
      and disordered consciousness that occurs in one third of hospitalized older adults. As
      compared to those without delirium, hospitalized patients with delirium have longer hospital
      stays, higher mortality, and increased risk of nursing home utilization. Substantial
      attention has been paid to developing, testing, and disseminating interventions to prevent
      delirium in the hospital but, to date, not in the nursing home setting. In a previous study
      we used known information on delirium risk factors to develop a multicomponent intervention
      that can be delivered at onset of acute illness in nursing home patients. We demonstrated the
      intervention's feasibility, adherence, and acceptance by patients and staff. The current
      study is designed to test the efficacy of this intervention in a single-site
      cluster-randomized trial. Objectives: 1) to determine, as compared to control, the effect of
      a multicomponent intervention targeting delirium risk factors (immobility, cognitive
      impairment, dehydration, undernutrition, sleep, and medication use) on the primary outcome of
      delirium frequency in nursing home patients with acute illness, and the secondary outcomes of
      delirium severity, cognitive and physical function decline, and hospitalization associated
      with acute illness, and 2) to identify features of the intervention, including "dose" and
      components, associated with occurrence of delirium and its severity, cognitive and physical
      function decline, and hospitalization associated with acute illness. Approach: We will screen
      nursing home patients on 17 long-term care units at a large, urban nursing home who
      experience onset of an acute change in condition according to established criteria, and
      enroll and assign them to intervention or control in a 1:1 ratio. Those assigned to
      intervention will receive daily visits from an Elder Life Specialist, a mobile Certified
      Nursing Assistant trained to provide services to counter risks for delirium, including
      dehydration, immobility, cognitive impairment, undernutrition, and sleep problems, for the
      duration of the acute illness and for 1 week following, in collaboration with the patient's
      primary medical and nursing team. Patients assigned to control will receive usual care from
      the unit-based nurses and the patient's primary team. Delirium will be assessed 5 days a week
      by a research assistant blinded to study hypotheses and group assignment. Cognitive and
      physical function decline and hospital transfer will be ascertained during a 1 month
      follow-up period. We will conduct analyses to compare outcomes between intervention and
      control, as well as examine associations between outcomes and intervention features such as
      number and duration of visits.
    
  