
    
      An estimated 65.7 million adults in America provide unpaid care to an individual who is
      disabled or ill; 7% (an estimated 4.6 million) are caring for a cancer patient. A body of
      evidence is accumulating that suggests the burden of caring for a family member across a
      variety of cancer populations can be extremely stressful. The stress of caregiving can have
      physical and psychological repercussions that can ultimately lead to increased morbidity and
      mortality. Spousal caregivers of hospitalized individuals are at increased risk of dying
      within a year of an acute hospitalization, and this risk appears to vary based upon
      diagnosis. While some evidence suggests caregivers may place the patient s needs above their
      own and neglect their own health in the process, the evidence regarding whether the stress of
      caregiving is associated with unhealthy behaviors such as excessive use of alcohol or
      increased use of tobacco is unclear.

      While the evidence clearly shows that caregiving is stressful and may be deleterious to one s
      health, caregivers are not typically screened for physical and psychological health issues.
      Most research regarding the stress of caregiving has focused on psychological outcomes
      including caregiver burden and most research was conducted primarily during the survivorship
      phase (treatment complete). Because no large studies have examined burden and health outcomes
      in caregivers over time and across cancer diagnoses during and after the active treatment
      period, the primary purpose of this study is to assess the feasibility of collecting
      web-based patient-reported outcomes (PROs) from unpaid informal caregivers of cancer patients
      that examine the relationships between psychological, health behaviors and health outcomes
      over time during the active treatment period. A number of secondary objectives will also be
      addressed including: to explore differences among caregivers across cancer populations and
      caregiver categories (for example, spousal caregivers versus parent or child caregivers;
      single caregivers versus multiple caregivers), and to examine whether healthy behaviors
      ameliorate the relationship between burden and health outcomes. By using a large variety of
      measures and including a sample of caregivers from multiple cancer patient populations, we
      hope to identify those populations most at risk as well as those areas (health outcomes and
      behaviors) where caregivers might be most at risk for negative outcomes.

      Subjects will be eligible for this protocol if they are adult informal caregivers to a
      patient enrolled in a cancer treatment study at the NIH Clinical Center. Once informed
      consent is obtained, the participant will be provided with information to access the PROMIS
      assessment center to complete the secure web-based survey. Subjects will complete
      questionnaires collecting information about caregiver burden and health outcomes at three
      time points 1) Enrollment, which will coincide with start of treatment for cancer, 2) 3
      months after Enrollment, and 3) 6 months after Enrollment. An optionoal "Off-Study"
      questionnaire completion time point would be offered in the event that the caregiver or the
      study team requests removal from study participation before the final time point.
      Questionnaires will capture psychological and behavioral outcomes including: Caregiver
      Reaction Assessment, NIH Toolbox measures on Loneliness, Self-Efficacy, Meaning & Purpose,
      and Perceived Stress, Family Caregiver Inventory Mutuality, Spiritual Perspective Scale,
      Health-Promoting Lifestyle Profile-II, and PROMIS measures for Global Health, Anxiety,
      Depression, Sleep Disturbance, Fatigue, and Applied Cognition. A clinician interview will
      assess basic demographic, health issues, use of alcohol and tobacco and the impact of
      caregiving at each time point. A brief exit interview will be conducted at the conclusion of
      participation; there will be no long term follow-up after the study participation period.
      Exploratory, hypothesis-generating analyses will be performed using parametric and
      non-parametric statistical techniques.
    
  