
    
      AIM OF THE STUDY AND WORK PLAN COVID-19 Hospitalized patients with confirmed diagnosis of
      disease will

        1. undergo questionnaire for prevalence of Anosmia/dysgeusia

        2. linking the anosmia/dysgeusia to the degree of disease and treatment outcomes.

        3. looking to improvement in anosmia/dysgeusia and its timing,

      METHODOLOGY Ethical committee approval for the current study protocol will be obtained.
      Patients will be invited to participate and the informed consent will be signed.

      Subjects and Setting:

      The clinical data of 218 patients with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 infection will be
      collected from Ain Shams University Hospitals. In addition, other patients, infected
      physicians and nurses may voluntarily enroll in the study. Comorbidities as diabetes mellitus
      or hypertension, and chronic treatment lines taken will be documented, and considered in the
      analysis of the data. Patients would be receiving the ASU treatment protocol for covid 19.

      The following inclusion criteria will be considered: adult (>18 year); laboratory-confirmed
      COVID-19 infection (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, RT-PCR). The following
      exclusion criteria will be considered: patients with olfactory or gustatory dysfunctions
      before the epidemic; patients without a laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 infection diagnosis;
      patients who were in the intensive care unit at the time of the study (due to their health
      status).

      Clinical Outcomes Clinical data will be collected during the ear, nose, and throat (ENT)
      consultation; in the patient's room.

      Questions about olfactory function; questions investigating gustatory function; and questions
      about the treatment of the COVID-19 infection. All patients will be asked to answer these
      questions.

      Olfactory and Gustatory Outcomes The occurrence of olfactory dysfunction has been identified
      through several questions including social, eating, annoyance, and anxiety questions. The
      rest of the olfactory and gustatory questions will be based on the smell and taste. The
      questions have been chosen to characterize the variation, timing and associated-symptoms of
      both olfactory and gustatory dysfunctions, and, therefore, they suggest a potential etiology.
      Also the mean recovery time of olfaction will be assessed through 4 defined propositions: 1-4
      days; 5-8 days; 9-14 days and >15 days.

      Statistical Analysis First, the following descriptive analysis will be done: frequency,
      percentages, mean and standard deviation (SD). Thereafter, a comparison will be done using
      Student t-test for quantitative variables and Fisher exact test for qualitative variables.

      Statistical Package Data entry and statistical analysis will be done using Statistical
      Package for Social Science (SPSS) version 20.0.
    
  