
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the feasibility and tolerability of induction chemotherapy comprising
           epirubicin hydrochloride, oxaliplatin, and fluorouracil (EOF), followed by surgical
           resection and postoperative concurrent chemoradiotherapy comprising fluorouracil and
           cisplatin in patients with locoregionally advanced adenocarcinoma of the esophagus,
           gastroesophageal junction, or gastric cardia.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the rate of complete and partial response to three courses of EOF induction
           chemotherapy.

        -  To compare the recurrence-free and overall survival of patients treated with this
           regimen vs historical controls at this institution.

        -  To compare patterns of failure in patients treated with this regimen vs historical
           controls at this institution.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Induction chemotherapy: Patients receive epirubicin hydrochloride IV over 3-15 minutes
           and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1-21.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Surgery: Four weeks after completion of induction chemotherapy, patients with
           locoregionally confined disease (T0-4, N0-1, M0-1a) undergo transthoracic
           esophagogastrectomy or total gastrectomy with Roux-en-Y esophagojejunostomy, depending
           on the location and extent of the tumor at the time of surgery.

        -  Postoperative chemoradiotherapy: Beginning 6-10 weeks after surgery, patients undergo
           radiotherapy 5 days a week for approximately 6 weeks. Patients also receive fluorouracil
           IV continuously and cisplatin IV continuously over 96 hours in weeks 1 and 4 of
           radiotherapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 8-12 weeks for 3 years.
    
  