
    
      A recent, unpublished focus group study of people with CMT found that they reported more
      falls than healthy people. They reported problems walking on uneven surfaces, difficulty
      getting off the floor and a necessity to consciously think about every step to avoid falling
      while walking (GM Ramdharry et al., 2015). A retrospective survey of people with CMT found
      that 89% of the 94 respondents reported falls to the ground. Half of them reported falling at
      least once a month with 5% falling every day (Ramdharry et al., 2011). We have just completed
      an exploratory study of factors predicting falls risk. Preliminary analysis of prospective
      falls data for 32 people over 6 months showed that they fell a median of 4 times (range 0 -
      54 falls) and functional balance performance may be predictive (Ramdharry et al., 2015). A
      study of people with CMT1a found that sensory impairment increased visual dependence for a
      static balance task (van der Linden et al., 2010). There has only been one small study of
      balance training in people with CMT, comparing a novel rehabilitation device with more
      traditional exercises (Matjacić and Zupan, 2006). Both interventions showed improvement in
      functional balance scores. Studies of proximal strength training in CMT have shown
      improvements in walking parameters (Chetlin et al., 2004; Lindeman et al., 1995), but the
      effect on balance has not been explored. Because of the mixed sensori-motor presentation of
      people with CMT, a combined approach of multi-sensory balance training and proximal
      strengthening will be delivered. A home-based model has been proposed as CMT is a life-long
      condition that needs to be managed by the individual outside of the medical or therapy
      environment.

      STUDY DESIGN & JUSTIFICATION A single blinded randomised controlled design has been chosen in
      this feasibility study. The intention is to see if there is an effect of the intervention to
      later be explored in a larger randomized controlled trial. A blinded assessor will measure
      balance performance prior to randomisation and following the 12 weeks of either intervention
      or control. They will also undertake qualitative interviews prior to randomization and
      following final measurement session. Interviews will inform the intervention and its
      acceptability. All participants will receive a falls assessment and falls education.
      Following randomisation, participants will either receive the 12-week intervention or control
      period. The intervention will include a holistic programme of physiotherapy including
      strength training of muscle groups unaffected by the condition and multi-sensory exercises to
      target balance. The program will be delivered by a physiotherapist trained in delivering
      treatment under the principles of self-management. Exercises will be carried out by the
      patients in their own homes and monitored by the research physiotherapist, progressing as
      appropriate. Those randomized to the control arm will receive monitoring telephone calls
      throughout this 12-week period.

      RECRUITMENT Patients will be recruited from outpatient neurology clinics at Queen Square
      which specialise in the diagnosis and management of CMT. Patients who fit the inclusion
      criteria will be approached and the trial will be described to them. Written information will
      be provided and arrangement made for a way to make contact once they have decided about
      whether they wish to proceed with screening. All patients who agree to proceed will go
      through a screening which will take place over the telephone. Those who pass screening will
      be provided with falls diary postcards or arrangement for falls diary emails, which they will
      be asked to monitor and report for one month. A sample will be invited for a qualitative
      interview. Arrangement will be made for them to attend a baseline measurement session, falls
      assessment, and falls education following the month-long falls monitoring.

      Measures will include:

      Patient reported questionnaires of balance confidence, mood, walking ability and physical
      functioning 10m walk test / 6 minute walk test Berg Balance Scale Bruininks Oseretsky Test
      (BOT) BESTest Functional balance tests using force plate and movement analysis equipment
      Strength testing of the lower limbs and hands Charcot Marie Tooth Examination Score (CMTES) A
      block randomisation will occur following the baseline measurement and falls education session
      with allocation either being to a control arm or an intervention arm. This will be done by
      the PI or research physiotherapist who will remain un-blinded. Contact with the blinded
      assessor will cease until the final measurement session 12 weeks later.

      INTERVENTION:

      If randomised to the control arm of the study, participants will be advised that the research
      physiotherapist will contact them monthly to monitor any falls or issues. For those
      randomised to the intervention arm, a home visit will be arranged with the research
      physiotherapist as soon as possible. During this session, the research physiotherapist will
      provide the participant with exercises to strengthen the muscles of the trunk and proximal
      muscles using body weight and graded ankle weights. Strength training will be performed 4
      times per week. They will also give a selection of exercises targeting balance to challenge
      stability and sensory feedback. Participants will be asked to perform balance exercises
      daily. A risk assessment will be undertaken with guidance on how to ensure safety when doing
      the exercises. An exercise diary will be provided for the participants to monitor exercise
      frequency.

      Arrangements will be made for weekly telephone calls with the research physiotherapist to
      monitor progress and a provisional date set for the first monthly home monitoring visit.
      Participants in the intervention arm will be contacted weekly for 12 weeks on the study. The
      research physiotherapist will visit them at home to monitor and progress exercises once a
      month during this time.

      QUALITATIVE RESEARCH At the consent meeting all patients will be invited to take part in
      interviews conducted after the consent meeting and following completion of the final
      measurements. They will be made aware that participation in the interviews is supplementary
      to the main study and they are free to decline. Purposive sampling will be used to ensure a
      sample of maximum diversity of age, gender, and symptom severity. Potential qualitative
      interview participants will be given written details of the qualitative study and asked to
      give their consent to be interviewed if they are willing to take part. The interview will be
      audio recorded and consist of a dialogue between the interviewer (the researcher) and the
      participant. A topic guide will be used during the interviews, but the participant will be
      invited to raise issues of importance to them. Data analysis will be iterative, in that it
      will be continually analysed throughout the data collection process and used to inform
      following interviews.

      PROCEDURES TO DEAL WITH RESEARCHER EFFECTS AND BIAS Assessments will be carried out by a
      blinded assessor to standardise treatment during tests. Falls assessment and falls education
      will be provided at the baseline measurement session by the blinded assessor, prior to
      participant randomisation. In this way participants will be given the same treatment. The
      blinded assessor will perform final measurements. The participant will be reminded prior to
      the start the final session to not mention what they may or may not have been doing in the 12
      weeks prior to maintain blinding throughout the session
    
  