
    
      Atherothrombotic plaques of type 2 diabetic patients are characterized by increased
      neovascularization and associated intraplaque hemorrhage relative to non-diabetic patients
      that could account for a major incidence of clinical complications. In parallel, Type 2
      diabetic patients are characterized by an increased intracellular oxidative stress in
      circulating PMNs leading to a primed phenotype. PMN priming could be triggered via their
      receptor for advanced glycation endproducts. In particular, glycated albumin may activate
      NADPH oxidase and thus promote the production of reactive oxygen species. Under strong
      activation, PMNs have been described to release NETs that are constituted by externalized
      nucleosomes associating DNA, histones and enzymes initially present in granules (such as
      myeloperoxidase, matrix metalloproteinase 9 or elastase). Our hypothesis is that in diabetic
      conditions, PMNs could be activated within atherothrombotic plaques and thus represent a
      trigger for plaque rupture. In the present study, we will evaluate PMN activation in carotid
      plaques of diabetic vs non-diabetic patients as well as in plasma samples of the same
      patients. For this purpose, all patients that will undergo carotid surgery by endarterectomy
      will be enrolled in our study and blood samples will be collected the day before the surgery
      for preparation of plasma and serum. The endarterectomy sample will be collected, dissected
      into culprit area of the plaque (CP) and the adjacent non-complicated plaque (NCP), incubated
      separately in culture medium for 24h at 37°C. The resulting conditioned medium will be
      aliquoted and stored at -80°C for the different assessments. A representative section of the
      CP will be saved at the moment of dissection for histological evaluation (presence of
      neovessels/intraplaque hemorrhage, calcifications, lipids, etc). Markers of neutrophil
      activation, of intraplaque hemorrhage, of glycation and of oxidative stress will be
      quantified in both conditioned medium and plasma.
    
  