
    
      Sepsis is defined as life-threatening organ dysfunction caused by a dysregulated host
      response to infection. It is considered as the main cause of death in critically ill patients
      ranging from 20 to 50%. These alarming death rates have prompted several intense research
      efforts to better understand the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of sepsis. Currently,
      sepsis is recognized as a complex entity created by an immuno-inflammatory reaction of the
      infected host; triggered and activated by microbial components. This reaction brings together
      the cellular and humoral immunity defense systems. Activation of the cellular system involves
      macrophages, polymorphonuclear cells, lymphocytes and endothelial cells.

      Therefore, pro-inflammatory cytokines are secreted in order to control the infection (IL-1,
      IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-alpha). Simultaneously, anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-4, IL-10) are
      also released, allowing a local and systemic regulation of the inflammatory cascade. The
      imbalance of this immune response is a source of organ dysfunction aggravated by the lack of
      tissue oxygenation.

      Understanding that sepsis results from a disproportionate immune-inflammatory response have
      created the need for therapies aimed to modulate the overstated host response. The agents
      tested were: anti-endotoxin antibodies, tumor necrosis factor (TNF), anti-TNF-alpha,
      recombinant human activated protein C (rhAPC), stress-dose hydrocortisone and statins. Most
      of these clinical trials showed no obvious clinical impact or a limited clinical efficacy.

      During the past 2 decades, macrolides molecules were revealed to be immune-modulator agents;
      beyond their antibacterial activity. Their immune-modulator properties result from their
      ability to induce the activity of various immune cells and their regulatory role in the
      production of cytokines. Several cellular targets and mechanisms have been described to
      explain the immune-modulator effects of macrolides: Respiratory epithelial cells and innate
      immunity cells. Overall, macrolides decrease the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines by
      innate and adaptive immunity cells.

      In this clinical trial, the investigators are focusing on the effects of macrolides on the
      pro-inflammatory / anti-inflammatory balance by assaying cytokines and other
      immune-inflammatory markers during sepsis and septic shock. The main hypothesis is that the
      use of macrolides in addition to standard therapy in critically septic patients has a
      favorable immune-modulator and clinical effects compared to critically septic patients not
      receiving macrolide.
    
  