
    
      The growth in the renal replacement therapy population is primaryly in the elderly age group,
      a population with a high frailty and comorbidity burden. Facilitating PD in this group of
      patients requires improved PD technology with greater accessibility tailored to patient
      needs. Following evaluation of specific barriers to the use of PD including feedback from
      established PD patients, a novel connection-assist device has been developed.

      As part of the CE marking authorization, the connection device has been evaluated for safety
      and ease of use in a study at University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust involving
      24 patients and carers.

      The evaluated device is designed to assist peritoneal dialysis patients performing their
      daily dialysis treatment either for APD or for CAPD. The device facilitates the connection
      and disconnection of the dialysis line to the PD catheter transfer set. The connections are
      performed inside the device in a protected area, and the patient does not need to touch the
      transfer set or the dialysis line while they are unprotected. In addition, the breaking of
      the dialysis line frangible and the clamping of the dialysis line are replaced by pushing a
      button.

      The operating procedure of the device consists of multiple tasks including preparing and
      loading the transfer set and dialysis line into the device, performing the handling steps
      related to the PD therapy with the device and finally unloading the used material from the
      device. Each task comprises several handling steps. During the study, the operating procedure
      with the device was simulated and the subjects were connected to a dummy catheter, which was
      attached to an apron.

      This study recruited established PD patients and carers involved in the delivery of PD.
      Carers included healthcare professionals and lay carers.

      The study design was divided into three one hour long parts. Firstly, a training session
      introduced the operation of the device. Secondly, a break of one hour allowed relaxation and
      recovery. Thirdly, a test was carried out to determine whether the subject could use the
      device independently with the aid of a quick start guide and the device manual.

      The training consisted of two cycles in which the moderator guided the subject and three
      cycles in which the subject guided the moderator through the complete handling of the device.
      After the break, the subjects were asked to carry out a complete handling cycle themselves.
      Subjects could use the quick start guide and the device manual as help. After the unsupported
      handling cycle, subjects were asked to complete the NASA Task Load Index (N-TLX)
      questionnaire. In the meantime, the moderator left the room to obtain information on observed
      use errors. In a final semi-structured interview, the subjects were asked about the reasons
      for the observed use errors.

      For each subject, one moderator and one observer were involved in the study. The moderator
      was the interface between the subject and the device both in training and in testing. This
      person was employed by an external agency to avoid any influence on the subject. The observer
      saw the handling with the help of a live feed from a separate room. He evaluated the handling
      steps in the categories of "safe use" and "use error" according to IEC 62366-1. For each use
      error, the observer described the observed situation from his point of view. In addition to
      evaluating the effectiveness of the task performance, the subjects were interviewed in a semi
      structured way. Here the observations of technique errors were discussed with the subjects in
      order to identify the specific causes. In this interview, the subjects were also asked for
      their feedback on the general ease of use of the device.

      In addition, the subjects were asked about the task load in six different dimensions in the
      standardized N-TLX. Task load is a hypothetical construct that represents the cost incurred
      by a human operator to achieve a particular level of performance. The dimensions of the N-TLX
      are mental, physical and temporal demands as well as performance, effort and frustration in
      the task. Each dimension is evaluated on a 20-point scale. This scale is then transferred to
      the task load index, which is a scale between 0 and 100 points. To classify the results of
      the N-TLX, Eitrheim and Fernandes (2016) state "Workload levels below 50 were perceived as
      acceptable."
    
  