
    
      The co-primary objectives are:

      A. To assess the effect of different doses of Paxerol on the reduction in the number of
      nocturia episodes.

      B. To assess the clinical benefit of different doses of Paxerol in reducing nocturia via
      assessment of nocturia quality of life (NQOL).

      The secondary objectives are to assess the effects of different doses of Paxerol on:

      A. Duration of First Undisturbed Sleep (DFUS) B. Total hours of nightly sleep C. Safety and
      tolerability

      An exploratory assessment is to evaluate baseline urinary PGE2 production on the
      responsiveness of subjects to Paxerol.

      This is a multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled study with two weeks of daily oral
      administration of one of three dose levels of Paxerol or placebo in subjects with nocturia.
      Eligible study subjects will be identified according to inclusion/exclusion criteria (see
      below), and baseline assessments will be recorded.

      Due to small sample size of 25 patients per group in this proof-of-principle dosing-finding
      trial, stratification according to gender and BMI will be difficult. However, similar
      distribution of patient types to the four treatment groups will be attempted by evenly
      assigning patients to the four treatment groups according to genders and body mass index
      (BMI) of <25, 25-30 and 30-40.

      Paxerol or placebo will be taken 30 minutes before bedtime daily for two weeks. Nocturia
      frequency, Nocturia Quality of Life (NQOL), Duration of First Undisturbed Sleep (DFUS), total
      hours of nightly sleep, safety and tolerability will be monitored before and after a two-week
      treatment period. Results from subjects treated with different doses of Paxerol and placebo
      will be assessed and compared. Baseline urinary Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production will also
      be assayed to assess potential correlation between baseline urinary PGE2 production and
      responsiveness to Paxerol treatment.

      Study duration for each subject is approximately 4 weeks, which includes screening, baseline
      assessment, two weeks of treatment with study drugs, and follow-up.
    
  