
    
      Local pharyngeal anesthetics when used in conjunction with IV sedatives such as
      benzodiazepines may ease the endoscopy and the patient tolerance. They have been believed to
      dull the gag reflex and smooth the process of intubation of the esophagus. However local
      pharyngeal anesthetics beside increasing the total procedure time and delaying the discharge
      of the patient can cause serious side effects including methemoglobinemia, aspiration and
      anaphylactic reactions although these are rare. There have been studies supporting the use of
      local pharyngeal anesthetics along with sedatives such as benzodiazepines and opiates [1].
      However there have been only a few studies on the use of local pharyngeal anesthetics in
      conjunction with propofol which have not supported any added benefit of local pharyngeal
      anesthetics [2, 3, 4]. Despite of these studies local pharyngeal anesthetics are still being
      widely used in conjunction with propofol during EGD's. There are currently no set
      recommendations or protocol for the use of local anesthetics such as lidocaine in conjunction
      with propofol during EGD's. This study is yet another attempt to find out if the local
      pharyngeal anesthetics have any role during EGD's when used in conjunction with propofol.

      This will be a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled trial. Patients scheduled to have
      elective EGD's will be consented for their participation. CRNA's or anesthetists would be
      present during all EGD's since propofol is only given by the anesthesia department personnel.
      Five minutes prior to intravenous sedation the patients will be asked to gargle with 7.5 ml
      of 2% lidocaine viscous solution or 7.5 ml of placebo and then swallow. Placebo will be 3%
      methylcellulose which will be flavored and colored to match the characteristics of 2 %
      lidocaine. The operating gastroenterologist after extubation will be asked to fill in a
      questionnaire commenting on the ease of intubation and if they were able to make any guesses
      whether lidocaine was used during the procedure or not. An independent observer will be asked
      to fill in a questionnaire regarding their visual assessment about patient discomfort during
      the procedure. the visual scale ranging from 1 cm to 10 cm and then the observer;
      gastroenterologist would pick up a number with 0 being the worst satisfaction and 10 being
      the best satisfaction with the procedure. The questionnaire will also include the number of
      times the patient gagged, number of intubation attempts by the gastroenterologist and post
      procedure what did the gastroenterologist think if Lidocaine or placebo was used during the
      procedure. The time after recovery from the sedatives till the patient is discharged will be
      recorded as the primary end point. The total number of intubation attempts, total amount of
      propofol used during the procedure and any above mentioned side effects of lidocaine will be
      recorded as the secondary end points. The total procedure time will also be recorded. Start
      time for the procedure will be when the first attempt for GI scope insertion is made by the
      gastroenterologist after giving sedative. End time for the procedure is when the GI scope is
      extubated. Throat pain/discomfort scores which are routinely assessed and recorded prior to
      discharge will be assessed as a secondary endpoint.
    
  