
    
      The PROCLAIM Registry is a US-based, multicenter Registry designed to establish a high
      quality observational database of real-world clinical data on HD IL-2 when used to treat
      patients with mRCC, mM or other malignancies. The Registry will not, in any way, suggest
      changes in the treatment or management of the patients enrolled in the Registry. Therefore,
      physicians will continue to manage and treat patients according to standard of care and their
      own judgment.

      The PROCLAIM Registry will start with a retrospective pilot data collection from a
      de-identified finite number of patient cases abstracted from their existing medical charts.
      The features collected will be identical to those planned for the prospective registry. The
      resulting database will be used to formulate hypotheses to be tested using the prospective
      registry database. Patients utilized in the retrospective analysis will be excluded from the
      prospective portion of the Registry.

      In the prospective portion of the Registry, sites will enroll patients who are expected to
      start a course of HD IL-2 therapy. Once enrolled, the patient must receive at least one dose
      of HD IL-2 to remain in the Registry. Patients will be treated and followed according to the
      site's standard of care. This Registry will in no way induce changes in the management of
      individual patients. Clinical data features will be entered into an Electronic Data Capture
      (EDC) system, and organized into a registry database.

      The data contained in the registry database will be observational data. The PROCLAIM Registry
      does not stipulate patient care, specific visits or interventions but merely surveys
      standardized parameters regarding HD IL-2 and associated therapies as they are applied by
      treatment centers. The collection of standard data over time permits the evaluation of trends
      in patient survival and subsequent therapy exposure. The database will be used to answer
      future queries formulated by researchers.
    
  