
    
      Type 2 diabetes is a major public health problem worldwide. Obesity itself markedly increases
      the risk of type 2 diabetes (DM2), which now affects every second obese person. With 60% of
      adult Australians overweight or obese and 25% of Australians aged over 25 years having
      prediabetes or diabetes, the quality-of-life and cost impact is inescapable. In Australia,
      direct healthcare costs for DM2 are currently estimated as $1.1 billion annually, with the
      prospect of doubling by 2025. Obesity and DM2 dramatically increase the risk of
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) with ~80% of individuals with both obesity and DM2 develop CVD.
      The annual healthcare costs for CVD in Australia now amount to $7.7 billion; and the total
      aggregated costs, including loss of income, are much higher again. Treating DM2 and CVD is
      expensive and often unsatisfactory. Weight loss and exercise are the mainstay of prevention
      and therapy but they are difficult and costly to achieve on a large scale; hence the DM2
      epidemic continues unabated. Therefore, interventions at low cost and easy to implement at
      the population level is urgently required.

      Neurodegenerative diseases often occurs in people with DM2, and DM2 is in turn associated
      with increased risk of cognitive decline. Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's
      disease are also associated with metabolic impairment. They share many common pathogenic
      features with DM2 such as insulin resistance, chronic low-grade inflammation, vascular
      disease, oxidative stress and accumulation of advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs).
      Progression of these diseases over years-decades is also worsened by a sedentary life-style.
      Therefore not surprisingly, regular physical activity is beneficial in those patients, likely
      due to improvement of neurological, motor and cardiometabolic profile. However, it is
      difficult and costly to achieve on a large scale, and thus, safe and low-cost strategies are
      needed.

      Type 2 diabetes is associated with increased amounts of ectopic fat depots in muscle
      including intramyocellular lipids (IMCL), and adipocytes located between muscle groups
      (inter-muscular) and also between muscle fascicles (intramuscular). Both IMCL and intra- and
      inter-muscular adipose tissue (IMAT) may deleteriously effect muscle metabolism and insulin
      sensitivity through increased local secretion of pro-inflammatory adipokines, and
      inter-muscular fat may additionally impair insulin action through reductions in blood flow to
      muscle.

      Could carnosine be that strategy? Strong molecular and animal data (>2000 papers) suggests
      that it has great potential, with all the relevant properties. Carnosine, is present in
      several tissues including muscle and brain, easily crosses the blood-brain barrier, and
      extensive animal data show that carnosine has chelating properties and modulates glucose
      metabolism, advanced glycation, pro-inflammatory and pro-oxidative states, as well as motor
      functions and neurotransmission. A promising further use may derive from its effect on
      cardiometabolic health and neuroprotection. Current research, confined to animal studies,
      supports carnosine supple¬ment¬ation for preventing and treating obesity, DM2, CVD, and
      neurodegenerative diseases - by virtue of its anti-inflammatory, antioxidative,
      anti-glycating and chelating effects. Our team's novel pilot studies provide the first human
      cross-sectional and interventional metabolic data, and demonstrate relationships among
      carnosine, obesity, insulin resistance, and dyslipidaemia. Previous clinical trials also
      showed that supplementation of carnosine for 2-3 months improved cognitive performance in
      healthy individuals and patients with neurodegenerative diseases. However, none of them
      showed its effect in patient with type 2 diabetes and explored the effects of change in
      cardiometabolic outcomes on cognitive function.

      Apart from its excellent side-effect profile, carnosine is cheap and safe (it is an
      over-the-counter dietary supplement), making it prima facie ideal for widespread, low cost
      use. Robust human research is now urgently needed to test the therapeutic potential of
      carnosine in improving cardiometabolic profile and cognitive function, and study the
      mechanisms involved.
    
  