
    
      Objectvie:

      The role of mesencephalic dopamine neurons in reward processing has been established in
      primates using electrophysiological techniques and in humans using functional neuroimaging.
      Their role is thought to be dual: i) they show sustained activity with the expectation of a
      future reward and ii) a phasic response after reward. Animal data indicate that these
      neurons, located in the midbrain areas A8-10, behave as a single functional unit when
      activated. They have rich projections to both the prefrontal and motor cortices where they
      synapse on interneurons and cortical pyramidal cells, producing primarily inhibition. Though
      their function is not fully understood, these projections clearly play an important role in
      motivation and learning. Since there are no electrophysiological techniques available to
      detect dopaminergic or inhibitory activity in the human prefrontal cortex, our objective is
      to develop a paradigm to detect a reward related signal in the primary motor cortex, where
      transcranial magnetic stimulation can be used to measure brief events.

      Study Population:

      The population that we will study will be healthy volunteers between the ages of 18-60,
      without any significant medical history, contraindication to TMS or history of addictive
      behavior.

      Design:

      Our hypothesis is that the dopamine reward-related signal will alter level of evocable
      inhibition in primary motor cortex. Using behavioral paradigms that deliver intermittent
      reward, we aim to demonstrate a difference in the amount of cortical inhibition, i) when
      reward is expected compared to when reward is not expected ii) after rewarded compared to
      unrewarded trials iii) when reward follows a variable effortful response, and iv) when there
      is uncertainty as to whether a reward will be administered. If we are unable to produce a
      signal in the motor cortex with these simple paradigms, we will look for a reward-related
      change in inhibition when the rewarded behavior is the associative learning of a motor
      sequence. We will control for effects of variations in attention related to the experimental
      task, but not specific for reward, with a similar behavioral paradigm that manipulates
      attention and expectation.

      Outcome Measures:

      The outcome measures will be changes in the conditioned/unconditioned MEP for each reward
      condition.
    
  