
    
      Background Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is one of the most costly chronic
      diseases (1). In Denmark it can be estimated that approximately 400.000 people suffers from
      COPD amounting to about 15% of the adult population. COPD causes 10.000 visits to the
      emergency room, approx. 25.000 acute admissions to hospital and 3.500 deaths a year. The
      disease costs approx 2 billion Danish croners (400 million dollars) a year. Hospital
      admissions due to exacerbations adds to the most costly part of the disease burden to
      society. COPD is one of the few chronic diseases still on the rise (1).

      COPD is characterized by an accelerated decline in lung function. Most of the patients with
      severe degree of COPD suffer from recurrent acute deterioration named exacerbations. An
      exacerbation is defined as a deterioration in symptoms including shortness of breath and
      sputum production leading to a chance in medical treatment. Frequent exacerbations are
      associated with an extra high rate of decline in lung function and a strongly negative impact
      on the quality of life. The disease progression is followed by a gradual loss in muscle mass
      and strength (3).

      Admission to hospital has well known effects on maximal oxygen consumption and a reduction in
      the physical condition leads to a more severe degree of shortness of breath during physical
      activity (4). Just a few days in bed is followed by an important loss of muscle mass and
      strength. Immobilization causes a decrease in metabolism and a loss of active motor units and
      a reduced ability to activate the resting motor units. This has a greater negative impact on
      the strength in the extensors that are engaged in maintaining the upright position than other
      muscle groups. In keeping with this, the loss of muscle strength occurs at twice as high a
      rate in muscles of the lower limb than in those of the upper limb (5). This leads to an
      increased production of lactic acid and corresponding muscle fatique (6). Muscles engaged in
      knee extension loose strength at the highest rate during immobilization. This loss has great
      impact on the activities of daily life such as getting out of bed, rising from a chair and
      climbing stairs. Even though the patients regain their premorbide lung function and their
      symptoms improve to the "normal" level usually within 6 weeks, they do not reach their
      habitual level of physical activity as expressed by the 6MWT (7). Admittance due to
      exacerbations is followed by muscle wasting and prolonged inactivity, leading to an increased
      risk of recurrent exacerbations.

      Physical training of the muscles is the most efficient treatment to maintain or increase
      muscle strength to prevent muscle wasting during immobilization. Since most of the decline in
      muscle strength occurs during the first days of bed rest - 3-4% per day - and most pronounced
      in the muscles of the lower limb, there is god reason for early intervention with physical
      training of the extensors of the lower limb, the earlier after admittance, the better.

      There is solid evidence for a positive effect of training of clinically stable COPD patients.
      Only two studies have investigated the effect of training during admittance for an acute
      exacerbation (8) In the study by Troosters, the training consisted of 3 sets of 8 repetitions
      amounting to 70% of 1 repetition maximum (1RM: repetitions maximum: the maximal weight that
      can be handled only one time). The subjects had an FEV1 of 40 ± 12 % of predicted, and were
      trained by the use of a knee extension machine. We do not know the exact exclusion criteria
      of the study - did they include patients who were unable to move from the bed to the knee
      extension machine? Did the physiotherapists handled the most severely diseased patients
      differently? Moreover, it would be more general applicable, if the training could be
      performed with a less demanding and expensive equipment than a knee extension machine.
      Accordingly, there is a need for at study with a more detailed description of the training
      procedure, using a simple, low cost training device, that is applicable to many centers and
      hospital units.

      Most patients suffering from a severe degree of COPD (GOLD III and IV) (3)will experience
      severe shortness of breath leading to exhaustion even after very low level activities.
      Unilateral resistance training of the quadriceps by the use of wrist weights is low cost, low
      technology.

      The pilot study at our department of pulmonary medicine, Frederikssund Hospital, including 8
      severely diseased COPD patients, trained by wrist weights on average for 5 days, showed that
      all patients improved their muscle strength - amounting to an average of 50%.

      The study showed that progressive lower limb muscle exercise was possible even in the most
      severely disabled patients on home oxygen. We do not know if the surprisingly high degree of
      improvement should be ascribed to the training or other factors. Accordingly, we want to
      perform a randomized controlled single blinded study to clarify if progressive resistance
      training with wrist weights can improve the strength of the large extensor muscle of the
      lower limb to a degree that will translate into improved physical ability after discharge
      from hospital.

      Randomizing The investigation is designed as a randomized, controlled, single blinded study.
      Patients who fulfill the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria are invited to
      participate in the study. After an initial evaluation and testing the patients are randomized
      to either standard pulmonary physiotherapy and physical training (intervention group) or
      standard physiotherapy without training (control group). The list of randomization is based
      on a computer program. Numbers of randomization are kept in 70 closed envelopes. The content
      of the envelope is disclosed only after inclusion, initial evaluation and testing. The
      envelopes are numbered on the outside (a consecutive line of numbers different from the
      numbers of randomization) and kept by a secretary and released in the order of outside
      number.

      Tests at inclusion and after 6 weeks will be performed by physiotherapists blinded to the
      randomization. It is impossible to blind the physicians, nurses and physiotherapists at the
      pulmonary ward.

      Security and Ethics Based on the current evidence, the patients are not exposed to any kind
      of risk, except that a slight degree of muscle soreness may occur following the first few
      days of physical training. The study is not blinded to the physiotherapists who perform the
      training, and if any problem related to training should occur, it will be easily addressed.

      The present study aims at progressive physical training with cheap equipment which is easy to
      handle for both the physiotherapists and the patients with minimal risk to the patients. This
      adds to the importance of the study.

      The control group will be treated according to usual therapeutic guidelines. The study is
      reported to the local ethical committee. The patients are covered by patient insurance of
      Frederikssund Hospital.

      Registration of data and informed consent Data evaluation agrees to the technical demands
      made by the Danish Data Protection Agency The patients are familiar with all collected data,
      and information about this included in the informed consent.

      All data of the study will be kept in a separate locked container in a locked room. Only the
      principal investigator has access to the room and container. Data will be stores in excel,
      where every patient has a unique number and all date from that particular patient is stored
      under this number. The security container is obtained for the specific purpose of the study
      and is in accordance with the procedures of the local region regarding login on the internet.

      The patients will be contacted by the principal investigator or another member of the staff
      adequately trained for the study within 24 hours of admittance to the pulmonary ward of
      Frederikssund Hospital.

      The patients will receive oral information and information in writing about the study the day
      of admittance, about their rights as voluntaries in a scientific study in the field of health
      science. The patient will be informed about the nature of the study according to the
      guidelines of The Danish Council of Ethics. The oral information is guided by the information
      in writing, where every aspect of the study is explained in detail to the patient. Informed
      consent is obtained the day after information after a minimum of 24 hours of reconsideration.
      The patient can decide to withdraw from the study at any time during the investigation. The
      investigators can also decide that a patient should be withdrawn from the study and the
      reason for exclusion should be documented in the research files.

      Statistics The primary aim of the study is to compare the strength of the extensor of the
      thigh of the intervention group with that of the control group by an isometric contraction
      test.

      Calculations have showed that the need for 35 subjects in each group to be able to reveal a
      difference in strength of at least 30%, with a limit of statistical significance of 5% and a
      power of 80%. The power calculation is based on the expected change in extension strength
      from the start of the study to discharge where it is not expected that the control group will
      improve in strength. .

      The applied statistical analyses (by SPSS) will be repeated measures (ANOVA) to determine a
      systematic difference between muscle strenght with or without quadriceps training.

      Measurements All participants are tested latest on day one after admittance, at discharge
      from hospital and on an outpatient basis 6 weeks later. The day of admittance is denoted as
      day 0. The 6 weeks follow up are chosen due to the belief that most COPD patients are
      clinically stable 6 weeks after an exacerbation.

      Economy and Time schedule The study is started up by the persons responsible for the
      investigation. The study is not yet fully financed. We are planning to apply for additional
      finalcial support. None of the foundations will have any connection to the drug industry and
      none of the possible supporters will have any impact on the results, their interpretation or
      publication.

      The study will start in autumn 2012 and finished when all 70 COPD patients are included and
      followed up, hopefully finished autumn 2013.

      The results of the study both positive, negative and inconclusive will be reported in an
      international journal of pulmonary medicine. The results will be presented at relevant
      congresses both in Denmark and abroad

      References

      (1) Juel K, Døssing M. KOL i Danmark: sygdommen der hver dag koster 10 danskere livet. Kbh.:
      Statens Institut for Folkesundhed; 2003.

      (3) GOLD- Guidelines. Global Strategy for the Diagnosis, Management and Prevention of COPD,
      Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) 2011.. Available at:
      www.goldcopd.org. Accessed 26.06.12.

      (4) Bernard S, LeBlanc P, Whittom F, Carrier G, Jobin J, Belleau R, et al. Peripheral muscle
      weakness in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Am J Respir Crit Care Med
      1998 Aug;158(2):629-634.

      (5) Bloomfield SA. Changes in musculoskeletal structure and function with prolonged bed rest.
      Med Sci Sports Exerc 1997 Feb;29(2):197-206.

      (6) Steiner MC, Evans R, Deacon SJ, Singh SJ, Patel P, Fox J, et al. Adenine nucleotide loss
      in the skeletal muscles during exercise in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Thorax 2005
      Nov;60(11):932-936.

      (7) Pitta F, Troosters T, Probst VS, Spruit MA, Decramer M, Gosselink R. Physical activity
      and hospitalization for exacerbation of COPD. Chest 2006 Mar;129(3):536-544.

      (8) Troosters T, Probst VS, Crul T, Pitta F, Gayan-Ramirez G, Decramer M, et al. Resistance
      training prevents deterioration in quadriceps muscle function during acute exacerbations of
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2010 May
      15;181(10):1072-1077
    
  