
    
      Epilepsy is a debilitating condition characterised by sudden recurrent episodes of epileptic
      seizures. Psychiatric comorbidities are common in people with epilepsy (PWE), and the
      presence is associated with increased rates of suicide, healthcare costs, mortality and
      reduced quality of life. Studies showed that poor health-related quality of life (HRQOL) has
      been linked to seizure frequency, medication side effects, psychological disturbances and
      psychosocial difficulties. Medical therapies aside, psychological interventions like
      mindfulness-based interventions (MBIs) were proven effective in improving psychological
      health as well as seizure control. Recent review was conducted to determine the efficacy of
      MBIs for PWE. Although promising results showed reduction in levels of psychological distress
      and improvement in quality of life, the extracted findings were based on three articles which
      limit the applicability of the findings. More research focusing on MBIs for PWE are required
      to make comparisons on its beneficial effects. Hence, this present study aimed to examine the
      effects of MBI on psychological wellbeing among PWE using a randomized crossover design.

      This study trial recruits 30 participants with epilepsy. Participants are recruited from the
      neurology outpatient treatment clinic and those who consented are randomised into either the
      immediate intervention (i.e., intervention active) or delayed intervention (i.e.,
      no-intervention) group. All participants receive six weekly-sessions of mindfulness training
      that lasted for 2.5-hour. Assessments are conducted at three time-points (T0: before
      intervention, T1: immediately after intervention, and T2: no-intervention after 6-weeks of
      wash-out period). The immediate group first receives the baseline assessments and
      intervention, followed by the delayed group who later receives the baseline assessments and
      intervention 12 -week after randomization. The following outcome measures assessing
      depression (BDI-II), anxiety (BAI), quality of life (QOLIE-31), mindfulness (MAAS) and
      satisfaction with life (SWLS) are collected at all three time-points.
    
  