
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the feasibility, at GATLA, of a study of the treatment of ALL in
      first hematologic relapse following treatment on a BFM protocol. II. Evaluate the efficacy of
      induction with vincristine/daunorubicin/asparaginase/prednisone in producing a second
      complete remission in these patients, and evaluate the toxicity of this regimen. III.
      Evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of the Capizzi I regimen
      (vincristine/asparaginase/methotrexate) and Capizzi II regimen
      (cytarabine/asparaginase/daunorubicin) when given to maintain and prolong complete remission.
      IV. Offer the option of bone marrow transplantation to those patients who are in second
      remission and who have a histocompatible donor, and compare outcome of these patients with
      those on chemotherapy alone.

      OUTLINE: Nonrandomized study. Patients achieving remission on Induction proceed to Interim
      Maintenance, then to Continued Maintenance; those failing to achieve remission receive
      Salvage Re-induction, followed, if remission is achieved, by Interim Maintenance, then
      Continued Maintenance. Induction: 4-Drug Combination Chemotherapy with CNS
      Prophylaxis/Therapy. Vincristine, VCR, NSC-67574; Prednisone, PRED, NSC-10023; Asparaginase,
      ASP, NSC-109229; Daunorubicin, DNR, NSC-82151; with Intrathecal Cytarabine, IT ARA-C,
      NSC-63878; Intrathecal Dexamethasone, IT DM, NSC-34521. Interim Maintenance: 3-Drug
      Combination Chemotherapy with, as indicated, Radiotherapy. VCR; ASP; Methotrexate, MTX,
      NSC-740; with, as indicated, testicular irradiation (equipment not specified). Continued
      Maintenance: 3-Drug Combination Chemotherapy followed by 3-Drug Combination Chemotherapy with
      CNS Prophylaxis and, as indicated, Radiotherapy. Capizzi II: ARA-C; ASP; DNR; followed by
      Capizzi I: VCR; ASP; MTX; with IT ARA-C; IT DM; and, as indicated, cranial irradiation
      (equipment not specified). Salvage Re-induction: 2-Drug Combination Chemotherapy. ARA-C; ASP.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: At least 72 evaluable patients will be entered. Accrual is expected to be
      completed in 3 years.
    
  