
    
      This is a multicenter, randomised, double-blind, parallel groups, placebo-controlled, 1 week
      treatment of Depelestat, in patients suffering from persistent ARDS.

      Patients admitted in the intensive care unit presenting ARDS criteria persistent for 12 hours
      to 24 hours, will be randomly assigned to the treatment by Depelestat or placebo, after a
      pre-treatment period as short as possible with a maximum of 48 hours since ARDS criteria are
      met. During the pre-treatment period, the informed consent will be obtained from the legally
      authorized relative of the patient, and pre-treatment biological and functional examinations
      will be performed, particularly blood samples and BAL for biological parameters measurement,
      and ventilatory mechanics, for assessment of static compliance of the respiratory system.

      After the pre-treatment period, the patient will receive treatment by Depelestat or placebo
      during 7 days, or until extubation of the patient if this occurs before 7 days of treatment.
      During this treatment period, the patient will be submitted to a daily measurement of static
      compliance of the respiratory system, as long as the patient adaptation to 24 hours after
      mechanical ventilation allows the procedure, and at 96 initiation of treatment, to a blood
      sampling and a bronchoalveolar lavage for several biological parameters assessment.

      On the first and last day of administration, blood will be also collected for pharmacokinetic
      evaluation.

      During the post-treatment period, the patient will be submitted, at 48 h ± 24 h after the end
      of treatment, to a blood sampling and a BAL (this BAL is not performed when contraindication
      criteria are present, if the patient is already extubated, and in case of planed extubation
      during the subsequent 24 hours) for several biological parameters assessment, and a daily
      measurement of static compliance as long as the patient adaptation to mechanical ventilation
      allows the procedure. Patients already extubated will not be submitted to BAL nor to static
      compliance measurements.

      After the end of the treatment, patients will be followed daily for 28 days after the
      diagnostic of ARDS, or until death whichever occurred first.

      The duration of the study for each survivor patient will be 28 days. Survivors to day 28 will
      be contacted monthly to assess survival and fill in a QOL questionnaire on days 60 and 90.
    
  