
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the efficacy of neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy comprising docetaxel,
           cisplatin, and radiotherapy in combination with cetuximab followed by surgery and
           adjuvant cetuximab versus neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy comprising docetaxel, cisplatin,
           and radiotherapy followed by surgery in patients with locally advanced esophageal
           carcinoma.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the toxicity of the two therapy arms.

        -  To determine patterns of failure overall and with regard to histology.

        -  To evaluate economic aspects in a subproject and to perform a radiotherapy quality
           assurance program.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to center, histology
      (adenocarcinoma vs squamous cell carcinoma), primary tumor (T2 vs T3-4), and gender (male vs
      female). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm A:

             -  Induction chemotherapy (docetaxel and cisplatin) and concurrent cetuximab Patients
                receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour and cisplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 and
                cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on day 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 21 days
                for 2 courses.

             -  Chemotherapy (docetaxel and cisplatin), cetuximab, and concurrent radiotherapy
                Beginning in week 7, patients receive cetuximab IV over 1 hour, docetaxel IV over
                30 minutes, cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 43, 50, 57, 64, and 71 and undergo
                radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5 weeks. Patients then undergo surgery 4-7 weeks
                after completion of radiotherapy.

             -  Adjuvant cetuximab Beginning 3-6 weeks after completion of surgery, patients
                receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours once every 2 weeks for a total of 6 doses.

        -  Arm B: Patients receive induction chemotherapy comprising docetaxel IV and cisplatin IV
           for 2 courses as in arm A. Beginning in week 7, patients receive docetaxel IV, cisplatin
           IV, and concurrent radiotherapy for 5 weeks as in arm A. Patients then undergo surgery
           4-7 weeks after completion of radiotherapy.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up at 1 (arm B) or 6 (arm A) months,
      every 3 months for 3 years, and then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  