
    
      Acute upper gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding associated with the use of low-dose aspirin (ASA)
      is a major cause of peptic ulcer bleeding worldwide. Among survivors of acute myocardial
      infarction, a study of over 14,000 patients reported that the risk of life-threatening GI
      bleeding in the first two months is 7 times higher than that in the subsequent months (1).
      After endoscopic control of ulcer bleeding, most patients with cardiovascular (CV) diseases
      will need to resume ASA. Clinicians often face the dilemma: when should ASA be resumed?
      Furthermore, patients who suffer from acute peptic ulcer bleeding are often elderly patients
      with significant co-morbidities. Mortality in these patients remains high. Clinicians are
      facing an increasing number of patients who are on antiplatelet drugs or anticoagulants.

      However, there are very limited data to guide the best timing for resumption of ASA in these
      high risk patients. To date, our group has conducted the only randomized controlled trial in
      the literature that has partially addressed this issue. Importantly, the investigator found
      that immediate resumption of ASA saves life but at the expense of higher risk of recurrent
      bleeding (2). Accordingly, current international guidelines recommend early resumption of ASA
      but the optimal timing is unknown.

      In the setting of acute GI bleeding, it is often a dilemma whether to stop or to restart
      these drugs. The balance between bleeding and thrombotic risks is difficult and treatment is
      often empirical and not evidence-based.

      The investigator aims to test the hypothesis that in ASA users complicated by peptic ulcer
      bleeding, withholding ASA till day 3 reduces the risk of recurrent bleeding compared to
      immediate resumption of ASA without a significant increase in mortality.

      References

        1. Moukarbel GV, Signorovitch JE, Pfeffer MA et al. Gastrointestinal bleeding in high risk
           survivors of myocardial infarction: the VALIANT Trial. Eur Heart J 2009;30(18):2226-32.

        2. Sung JJ, Lau JY, Ching JY et al. Continuation of low-dose aspirin therapy in peptic
           ulcer bleeding: a randomized trial. Ann Intern Med 2010;152(1):1-9.
    
  