
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether clodronate administered alone or in addition to adjuvant chemotherapy
           and/or hormonal therapy improves disease-free survival in women with early stage breast
           cancer.

        -  Determine whether clodronate reduces the incidence of skeletal metastases and
           non-skeletal metastases in these patients.

        -  Determine whether clodronate improves overall and relapse-free survival in these
           patients.

        -  Determine whether clodronate reduces the incidence of skeletal morbidity (e.g., skeletal
           fractures, hypercalcemia, skeletal pain, need for radiotherapy, spinal cord compression)
           in these patients.

        -  Investigate the relevance of serum markers of bone turnover as a prognostic factor for
           the development of bone metastasis in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients are
      stratified by age (under 50 vs 50 and over), number of positive lymph nodes (0 vs 1-3 vs 4 or
      more), and hormone receptor status (estrogen receptor [ER] and progesterone receptor [PR]
      negative vs ER and/or PR positive). Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

      Patients in both arms commence treatment within 2 weeks of randomization and continue
      treatment for 3 years in the absence of bone metastasis or unacceptable toxicity. Study
      medication must be continued in the case of documented visceral or soft tissue metastasis or
      other event without skeletal metastasis.

      Patients in both arms may also receive adjuvant chemotherapy and/or tamoxifen at the
      discretion of the protocol investigator. Patients receiving hormonal therapy begin hormonal
      therapy within 3-12 weeks after the last dose of chemotherapy and continue for a minimum of 5
      years.

      Patients who have undergone a prior lumpectomy receive adjuvant whole breast radiotherapy.
      Patients who have undergone a prior mastectomy may receive radiotherapy at the investigator's
      discretion.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3,323 patients will be accrued for this study within 3.5 years.
    
  