
    
      There is little evidence to guide antiplatelet therapy in patients at high risk of
      atherothrombotic events undergoing non cardiac surgery. Specifically, it is uncertain whether
      patients currently on antiplatelet therapy should continue or not continue treatment in the
      perioperative period.

      Aim: To determine an evidence-based strategy for managing antiplatelet therapy in the
      perioperative period.

      Methods: The STRATAGEM trial is an investigator-driven French nationwide multicenter,
      randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial comparing perioperative low-dose aspirin
      therapy versus placebo in the perioperative period in patients with documented symptomatic
      stable atherothrombotic disease taking antiplatelet therapy and undergoing non-coronary
      surgery. The trial will involve 1500 patients at high risk of atherothrombosis, currently
      receiving long-term antiplatelet therapy and scheduled for non-coronary surgery in 50
      centers. Ten days prior to surgery, patients will discontinue antiplatelet therapy and be
      randomly assigned to either 75 mg of aspirin or matching placebo for 10 days up to the
      surgical procedure. Usual therapy will be resumed after surgery according to local practice.

      The main outcome measure will be a composite endpoint at day 30 reflecting serious
      perioperative complications, i.e. total mortality, severe ischemic events (ischemic stroke,
      non-fatal myocardial infarction [MI], acute limb ischemia, clinical deep venous thrombosis)
      and/or major hemorrhage (life-threatening bleeding or conducive to revision, or redo surgery,
      cerebral hemorrhage, intra- or retroperitoneal bleeding, bleeding resulting in the
      transfusion of more than 2 units of packed red blood cells). The hypothesis to be tested is
      that low-dose aspirin is associated with a net clinical benefit compared to placebo in the
      prevention of severe perioperative thrombotic and hemorrhagic complications.
    
  