
    
      A strongly positive crossmatch has long been considered an absolute contraindication to
      kidney transplantation and most patients with anti-HLA antibody never were able to receive a
      kidney transplant. Over the past decade, significant progress has been made in overcoming
      early antibody-mediated renal allograft injury. Despite our best efforts, transplantation in
      these patients is still complicated by a high rate of acute humoral rejection.

      While we have successfully transplanted more than 250 patients with DSA using living donors,
      applying these protocols to recipients of deceased donors has been problematic. This
      primarily is due to the fact that in contrast to living donation, the timing of a deceased
      donor kidney transplant cannot be planned. This leads to inadequate time to perform the
      multiple pretransplant plasmapheresis treatments needed to achieve a safe level of DSA at
      transplant. Thus, there is a major unmet need to develop therapy that will allow for the
      successful transplantation of deceased donor kidneys in recipients who have DSA.

        -  At the time of deceased donor kidney transplantation, patients will undergo one
           plasmapheresis prior to surgery.

        -  Patients will be given 1200 mg of eculizumab intravenously over 30 minutes, 1 hour prior
           to surgery.

        -  Patients will be given 900 mg of eculizumab on Day 1 post-transplant.

        -  Patients will then be given 900 mg of eculizumab weekly through 4 weeks post-transplant

        -  At week 4, patients will be assessed for DSA. Patients with total DSA normalized values
           <5000 will stop eculizumab treatment. Patients with total DSA normalized values >5000
           will continue eculizumab treatment every 14 days from week 5 through week 9. The dose
           will be increased to 1200 mg and dosing will now be every 2 weeks instead of weekly.
           Similar "discontinuation assessments" will be performed at week 9, 26, 39 and 52.
    
  