
    
      Background and Rationale

      Disparities in type 2 diabetes, pre-diabetes, and obesity among the Marshallese and Pacific
      Islanders.

      This study focuses on the Marshallese living in Arkansas. The Marshallese are a Pacific
      Islander population experiencing significant health disparities, with some of the highest
      documented rates of type 2 diabetes of any population group in the world. Our review of
      local, national, and international data sources found estimates of diabetes in the
      Marshallese population (in the US and the Republic of the Marshall Islands) ranging from 20%
      to 50%, compared to 8% for the US population and 4% worldwide.

      While national prevalence data are limited, 23.7% of Pacific Islanders surveyed by the
      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in 2010 reported a diagnosis of type 2
      diabetes - more than all other racial/ethnic groups. Our preliminary research, which included
      health screenings with the Marshallese community in Northwest Arkansas (n = 401), documented
      extremely high incidence of diabetes (38.2%) and pre-diabetes (32.4%). Our pilot data also
      revealed similar disparities in obesity, one of the strongest risk factors for diabetes; 90%
      of Marshallese participants were classified as overweight or obese. Further compounding these
      significant disparities, Pacific Islanders living in the US are less likely than other
      racial/ethnic groups to receive preventive or diagnostic treatment or diabetes education.

      This study addresses an urgent need for interventions to reduce obesity and diabetes
      disparities in the Marshallese community and will employ a culturally appropriate, multilevel
      approach. The scientific premise of our study includes four main points. First, the
      Marshallese in Arkansas suffer from a significant and disproportionate burden of type 2
      diabetes and lack access to effective prevention and treatment due to a dearth of research
      with Pacific Islanders.Second, the association between weight gain and risk for type 2
      diabetes is strong. Overweight/obesity is considered the strongest modifiable risk factor for
      type 2 diabetes, and even a modest reduction in weight (5-10%) is clinically meaningful.
      Third, research demonstrates the effectiveness of multi-level lifestyle interventions in
      reducing weight and the onset and impact of diabetes. Fourth, to be effective among Pacific
      Islanders, interventions must be developed to address influences at multiple levels and
      should be culturally adapted to incorporate Pacific Islanders' worldviews and cultural
      values. Prior research indicates the importance of using a Community Based Participatory
      Research (CBPR) approach to understand and integrate cultural nuances during the cultural
      adaptation process and implementation of multilevel interventions. A CBPR approach is also
      essential to conducting ethical, valid health research in populations whose health beliefs
      and behaviors have been shaped by historical trauma. Finally, churches are primary social
      institutions of Pacific Islander health. Faith-based interventions are effective at improving
      behavioral and anthropometric outcomes within collectivistic communities and therefore hold
      great promise for Marshallese and other Pacific Islanders.
    
  