
    
      Introduction: Surgery for abdominal aortic pathology usually occurs in the setting of
      advanced cardiovascular disease. The repair can be relatively simple or complex with multiple
      steps including open repair, placing a stent with a catheter, and placing a complicated stent
      that allows for crossing vessels without occluding them. All these repairs require imaging
      follow up.

      Rationale: The most commonly accepted tool for follow up is Computed Tomography (CT) scan
      which involves ionizing radiation and potentially nephrotoxic iodinated contrast. Routine
      ultrasound with Doppler, CT, and MRI has all been employed utilizing various imaging
      protocols. Concerns over cost, potential nephrotoxicity of contrast agents and repeated
      radiation exposure has led to investigation of alternate imaging modalities such as contrast
      enhanced ultrasound (CEUS). CEUS also allows continuous (dynamic) or real-time monitoring of
      the aneurysm and endoleak throughout the study.

      Objectives:

      Aim 1: To determine the consistency/discrepancy of endoleak detection (positive/negative) for
      contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) versus various phases of CTA versus delayed phase CTA.

      Aim 2 (Exploratory): To explore the consistency/discrepancy of endoleak type (type 1-5)
      between CEUS and delayed phase CTA.

      Aim 3 (Exploratory): To explore the consistency/discrepancy of endoleak source detected
      (positive/negative for each source) for type II endoleaks between CEUS and CTA.

      Aim 4 (Exploratory): Re-assess Aims 1-3 for the follow-up scans. The goal for this aim is to
      examine whether the consistency/discrepancy patterns discovered in Aims 1-3 can be repeated
      at the follow-up scans.

      Population: 40 patients who have undergone an EVAR or FEVAR for abdominal aortic aneurysms
      and are expected to have CTA as part of their standard of care will be enrolled in the study.

      Methodology: Patients will be evaluated with research contrast ultrasound at one month
      post-op, six months post-op and at one year.

      Data Analysis Plan: Binomial 95% confidence interval will be calculated for sensitivity and
      specificity. One- sided binomial test will be conducted to test whether the target
      sensitivity and specificity are superior to the null value, e.g. a minimal acceptable level
      of sensitivity and specificity. In detecting the rate of endoleak positive on CEUS or other
      phases of the CTA but negative on CTA in the delayed phase, we will compute Clopper Pearson
      Exact 95% confidence interval since such a rate could be small. To assess consistency of
      endoleak type (type 1-5) between CEUS and delayed phase CTA, Kappa coefficient will be used.
      In the situation with high agreement biased towards one endoleak type, or extremely
      unbalanced distribution of endoleak types, prevalence-adjusted bias-adjusted kappa
      coefficient (PABAK) (Byrt, Bishop, and Carlin 1993) will be used. The discrepancy of endoleak
      type between CEUS and delayed phase CTA will be reported as rate, for example percent of case
      rated as type 1 in CTA but type 2 in delayed phase, with Clopper Pearson Exact 95% confidence
      interval. SAS9.4 will be used for all statistical analyses.
    
  