
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To achieve an intratumoral lapatinib (lapatinib ditosylate) concentration of at least 1.5
      uM in at least 70% of patients 3 hours after the last dose of pulsatile lapatinib. (Group A)
      II. To determine the pharmacodynamic (PD) effect of pulsatile lapatinib (at pulsatile maximum
      tolerated dose [MTD]) on epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) phosphorylation (using
      Mesoscale Discovery enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay [ELISA] assay for total and
      phospho-EGFR). (Group A and Reference Group)

      SECONDARY/EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      Ia. To evaluate the safety profile of pulsatile lapatinib in pre-operative patients with EGFR
      amplified recurrent high-grade glioma. (Group A and Reference Group) Ib. To evaluate acute
      and late toxicities associated with pulsatile lapatinib. (Group A and Reference Group) II. To
      determine the effect of lapatinib on tumor cell proliferation (marker of proliferation Ki-67
      [KI-67] staining). (Group A compared to Reference Group) III. To determine the ex-vivo
      sensitivity of tumor sphere cultures to lapatinib. (Group A and Reference Group) IV. To
      assess tumor objective response rate (ORR). (Group A and Reference Group) V. To estimate
      overall survival (OS). (Group A and Reference Group) VI. To estimate progression-free
      survival. (Group A and Reference Group)

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

      GROUP A: Patients receive lapatinib ditosylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days -2 to 0.
      Within 3-5 hours after last dose of lapatinib ditosylate, patients undergo surgical resection
      of tumor on day 0. Within 30 days of surgical resection of tumor, patients receive lapatinib
      ditosylate BID for 2 days every 7 days. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      REFERENCE GROUP: Patients undergo surgical resection of tumor on day 0. Within 30 days of
      surgical resection of tumor, patients receive lapatinib ditosylate BID for 2 days every 7
      days. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for at 30 days, every 2 months
      for 2 years, and every 6 months thereafter.
    
  