
    
      Protocol Number: SSAT 064

      EudraCT Number: 2014-004970-40

      Name of Investigational Product:Triumeq®

      Name of active ingredients:Abacavir/lamivudine/dolutegravir

      Study title: An open label study to investigate the safety and efficacy of
      abacavir/lamivudine/dolutegravir and the pharmacokinetic profile of dolutegravir in
      HIV-infected patients of 60 years of age and older

      Objectives:

      Primary:

        -  To assess the steady state pharmacokinetics of dolutegravir 50 mg once daily in
           HIV-infected subjects of 60 years or greater

      Secondary:

        -  To assess the safety, tolerability, patient quality of life and sleep quality and
           maintenance of HIV viral load control of abacavir/lamivudine/dolutegravir once daily in
           HIV-infected subjects of 60 years or greater

        -  To measure the metabolic profile in patients over the age of 60 with HIV infection who
           switch antiretroviral regime (metabonomics)

        -  To investigate cerebral function via cognitive testing before and after a switch in
           antiretroviral therapy to dolutegravir containing regimens

        -  To investigate the relationship between genetic polymorphisms and exposure to
           dolutegravir

      Study design:Multi -centre, 180 days (excluding screening and follow up), open label,
      prospective, one phase pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic study

      Indication:HIV-1 infection

      Methodology:HIV-1 infected subjects will be recruited from four different HIV clinics.
      Eligible subjects currently receiving stable antiretroviral therapy with an undetectable
      plasma HIV RNA and with no evidence of previous HIV resistance mutations on genotypic
      resistance testing, will switch their treatment to abacavir/lamivudine/dolutegravir and
      undergo a 24 hour pharmacokinetic assessment at day 28 (+/- 1). Monitoring of adverse events
      (not at screening), viral load, quality of life and sleep quality, will occur at screening
      and on days 1, 28, 90, and 180. Cognitive function will be tested at screening, baseline and
      day 180. A sleep diary will be completed between day 1 and day 28.

      Planned sample size:A sample size of 40 patients would provide at least 80% power to detect
      changes in dolutegravir exposure in older people.

      Up to 45 subjects may be screened to have 40 patients completing the study.

      Summary of eligibility criteria:HIV-1 infected subjects currently receiving stable
      antiretroviral therapy with undetectable plasma HIV RNA and no evidence of previous HIV-
      resistance mutations on genotypic resistance testing, 60 years old or older (approximately
      30% between 60 and 64 and approximately 70% above the age of 65)

      Number of study centres: 4 centres:

      Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, London Royal Sussex County Hospital, Brighton St. Mary's
      Hospital Clinical Trials Centre, London Mortimer Market Centre, UCL, London

      Duration of treatment: 180 (+/- 7) days

      Dose and route of administration: All study drugs will be administered orally to subjects
      with the following schedule: Abacavir/lamivudine/dolutegravir one pill once daily

      Criteria for evaluation:

      Pharmacokinetic parameters of dolutegravir will be evaluated on blood drawn on day 28 (+/- 1)
      at 0 (pre-dose), 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12 and 24 hours post dose.

      Monitoring of adverse events (not at screening), viral load, quality of life and sleep
      quality will occur at screening and days 1, 28, 90, and 180. Cognitive function will be
      tested at screening, baseline and day 180.

      Primary Endpoint:

        -  Steady state plasma concentrations of dolutegravir when administered to HIV-infected
           individuals over the age of 60/65 years.

      Secondary Endpoints:

        -  Safety, tolerability, maintenance of HIV viral load control, quality of life and sleep
           quality with abacavir/lamivudine/dolutegravir once daily in HIV-infected subjects of 60
           years or greater

        -  Measurement of the metabolic profile in patients over the age of 60 with HIV infection
           who switch antiretroviral regime (metabonomics)

        -  Cerebral function via cognitive testing before and after a switch in antiretroviral
           therapy to dolutegravir containing regimens

        -  Relationship between genetic polymorphisms and exposure to dolutegravir.
    
  