
    
      The investigators will enroll 100 HIV-infected adults presenting to the emergency department
      with acute or sub-acute stroke (within 14 days of onset) confirmed by computed tomography
      (CT) scan at Mbarara Regional Referral, Mulago National Referral, and Nsambya Hospitals in
      Uganda. We will also enroll 100 HIV-uninfected controls, also presenting with acute or
      sub-acute stroke, matched by gender and county/district of residence. Participants will be
      followed for up to one year after enrollment. We plan to complete the following research
      aims:

      Aim 1: To identify the impact of HIV-infection on outcomes after acute or sub-acute stroke in
      Uganda. Our primary outcome will be poor stroke outcome defined as mortality or poor
      functional status (modified Rankin Scale [mRS] > 2). The investigators will assess for
      mortality and functional status at one, three, six, and 12 months after presentation. We will
      estimate the relative risk of poor outcome by HIV serostatus in both unadjusted models and
      models adjusted for traditional stroke risk factors. We hypothesize that HIV-infected
      patients have higher rates of poor stroke outcomes compared to HIV-uninfected patients, and
      that this difference is, in part, attributable to the presence of concurrent central nervous
      system opportunistic infections.

      Aim 2: To describe the clinical and radiologic characteristics of stroke in Uganda, with
      particular attention to differences by HIV serostatus. The investigators will describe the
      clinical presentation of stroke, including history and physical exam findings and presenting
      modified National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (mNIHSS) score. The investigators will
      also compare radiologic characteristics, including location of the stroke and its
      classification as either ischemic or hemorrhagic. We hypothesize that: i) HIV-infected
      patients are predominantly younger at the time of presentation, ii) HIV infected-patients
      have more severe stroke presentations with higher mNIHHS scores, iii) HIV-infected patients
      are more likely to suffer from ischemic (versus hemorrhagic) stroke, and that iv)
      HIV-infected patients have a greater proportion of small vessel territory strokes due to the
      association with central nervous system infections and basal meningitis.

      Aim 3: To identify the traditional and HIV-specific risk factors for poor outcome after
      stroke in Uganda. The investigators will fit regression models to identify predictors of poor
      outcomes as described in Aim 1, both in the total cohort, and restricted to the HIV-infected
      cohort. We hypothesize that age, presence of hypertension, dyslipidemia, smoking, and low
      Glasgow coma score are associated with PSO in Uganda and that HIV-specific predictors of poor
      outcome are low mid-upper arm circumference (MUAC), low CD4 cell count, high HIV viral load,
      and report of recent constitutional symptoms.
    
  