
    
      The emergence of epigenetic therapies has identified pan-class deacetylase (DAC) inhibitors
      as effective therapeutic agents for the treatment of lymphoma. While pan-class DAC inhibitors
      have led to FDA indications, clinical activity has been limited to the T-cell derived
      malignancies. The mechanism of action remains largely unknown and off-target effects lead to
      side effects including fatigue, gastrointestinal disturbances, and cytopenias. Recently, the
      development of isoform selective DAC inhibitors have opened the opportunity to investigate
      their mechanism. It is now recognized that DAC inhibitors not only have epigenetic
      properties, but have direct effects on transcription factors (p53), oncogenes (Bcl6), and
      protein degradation pathways (aggresome). Proteolysis occurs primarily through the
      ubiquitin-proteosome pathway. In states where this pathway is physiologically overwhelmed or
      therapeutically inhibited, the aggresome sequesters proteins for degradation. DAC6 is a class
      IIb deacetylase that facilitates misfolded protein transport to the aggresome for
      proteosome-independent proteolysis. Inhibition of the aggresome activates the unfolded
      protein response (UPR) pathway, a cellular quality control mechanism with two primary
      functions: (1) to promote survival during cellular endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress by
      chaperoning proteins back for re-folding and halting further transcription until homeostasis
      is restored and (2) to signal CCAAT/enhancer binding protein (C/EBP)-homologous protein
      (CHOP) mediated apoptosis when homeostasis cannot be reestablished[9]. While most cells
      depend on both branches of the UPR to coordinate protein folding, lymphocytes physiologically
      down-regulate the UPR-apoptosis pathway, specifically CHOP, to allow for generation of high
      affinity antibodies. In addition to initiating genetic abnormalities (translocations and
      point mutations) lymphomas inherit this biology, and thus gain a survival advantage.

      It has been shown ACY-1215, an Histone Deacetylase 6 (HDAC6)-selective, orally active
      small-molecule enzyme inhibitor has had single agent activity in a panel of lymphoma cell
      lines and mouse models, and marked synergistic activity with several agents such as
      bortezomib, carfilzomib, and ibrutinib, unpublished data. ACY-1215 has been studied in vivo
      in models of multiple myeloma and lymphoma with marked activity both as a single agent and in
      combination with bortezomib. Therefore ACY-1215 will be investigated for treatment of
      lymphoma as a single agent leading to future studies evaluating its effects in combination
      with other targeted agents known to be active in lymphoma and synergistic with ACY-1215.
    
  