
    
      Background:

      Policy makers and consumers are increasingly concerned about the quality and efficiency of
      care provided to individuals with severe, chronic illnesses such as schizophrenia. These
      illnesses are expensive to treat and present significant challenges to organizations that are
      responsible for providing effective care. Occurring in 1% of the United States population,
      schizophrenia accounts for 10% of permanently disabled people, and 2.5% of all healthcare
      expenditures. Clinical practice guidelines have been promulgated. Schizophrenia is treatable
      and outcomes can be substantially improved with the appropriate use of antipsychotic
      medication, caregiver education and counseling, vocational rehabilitation, and assertive
      treatment. However, in the VA and other mental health systems, many patients with
      schizophrenia receive substandard care. Methods are needed that improve the quality of usual
      care for this disorder while being feasible to implement at typical clinics.

      To date, most efforts to improve care for schizophrenia have focused on educating clinicians
      or changing the financing of care, and have had limited success. We believe a more
      fundamental approach should be tried. While there are many potential strategies, experience
      in chronic medical illness and mental health support the efficacy of specific approaches.
      Collaborative care models are one such approach. They are a blueprint for reorganizing
      practice, and involve changes in division of labor and responsibility, adoption of new care
      protocols, and increased attention to patients' needs. Although collaborative care models
      have been successful in other chronic medical conditions, they have not yet been studied in
      the treatment of schizophrenia.

      We have developed a collaborative care model for schizophrenia that builds on work in other
      disorders, and includes service delivery approaches that are known to be effective in
      schizophrenia. The model focuses on improving treatment through assertive care management,
      caregiver education and support, and standardized patient assessment with feedback of
      information to psychiatrists. This project, "EQUIP" (Enhancing Quality Utilization In
      Psychosis) is implementing collaborative care and evaluating its effectiveness in
      schizophrenia.

      Objectives:

      The objective of this project was to implement the care model at two large VA mental health
      centers, and evaluate its effect on clinicians, the organization of care, and treatment
      appropriateness, utilization and outcomes in veterans with schizophrenia. We hypothesized
      that this care model would increase provider adherence to treatment guidelines and improve
      the quality of care. We planned to describe implementation of the model, and barriers and
      facilitators to its implementation. We planned to evaluate the model by comparing treatment
      under the care model with usual care. Changes in the structure of care were evaluated using
      qualitative methods.

      Methods:

      EQUIP was a controlled trial of the care model. At two VA medical centers, clinicians (n=66)
      and their patients (n=398) were randomized to an intervention or a control condition. In the
      intervention group, a chronic care model was implemented for 15 months. Before, during, and
      after implementation, surveys and semi-structured interviews were conducted with clinicians
      and managers to assess their clinical practices, competencies, expectations, experiences, and
      observations concerning the implementation. Data sources included patient interviews,
      clinician interviews, and data from VistA. The feasibility of more broadly implementing the
      collaborative care model was assessed utilizing qualitative and quantitative information
      about the model's strengths and weaknesses, factors that facilitated/impeded implementation,
      direct costs of implementation and maintenance, and effects on treatment service utilization.

      Status:

      Data collection is complete. Data analyses are ongoing. Reports are being written and
      published. Presentations are being given.
    
  