
    
      Following consent, surgery will be determined by the physician thereby determining group
      assignment- i.e the laparoscopic surgery group oror the robotic assisted surgery group. Both
      groups will undergo SLN mapping by instillation and injection. The Laparotomy/Laparoscopy
      Group will have Lymphazurin by injection and instillation of methylene blue dye. The Robot
      Assisted Group will have ICG by injection and instillation of methylene blue. Patients will
      undergo total hysterectomy, bilateral salpingoophorectomy, pelvic and paraaortic
      lymphadenectomy through laparotomy, laparoscopic or robotic assisted surgery as clinically
      determined by their attending physician. Subjects will undergo this surgery whether or not
      enrolled in the study.

      Any clinically indicated uterine manipulator will be acceptable. Potential subjects will be
      informed of the potential risks of this device so they may make an informed decision about
      participation in the study. However the manipulator is standard of care and is not a study
      related risk. Subjects who agree to this study procedure will be monitored for adverse
      events.

      The dyes used in this study are commercially available and will be provided through internal
      funding from the CTCA Gynecology/Oncology Department. Potential subjects will be informed

      of the potential risks of these drugs so they may make an informed decision about
      participation in the study. Subjects who agree to this study procedure will be monitored for
      adverse events.

      After administration of anesthesia, the intra-uterine uterine manipulator catheter will be
      inserted using the following suggested instructions for use;

      • After the standard of care vaginal prep with povidone-iodine or any other surgeon
      preference cleansing solution, expose the cervix using a vaginal speculum. No additional
      preparation of the cervix is needed.

      Immediately following exposure pf the cervix with the speculum, and before introduction of
      the intra-uterine uterine manipulator with catheter, 4ml total of isosulfan 1% blue or ICG
      (depending on what route of surgery is being elected) dye will be delivered by cervical
      injection as follows:

        -  Using a 20 or 22 gauge spinal needle, inject dye into the cervix at the 12, 3, 6 and 9
           o'clock positions.

        -  Each site will receive approximately 1ml of dye with ½ superficial just under the mucosa
           and the remainder approximately 1cm deep to the prior injection.

      The 22 gauge needles are commercially available and will be provided as routine clinical
      care. Potential subjects will be informed of the potential risks of injection so they may
      make an informed decision about participation in the study. Subjects who agree to this study
      procedure will be monitored for adverse events.

      • Introduce the uterine manipulator with catheter trans-cervically until the distal balloon
      is positioned in the lower portion of the uterus. This is no different from routine clinical
      care.

      Immediately following cervical injection and placement of the uterine manipulator and once
      intra-abdominal, the first step in surgery will be to occlude both fallopian tubes, as
      typically done as part of this surgery, using electrocautery devices (e.g. Ligasure) for
      sealing only the tubes.

      Immediately following occlusion of both fallopian tubes, the comparator instillation dye will
      be instilled into the uterine cavity through the pre-inserted intra-uterine uterine
      manipulator catheter as follows:

        -  Insert the clinically selected uterine manipulator as per standard clinical practice.

        -  Slowly inject the dye through the center uterine cavity catheter access port., Rapid
           injection of dye could cause high intrauterine pressure resulting in extravasation. Use
           slow constant pressure to instill the dye. This can be done by the surgical assistant or
           by the operating surgeon via a long extension tubing.

      It is estimated that it may take up to 40 minutes for the dyes to be absorbed by the
      surrounding tissue and taken up by the lymphatic vessels turning the nodes blue or green.
      During this time

      the surgery will proceed without delay. These study procedures will not increase the
      estimated total time to perform the surgery.

      The surgery will proceed as routine for any sentinel node dissection. Briefly, during regular
      dissection, visual identification of any dye taken up by any nodes and specific anatomical
      distributions will be documented using an anatomical documentation sheet.

      Visual detection of the methylene and isosulfan blue dye will be done with the investigator's
      naked eye.

      Visual detection of ICG dye will include use of a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera called
      Spycam equipped with 3 main components (a near-infrared sensitive image intensifier, 16-bit
      dynamic-range frame transfer CCD camera and light-emitting diodes [LEDs] that is mounted to
      the robotic surgical instruments. The Spycam will be directed onto the operative field
      illuminating the fluorescing dye green. The camera is connected to a monitor and images will
      display on the screen and will be analyzed using digital imaging processing.

      Using the clock in the surgery room as a reference, a member of the surgical team will record
      the exact time elapsed (in minutes) from administration until visual detection of dye is made
      for each technique. Blue/green nodes will be labeled as sentinel nodes and non-blue/green
      nodes will be labeled as non-sentinel. Blue/green nodes will also be labeled to describe
      which dye is being detected (methylene, isosulfan or ICG). Differences in the dye
      deposition/absorption by each method (injection vs. instillation) will be documented as
      either detected or not detected in the nodes and channels using color photography in the
      surgical setting. Continuous monitoring will be done for adverse events during the surgery
      and post operatively up to time of patient discharge from the hospital.

      All node samples will be histopathologically examined with Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) and
      Immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining to detect micro-metastasis. Analysis will compare results
      of the instillation technique to cervical injection technique in the same subject for
      sensitivity of SLN mapping, estimating the false negative predictive value, time to detect
      SLNs, anatomical distributions of the SLNs, and differences in dye absorption using each
      technique.
    
  