
    
      Smoking is the number one cause of preventable death in the United States. Given the
      magnitude of the problem, interventions aimed at promoting smoking cessation have the
      potential to make large changes in improving health outcomes. Resources to aid with smoking
      cessation such as telephone-based counseling are generally underutilized. The electronic
      medical record (EMR) in use at Johns Hopkins has limited decision support to promote referral
      to the Maryland Quit Line, a free smoking cessation counseling resource. The investigators
      propose a cluster randomized trial (Implementation-RCT hybrid design) with a waitlist control
      at the 22 Johns Hopkins Community Physicians (JHCP) sites, which offer primary care. The
      intervention will include a multi-modality intervention to promote provider use of smoking
      cessation resources which include an Epic-based Best Practice Advisory (BPA) that allows
      providers to electronically refer to the Maryland State Quit Line, educational materials, and
      provider visits with Quit Line representatives to review use of smoking cessation practices.
      Sites will be randomized to one of three arms with increasing support: 1) six-month waitlist
      control; 2) BPA with optional educational modules; 3) BPA with online educational modules, a
      quick-reference educational document, and additional visit with Quit Line representatives.
      The investigators hypothesize that by implementing a new Epic BPA that allows providers to
      easily refer to the Maryland Quit Line electronically, The investigators will increase use of
      this resource. The investigators also hypothesize that adding additional educational
      materials and having Quit Line representatives perform educational outreach visits will
      further increase use of the Quit Line and will increase prescription of medications to assist
      with smoking cessation. Ultimately, the investigators hope to improve patient care by
      increasing providers' use the Maryland Quit Line and pharmacotherapy. The investigators hope
      that the use of these resources will decrease smoking rates and thereby improve patient
      health and outcomes while improving JHCP quality metrics.

      The primary goal of this study is to test the effectiveness of instituting an Epic BPA in
      increasing Maryland Quit Line referrals. The secondary goals are to measure the BPA's effect
      and the effect of additional provider education on patient engagement with the Quit Line, and
      on prescription of medications that aid in smoking cessation.

      Aim 1: In a three-arm, cluster randomized trial, to test the effectiveness of an Epic BPA
      with provider educational support and provider detailing in provision of smoking cessation
      services.

      Hypothesis 1: An Epic-based BPA to prompt providers to electronically refer people who are
      ready to quit smoking to the Maryland Quit Line will increase use of this service compared to
      waitlist control.

      Hypothesis 2: An Epic-based BPA supplemented with educational materials and academic
      detailing will increase Quit-Line referral compared to control.

      Hypothesis 3: Additional provider support including educational materials, in-person academic
      detailing, will increase successful referrals to the Quit Line and prescription of cessation
      pharmacotherapy compared to waitlist control and BPA only
    
  