
    
      Two hallmarks of both healthy aging and age-related disease are 1) memory and navigational
      deficits, particularly in orienting towards goal locations and planning how to navigate to
      them, and 2) increased susceptibility to stress and altered regulation of the stress
      response. However, there are marked individual differences in these age-related changes. The
      investigators' proposal will help characterize factors that contribute to this variability.

      The investigators propose a study that utilizes cutting-edge imaging and virtual reality
      techniques to characterize the neural mechanisms of prospective (future goal-directed)
      navigational planning in aging. The investigators will use multi-voxel pattern analyses
      (MVPA) to obtain neural indices of memory-guided navigational planning. The investigators
      will then examine the mechanisms through which stress limits the ability of individuals to
      flexibly navigate to future goals. A critical aim will be to evaluate the neural bases for
      individual differences in navigational planning and the stress response, providing novel
      insight into convergent neurocognitive traits that underlie different degrees of age-related
      cognitive decline. The investigators predict that impaired prospective planning is associated
      with individual differences in (a) susceptibility to exogenous, experimentally-induced
      stress, and (b) stress-disrupted functioning of memory and attention and cognitive control
      networks necessary for mental simulation.

      The investigators' proposal combines a novel immersive navigation paradigm, validated by the
      PI in healthy young adults, and an established between-subjects exogenous manipulation of
      psychological stress (see Research Strategy). This paradigm gives participants the
      opportunity to either (a) flexibly draw on spatial memory in order to plan efficient routes
      to goal locations, or (b) fall back on inefficient, but cognitively less-demanding,
      stimulus-response associations (i.e., habits). Participants will be pseudorandomly assigned
      to stress-manipulated or control groups, with an initial prospective random assignment of
      subject IDs being adjusted as recruitment progresses in order to enforce approximately
      equivalent age distributions in the two groups (and thus limit confounds in subsequent group
      comparisons). Salivary cortisol (stress hormone) assays (de-identified) will help validate
      the stress difference between groups. Leveraging MVPA, and trait questionnaires, the
      investigators' study will test whether experimentally-induced stress leads individuals to
      bring fewer details about future locations to mind when route planning, and whether such
      restricted prospective thought ultimately biases participants towards relatively inflexible,
      habitual actions.

      Aging is associated with differences in the degree to which people rely on "map-like" spatial
      memory vs. procedural motor responses to traverse environments. Thus the investigators'
      investigation of the effects of stress on habitual vs. prospective spatial memory-guided
      navigation is embedded within the context of age-related differences in spatial memory
      processing in the investigators' target population. The investigators will further employ an
      endogenous navigational strategy identification task, enabling us to 1) establish a link
      between endogenous navigation strategy preferences and performance on the investigators'
      prospective navigation task, and 2) study how endogenous navigational strategy preferences
      interact with induced stress to affect the investigators' neural and behavioral outcome
      measures indexing efficient, prospective spatial cognition.
    
  