
    
      This study is one of the first European randomized studies using the criteria MAST (Model for
      Assessment of Telemedicine) for medico-economic evaluation of technology solutions for the
      prevention and care in the elderly. The medico-economic evaluation of the overall
      contribution of home automation kit associated with telecare will be conducted in accordance
      with the recommendations of the research program Renewing Health FP7 the European Union. This
      program has developed an analytical model common to all evaluations of telemedicine
      applications that have an impact on health.

      . The home-based technology in this study will be a simple home automation pack coupled to
      teleassistance service. The automation pack will include: a remote intercom, an electronic
      bracelet or pendentive, a pull shower in the bathroom, a light path, a smoke detector and a
      gas detector in the kitchen. The central hotline will provide telephone support at all times.

      Intercom is a remote transmitter which enables the platform to provide remote assistance with
      the elderly at home.

      Each person will have electronic bracelet or pendentive with a medallion which will be
      provided with the dialer. It is a system that allows remote assistance to the elderly by
      pressing the central medallion of the device to request assistance or report a dangerous
      situation (risk of falling, or fall) to the platform of teleassistance.

      The bathroom alarm zipper is a device installed in the shower that allows subjects to use it
      when at risk of falling or fall detection. The shower is a high risk of fall for the elderly
      due to movements very often results in an imbalance of seniors already weakened by aging.

      The light path is a 1.5 m device installed near the bed and turns automatically on when the
      person sets foot on the ground. It can provide adapted visibility by showing the right path
      and improving consciousness.

      The smoke and gas detector are devices installed on the ceiling of the kitchen. They allow
      respectively detecting abnormally high rates of smoke or a gas leak in the house or
      apartment.

      The teleassistance platform is a central technical hotline located in Creuse area. It is
      functional at any time. All electronic devices are connected to the plant. An alert is
      signaled by an alarm, involving an immediate phone call to the resident of the house to
      assess the situation. The resulting actions taken are either reassuring the person, giving
      directions to the person or sending a message to aid in the event ascertained or suspected.

      A monthly questionnary should be filled by patients.

      Primary outcome:

      The main judgment criterion will be the cumulated incidence of home falls requiring emergency
      admission.

      Secondary outcomes:

        1. Changes score ISO profile resource according to SMAF scale,

        2. Proportion of participants with regular physical activity

        3. Effect on admissions in institutions (nursing homes or senior residential care)

        4. Time before management of stroke and the length of stay in rehabilitation unit.
    
  