
    
      The long term focus of this research program has been identification of genes for bipolar
      disorder. The investigators have recently obtained evidence from several lines of
      investigation to support the role of the gene for G protein receptor Kinase 3(GRK3) in
      bipolar disorder. Work to replicate and extend these results is continuing under NIH funding.
      In this clinical the investigators will extend the investigators' work into Pharmacogenetics
      to attempt to identify genes that are associated with medication response in bipolar
      disorder. Lithium is the first mood stabilizer medication and remains a mainstay of
      treatment. Many patients have an excellent response to lithium, tolerate it well, and are
      stabilized for years, while others do not. The reasons for this difference in response are
      unclear, but it is likely that genetic factors make a substantial contribution. The lack of
      good predictors of response frequently result in a time consuming trial and error clinical
      process to find the best medication. Such a trial and error process can take months with
      prolongation of patient suffering. Hence, there is a strong clinical need for predictors. The
      investigators have conducted a preliminary study with 92 lithium responders and 92
      non-responders identified through retrospective detailed history and chart review. These
      subjects have been genotyped at 88 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers in 9
      candidates genes relevant to lithium presumed mechanism of action for bipolar disorder. Four
      SNP markers in three genes showed nominally significant association to lithium response. One
      of the SNPs in the gene for neurotrophic receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (NTRK2), the receptor for
      brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), showed a strong association in patients who had
      predominantly euphoric a opposed to dysphoric mania (p=0.0005). Many data argue for the role
      of BDNF in the mechanism of antidepressants and mood stabilized action as well as
      susceptibility to bipolar disorder. No association was observed in those with dysphoric
      mania. This suggests that variations in this gene may operate in a clinically and genetically
      distinct subset of patients. It also argues for the importance of incorporating clinical
      subtypes into such analyses. These pilot results are preliminary but suggest the feasibility
      of such an approach. The investigators will conduct a prospective trial of lithium
      monotherapy in 100 patients with bipolar disorder. 200 patients who are unstable, mildly to
      moderately ill and not on lithium will be screened and then entered into 16-week
      stabilization phase where they will be treated and switched to lithium monotherapy. Patient
      stable on lithium will also be entered and other mediations withdrawn. After stabilization
      patients will be followed for one year or until a mood episode requires intervention. It is
      expected that 50% of patients will be stabilized and therefore 100 patients will enter the
      maintenance phase. Time to relapse and pharmacological intervention will be the primary
      outcome measure. This prospective sample will be used to replicate previous results at the
      NTRK2 and other genes. Analyses will be conducted to test for differences in survival curves
      between different genotypic group. Genomic control methods will be employed to detect or
      correct for possible stratification and heterogeneity. Clinical features of illness such as
      dysphoric mania, family history and rapid cycling will be employed as co-variates.
      Multivariate methods will also be employed in order to attempt to develop a multi-gene
      predictor of lithium response.
    
  