
    
      Does The Surfactant Administration by Aerosolization of Respiratory Distress Syndrome
      effective in Spontaneously Breathing Premature Infants ? Endotracheal bolus application of
      natural surfactant has been shown to be an effective treatment for idiopathic respiratory
      distress syndrome (RDS), especially in premature neonates with weeks of pregnancy > 27 week.
      However, patients are intubated nasotracheal or orotracheal for this form of treatment. This
      intubation carries potential risks of injuries to the dental lamina, the larynx, and the
      trachea, bronchopulmonary infections, and fluctuations in cerebral blood flow, intra- and
      periventricular haemorrhage (1). In addition, many babies with RDS who initially respond to
      surfactant therapy later develop chronic lung disease (CLD) (2). With this in mind, the
      investigators attempt to administer surfactant in a more gentle way, i.e. by nebulization.
      Administration by aerosol during spontaneous respiration is less traumatic and avoids
      intubation with the accompanying mechanical and infectious risks and pathophysiological
      effects.

      The present study was designed to evaluate, in premature babies with RDS breathing
      spontaneously, the efficacy of combined treatment with nasal continuous positive airway
      pressure (CPAP) and aerosolized surfactant. The first objective of investigators is to assess
      the safety of surfactant nebulization in this clinical situation, and to ﬁnd out whether
      treatment with aerosolized surfactant would reduce the need for mechanical ventilation. And
      other aim suggest that aerosolized dates compared with dates of INSURE
      (intubation-surfactant-extubation) and minimally invasive surfactant therapy (MIST) method.

      Seventy-five newborn babies from neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) of Yuzuncu Yil
      University Medical Scholl (Van, Turkey) will be randomized to treatment with nebulized
      surfactant (Curosurf®, Chiesi Pharmaceutics, Parma, Italy) or to two control groups receiving
      INSURE and MIST method. The study will be conducted with 75 infants, 25 in each group.
      Randomization will be central and performed using sealed envelopes kept at the neonatal ward
      of Yuzuncu Yil University Medical Centre Hospital. Informed consent was obtained from all
      parents before randomization. Inclusion criteria are corrected gestational age >26 week or
      <34 week, age 2-36 h, clinically and radiologically diagnosed progressive RDS, FiO2 needed to
      maintain SaO2 85-95%; >0.4, and no evident lung or cardiovascular malformation.

      The surfactant aerosol will generate with a ultrasonic nebulizer (Aeroneb Pro; Aerogen, Inc.,
      Sunnyvale, CA) and administer via the nasal continuous positive airway pressure (NCPAP)
      equipment into the Laryngeal Mask Airway (LMA). Surfactant will be diluted to 40 mg/ml with
      saline before nebulization. These modifications will be introduced to enhance the delivery of
      nebulized material to the lungs (3). In the control groups, the babies will be supported with
      the same type of NCPAP equipment, after given surfactant via endotracheal bolus application
      and MIST method. Parameters will be documented at three different times, namely before
      application of surfactant (200 mg/kg BW), and 2 h, 6 h after completion of nebulization or
      application of others.

      The infants will be stabilised on NCPAP (Neopuff; Fisher and Paykel, Auckland, New Zealand)
      in the delivery room and during transport to the NICU. NCPAP or NIPPV will be started within
      30 min of birth immediately after randomisation. Both NCPAP and NIPPV will be delivered by a
      neonatal ventilator (Engström Carestation; GE Healthcare, Madison, USA) via short, binasal
      Cannula (RAM Cannula; Neotech, Valencia, CA). NCPAP pressure will be set at 5-6 cm H2O, and
      NIPPV will be set in a non-synchronised mode at 20-30 bpm, with positive end-expiratory
      pressure of 5-6 cm H2O and peak inspiratory pressure of 15-20 cm H2O. FiO2 will be titrated
      at 0.21-0.50 to maintain an oxygen saturation level of 90%-95%, as measured via pulse
      oximeter. Under non-invasive ventilation, the surfactant will be administered as a rescue
      therapy if the infant required ≥0.40 FiO2 to maintain the target saturation level of 90%-95%.

      Findings in chest radiograms before inclusion and head ultrasound images taken as soon as
      possible according to the clinical situation will be evaluated and graded according to
      criteria defined by Papile et al. (4) and Kero et al.(5) CLD will be defined as need for
      supplemental oxygen at 36 wk gestational age.

      Statistical evaluation Data will be analyzed using the 20 Windows Version of Statistical
      Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) Program (Chicago, IL, USA).

      Data were compared using unpaired t-test and Chi-square test, and p-values below <0.05 were
      considered statistically significant.

      Ethical approval The study was approved by the regional ethics committee at the Yuzuncu Yil
      University Institute, Van, Turkey.

      The regional ethics committee No: 05.05.2015/09
    
  