
    
      This new trial will assess the efficacy of this home-based cryotherapy intervention by adding
      sequenced tapered cooling after a 30-day intense cooling period. The goal is to reduce skin
      blood flow of chronically inflamed skin, decrease the incidence of venous leg ulcers and
      pain, and improve quality of life. A myriad of surgical, pharmacologic, and non-pharmacologic
      therapies such as compression bandages are often tried, many with limited success. More than
      70% of patients with venous disorders such as insufficiency develop edema, skin damage, and
      ulcers. Ulcer prevention is warranted because of the significant socioeconomic implications
      in terms of lost workdays and wages, decreased productivity and increased health care costs.
      Clinicians focus on the multiple treatment approaches, often without consideration of how
      patients can contribute to their own self-care. Our 9-month intervention is based on
      principles of heat transfer and cryotherapy theories involving microcirculation. With input
      from a cryotherapy expert and participants who completed the R21 pilot, the investigators
      propose a sequenced intervention strategy, where cooling will be dosed daily for 30 minutes
      for the first month, and then decreased to twice weekly dosing in months 2-3, once weekly in
      months 4-6, then PRN in months 7-9. The investigators will measure blood flow, skin
      temperature, pain, quality of life, and the incidence of leg ulcers after months 1, 3, 6 and
      9. Eligible participants will be randomized to treatment (low compression cooling wrap) or
      usual care (low compression non-cooling "sham" wrap). Participants in both groups will
      receive all study related materials including standardized instruction, skin thermometer,
      specially designed low compression wraps, leg elevator pillow, and compression stockings, and
      during an in-depth orientation session. The investigators hypothesize that cryotherapy will
      enhance the largely ineffective non-pharmacologic self-care usual care model, that is,
      telling patients to wear compression stockings, elevate the legs, and get more exercise.
      These strategies are generally inadequate in achieving sustained change. Among our research
      methods the investigators include rigorous process, impact and outcome monitoring. In an era
      of expectation for technological and pharmaceutical "fixes", this self-care strategy, if
      efficacious, could be an economical way to decrease morbidity and pain for thousands of
      patients, frequently viewed as non-responsive to self care. Prevention of ulcers is also a
      major potential source of saved medical dollars. This trial is significant due to the burden
      of venous disorders, the complex physical characteristics of the population including
      excessive obesity and co-morbidity and the need to reach patients with a feasible,
      motivational, and supportive strategy to promote self-care. The objective is to establish a
      new practice standard for prevention.
    
  