
    
      This will be a randomized, controlled trial of 300 women with a diagnosis of preeclampsia at
      any point in their current pregnancy or immediately postpartum. Immediately postpartum is
      defined as preeclampsia diagnosed after delivery but prior to discharge from the hospital.
      The diagnosis of preeclampsia will be made using standardized definitions by the American
      College of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Preeclampsia is diagnosed with new-onset hypertension
      of blood pressure of greater than or equal to 140 systolic blood pressure or greater than or
      equal to 90 diastolic blood pressure recorded twice at least four hours apart AND
      proteinuria, defined as 300mg of protein in a 24hour urine collection or a protein/creatinine
      ratio of 0.3. If the above blood pressure criteria are met and there is not proteinuria,
      preeclampsia can still be diagnosed if there is thrombocytopenia with platelet count of less
      than 100,000, renal insufficiency with creatinine of greater than 1.1 or twice the patient's
      individual baseline, impaired liver function with AST or ALT twice normal or epigastric/right
      upper quadrant pain, pulmonary edema, new-onset headache unresponsive to medication, or
      visual disturbance. All of these findings should not be explained by an alternative
      diagnosis.

      Women will be consented and randomized at the time of their diagnosis, within 96 hours of
      their delivery. The patients randomized to the treatment group will have an antihypertensive
      medication prescribed to them. The specific medication will be either labetalol, nifedipine
      or hydralazine based on allergies and clinically appropriateness of the medication. The
      patient will be instructed on the dosing, timing, and possible adverse effects. All subject's
      blood pressures will be monitored per standard postpartum protocols. As per standard
      practice, all patients with preeclampsia will be asked to return at 7-10 days for a blood
      pressure check and then again at 6 weeks for a complete postpartum assessment.

      Consent of patients, review of blood pressures, data collection and storage, and statistical
      analysis will be performed at the Medical College of Wisconsin (MCW) through the Maternal
      Fetal medicine department. Women will be allowed to continue routine antenatal, intrapartum
      and postpartum care with their primary obstetrician. The research team will follow enrolled
      patients through the 6-week postpartum follow up.
    
  