
    
      This study aimed to compare the effects of whole-body vibration (WBV) training and Pilates
      exercises on physical fitness, fatigue, and physical self-perception in healthy women aged
      between 25-45 years. The study was conducted between August 2018-January 2019 in a health and
      physiotherapy clinic. This study was carried out on 36 healthy sedantary female subjects.

      Before starting the study, the subjects were divided into three groups in a randomized manner
      using "Random Online Allocation Software" (www.Graphpad.com)

        1. Group 1: Pilates training group

        2. Group 2: WBV training group

        3. Group 3: Control group

      Pilates training group: The exercises were performed with "Reformer®" for eight weeks, twice
      in a week, 45-min per day. Warm-up and cool-down exercises were performed before and after
      the training.

      WBV training group: The training was given "Power Plate®" for eight weeks, twice in a week,
      and 30 minutes in a day. Warm-up and cool-down exercises were performed before and after the
      training.

      Control group: The control group did not receive any training.

      The body composition of the subjects was evaluated with body mass index, waist-hip ratio and
      bioelectrical impedance analysis; functional capacity with Shuttle Run Test; core endurance
      with lateral bridge test, modified Biering-Sorensen test, trunk flexion test and prone bridge
      test and functional core strength with sit-ups and modified push-up tests. The stability of
      the core muscles was also measured with a pressure biofeedback instrument. The Sit and Reach
      test was used to assess flexibility and the Functional Reach Test was used for balance.
      Fatigue was evaluated with The Fatigue Severity Scale and physical self-perception was
      assessed with the Physical Self Perception Profile. The subjects were evaluated
      pre-intervention and immediately after the intervention.
    
  