
    
      Hypochlorous acid (HClO) is a powerful antimicrobial and antiviral used for the control of
      various infections, repair and washing of surgical wounds, as well as for disinfection of
      surfaces. In vivo, it is synthesized by the cells of the immune system for the control of
      pathogens during phagocytosis and has been synthesized and stabilized for use in different
      entities.

      The therapeutic uses of HClO began in the First World War with the studies of Alexis Carrel
      and Henry Dakin who obtained a buffered sodium hypochlorite solution (Dakin's solution) which
      generated ideal concentrations of HClO, using it successfully in washing and treatment of
      wounds without presenting any damage or undesired effect on the patient's tissues. In 1993,
      the HClO molecule was stabilized, popularizing its use for the control of predominantly skin
      infections, treatment of chronic ulcers, closure and cleaning of wounds, management of burned
      patients, and disinfection of surfaces.

      Biologically, it is part of the reactive oxygen species (ROS) synthesized by cells of the
      immune system (Neutrophils and Macrophages) during an immunological process known as
      "respiratory burst", during phagocytosis of antigens in reaction with the enzyme
      myeloperoxidase (MPO), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and a chlorine ion. Safety profiles in in
      vivo models have driven our initiative to use Stabilized Hypochlorous Acid (S-HClO), as an
      early therapeutic option in patients with SARS-Cov-2 infection or in close contact with
      COVID-193 positive patients.

      Calderon et al and carried out the evaluation of the antimicrobial effect of HClO on
      potentially pathogenic microorganisms of the oral cavity. The study reports that hypochlorous
      acid achieved bacterial inhibition of 99.9% at a concentration of 0.05% and a pH of 5.2 per
      minute of action for different types of bacteria and for infectious microorganisms.
      Virological tests have also been performed on feline calcivirus (Ebola-like virus),
      rotavirus, AH1N1, adenovirus and SARS, found to be highly effective after 1 minute of
      application.

      In the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, effective and early treatments are being sought to help
      prevent the dissipation of the virus (disinfection of surfaces), to neutralize the virus at
      an early stage when it is lodged in the upper respiratory tract and nose, since this is the
      Probable route of infection of the ethmoid lamina and later causing viral encephalopathy and
      treatment of patients with bronchial infection by this virus, decreasing the viral load and
      causing destruction of the virus. There are reports of the use of HClO in the nasal mucosa in
      studies in humans, reporting safety and effectiveness, both in adults and in children, which
      leads us to propose the application of said nasal spray solution, as a prophylaxis in health
      personnel with a high risk of infection by SARS-CoV-2.

      A RCT with the use S-HClO as a prevention treatment for the infection by SARS-CoV-2 in health
      professionals is proposed.
    
  