
    
      Background: Since the start of the war in Syria in 2011, more than 5 million Syrians had to
      take refuge in a safer place and they had chosen neighbouring countries including Turkey,
      Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq and countries in Africa including Egypt and North Africa. As a
      consequence of several adversities, refugees are at great risk of developing symptoms of
      common mental disorders, notably posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, anxiety
      and related somatic health symptoms along with other forms of disabling psychological
      distress. The World Health Organization (WHO) has developed a new low-intensity 5-session
      self-help intervention called Self-Help Plus (SH+) in order to manage stress and cope with
      adversity (Epping-Jordan et al., 2016). SH+ is a brief and trans-diagnostic intervention
      which may be delivered by trained non-specialists facilitators to people with and without
      mental disorders. SH+ has been evaluated in RCTs in low and middle income countries.

      Objectives: To evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the Self Help Plus in
      Arabic speaking people including Syrians under the temporary protection of Republic of Turkey
      and other Arabic speaking immigrants and asylum seekers with psychological distress resettled
      in Turkey, as compared with enhanced treatment as usual (ETAU). The primary outcome is the
      reduction in the incidence of any mental disorders. Secondary outcomes are mental health
      symptoms, psychological functioning, well-being, drop-out rates, and economic outcomes.

      Design: This is a parallel-group randomized controlled trial, in which participants will have
      an equal probability (1:1) of being randomly allocated to the SH+ intervention or the ETAU.

      Methodology: Refugees who screen positive at the General Health Questionnaire (≥ 3) and
      without a formal diagnosis of any psychiatric disorders according to the M.I.N.I.
      International Neuropsychiatric Interview (M.I.N.I.) will enter the study. After random
      allocation they will receive the 5- session SH+ or the ETAU. Assessments will be performed by
      masked members of the research team immediately after intervention, at 6 months (primary
      outcome), and a 12 months after randomization.

      Time frame: The recruitment phase will last 12 months. After the screening, eligible
      participants will be assessed at baseline before randomization, immediately
      post-intervention, and at 6- and 12-month follow-up. The SH+ intervention delivery will be
      conducted in around 5 weeks (1 session per week).

      Expected outcomes: The expected outcomes are a reduction in the incidence of psychiatric
      diagnoses at 6-month follow-up, and a general improvement in mental health symptoms,
      psychological functioning, well-being, and economic outcomes at each assessment, in refugees
      in the SH+ intervention arm, as compared to ETAU.
    
  