
    
      Importance and impact: It is becoming increasingly apparent that arterial endothelial
      dysfunction contributes significantly to the age-related downward spiral that includes
      mobility limitation, frailty, and ultimately cardiovascular disease (CVD). Endothelial
      dysfunction has been documented to manifest in the coronary epicardial and resistance
      vasculature as well as the peripheral arteries, indicating that such dysfunction is a
      systemic condition. Indeed, there is a growing appreciation that the vast majority of CVD is,
      in fact, associated with endothelial dysfunction. Thus, developing a better understanding of
      the relationship between arterial aging and CVD is one of the most important clinical
      challenges that we currently face. The vascular endothelium, a single layer of cells lining
      the blood vessel wall, plays an essential role in maintaining both arterial function and
      health. In either an autocrine or paracrine fashion, vascular endothelial cells synthesize
      and release numerous biologically active molecules that modulate arterial structure as well
      as vasodilatory, thrombolytic, and vasoprotective functions. The important role that nitric
      oxide (NO) plays in vasodilation. The transition from normal endothelial function to the
      phenotype of endothelial dysfunction contributes to the development of atherosclerosis and
      increased CVD risk. Specifically, these vascular changes, catalyzed by diminished NO
      bioavailability, lead to vasoconstriction and an endothelial state that is pro-coagulative,
      pro-proliferative, and pro-inflammatory. The recognition that the endothelium is not simply a
      passive interface between blood and vessel wall, but is also the site of NO production, has
      led to great advances in the field of vascular research. Indeed, endothelial-derived NO is
      now not only recognized as one of the most important vasodilators, particularly in the
      muscular arteries, but it also is apparent that NO inhibits other key events associated with
      the development of atherosclerosis, such as leukocyte adhesion and migration, platelet
      adhesion and aggregation, and smooth muscle cell proliferation. Thus, attenuated NO
      bioavailability is evidence of a broadly dysfunctional endothelial phenotype, and, therefore,
      the assessment of NO-mediated vasodilatory capacity provides significant insight into the
      integrity and function of the endothelium. Although the process of CVD can begin early in
      life and is accelerated by the aging process, endothelial dysfunction, a recognized precursor
      to atherosclerosis, precedes the structural changes associated with this disease and so can
      be used as a predictor of CVD onset.

      Originality: Most, if not all, CVD risk factors are associated with endothelial dysfunction,
      and risk factor modification can lead to improved endothelial function. With the growing
      interest in personalized medicine, the development of diagnostic tools, that allow
      individualized assessments of endothelial function to guide the physician, the patient, and
      the rehabilitative team, are essential. However, although, over the past 20 years, several
      methodologies have been developed to assess endothelial function in humans, and these
      approaches have contributed extensively to clinical research, none have been adopted into
      clinical practice. In fact, not a single method for assessing endothelial function has been
      recommended by clinical guidelines for the diagnosis of CVD and the guidance of prevention
      strategies for primary or secondary CVD. From work performed in the current Merit Review
      Award, the novel single passive leg movement (sPLM)-induced increase in leg blood flow (LBF)
      approach to assess endothelial function appears to be the clinically relevant tool that has
      long been missing from the healthcare provider's arsenal. However, the additional studies
      proposed in this renewal application are needed to confirm this conclusion, especially as it
      relates to rehabilitation. Importantly, the sPLM paradigm can guide rehabilitation in several
      ways. First, the high diagnostic value would provide earlier detection of CVD risk,
      particularly as endothelial dysfunction precedes many of the other risk factors, and the sPLM
      testing can be used to recommend and motivate patients to undergo rehabilitation. Second, the
      sPLM assessment can be used to determine the efficacy of rehabilitation in order to guide
      program development. If rehabilitation is not improving vascular function, the program can be
      modified to address this CVD risk factor, with the impact on other outcomes in mind. Third,
      the sPLM paradigm can be used more acutely throughout a rehabilitation program to provide
      "real-time" feedback about endothelial function, allowing practitioners to personalize the
      program for each patient, again with other outcomes in mind.

      Contribution to Veterans Health Administration (VHA): VA demographics reveal a population
      that is significantly skewed toward the older sector and, thus, heavily burdened by
      age-associated CVD. Even in the population at large, it is estimated that by the year 2050
      over 21% of people will be over 60 years of age. Although these data are impressive, the
      Veteran population is far ahead of these predictions with 51% (12.3 million) of Veterans
      already over 60 years of age. As advancing age is the major risk factor for CVD, the risk of
      CVD increases progressively across the lifespan and although death rates as a result of CVD
      have fallen over the last 50 years, CVD remains the leading cause of morbidity and mortality
      in the U.S. Given the already accelerated aged demographics in the VA Health Care System and
      the strong link between CVD and age, there is little doubt that the burden of CVD-related
      healthcare costs within the VA will continue to grow. Thus, it is not surprising that aging
      and mobility limitation, both of which are linked to endothelial dysfunction, are two
      priority areas emphasized by the VA RR&D Service and are Medical Research Priorities for the
      VHA system as a whole.

      Post cuff-occlusion flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD) as a test of NO bioavailability: Prior
      to our development of the novel sPLM approach to assess endothelial function, fueled
      predominantly by the current Merit Review Award, perhaps the most likely method to be adopted
      for routine clinical use was the post cuff-occlusion FMD test, typically performed in the
      brachial artery. In 1992, Celermajer et al. introduced this method of measuring the changes
      in conduit artery diameter following a period of circulatory occlusion as a non-invasive
      approach for in vivo determination of endothelium-dependent vasodilation in humans. In the
      more than two decades that have followed, the application of FMD testing in clinically-based
      research has become widespread, a progression that is exemplified by the adoption of this
      methodology into large-scale clinical trials, including recent phases of the Framingham Heart
      Study. The FMD test is particularly appealing due, at least in part, to a previous report
      revealing a weak correlation between vasodilatory capacity of the peripheral and coronary
      arteries, implicating FMD as a potential surrogate measure of coronary endothelial health.
      Further, it has been clearly demonstrated that FMD provides independent predictive
      information for future cardiovascular events beyond traditional risk factors. FMD testing
      has, thus, emerged as a non-invasive approach for determining vascular function in health and
      disease. However, predominantly due to several methodological deficiencies and significant
      challenges in terms of implementation, FMD has never been embraced as a clinical tool.
      Perhaps one of the most attractive aspects of FMD testing is that it has been purported to
      provide an assay of vascular endothelial NO bioavailability. As the presence of this
      endothelially-derived vasodilator has become synonymous with vascular health, the prospect of
      quantifying NO in a non-invasive manner makes FMD testing particularly appealing for both
      risk assessment and patient prognosis. The ability of NO synthase (NOS) inhibition with LNMMA
      (NG-monomethyl-L-arginine) to completely abolish radial and brachial artery FMD provided
      initial evidence that FMD is governed primarily through the release of NO. However, in the
      face of significant technical and methodological refinements in the field, recent studies
      challenge the existing dogma regarding the NO dependent nature of the FMD response. Indeed,
      the two most recent studies in the radial artery have identified only a minimal (0-33%)
      reduction in FMD after the administration of LNMMA, a NOS blocker, leaving considerable
      uncertainty as to whether this test can still be relied upon to provide an assay of NO
      bioavailability. Indeed, our group, using up-to-date measurement techniques and the typical
      site of assessment (brachial artery), demonstrated that the majority of vasodilation provoked
      by brachial artery FMD testing is not attributable to NO. In fact, the intra-arterial
      delivery of L-NMMA resulted in only a modest ( 33%) reduction in FMD. Critically, L-NMMA
      administration also reduced the post-occlusion hyperemic response, thereby diminishing the
      shear stimulus for brachial artery vasodilation. When this effect was taken into account, FMD
      normalized for shear rate was not different between control and L-NMMA conditions.
      Additionally, changes in FMD are highly dependent upon assessing very small changes in artery
      diameter. Furthermore, FMD transiently increases with exercise training over the initial 4
      weeks, but returns to pre-training values by the 8th week due to arterial remodeling. This
      plasticity in diameter greatly limits the use of FMD as a diagnostic assessment in clinical
      and rehabilitation arenas. Finally, although FMD has been demonstrated to correlate with CVD
      risk, it provides only marginal diagnostic value for CVD. These findings add to the growing
      uncertainty surrounding the interpretation of FMD test results, the usefulness of this
      approach clinically, and emphasize the need to develop a new and clinically relevant tool to
      assess endothelial function and NO bioavailability.

      sPLM as a test of NO bioavailability: Originally, our group and others focused on the
      peripheral and central hemodynamic responses to sPLM, and its previous variants, as a
      reductionist model to better understand the factors controlling movement-induced hyperemia.
      By removing the increase in metabolism associated with active exercise, important findings
      related to the control of skeletal muscle blood flow were revealed. Specifically, in healthy
      humans, following the initial onset of passive movement, there is a transient, yet robust,
      increase in LBF. Through various experimental approaches we have characterized the roles of
      afferent feedback, the muscle pump, perfusion pressure, cardiac innervation/denervation, and
      age in the sPLM response. However, most germane to this Merit Review renewal application,
      funded by the current Merit Review Award, we have determined the role NO plays in the
      sPLM-induced blood flow response in both young and old subjects. At rest, NOS inhibition has
      consistently been documented to decrease limb blood flow and vascular conductance by 30 to
      40%, indicating an essential role of NO in controlling basal blood flow. During active
      exercise, the reduction in blood flow following NOS inhibition is typically less than at
      rest, falling in the range of 5 to 25%.This implies a reduced contribution of NO to
      exercise-induced hyperemia, an experimental paradigm characterized by increased metabolism,
      which also likely plays a significant role in elevating blood flow during exercise. In
      contrast, the sPLM-induced hyperemia, which does not evoke a peripheral metabolic response,
      is intuitively more likely to be predominantly NO-mediated. Indeed, in young healthy subjects
      the inhibition of NOS, with an intra-arterial L-NMMA infusion in the passively moved leg,
      revealed that NO contributes to 65-80% of the hyperemia and vasodilation associated with
      sPLM. In contrast, there was minimal effect of L-NMMA in the old. The sPLM response is also
      markedly attenuated in old, compared to young, subjects. Substantial evidence supports NO
      bioavailability is low in old subjects and, as sPLM is highly NO-mediated, both the
      diminished sPLM response and diminished effect of L-NMMA are consistent with such diminished
      NO bioavailability. This supports the sPLM as a good assessment of endothelial function
      because it tracks physiological differences across populations. This robust and easily
      measured reduction in NO-mediated vasodilation and subsequent hyperemia suggests that sPLM
      induced blood flow has significant promise as a new approach to assess NO-mediated
      endothelial function, an important predictor of CVD risk, and could be an important tool to
      assess rehabilitation.

      sPLM and FMD directly compared: Being noninvasive and with evidence of mirroring coronary
      endothelial function to some degree, FMD is by far the most common approach to assess
      vascular function in clinical research and has been in existence for over 20 years. However,
      FMD testing can be a somewhat capricious endeavor exhibiting significant operator dependency,
      difficulty with performance, a reliance upon very small vessel diameter changes (typically
      less than 0.4 mm), uncertainty about how to account for varying shear stimuli, and concerns
      regarding reproducibility, all of which combine to explain why FMD has yet to be adopted
      clinically. Moreover, and of real significance, the diagnostic value of FMD for CVD is only
      marginal and inconsistent. In a relatively recent article, highly germane to this proposal,
      published in the Contemporary Reviews in Cardiovascular Medicine section of the journal
      Circulation, Flammer et al. discuss many of these issues in their article entitled "The
      assessment of endothelial function: from research to clinical practice". Interestingly, they
      conclude that a clinical tool to assess endothelial function, suitable for daily practice has
      yet to be established. Of note, sPLM was not mentioned in this review for, at this time, this
      novel method was truly in its infancy.

      sPLM, aging and NO: It is well recognized that endothelial function and, therefore NO
      bioavailability is attenuated with age and, therefore, if sPLM is, indeed, a good indicator
      of endothelial function, it would be anticipated that the role of NO would be diminished in
      the elderly population. Funded by the current VA Merit Review Award, we have confirmed this
      supposition utilizing the sPLM assessment of endothelial function. Specifically, we have
      documented that in young healthy subjects, the inhibition of NOS by L-NMMA reduced the
      hyperemic response to sPLM, as assessed by leg blood flow area under the curve (AUC), by
      65-80%. In contrast, in old subjects (>70 yr.), compared to their young counterparts, there
      was a greatly attenuated sPLM-induced hyperemia in the control condition (AUC 24 vs 147 ml)
      and a nonsignificant effect of NOS blockade, both of which are consistent with a diminished
      NO bioavailability. These findings confirm that endothelial function is diminished with age
      and this can be explained by a reduction in NO bioavailability, both of which can be
      documented by the use of sPLM.

      sPLM as a valid screening test for age-related endothelial dysfunction: During the current VA
      Merit Review Award, in healthy young and old subjects, we documented that the peripheral
      hemodynamic response to sPLM provides a highly sensitive and specific assessment of the
      recognized age-related fall in endothelial function. Compared to young subjects, the LBF
      response to sPLM in the old was markedly attenuated. sPLM LBF AUC revealed a clear
      delineation between young and old, with a cut-score of 60 ml. These data document the
      capacity for the peripheral hemodynamic responses to sPLM to provide clear and potentially
      diagnostic information to facilitate the classification of an individual as exhibiting, or
      not, age-related endothelial dysfunction, which is currently missing as a CVD risk factor.
      Additionally, these findings revealed that, in young and old populations, the relatively easy
      to assess, LBF AUC, alone, is an appropriate surrogate for the more complex leg vascular
      conductance which requires the simultaneous assessment of beat by beat blood pressure.
      Therefore, the hyperemic response to sPLM exhibits the prerequisite qualities of a valid
      screening test for peripheral endothelial dysfunction, as evidenced by an sPLM assessed
      endothelial function, CVD risk, and physical activity: There is significant evidence that
      endothelial dysfunction is associated with CVD risk. In fact, the more risk factors that are
      present, the worse are both the epicardial56 and peripheral endothelial function. Endothelial
      dysfunction may, therefore, represent the effect of these risk factors on vascular health.
      However, it is again important to recognize that impaired endothelial function precedes
      structural changes and may therefore be considered "a barometer" of the total cardiovascular
      risk burden of an individual. Thus, even a new method with limited long-term data, which
      professes to allow the assessment of endothelial function, must demonstrate some relation to
      CVD risk and risk factor modifications, such as increased physical activity, that can alter
      CVD risk. Although cross-sectional, there is evidence that endothelial function assessed by
      the blood flow response to sPLM, is, indeed, attenuated with increasing CVD risk and altered
      by physical activity. Specifically, although there is variability within each group of
      subjects, which would be expected and makes individual assessment so important, it is clear
      that the young and old active subjects exhibit superior endothelial function compared to
      their age-matched sedentary counterparts, as assessed by sPLM. Additionally, these data
      suggest that while greater physical activity can improve endothelial function in the old, the
      elderly subjects do not achieve the same endothelial function of the young subjects,
      indicating age-related dysfunction. Finally, of apparently healthy subjects, the old inactive
      subjects have the most attenuated endothelial function due to being male, inactive, and >70
      yrs. of age. Of note, in terms of endothelial function, as assessed by sPLM, this group is
      closest to the patients with heart failure, illustrating the ultimate consequence of numerous
      CVD risk factors and greatly attenuated endothelial function. This clear link between the
      sPLM-induced increase in blood flow and CVD risk supports the concept that the development
      and ultimately the adoption of sPLM as a tool to non-invasively assess endothelial function
      could have a significant impact on both the VA Health Care System and health care in general.
      However, currently there are no longitudinal pre- and post-rehabilitation sPLM data to
      document the efficacy of sPLM in this arena.

      In summary, from work performed in the current Merit Review Award, the novel sPLM-induced
      increase in LBF method to assess endothelial function appears to be both valid, reliable, and
      clinically relevant. Furthermore, sPLM surpasses previous approaches in many respects,
      including ease of performance and analysis, is predominantly NO-mediated, and can identify
      the typical age-related decline in endothelial function with advancing age, apparent
      inactivity, and disease. sPLM may be the clinically relevant tool that has long been missing
      from the healthcare provider's arsenal. However, it is now necessary to longitudinally assess
      sPLM in the rehabilitation arena and to formally assess the diagnostic value, of the sPLM
      paradigm, for CVD.

      Two Specific Aims are proposed, with preliminary data supporting the approach and
      feasibility.

        1. HOW DOES THE PASSIVE SINGLE LEG MOVEMENT (sPLM) ASSESSMENT OF ENDOTHELIAL FUNCTION
           RESPOND TO CARDIAC REHABILITATION WITH ADVANCING AGE?

           Specific Aim 1A: Determine the impact of cardiac rehabilitation on sPLM assessed
           endothelial function in both old subjects and patients diagnosed with CVD.

           Approach: sPLM assessments of endothelial function performed in both a group of
           relatively healthy old subjects and patients diagnosed with CVD before and after a 12
           week cardiac rehabilitation program will document the effect of cardiac rehabilitation
           on endothelial function.

           Hypothesis: The sPLM assessment of endothelial function will improve following cardiac
           rehabilitation in both relatively healthy old subjects and patients diagnosed with CVD.

           Specific Aim 1B: Determine the predominant vasodilatory pathway responsible for the
           change in sPLM assessed endothelial function as a consequence of cardiac rehabilitation
           in old subjects.

           Approach: The measurement of femoral artery blood flow in response to sPLM in young (no
           rehabilitation) and old subjects (pre- and post-rehabilitation), with and without
           intra-arterially infused NO synthase (NOS) blockade (NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA))
           and in combination with prostaglandin (PG) blockade (Ketorolac) and endothelium-derived
           hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) blockade (Fluconazole) will document the role of these
           dilators in the sPLM response with aging and, subsequently, with cardiac rehabilitation
           in the old.

           Hypothesis 1: Pre-rehabilitation the old subject's sPLM response will be less dependent
           on NO and more dependent on PG- and EDHF-induced vasodilation than the young.

           Hypotheses 2: Rehabilitation in the old will increase the role of NO in the sPLM-induced
           hyperemia, as evidenced by the restoration of the impact of L-NMMA and diminution of the
           combined effect of PG and EDHF on the sPLM response to that of the young.

        2. DOES THE sPLM ASSESSMENT OF ENDOTHELIAL FUNCTION PROVIDE A NOVEL, CLINICALY MEANINGFUL
           RISK MARKER FOR CVD?

      Specific Aim: Determine the diagnostic value of sPLM assessed endothelial function for CVD.

      Approach: The sPLM assessment of endothelial function and classic measures (blood pressure,
      body mass index, fasting blood lipids, and glucose) and markers of subclinical vascular
      disease (Framingham Risk Score, coronary artery calcium score, ankle brachial index,
      flow-mediated dilation, carotid intima-thickness, and C-reactive protein) in healthy subjects
      and patients with CVD will determine the diagnostic value of sPLM for CVD, demonstrating the
      clinical utility of this measurement.

      Hypothesis: The sPLM assessment of endothelial function will have a high diagnostic accuracy
      for CVD prevalence that is superior to classic measures and markers of subclinical vascular
      disease.
    
  