
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To establish whether endoscopic surveillance every 2 years or endoscopy at need only is
           superior in terms of overall survival and, if neither is superior, whether endoscopy at
           need only is non-inferior to surveillance every 2 years in patients with Barrett
           esophagus.

      Secondary

        -  To estimate the cost-effectiveness of endoscopic surveillance every 2 years as compared
           to endoscopy at need only.

        -  To establish whether there is a significant difference between endoscopic surveillance
           every 2 years or endoscopy at need only in terms of the incidence of esophageal cancer,
           gastric or esophageal cancer, or all cancers.

        -  To establish whether there is a significant difference between endoscopic surveillance
           every 2 years or endoscopy at need only in terms of the time to diagnosis of esophageal
           adenocarcinoma.

        -  To establish whether there is a significant difference between endoscopic surveillance
           every 2 years or endoscopy at need only in terms of the stage of esophageal
           adenocarcinoma at diagnosis using TNM staging.

        -  To establish whether there is a significant difference between endoscopic surveillance
           every 2 years or endoscopy at need only in terms of morbidity and mortality related to
           endoscopy, esophageal surgery, and other endoscopy-related interventions (e.g.,
           ablation).

        -  To establish whether there is a significant difference between endoscopic surveillance
           every 2 years or endoscopy at need only in terms of the frequency of endoscopy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age at diagnosis
      (< 65 years vs ≥ 65 years), length of Barrett metaplasia segment including tongues (< 2 cm vs
      ≥ 2 cm and ≤ 3 cm vs > 3 cm and ≤ 8 cm vs > 8 cm), and newly diagnosed disease (defined as
      the date of endoscopy confirming Barrett metaplasia was within the past 4 months) (yes vs
      no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo surveillance endoscopy with quadrantic biopsies taken every 2
           cm. Patients undergo endoscopy every 2 years for a total of 6 endoscopies over 10 years.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo endoscopy as needed over 10 years. All patients may undergo
           urgent endoscopy if they develop dysphagia, unexplained weight loss of > 7 lb,
           iron-deficiency anemia, recurrent vomiting, or worsening upper gastrointestinal
           symptoms.

      All patients complete a questionnaire that includes a quality-of-life measure and questions
      about medication at baseline, every 2 years, and following key events (e.g., diagnosis of any
      cancer or high-grade dysplasia).
    
  