
    
      Primary objective: To evaluate the technical feasibility and delivery of a comprehensive
      program that leads to prevention and management of symptoms of COPD in early stage lung
      cancer patients undergoing curative therapy, promotes and leads to smoking cessation, and
      evaluates potentially unknown cardiopulmonary co-morbid or therapeutically-induced diseases
      in the cancer patient.

      Secondary objective(s):

        1. To document overall survival of patients undergoing lung SBRT plus preventative care,
           including evaluation and treatment by a pulmonologist and cardiologist in combination
           with a tobacco cessation program (for those currently smoking or within 6 months of
           quitting), and pulmonary rehabilitation. Overall survival and other tumor recurrence and
           survival endpoints will be compared to historical controls.

        2. To evaluate quality of life (QOL) changes of patients undergoing lung SBRT with usual
           care plus evaluation and treatment by a pulmonologist and cardiologist in combination
           with a tobacco cessation program (for those currently smoking), and pulmonary
           rehabilitation.

        3. To evaluate primary tumor control, regional control, distant metastasis and
           progression-free and cause-specific survival rates.

        4. To evaluate toxicity rates, including pulmonary and cardiotoxicity after SBRT. Diagnosis
           and management of cardiopulmonary toxicities may be greater for these patients
           undergoing routine evaluation by specialist physicians.

        5. To evaluate smoking cessation rates after employing an Ask, Assist and Refer method for
           smoking cessation.

        6. To evaluate second primary lung cancer rates and compare them to historical controls.

        7. To evaluate changes in pulmonary function, 6-minute walk test and V02 max values with
           participation in pulmonary rehabilitation.

        8. To document hospitalization rates after SBRT using these preventative care strategies.

        9. To explore the impact of SBRT on ventilation and changes in functional lung using
           4-Dimensional computed tomography(4DCT) before and after SBRT.

       10. To study the potential impact of SBRT on cardiac function using pre-and post-SBRT EKG
           and echocardiography.

      Patients for this study will be identified in the Radiation Oncology department as being
      planned to receive SBRT for their lung cancer. All eligibility will be reviewed. Once a
      patient is deemed eligible and reviewed and signed the informed consent, he/she will be asked
      to complete the smoking questionnaire available on the state of Michigan (MI) Quitline. If a
      patient is deemed eligible and decline to enroll, they will be asked to voluntarily complete
      the American Heart Association (AHA) Smoking Quiz as an eligible patient exit form. Following
      their completion of this quiz, they will be asked again if they are certain of their desire
      to decline the study. All enrolled patients will also complete the AHA smoking quiz.

      Before Treatment:

      All eligibility will be confirmed and pre-treatment standard staging activities (history and
      physical, zubrod, weight, thoracic surgeon evaluation, chest CT with contrast,
      18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography/computed
      tomography (PET/CT), Pulmonary Function Test, bloodwork and pregnancy safety evaluation) will
      have occurred.

      A baseline pulmonologist referral will be made within 4 weeks before/after SBRT.

      A baseline cardiologist referral will be made within 4 weeks before/after SBRT.

      Baseline EKG and echocardiogram (ECHO) will be done prior to the 1st fraction of SBRT.

      Pulmonary rehab baseline assessment including a 6 Minute Walk Test, oxygen consumption (VO2
      max) will occur prior to treatment.

      Charlson Comorbidity Index Evaluation will occur prior to treatment.

      Quality of life, Depression, Anxiety, and Craving Assessment questionnaires will be
      completed.

      Subject will also have a urine or saliva Nicotine evaluation and enrollment in the Michigan
      Tobacco Quitline program which requires a cell phone or tablet owned by the patient. This is
      a free service within Michigan, available to any smokers, not specific for the study.

      SBRT will take place as prescribed by the treating radiation oncologist within the standard
      parameters. On-Treatment Visits (OTV) will occur weekly during the SBRT and include a history
      and physical, zubrod (performance score), weight, hospitalization and smoking assessment, and
      urine or saliva Nicotine evaluation . As part of the study, nicotine replacement is required
      to be ordered as is daily visits/calls with a smoking cessation specialist.

      After completion of radiotherapy, the subject will have weekly visits/calls with the smoking
      cessation specialist for 6 weeks.

      Post-Treatment visits:

      At 6 weeks post SBRT-the patient will come back to the radiation oncology clinic for a
      history and physical, zubrod, and weight. The patient also have pulmonary function testing
      (PFT), adverse event reporting, 6 minute walk test and pulmonary rehab per plan developed
      pre-treatment, hospitalization and smoking assessment #1 Research 4DCT, not diagnostic, will
      be obtained at this visit and done in the radiation oncology department.

      The following testing will happen, as stated at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, and then annually per
      standard. Procedures specific to this study will be completed at 24 months. Any annual
      testing is standard and that data will be used at the time of analysis so it is captured in
      the patient consent and table of events.

        -  History and physical exam (3, 6, 9, 12 months)

        -  Performance status and weight (6, 9, 12, 18, 24, + annual)

        -  Cardiologist evaluation with EKG/ECHO (6 months)

        -  CT chest with contrast (3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 42, 48 months, then annual)

        -  FDG PET (3 months)

        -  PFT (3, 6, 12, 18, 24 months, then annual)

        -  Bloodwork- Complete blood count (CBC)/Chemistries (3 months)

        -  Tumor evaluation (3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, then annual)

        -  Adverse event (side effects) evaluation (3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, and annual)

        -  2nd primary lung cancer documentation (not patient test-study specific notation)-(12, 24
           months then annual)

        -  6-minute walk test, V02 Max (3, 6, 12, 24, + annual)

        -  QOL Assessment (3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, + annual)

        -  Hospitalization and Smoking Assessment (3, 6, 9, 12, 18, then every 6 months to 36
           months then annual)

        -  Urine/Saliva Nicotine evaluation (6, 12, 24 months, then annual if needed)

        -  Depression, Anxiety, and Craving Assessments (6, 12 months) •# 2 Research 4DCT (6
           months)
    
  