
    
      We are proposing to evaluate the clinical utility and efficacy of a new therapeutic exercise
      modality for patients with progressive MS with severe functional impairments.

      Progressive MS patients have limited treatment options and reach higher disability levels at
      a faster rate than relapsing remitting MS patients. Consequently, finding solutions to
      maintain function and improve quality of life of patients with progressive MS is essential.

      A traditional training modality for patients with limited mobility is body-weight supported
      treadmill training (BWSTT). Our preliminary results support the efficacy of BWSTT in
      progressive MS patients; however, the financial burden and labour-intensive nature of BWSTT
      does not make it a viable option for most settings. For the aforementioned reasons, we are
      proposing total body recumbent stepper training (TBRST) as an alternative therapy for
      progressive MS patients with mobility impairments. TBRST is advantageous over BWSTT in that
      it has low set-up and maintenance costs, is easily used by patients with limited mobility and
      requires minimal assistance to operate. TBRST has the potential to become part of
      conventional MS treatment programs and could easily be incorporated into home and community
      settings. The primary aim of this investigation is to establish safety and satisfaction with
      TBRST in progressive MS patients. Second, we plan to determine if TBRST is as effective as a
      BWSTT as a therapeutic modality.

      Twenty patients with progressive MS (primary and secondary) of high disability level (EDSS
      6.0-8.0) will be recruited to participate in this study. Both primary and secondary MS
      patients will be included due to similarities in disease progression and a lack of available
      alternative treatments for this population. Patients will be randomized to either the TBRST
      or BWSTT intervention; there will be 10 patients in each group. Patients in the TBRST program
      will train using the Nustep (TRS 4000) recumbent cross trainer. The recumbent cross trainer
      allows patients to move their legs in a natural stepping motion with bilateral reciprocal
      movement of the arms from a seated position. Foot straps, leg stabilizers and hand
      stabilizers may be used for added control and proper body alignment when necessary. Patients
      in the BWSTT group will exercise using the Woodway Loco-system which allows a portion of the
      patient's body-weight to be off-loaded by an overhead pulley system. Treadmill therapists
      will guide the patients' legs through a proper gait motion and assist with lower limb
      control.

      Participants in both interventions will complete three weekly exercise sessions of 30min, for
      the duration of 12 weeks. Perceived exertion will be used as an indicator of exercise
      intensity and will guide program progression. Both intervention groups will maintain a
      perceived exertion of 5-7 on the Borg CR10 Scale throughout the exercise program. All
      patients will be evaluated at baseline and following 12 weeks on a variety of outcome
      measures. Primary outcome measures will be safety and satisfaction with TBRST. Secondary
      outcomes will be functional ability using the EDSS and MSFC, quality of life using the
      MSQOL-54, fatigue using the MFIS and MS self-efficacy using the MSSE. The proposed research
      will take place over one year with enrolment and intervention programs commencing in a graded
      manner.
    
  