
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Heavy metals are a heterogeneous group of highly reactive substances, which may act as
      essential cofactors for physiologic processes and/or as toxic elements. Chromium, in
      particular, has been associated with obesity, diabetes, and weight loss. Other heavy metals
      have been associated with some of the consequences of obesity, including hypertension,
      hyperlipidemia, and cardiovascular disease. The Look AHEAD Study, a large randomized
      controlled trial of intensive lifestyle intervention for weight loss in obese patients with
      Type 2 diabetes mellitus, provides an excellent opportunity to address the impact of chromium
      on weight loss and diabetes control, as well as to assess the impact of other heavy metals on
      the physiologic consequences of weight loss.

      The study is ancillary to the Look AHEAD clinical trial which is sponsored primarily by the
      National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases and secondarily by the
      National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, the National Institute of Nursing Research, the
      Office of Research on Women's Health, the National Center on Minority Health and Health
      Disparities, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The Look AHEAD study is a
      multicenter, randomized clinical trial to examine the long-term effects of a lifestyle
      intervention designed to achieve and maintain weight loss in overweight diabetics.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This is an ancillary prospective observational study within the Look AHEAD trial. The
      ancillary study will collect toenail clippings from all participants (n = 5,000) at baseline
      and at the 1-year visit, and analyze a random subset of the toenails for their heavy metal
      content using instrumental neutron activation analysis. Toenails provide a time-integrated
      measure of heavy metal exposure, while instrumental neutron activation analysis provides the
      concentrations of about 50 heavy metals in the toenail samples, including chromium. This
      information will allow an evaluation of the relationship of baseline toenail chromium
      concentrations to weight loss, as well as the interaction between heavy metals and the
      beneficial effects of weight loss. The proposed study may provide, valuable insight into the
      determinants of the efficacy of weight loss interventions. In fact, the Look AHEAD trial,
      because of its size, may be one of the few studies in which these relationships can be
      measured reliably. In addition, the ancillary study will permit the setup of a specimen bank
      of toenails to be used in future case-cohort or nested case-control studies of the
      association of heavy metals with Look AHEAD endpoints, especially myocardial infarction and
      cardiovascular death.
    
  