
    
      Postoperative delirium (POD) is a common problem among elders who undergo surgery and
      anesthesia, with major health consequences. This investigation is expected to clarify and
      understand the role of neurocognitive reserve in the occurrence of POD, provide grounds to
      preoperative cognitive risk stratification and early preventive interventions to improve
      patients' outcomes. The surgical procedure and anesthesia are stressor events that interact
      with underlying risk factors and play an important role in the development of POD. Evidence
      is lacking to make recommendations on anesthesia related perioperative interventions. This
      investigation will contribute to better understand the association between types of
      anesthesia, medications, monitoring and other anesthesia related factors that can be a target
      for preventive interventions. This research will add knowledge and clarify the role of
      predictors and precipitant factors that might enlighten future research on risk
      stratification models and interventions, prognostic significance, and treatment implications
      for POD.

      All patients scheduled for Neurosurgery will be approached the day before surgery to assess
      if inclusion criteria are met and obtain informed consent. If so, preoperative evaluation
      will be performed by two nurse investigators responsible for admission of patients in the
      Neurosurgical ward.

      The Mini-Cog test and the will be administered before surgery to all participants as
      cognitive assessment tool. The social-economical status will be evaluated regarding the level
      of education in years, level of physical activity, occupation, income and number of languages
      spoken (all categorized with appropriate scales). Also, during the preoperative evaluation,
      demographic data, alcohol consumption, smoking, use of visual or hearing aids, comorbidities,
      usual medication and preoperative laboratory test results will be obtained and recorded in a
      form. On the day of the surgery, as the patient arrives at the Operating Room (OR), the
      anesthesiologist will check for informed consent and the patient will be monitored with the
      following with the standard ASA protocol.

      The Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is a technology widely used in clinical investigation
      as an index of brain and tissue oxygenation. The INVOS© Cerebral/Somatic Oximetry is used in
      high-risk patients or surgeries to provide continuous, real-time, regional oxygen saturation
      (rSO2. The monitoring parameters, excluding the INVOS©, will be continuously recorded on the
      software program RugloopII© Waves (Demed, Genk, Belgium).

      In the Post-Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU) the infrared pupillometer will be used to measure the
      patient pupillary reflexes 15 minutes after admission and before PACU discharge.

      All included patients will be followed postoperatively from day 1 to the last day
      in-hospital, if hospitalized for less than 3 days, or until day 3. The investigator nurse
      will apply the Nu-DESC daily as a tool to screen delirium. The CAM will be applied to
      diagnose delirium if the patient is screened with POD. Pain will be evaluated using a
      standard 100mm VAS for pain (VAS=0 no pain, VAS=100 worst pain). Before hospital discharge
      all participants will retake the Mini-Cog test and the MMSE.
    
  