
    
      Pregnancy is a period of transition and great change, which may make some women more
      vulnerable to mental health problems. It is known that depressive symptoms during pregnancy
      may influence birth outcomes. Perinatal mental health disorders may become more prevalent
      during a time of acute crisis, and the prevalence of maternal anxiety, distress, and
      perinatal depression can be expected to increase globally, as a result of the COVID-19
      pandemic. However, there might be cross-national differences in the risk factors and impact
      of pandemic on the prevalence of perinatal mental health disorders.

      Some pregnant women might be predisposed to posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) during a
      crisis situation, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Mothers who developed PTSD in response to
      the 9/11 terrorist attacks had lower morning and evening salivary cortisol levels, compared
      to mothers who did not develop PTSD. Beyond effects on the mother alone, perinatal mental
      health issues can have long-term effects on child´s mental and physical health, as well as
      the participants behavior and cognition. Distress in pregnant women may affect the fetus and
      is known to induce epigenetic changes in the placental genes. Increased risk of
      psychopathology is observed in children exposed to maternal prenatal distress. Elevated
      maternal cortisol and epigenetic regulation of placental glucocorticoid-pathway genes are
      potential mechanisms for these observations. Women often express feelings of inadequacy in
      the new mothering role, which can furthermore negatively impact the participants mental
      health and the relationship to the infant.

      Effective treatments are needed to address high global rates of postpartum depression (PPD)
      with onset typically within 4 weeks after delivery and maternal depression up to two years
      after delivery. Programs aimed at reducing PPD could achieve the most cost-efficient results
      by focusing efforts in the critical time periods around childbirth. Web-based psychosocial
      support provided by trained public health nurses is an effective treatment method for PPD.
      Limited public health resources are challenges to the accessibility of mental health
      services, which is why the use of web-based psychosocial support could be a good alternative.
      Women perceive the risk for themselves or their infants to be above average during global
      crises, which increases the levels of uncertainty. However, face-to-face consultations during
      a pandemic are likely to increase the risk of disease transmission. Therefore, easily
      accessible eHealth support could provide fast and resource-effective care during the COVID-19
      pandemic.

      The study will generate evidence on whether web-based early intervention programs could be
      efficient in ameliorating the risk and severity of perinatal mental health disorders, and
      inform best clinical practice for women affected by the consequences of the COVID-19
      pandemic.
    
  