
    
      Calprotectin is a biomarker closely associated with leucocytes in general, and is present in
      high volumes in neutrophil cells. Calprotectin is also produced by infiltrating monocytes and
      macrophages, where calprotectin is released upon phagocytosis. In neutrophils, calprotectin
      is stored intracellularly and are released upon activation of the cell. The determination of
      number of neutrophils and proportion of neutrophils out of total number of inflammatory cells
      is a diagnostic strategy commonly used in diagnosis of infection. Upon encounter with a
      pathogen, neutrophils have several strategies to fight infections , and produce high-levels
      of calprotectin. Activation of neutrophils, and release of calprotectin, can be for any
      reason causing activation of the complement system and aseptic Inflammatory responses.
      Moreover, Calprotectin is a danger associated molecular patterns (DAMP) signal influencing
      the inflammatory responses. The level of activated neutrophils in PJI provide basis of the
      presence of calprotectin in the synovial fluid of PJI patients, and thus, for calprotectin as
      a potential biomarker for PJI. Calprotectin-levels in the synovial fluid do not merely
      reflect the level of leucocytes and neutrophils present in the synovial fluid, but levels are
      correlated to the WBC content. Calprotectin is likely to reflect the number of activated
      cells and surpass the diagnostic accuracy of total WBC counts and neutrophil percentage for
      PJI diagnosis.

      A level of calprotectin of 50 mg/L in the synovial fluid has very good diagnostic accuracy
      for PJI, supported by area under the curve values of more than 0.9. In a subgroup analysis
      for patients with chronic PJI, a NPV of 97% was observed. The excellent NPV may assist in the
      orthopaedic clinic to rule out the presence of infection and consider diagnostic alternatives
      for aseptic loosening and pain revision of the joint patient. A rapid and accurate
      distinction between these two causes is important as PJI and aseptic loosening are managed
      differently with regards to surgical Intervention and followup.

      Point of Care Test diagnostics by lateral flow devices provides reliable test results within
      minutes of sample collection. Currently, Calprotectin can be detected by such lateral flow
      devices (developed by Orthogenics, Tromsø, Norway). The speed and ease of use of this test
      allows for diagnosis at patient's bed side. These tests can be applied in the physician's
      office, operating room, an ambulance, the home, the field, or in the hospital. As the results
      are timely they allow rapid diagnostic and identifies treatment alternatives for the patient.
      This technology empowers clinicians to make decisions at the "point-of-care" and can have
      significant impact on health care delivery and ability to address challenges of health
      disparities. However, it is important to validate the diagnostic utility of calprotectin POC
      in a diverse set of patients undergoing revision arthroplasty.
    
  