
    
      Study patients. Written informed consent was obtained from all subjects. The study meets the
      standards of the Declaration of Helsinki in its revised version of 1975 and its amendments of
      1983, 1989, and 1996.

      Study design. The study was designed as a prospective randomized trial. Subjects were
      randomly divided into two groups, A and B, using a randomization list. Both groups performed
      three month of physical training. Group A underwent endurance training, while group B
      performed endurance-strength training. Aside from the training, all subjects were instructed
      to maintain the physical activity and diet that they had been practicing so far. At baseline
      and after three months of physical training, anthropometric measurements were performed and
      psychological questionnaires (Perceived Stress Scale (PSS-10); The Rosenberg Self-Esteem
      Scale (SES); Body Shape Questionnaire (BSQ - 34); Figure rating scale (FRS); The Three-Factor
      Eating Questionnaire-18 (TFEQ-18)) were fulfilled for both groups.

      Intervention. The exercise program lasted three months, with three sessions per week. Women
      in both groups participated in a total of 36 training sessions. The women in group A
      underwent endurance exercise on cycle ergometers (Schwinn Evolution, Schwinn Bicycle Company,
      Boulder, Colorado, USA). Exercise sessions consisted of a five-minute warm-up (stretching
      exercise) at low intensity (50%-60% of maximum heart rate), a 45-minute exercise (at 50%-80%
      of maximum heart rate), five minutes of cycling without a load, and five minutes of closing
      stretching and breathing exercise of low intensity. Group B performed endurance-strength
      exercise consisting of a five-minute warm-up (stretching exercises) of low intensity (50%-60%
      of maximum heart rate), a strength component, an endurance component, 5 minutes cycling
      without a load, and a 5 minutes closing stretching and breathing exercise of low intensity.
      The 20-minute-long strength component was performed using a neck barbell and a gymnastic
      ball. Directly after the strength exercise, the women took part in a 25-minute endurance
      exercise on cycle ergometers (Schwinn Evolution, Schwinn Bicycle Company, Boulder, Colorado,
      USA) at 50%-80% of maximum heart rate. Both the endurance and endurance-strength training
      were comparable in exercise volume; the only difference was the nature of the effort.
    
  