
    
      The goal of this proposal is to provide therapy to patients with severe, treatment-refractory
      obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) by stimulating in two separate, but related, brain
      regions, the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) and the ventral anterior limb of the
      internal capsule and adjacent ventral striatum (VC/VS) with a novel Medtronic PC+S deep brain
      stimulation (DBS) system. While providing this DBS therapy, use of this new,
      recording-capable device will allow collection of data about brain activity in these two
      regions. This data will enable researchers to further elucidate the exact mechanisms of DBS
      therapy, as well as the neuropathophyisiology of OCD. This study aims to 1) gather evidence
      for corticostriatal changes in OCD in response to acute and chronic VC/VS DBS treatment and
      2) specifically disrupt or enhance synchrony in the cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical (CSTC)
      circuit.

      Deep Brain stimulation involves bilateral stereotactic placement of stimulating "leads" into
      specific brain structures. Leads are attached to permanent subcutaneous wires and
      battery-powered implantable neurostimulators (INSs). Noninvasive INS programming can achieve
      a balance between maximal benefit (reduction in disabling OCD symptoms), while minimizing
      adverse effects (eg sensorimotor effects such as dysarthria or paresthesias; as well as
      behavioral side effects, e.g., hypomania, insomnia, or increased anxiety). HDE approval was
      granted in February 2009, and IDE approval was granted in February 2016. Multiple hospitals
      around the country have established HDE protocols to implant patients with intractable OCD
      who have failed conventional therapies, and some hospitals, like us, have obtained
      Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) approval to conduct pilot clinical trials. The
      existing model of DBS for OCD only addresses one aspect of the brain circuit implicated in
      the CSTC circuit, the VC/VS target. Therapy with this device, under this protocol, will also
      be able to provide stimulation to the cortical part of this circuit. Single-site VC/VS DBS
      may not adequately target the putative circuit. If OCD symptoms do arise from CSTC loop
      dysfunction, this implies that the problem is one of improper information flow between
      connected brain areas. Thus, modifying circuit activity may require coordinated intervention
      at multiple points to effectively synchronize or de-synchronize the full loop. Stimulation
      that specifically interrupts reverberant activity between prefrontal cortex and striatum will
      be superior to VC/VS DBS alone at relieving symptoms of OCD. We will test this by
      simultaneously implanting stimulating/recording electrodes at both VC/VS and a dorsolateral
      prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) target bilaterally.
    
  