
    
      In R patients an increase of the mean diameter of the neoplastic cells should be present from
      the first week of CHT with a consequent reduction of the ADC-value. Then, the ADC-value
      should increase after 2-3 weeks due to the reduction of the cellular volume and to the
      increase of the membrane permeability. In NR patients, these biochemical changes should not
      be present with a consequent constant ADC-value before/after CHT. Our multicentre study will
      allow the recruitment of a higher number of patients vs. previous studies. Moreover,
      presently the outcome of CHT in liver metastases is evaluated only after 2-3 cycles of CHT
      according to the RECIST (Response-Evaluation-Criteria-In-Solid-Tumors) and then merely on a
      dimensional basis. Anyway, frequently liver metastases in R patients, can not show any
      significant dimensional change, while they present several biochemical/metabolic changes, not
      included in the RECIST, but probably detectable by DW-MRI.

      The principal objective of the study is the early assessment of CHT outcome in liver
      metastases and advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Patients with liver metastasis will
      be stratified as R and NR on the basis of the contrast-enhanced CT examination performed 20
      days after the beginning of the second cycle of CHT; patients with HCC undergoing therapy
      with Sorafenib will be stratified as R and NR on the basis of the contrast-enhanced CT
      examination performed 90 days after the beginning of the therapy. The ADC-values obtained
      before and after the first CHT cycle will be compared between each patient category to assess
      the grade of agreement between the dimensional and functional parameters. Moreover, the
      investigators' aim is to assess whether those liver metastases or HCCs presenting a lower
      ADC-value before CHT are actually more responsive to CHT in comparison to liver metastases
      and HCCs presenting a higher ADC-value.

      Secondary objectives: to propose some additional functional criteria to the RECIST 1.1 and
      mRECIST (for HCC) criteria based on water diffusion and biochemical changes of the neoplastic
      cells. As a further objective it is possible to hypothesize a different response to CHT of
      the different tumor histotypes detectable from the different ADC changes induced by CHT.

      Patient population

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  of age, compliant, patients enrolled for CHT, without major contraindications to the MR
           examination;

        -  non-confluent liver metastases, from every primary carcinoma histotype
           biopsy/surgical-proven, without intralesional necrosis/calcification involving >30% of
           their volume;

        -  multiple confluent hepatocellular carcinomas, histotype biopsy/surgical-proven in
           prevision of treatment with Sorafenib;

        -  at least one marker lesion allowing reproducible ADC measurements, i.e. placed at the
           level of the lower right liver segments;

        -  detection/enrolment by contrast-enhanced CT before CHT that allow to define the lesion
           size or the gross parenchymal involvement (if HCC).

      Each patient will sign an informed consent, after the procedure will be completely explained.

      For the metastasis: three diameter of each marker lesion will be measured, and the
      mean/minimal/maximal ADC±standard deviation will be quantified by region-of-interests (ROIs)
      placed within the lesion avoiding lesion margins and the necrotic/intratumoral calcification
      areas. All measurements will be repeated for three times even at the level of the adjacent
      liver parenchyma (within 3 cm from the lesion margins, keeping a ROI diameter >2 cm).
      Consequently, the absolute values (s/mm2) of ADC, and the ADC percentages vs. the adjacent
      liver parenchyma measured at the different times will be compared.

      For HCC: three diameter of gross parenchymal involvement will be measured, and the
      mean/minimal/maximal ADC±standard deviation will be quantified by large region-of-interests
      (ROIs) placed within the liver lobe containing the involvement. All measurements will be
      repeated for three times even at the level of the adjacent normal liver parenchyma (within 3
      cm from the lesion margins, keeping a ROI diameter >2 cm). Consequently, the absolute values
      (s/mm2) of ADC, and the ADC percentages vs. the adjacent liver parenchyma measured at the
      different times will be compared.

      Imaging

      For metastasis: patients will be scanned by DW-MRI and contrast-enhanced CT before the
      beginning of CHT (Time 0). The time between the initial MRI and contrast-enhanced CT should
      not be superior to one week. MRI examination will be repeated within one week (Time 1) and 20
      days from the beginning of the first cycle of CHT (Time 2), and 20 days from the beginning of
      the second cycle of CHT (Time 3).

      For HCC: patients will be scanned by DW-MRI and contrast-enhanced CT before the beginning of
      CHT (Time 0). The time between the initial MRI and contrast-enhanced CT should not be
      superior to one week. MRI examination will be repeated after 30 days (Time 1), 60 days and 90
      days (Time 3) from the beginning of the CHT.

      Contrast-enhanced CT will be performed contemporarily or within one week after the last MRI
      examination.

      Contrast-enhanced CT examination will be performed according to an established protocol by
      using a 16/64-row equipment according to the centre involved, contrast bolus-track
      technology, slice- thickness reconstruction of 3 mm, before/after ev. injection of iodinated
      contrast agent (3 mL/s), during arterial/portal phase.

      All MR examinations will be carried out using the following 1.5-T units:

        -  Gyroscan ACS NT Intera Release 12 (Philips, Eindhoven, The Netherlands) (Trieste and
           Florence), gradient strength, 30 mT/m; slew rate, 120 T/m/s; six-channel phased array
           multicoil;

        -  Magnetom Avanto (Siemens, Erlangen, Germany) (Treviso and Napoli), gradient strength, 45
           mT/m; slew rate, 200 T/m/s; 2 phased-array coils with 18 elements. The different MR
           equipments employed by the different centers will be calibrated by a dedicated phantom.

      The phased array multicoil will be adequately positioned to cover the upper abdomen of the
      subject lying in a supine position, the arms extended over the head to avoid artifacts.
      Patients, fasting from 4 hours, will be instructed to maintain a constant respiration depth,
      even with the possibility to use exogenous oxygen delivery to avoid deep respiration. All
      acquisitions will be obtained by single-shot sequence to obtain immediately/automatically the
      ADC-values.

      The protocol included the following acquisitions:

        1. T2-weighted half-Fourier single-shot turbo spin-echo (HASTE) free-breath sequence;
           transverse/coronal plane; TR/TE, 810/80 ms; echo-train length, 69; slice number, 40;
           slice thickness, 5 mm; intersection gap, 10%; field of view, 300-420 mm; effective
           matrix size, 256 x 165; number signal averages (NSA), 1; total acquisition time, 2-3
           min;

        2. T1-weighted 2D gradient echo in/out phase breath-hold sequence; transverse plane; TR/TE,
           231-121/ 14.6-2.3 ms; slice thickness, 5 mm; slice number, 24; intersection gap,10%;
           flip angle, 80°; sense factor, 1.5; field of view, 300-420 mm; effective matrix size,
           256 x 165; NSA, 1; total acquisition time, 18 s;

        3. D-weighted echo-planar imaging (EPI) single-shot free-breath sequences will be acquired
           on transverse plane with variable EPI factor and the following parameters. Fat
           suppression will be obtained by spectral pre-saturation inversion recovery. Isotropic
           motion probing gradients will be applied for each DwI acquisition and for each b-value
           will be obtained images and corresponding ADC map.

      The investigators presently define as R those patients who show a reduction of the liver
      metastasis or HCC diameter ≥30% on contrast-enhanced CT at three weeks after the beginning of
      the second CHT cycle; if not, it was considered NR. Changes in tumor size after treatment
      were calculated by using the formula % Vend =(VB -Vend)/VBx100, where VB was lesion size
      before treatment (maximum transverse diameter) and Vend was lesion size 20 days after the
      second administration.

      On the basis of the dimensional reduction of liver metastases and parenchymal involvement
      (for HCC) on contrast-enhanced CT on Time 3 vs. Time 0 scan, each patient will be classified
      as R or NR according to the RECIST and mRECIST criteria. Afterwards, on the basis of the
      ADC-values measured during the different MR examinations, the inter/intra-individual
      ADC-values will be compared to the results of contrast-enhanced CT to assess the relation
      between reduction of the liver metastasis diameter and:

        -  increase of the ADC-value on Time 3 (after the end of CHT);

        -  reduction of the ADC-value on Time 1 (very early assessment);

        -  increase of the ADC-value on Time 2 (early assessment); and to assess whether the
           lesions with the highest pre-treatment ADC-value present also the highest dimensional
           reduction and the highest ADC-value at the end of CHT; In each center each evaluation
           will be performed three times by two blinded observers (all trained how to place the ROI
           by an inter-centre conference) to assess the reproducibility of all measurements. The
           observers who will assess the MR images will be different from the observers assessing
           the CT images and will not be aware about the size changes after CHT. The investigators
           will perform data mathematical fitting on multi-b DW-MRI data sets to calculate the true
           diffusion and the perfusion fraction.

      Statistical analysis will employ linear regression analysis to assess the association between
      the ADC-value changes and the CHT outcome.

      The transferability of the results of the present study to the clinical practice will be
      possible after the achievement of the primary objective, corresponding to the possibility of
      stratifying patients as R and NR to CHT through DW-MRI just after one week of treatment
      and/or with the pre-treatment ADC assessment. Nowadays, it is necessary to wait 20-30 days
      after the end of the second or third CHT cycle to know the individual outcome of CHT. This
      determines 2-3 months of ineffective therapy with consequent avoidable pain for the patients
      related to drug administration, and unusable costs. The possibility to know the response of
      each patient to CHT well in advance will allow avoiding vain drug administration to patients
      who could attempt a different treatment or drug combinations reducing treatment costs.

      The clinical transferability of the present study will be performed after the achievement of
      one or both the secondary objectives, corresponding to the identification of functional
      criteria based on water diffusion and biochemical features of the neoplastic cells which can
      be proposed as additional or alternative criteria to the RECIST 1.1 and mRECIST, and to the
      identification of a different response to CHT of different tumor histotypes. If only one of
      these objectives will be reached this study will achieve an important result, allowing a more
      correct assessment of individual response to CHT.
    
  