
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of CpG 7909 that can be delivered in four doses
      (days 6, 13, 20, 27) for patients with relapsed CD20+ non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. (Phase I) II.
      To assess the toxicity of CpG 7909 when combined with rituximab and Y-90 Zevalin in patients
      with lymphoma. (Phase I) III. To assess the overall response rate (CR + PR) of this regimen
      in relapsed diffuse large B cell lymphoma. (Phase II) IV. To assess the toxicity of the
      treatment regimen in patients with relapsed diffuse large B cell lymphoma. (Phase II) V. To
      assess the time to progression and duration of response in patients with relapsed diffuse
      large B cell lymphoma. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To report the response rate (complete remission + complete remission unconfirmed + partial
      remission) in this patient population after CpG 7909, rituximab, and Y-90 Zevalin. (Phase I)
      II. To compare the biodistribution of In-111 Zevalin radioimmunoconjugate scans before and
      after CpG 7909. (Phase I) III. To determine the HAMA/HACA rate in patients treated with this
      regimen. (Phase I) IV. To determine if CpG 7909 when given in the context of rituximab and
      Y-90 Zevalin can stimulate immune effector cells in the blood and tumor tissue. (Phase I)

      OUTLINE:

      This is a dose escalation study of agatolimod sodium followed by a phase II study.

      PHASE I (patients with relapsed, refractory, or residual CD20+ non-Hodgkin lymphoma [closed
      to accrual as of 10/29/07]): Patients receive rituximab IV on days 1, 8 and 15, agatolimod
      sodium IV over 2 hours on days 6, 13, 20, and 27, and yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan* IV
      over 10 minutes on day 15 in the absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity.

      *NOTE: Patients receive indium In 111 ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes on days 1 and
      8. Patients undergo whole-body gamma camera imaging, single-photon emission computed
      tomography/CT scans, and blood sampling after each dose of indium In 111 ibritumomab tiuxetan
      to determine biodistribution. If biodistribution is acceptable, patients receive yttrium Y 90
      ibritumomab tiuxetan.

      PHASE II (patients with relapsed, refractory, or residual diffuse large B-cell lymphoma):
      Patients receive agatolimod sodium at the MTD as determined in phase I. Patients receive
      rituximab and yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan as in phase I.

      *NOTE: Patients receive indium In 111 ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes on day 8.
      Patients undergo whole-body gamma camera imaging and blood sampling after each dose of indium
      In 111 ibritumomab tiuxetan to determine biodistribution.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.
    
  