
    
      Background:

        -  We hypothesize that a dose-escalation strategy that incorporates tumor targeted DNA-
           damaging chemotherapy and DNA-damage response (DDR) inhibitors could allow safe and
           effective administration of DDR inhibitor-chemotherapy combination.

        -  PLX038 is a PEGylated conjugate of SN38 with improved properties including increased
           solubility, higher exposure and longer half-life. SN-38 is the active metabolite of
           CPT-11 (irinotecan) that inhibits topoisomerase 1 (Top1) and causes DNA strand breakage.
           As a specific DNA damaging agent, SN-38 enhances cell kill in tumors deficient in the
           DNA- damage response and when combined with inhibitors of the DDR.

        -  Rucaparib is a potent oral poly ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitor that is approved
           for the maintenance treatment of participants with recurrent epithelial ovarian,
           fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in a complete or partial response
           to platinum-based chemotherapy and for the treatment of adult participants with
           deleterious BRCA mutation- associated epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary
           peritoneal cancer who have been treated with two or more chemotherapies.

        -  We hypothesize that the combination of PLX038 plus rucaparib is more efficacious than
           either agent alone.

      Objectives:

        -  Phase I: To identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of PLX038 in combination with
           rucaparib.

        -  Phase II: To assess the efficacy with respect to clinical benefit rate (CBR) (CR+PR+SD)
           for 4 months according to Response Evaluation Criteria (RECIST 1.1) of a combination of
           PLX038 and rucaparib in participants with small cell lung cancer and extra-pulmonary
           small cell carcinomas.

      Eligibility:

        -  Subjects with histologically confirmed solid tumors (Phase I) OR histologically or
           cytologically confirmed small cell lung cancer (SCLC) (Phase II) OR histologically or
           cytologically confirmed extra-pulmonary small cell carcinomas (Phase II).

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years

        -  Subjects must have evaluable or measurable disease.

        -  ECOG performance status less than or equal to 2

        -  Adequate organ function

      Design:

        -  This is an open label Phase I/II trial accruing initially one cohort to determine
           maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of combined treatment of PLX038 and rucaparib (Phase I);
           and to examine the safety and efficacy of PLX038 in combination with rucaparib in the
           following cohort (Phase II).

        -  PLX038 will be administered by IV infusion on day 1 of every 21-days cycle, rucaparib
           will be administered PO twice daily on days 3 to 19 of every cycle.

        -  Treatment will continue until progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Biomarkers of participants response to treatment will be investigated in an exploratory
           manner pre and post-treatment.
    
  