
    
      Project area

      Childbirth related fear is a public health issue strongly related to subsequent reproduction
      and women's and children's health. It could be assumed that previous negative birth
      experiences are caused by interventions and/or lack of support from staff during birth which
      in turn could be linked to women's emotional wellbeing. Childbirth related fear often
      involves a request for a caesarean section, which in turn could have short and long term
      consequences for women's and children's health. The majority of studies on childbirth related
      fear have focused on maternal characteristics and the reasons for childbirth fear. Fewer
      studies have addressed treatment options for curing childbirth fear. Standard care for women
      with childbirth related fear in Sweden, is usually counseling with midwives and sometimes
      this counseling leads to an elective caesarean section. In general, women are satisfied with
      counselling. However, research shows no major effect of counselling, neither in decreased
      numbers of cesarean sections on maternal request nor in decreased levels of childbirth
      related fear one year after birth. Today a substantial financial amount of the budget for
      women's health care is allocated to treatment of childbirth fear using counselling teams. The
      introduction of such counseling teams was introduced without being preceded by any randomized
      trials about its effects. In other areas of health care, cognitive behavior therapy is
      recommended for psychosocial issues. The present project will compare Internet based
      cognitive behavior therapy (iCBT) with standard care (SC).

      Survey of the field Childbirth related fear has gained major research interest particularly
      in the Scandinavian countries.Severe fear of childbirth has been reported to 6-10% in a
      Finish study, and fear comparable to PTSD 1.3%. Measures of childbirth related fear: The FOBS
      scale was developed in a cross-cultural comparative study where two VAS scales (measuring
      worries and fears in relation to childbirth) were combined.

      Reported reasons for fear of childbirth are; fear of pain, childhood abuse, and feelings that
      the woman or the baby will be damaged during birth or even die, being denied help from
      caregivers or felt badly treated by delivery staff and, for multiparous women previous
      emergency caesarean sections or previous negative experiences of birth.

      Treatment for childbirth fear Most Swedish hospitals have special counseling teams for women
      with childbirth fear, often called Aurora groups. Their antenatal midwife refers women to
      these special teams. The most common treatment model for these women are visits with a
      specially trained midwife, but psycho-somatic support, cognitive behavior therapy, and
      relaxation techniques are also used. This counseling treatment in Sweden has not been
      preceded by large randomized studies, but studies indicate that women are satisfied with the
      treatment. It has also been shown that women who are referred to the Aurora services more
      frequently have caesarean sections.

      Aim and research questions The aim of this study is to compare Internet given cognitive
      behavior therapy (ICBT) with standard care (SC) for pregnant women identified with childbirth
      related fear.

      Research questions: What effect does Internet given cognitive behavior therapy compare to
      standard care have on a) the level of childbirth related fear b) request for cesarean section
      c) compliance and satisfaction with care and d) costs for the treatment?

      Method

      Design: A randomized controlled trial of women with childbirth related fear. One arm will
      receive standard care and one arm cognitive behavioral therapy by internet.

      Setting: One large Swedish university hospital and two regional hospitals. Recruitment: All
      pregnant women at the routine ultrasound screening examination, offered to all pregnant women
      during gestational week 16-20, will receive oral and written information about the study. The
      recruitment process will follow two steps. First, all women who attend the ultrasound
      examination will be handed a leaflet where a few questions are asked about their age, parity,
      gestational week, access to Internet and the FOBS-scale. The women will receive a brief
      information text with information about the purpose of the study, e.g. that we are interested
      in women's feelings towards the approaching birth and if they score over the cutoff point
      will be offered to attend a study of treatment for childbirth fear. To be eligible for
      inclusion, potential participants have to meet the following criteria; a) Swedish speaking b)
      scoring ≥60 on the FOBS score c) available internet access.

      In the second step of recruitment, women who score 60 or above on the FOBS-scale will be sent
      a letter of invitation and a phone call from the recruiting midwives. The invitation letter
      and the phone call will explain the study outline and the women will be informed that they
      will be randomized either to iCBT or standard care. Informed consent from the women will be
      returned either by an on-line form to the U-CARE platform or in a prepaid envelope indicating
      consent or not. The women will be provided with login details to the U-CARE platform and all
      communication thereafter will be though the platform regardless of which arm women will be
      randomized to. After completion of a baseline questionnaire randomization to treatment will
      occur and women will receive instructions about the following program. If randomized to the
      iCBT arm the psychologist will introduce the iCBT-treatment by a telephone call.

      Intervention: Internet Cognitive behavioral therapy (iCBT) is given by a psychologist by the
      U-CARE platform. The intervention will focus on management of childbirth related fear. This
      means that the participants read texts and do homework assignments instructed from an
      internet page. Additional resources such as pictures, animations, videos and sounds will be a
      part of the treatment program. A psychologist will communicate with the participants through
      internal text-messages and feed back on their homework assignments.The therapist will devote
      time to each participant each week via the Internet. The content of the intervention will be
      standard components from CBT, for example relaxation training, behavioral activation,
      exposure for fear related stimuli, cognitive restructuring, behavioral sleep treatment. The
      women complete homework assignments, this consists of tasks such as doing relaxation
      training, to perform planned new behaviors, to break behavioral habits, to expose oneself to
      frightening situations or to change sleeping routines.

      Standard care: Counselling for childbirth fear is given by the antenatal care midwife and by
      specially trained midwives working in collaboration with obstetricians at approximately 3-5
      face to face counselling sessions. Often a visit to the delivery unit is included in the
      program.

      Measures: At baseline previously validated instruments measuring women's levels of fear of
      childbirth, anxiety, depressive symptoms, stressful life events, Prenatal Attachment
      Inventory (PAI-R), Blood and injection phobia, Cambridge Worry Scale, Performance Based
      Self-esteem, and Pain Catastrophizing scale.

      In addition to the instruments included, women's socio-demographic and obstetrics background,
      psychosocial history, experience of childbirth, attitudes towards birth, partner and family
      support will be measured along with the woman's previous birth preferences.

      Follow up: The randomized women will receive follow up questionnaires at 30 and 36 weeks of
      pregnancy where women's fears and emotional wellbeing will be further investigated using the
      above mentioned instruments. Two months and one year after birth additional questions about
      birth outcome, birth experience, breast feeding duration, attachment and bonding to their
      infant and their satisfaction and experience of the treatment program.

      Outcome measures: The primary outcome will be level of childbirth related fear at 36 weeks
      gestation. Secondary outcomes are childbirth related fear at two months and one year after
      birth, preferences for mode of birth, request for cesarean section in late pregnancy and in
      case of a subsequent pregnancy, compliance and satisfaction with the treatment, birth outcome
      and costs.

      Power analysis: A previous Swedish study showed that 59% of women with childbirth fear during
      pregnancy were 'cured' after a year. A power calculation based on a 20% reduction in
      childbirth fear, a two-sided test, a power of 0.80 and a level of significance of 5 %, shows
      that approximately 200 women need to be enrolled in the study.

      Ethical considerations: The study has received full ethical review and approval. The hospital
      managers at the participating sites are cooperating with the study. The project leaders' name
      and contact details are available in the letter of invitation and women as well as recruiting
      midwives are encouraged to make contact if they have questions about the project. All data
      collection will be administered by the U-CARE platform and the research group.

      Justification: Fear of childbirth is a public health issue strongly related to subsequent
      reproduction and women's and children's health. Currently identification and treatment is
      taking place without a clear evidence base. It is therefore important to find the most
      effective and acceptable treatment for this issue which can be offered to the maximum number
      of affected women in the most cost effective and sustainable manner. The study is linked to
      new innovations in person centered care in clinical practice using Internet based technology
      which is offering new and equitable access to best practice health care.

      Expected benefits: This study will contribute to the development of new treatment methods for
      childbirth related fear. Finding evidence of the best treatment to reduce childbirth related
      fear based on the results from this study could be implemented in clinical practice and
      hopefully reduces the psychological distress felt by women during the childbearing period and
      reduces the number of caesarean sections requested by women without medical indications.

      Consumer perspective and disseminating of study results: Prior to the recruitment of study
      participants think-aloud interviews with approximately 30 women will be performed in order to
      test the included instruments. In the pilot study women will carefully answer all questions
      and at the same time communicate their thoughts to a researcher when completing the
      questions, for construct and face validity.
    
  