
    
      According to the recent results on the outcome of escalated daunorubicin-based protocol for
      adult ALL which has been performed by 'Adult ALL Working Party of the Korean Society of
      Hematology' (data were announced at 2010 Annual Meeting of ASCO, Chicago, IL), CR rate of
      90.6% was satisfactory, but the 2-year / 3-year disease-free survival (DFS) were
      disappointing (43.6% and 39.9%, respectively), which means that the adequate post-remission
      therapy to control minimal residual disease after the achievement of CR is very important to
      improve the outcome of adult ALL.

      Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (AlloHCT) is recommended as a post-remission
      therapy for patients with adult ALL, and reduced intensity conditioning has been tried to
      decrease TRM rate. However, many patients received consolidation chemotherapy rather than
      alloHCT owing to the absence of HLA-matched donor, limitation of age, and combined
      comorbidities (among 190 patients who have been included in our previously-mentioned study,
      only 52.3% received alloHCT).

      Recently, stagnation in the treatment of adult ALL appears to be reached, maybe due to a
      borderline for further intensification of chemotherapeutic dose. Dose-escalation strategy has
      many difficulties in adoption for the treatment of adult ALL in terms of increased morbidity
      and mortality, not to mention the efficacy of such strategies. New, preferably
      non-chemotherapy approaches (maybe targeted therapy) are therefore urgently required.

      For Ph(+) ALL, the introduction of BCR/ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitor has improved the
      treatment outcome with tolerable toxicities. Applying a similar strategy to Ph(-) ALL,
      targeting leukemia surface antigens with monoclonal antibodies is another promising strategy.

      CD 20 expression of at least 20% has been known to be found in 22-48% of pre-B ALL, and
      appears to be associated with a poor prognosis, although there are controversies in pediatric
      patients. Based on the significant improvement of the outcome in B-cell NHL, preliminary data
      regarding the use of rituximab in frontline therapy for CD20-positive precursor B-cell ALL
      suggest its use may be beneficial. Especially, monoclonal antibodies are thought to be more
      effective when combined with chemotherapy and treated in the state of minimal residual
      disease, which suggests the interest of evaluating rituximab combined to current chemotherapy
      of adult ALL. Recent data on the efficacy of rituximab-combined chemotherapy showed that
      rates of CR and OS were superior with the modified hyperCVAD and rituximab regimens compared
      with standard hyper-CVAD (70% versus 38%, p<0.001) in younger (age < 60 years) CD20-positive
      subset, although it was an analysis of different patient groups who were treated with various
      regimen5.
    
  