
    
      Main objective:

      To assess the safety and efficacy of ILT-101 (ld-IL2) in patients with allergic rhinitis and
      apple Oral Allergic Syndrome (OAS).

      Conduct of the study:

      Selection of patients is performed based on medical history and disease history. The
      selection visit takes place at the time of the previous allergic season.

      The inclusion visit (V0) will take place within the framework of consultation. Before any
      examination or any acts related to the research, the investigator will check that the written
      consent has been received from the patient undergoing the research.

      During inclusion (V0), different tests are performed to check selection criteria:

        -  Medical examination

        -  Biological analyses.

      All following visits in hospital include evaluations wich will be carried out to insure
      patient safety: physical examination, Temperature, Pulse, blood pressure, respiratory
      frequency, oximetry, AE and SAE recording if any, concomitant medications, rhinitis episodes
      will be recorded. Different specific tests will be performed:

        -  Immunological explorations;

        -  Allergologic tests;

        -  Combined Symptom and Medication Score (CSMS);

        -  Biological analyses.

      For the induction course, the first injection will be performed in the hospital (V1), and
      every day from V2 to V5 for the following 4 injections will be performed at home by a
      research nurse, or in hospital according to physician and patient decision.

      The following visit (V6) will take place during a consultation at hospital.

      For the maintenance course (V7 to V15), injections ld-IL2 or PLACEBO injection will be
      performed at home by a research nurse or in hospital according to physician and patient
      decision. Except V12 that will be performed at hospital.

      Follow-up period (V16) and end of research V17 will be performed in the hospital.
    
  