
    
      The primary purpose of the data collection will be to provide a descriptive analysis of the
      burden and characteristics of AKI in children with SARS-CoV2 proven or suspected infection
      across the world. This is a prospective, point prevalence study. Data collection will occur
      once a week during the months of April through June 2020.

      The protocol for the point prevalence is for each individual participating site to conduct a
      surveillance study on predetermined dates of their intensive care units (pediatric medical,
      surgical, cardiac ICUs) for patients by the inclusion and exclusion criteria. The study is
      strictly observational. Data will only be captured on the predetermined dates listed. The
      dates have been chosen to reflect the estimated surge and peak of the virus spread in North
      America, Europe, Africa, Asia, and Australia. The rationale for performing an urgent point
      prevalence estimation study first, includes the following: a) there is almost no knowledge on
      AKI rate, severity of AKI or how current pandemic-setting AKI phenotype differs from what we
      know of AKI in children prior to the pandemic. A rapidly-performed, high feasibility-designed
      point prevalence estimation study, with minimal data collection will provide rapid, almost
      instantaneous dissemination of results to the international community. Based on the results
      of this study, a follow-up study is planned for a full retrospective data collection of all
      viral positive patients. Understanding the burden of pediatric AKI during this pandemic
      within the current context of acute health burden in the healthcare settings and enable
      planning and feasibility evaluation for quality of care measures and potentially for upcoming
      technology needs and/or sharing of RRT technology with adult care units; b) an urgent
      point-prevalence estimation study with minimal but key data collection will inform on any
      changes to design, sample size requirements or data points for the larger granular
      longitudinal retrospective study.
    
  