
    
      Cardiac arrest occurs when the heart suddenly stops beating and blood flow to the body is
      halted. It can occur while people are in the hospital because of a medical condition or while
      people are out of the hospital as a result of an accident or other cause. Cardiac arrest is a
      serious event that is associated with high rates of death and long-term disability. When a
      person experiences cardiac arrest,insufficient amount of blood flow and oxygen can result in
      brain injury.

      Therapeutic hypothermia is a therapy that involves a controlled lowering of the body
      temperature and then maintenance of this lower temperature for a period of time. Therapeutic
      hypothermia has been successfully used in adults who experience cardiac arrest to improve
      survival rates and health outcomes, and it has also been studied in newborn infants who have
      suffered from perinatal asphyxia. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of
      therapeutic hypothermia at improving survival rates and reducing brain injury in infants and
      children who experience cardiac arrest while in the hospital.

      Study researchers will conduct this study in collaboration with the following two pediatric
      clinical research networks: the Pediatric Emergency Care Applied Research Network (PECARN),
      funded by the Emergency Medical Services for Children (EMSC) program, and the National
      Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) Collaborative Pediatric Critical Care
      Research Network (CPCCRN).

      The study will enroll infants and children who have suffered a cardiac arrest while in the
      hospital. Randomization must occur within 6 hours of return of spontaneous circulation.
      Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either therapeutic hypothermia or
      therapeutic normothermia. Participants receiving therapeutic hypothermia will have their body
      temperature reduced to between 32° and 34° Celsius (C) and will remain at this temperature
      for 2 days. Their body temperature will then be slowly increased to the normal temperature of
      36° to 37.5° C, which will be maintained until 5 days after the cardiac arrest. Participants
      receiving therapeutic normothermia will have their normal temperature maintained between 36°
      and 37.5° C for 5 days after the cardiac arrest. Special temperature control blankets will be
      placed to maintain their body temperature in the assigned range. After 5 days, each
      participant's temperature will be managed by their medical care team.

      While participants are in the hospital, they will undergo frequent blood and urine
      collections, chest x-rays, and temperature measurements; parents of participants will
      complete questionnaires. When participants are ready to leave the hospital, study researchers
      will perform a physical and functional assessment. Twenty-eight days after the cardiac
      arrest, researchers will contact parents of participants to gather information on the
      participants' health and medical condition. At Months 3 and 12, a child development expert
      will contact parents to gather medical information. At Month 12, participants will attend a
      study visit for a neurologic examination and testing with a psychologist trained in
      rehabilitation.
    
  