
    
      Background: Studies on health behaviours such as physical activity and smoking cessation
      (behaviour change) have indicated that gamification is an effective tool for engagement and
      behaviour change, especially when multiple different competitive elements are used including:
      a ranking system, badges and achievements, points, social media interaction, and leveling up.
      Gamification is the use of game elements in a non-game environment to invoke behaviour
      change. The majority of health-focused gamification investigations are currently conducted
      using web or mobile-based delivery platforms in adults focusing on physical activity. Access
      to these web and mobile based applications through smartphones, tablets and computers has
      grown rapidly. In 2016, 94% of Canadians had home internet access, with 88% reporting that
      they use a smartphone for personal use. Moreover, a recent survey in the US found that 73% of
      those with, or at risk of cardiovascular disease, have a smartphone and 43% use a
      health-related application to track progress towards a health goal. While research on
      mobile-based app use for modifying diet is promising, the effectiveness of using gamification
      in apps for sustaining dietary pattern adherence is unclear. An investigation and summary of
      the current types of gamification strategies that may be most effective is important to
      inform and aid future app development. The ultimate aim of this research investigation is to
      inform the development of the PortfolioDiet.app, a dietary pattern adherence application for
      reducing LDL-cholesterol in individuals at risk for cardiovascular disease.

      Objective: To conduct a systematic review investigating the gamification strategies used in
      applications for long term behaviour change, with a specific focus on dietary pattern
      adherence in adults.

      Design: A systematic review of the literature will be conducted according to the Cochrane
      Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions and reported according to the Preferred
      Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA).

      Data sources: MEDLINE, EMBASE, and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
      (Clinical Trials; CENTRAL) will be searched using appropriate search terms supplemented by
      hand searches of references of included studies.

      Study selection: The investigators will include prospective cohort studies and controlled
      trials. Studies will be included if they are >= 2-months in duration and assess the relation
      of different gamification strategies used in health behaviour applications with adherence to
      the health intervention, participant engagement with using the application, and/or the
      intended health outcome. There will be no language restrictions.

      Data extraction: Two or more investigators will independently extract relevant data and
      assess risk of bias using the Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool. All disagreements will be resolved
      by consensus.

      Outcomes: The primary outcome will be adherence to the intervention associated with use of
      the application, such as, but not limited to: physical activity, smoking cessation,
      increasing fruit and vegetable intake, improving healthy food index score. Secondary outcomes
      will include participant engagement with use of the application. This adherence to using the
      application may be determined based on number of using days using the application compared to
      intended number of days of application usage. Observation of a significant change in the
      intended health outcome, such as, blood glucose, HbA1c, blood lipids, weight change [BMI,
      body weight, waist circumference, will also be assessed.

      Data Synthesis: A Microsoft Excel spreadsheet will be used to track the extractions and
      summarize the qualitative and quantitative data from each study.

      Risk of Bias (Quality) Assessment: The risk of bias of each included study will be assessed
      using the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. This will be done in
      relation to evaluating the criteria for assessing risk as either low, high or uncertain risk
      of bias as identified in the Risk of Bias tool.

      Knowledge translation plan: The results will be disseminated through interactive
      presentations at local, national and international scientific meetings and publication. As
      well as utilized in a publically available web-based application hosted on the Canadian
      Cardiovascular Society website.

      Significance: Gamification has been identified as a promising tool for health promotion.
      While research directly comparing gamified interventions to non-gamified controls has found
      beneficial effects on physical activity, or more recently mental health, there is a lack of
      evidence on investigating gamification for dietary change. As poor health behaviours (i.e.
      unhealthy diet, smoking, sedentary behaviour) have been repeatedly identified as major
      contributors to disease burden in Canada and globally, interventions which can target and
      improve these behaviours over a long term are required. Furthermore, as the generations who
      have grown up with the internet and app technology begin to age they will seek engaging
      digital tools to improve health outcomes, and therefore the need for digital health
      interventions that are effective at improving and sustaining beneficial health behaviours
      will only continue to grow.
    
  