
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety of administration of paclitaxel, bevacizumab and emactuzumab over 4
      weeks. (Part 1) II. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with stable
      disease following Part 2A randomized to paclitaxel plus bevacizumab or to paclitaxel,
      bevacizumab plus emactuzumab. (Part 2B)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) of the treatment arms. II. Objective
      response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) and CA-125
      response criteria ("responders").

      III. Objective response rate by RECIST only ("RECIST responders"). IV. Objective response
      rate by CA-125 response criteria only ("CA-125 responders").

      V. Biological progression-free interval (PFIbio) by serum CA-125 assessed according to the
      Gynecologic Cancer Intergroup (GCIG) criteria.

      VI. Overall survival (OS). VII. Safety and tolerability. VIII. To characterize the
      pharmacokinetics of bevacizumab and emactuzumab when administered in combination.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the utility of surrogate biomarkers and the anti-tumor response to therapy with
      the combination treatment of bevacizumab and emactuzumab.

      II. To assess tumor alterations by serial non-invasive imaging macrophage-specific imaging,
      ADC (apparent diffusion coefficient) for cellularity, and DCE (dynamic contrast enhanced) for
      vasculature.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and
      bevacizumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity. Patients with stable
      disease are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and
      bevacizumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel and bevacizumab as in Arm I. Patients also receive
      emactuzumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for
      2 years, every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  