
    
      Most patients suffering from Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) can be successfully treated with
      standard chemo- and/or radiotherapy. However, in patients with refractory disease/relapsing
      after first line of therapy, conventional-dose chemotherapy regimens induce low remission
      rates, with long-term disease free survival not higher than 10% of patients.

      High-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) has become the
      standard treatment for these patients. This treatment approach results in long-term
      remissions in approximately 40-50% of relapsed patients, and in up to 25-30% of those with
      primary refractory disease. The possibility of a cure depends on several prognostic factors,
      however, in almost all series, the strongest prognostic factor has been the disease status
      before ASCT. Patients with HL who do not achieve complete remission (CR) after induction
      chemotherapy and those with unresponsive relapse have a very poor prognosis. Therefore, the
      choice of a very active pre-transplant salvage chemotherapy regimen is extremely important to
      improve results after ASCT. In addition, this activity should also be combined with a good
      stem cell mobilizing potential and low toxicity profiled.

      Several pre-transplant salvage regimens for refractory/relapsed HL are currently used with an
      overall response (OR) and CR rates ranging from 60% to 88% and from 17% to 49%, respectively.
      No randomized trial exists comparing the effectiveness of these regimens. ESHAP (Etoposide,
      Solumoderin (methylprednisolone), Ara-C (Cytarabine) and cisplatin) is one of the most
      commonly used regimens. ESHAP induces an OR and CR of 73% and 41%, respectively, with 5%
      toxic deaths. In the present study, a combination of ESHAP plus Brentuximab Vedotin (BV) is
      proposed as pre-transplant therapy with the aim to improve the CR rate before ASCT.

      HL is characterized by the presence of CD30-positive Hodgkin Reed-Sternberg cells. The
      antibody-drug conjugate BV delivers the highly potent antimicrotubule agent monomethyl
      auristatin E (MMAE) to CD30-positive malignant cells by binding specifically to CD30 on the
      cell surface and releasing MMAE inside the cell via lysosomal degradation.

      Binding of MMAE to tubulin results in apoptotic death of the CD30 expressing tumor cell.
    
  