
    
      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      Arm I: Patients receive binimetinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for a lead-in period of 15
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive
      binimetinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 and avelumab intravenously (IV) over
      60 minutes every 2 weeks. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity

      Arm II: Patients receive anti-OX40 antibody PF-04518600 IV over 60 minutes for a for lead-in
      period of 15 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      then receive anti-OX40 antibody PF-04518600 IV over 60 minutes and avelumab IV over 60
      minutes every 2 weeks. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Arm III: Patients receive utomilumab IV over 60 minutes for a lead-in period of 15 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive utomilumab
      IV over 60 minutes every 4 weeks and avelumab IV over 60 minutes every 2 weeks. Cycles repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients have a follow-up at 30 days after treatment
      ends and then every 6 months for a minimum of one year following start of study therapy or
      until the study is stopped.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Anti-tumor effect of avelumab in combination with different targeted agents explored in
      the sub-protocols of the trial.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Additional anti-tumor effects. II. Safety and tolerability of avelumab in combination with
      different targeted agents explored in the sub-protocols of the trial.

      III. Patient reported outcomes (PRO) between baseline and cycle 3 day 1 across arms.

      IV. Longitudinal trends in PRO outcomes across treatment arms. V. Differences in PRO outcomes
      for patients who respond compared to those who do not respond.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the therapeutic predictive role of the following on clinical outcome:

      I a. Programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression and immune 'hot-spots'. I b. Tumor
      infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL)s, and cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8) and cluster of
      differentiation 4 (CD4) positivity in TIL.

      I c. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A (Major Histocompatibility complex class 1 (MHC-I)) and
      Human Leukocyte Antigen - DR isotype (HLA-DR) (Major Histocompatibility complex class 2
      (MHC-II)), FoxP3, OX40 and OX40L, Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), and myelocytomatosis
      oncogene (MYC) expression.

      I d. Number/levels of expressed predicted class I and class II neoantigens, central memory
      T-cells and T-cells.

      I e. Expression of effector/regulatory immune gene, innate Programmed cell death protein 1
      (PD-1) resistance signature (IPRES), and B cell, T cell, and/or macrophage signatures.

      I f. Basal or claudin-low molecular subtypes. I g. T cell receptor (TCR) clonality in the
      tumor and peripheral blood. I h. Genomic mutational burden. I i. PD-L1 positivity in
      circulating tumor cells (CTCs). I j. Soluble B7-H1 (sB7-H1) levels.

      II. To determine if circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) results will
      discriminate pseudo-progression from true progression.

      III. To determine if certain genomic alterations detected in tumor tissue or ctDNA are
      potentially associated with resistance to the tested drug combinations.
    
  