
    
      Specific Aim 1 Design and develop AllyQuest a novel theory-based mobile health (mHealth)
      intervention for newly diagnosed HIV+ YMSM. Using an iterative research design the
      investigators will work with our YABs and Ayogo, a global leader in the application of game
      psychology and health behavior change, to develop and tailor the intervention content for
      maximal relevance and usability for newly diagnosed HIV+ YMSM. The investigators will use
      content within existing evidence based interventions(EBIs) developed for persons living with
      HIV, including MSM and youth to develop the informational content to be delivered in
      AllyQuest. Activities from the EBIs will be translated into the daily activities that
      participants within AllyQuest receive. To maximize intervention appeal and appropriateness
      for our target population, the investigators will convene two youth advisory boards (YABs) to
      provide insight and feedback during the intervention development process. The investigators
      will recruit 4-5 HIV+ YMSM from each site (Chicago and North Carolina) to serve as YAB
      members over the first year of the study. The investigators will ensure that YAB members are
      representative of the target population in terms of age, race/ethnicity, sexual
      orientation/identity, and length of time since diagnosis. At monthly in-person meetings, our
      two Youth Advisory Boards (YAB) - each consisting of 4 to 5 HIV+ MSM-will evaluate
      intervention content as it is developed (including imagery and messaging) for acceptability
      and relevance. Specifically, the investigators will ask YAB members to react to the written
      tailored content in terms of the content's readability, comprehension, and relevance. The
      investigators will also elicit the YABs' views on the following areas of intervention design:
      (a) intervention structure and format [e.g., organization of the intervention,
      appropriateness and appeal of language/images, ease of navigating the web-based content]; (b)
      intervention content [e.g., relevance/applicability of intervention content to the
      population, comprehension of content, interest in the content]; (c) intervention activities
      [e.g., comprehension of activity instructions, acceptability/relevance of activities, desire
      to engage in activities]; and (d) overall impressions of the intervention [e.g., overall
      utility, overall interest, overall enjoyment]. Two YABs are being utilized to ensure maximal
      diversity of viewpoints and developmental stages during intervention development. During the
      first six months of year one, YAB members will meet with the research team monthly, as this
      will be a critical time to develop intervention materials. In addition, web-based meetings
      and email communication will be used to review materials in between in-person sessions.

      Intervention Development and Usability Testing Prototype ideas will be developed in an
      iterative fashion with Ayogo to develop low-fidelity clickable prototypes that demonstrate
      the information architecture and high-level features of the application. Members of the
      research and app development team will conduct internal usability "beta testing" to ensure
      functionality. After any discovered problems are fixed, 4-5 members of the target population
      recruited as described above from the North Carolina site and 4-5 members of the target
      population from the Chicago site will participate in usability testing. Usability testing
      will assess users comprehension of the educational content, understanding and use of
      intervention features, and overall impressions of app relevance and appeal. Testing will be
      conducted in accordance with NIH usability guidelines. Each participant will be asked to meet
      with a research team member and a member of the development team for a guided, interactive
      tour through the app. Participants will be asked to share their thoughts and impressions
      aloud as they move through the different components and features of the app. Audiotapes of
      the testing sessions along with video tapes of the app screen and participants' hands will be
      analyzed for patterns of use or usability problems, and results will be compiled into a
      report for the developers and research team, including any recommendations to address
      problems identified. Ongoing adjustments require an agile, iterative approach throughout
      usability testing with members of the target population.

      Specific Aim 2 Conduct a one-month pilot trial of AllyQuest with 20 newly diagnosed HIV+
      YMSM. To ensure that the features, platform and content of AllyQuest are acceptable to the
      target population and that there are no technical challenges or user concerns, the
      investigators will conduct a one-month pilot trial of use. The research assistant (RA) will
      meet with participants in person to explain the study in detail, facilitate app download and
      login onto participants' phones, and provide an app site tour to highlight features.
      Participants will complete a baseline demographic and risk assessment administered via a
      computer assisted survey instrument (CASI). At the end of the one-month field trial,
      participants will undergo a debriefing session to evaluate their experience using the app,
      overall satisfaction and any problems they encountered. Individuals will be instructed to
      contact the research coordinator immediately to report difficulties with any app components
      or to report any problems with their phone or phone service. A help link will be embedded
      within the app that directly links to study staff if assistance is needed. Strategies used in
      prior team research studies such as employing research staff with training in cultural
      sensitivity and experience working with HIV+YMSM, providing appropriate monetary incentives
      for participation in study evaluations, and using available resources to maintain contact
      will be employed. The investigators will evaluate participant experience with AllyQuest to
      understand their technology utilization with a specific focus on usability and mechanisms of
      action that might underlie the potential effectiveness of the intervention (quality/timing of
      messages, privacy concerns) and quality of the patient-technology relationship (trust,
      communication, intrusiveness, health promotion). The investigators will also examine barriers
      and facilitators for implementation. At the end of the one-month pilot trial, participants
      will complete a quantitative survey administered via a computer assisted survey instrument
      (CASI). Qualitative exit interviews will allow for a more in-depth and nuanced understanding
      of intervention acceptability. Interviews will be semistructured and focus on how
      participants used AllyQuest over the one-month pilot trial and how they perceive that use of
      the intervention could translate into behavior change.
    
  