
    
      This is a short-term, prospective, feasibility study to determine how effectively
      investigators can obtain biomarker analysis on patients with mCRC from whom informed consent
      and authorization will be obtained. The study will be done in partnership with Quintiles.
      Investigators will be collecting data on the number of clinically actionable biomarkers that
      can be detected in each population and the number of trial actionable markers that can be
      detected in these populations. Patients with recurrent metastatic disease (ie, first
      diagnosis of metastatic disease following resection, last radiation, or last chemotherapy in
      the adjuvant setting) will have their primary specimen sent for a biomarker analysis.
      Actionable markers or genomic alterations will be FDA-approved companion diagnostic markers
      and markers used for trial enrollment in metastatic colorectal cancer. Additional information
      regarding FDA-approved companion diagnostic markers and markers used for trial enrollment in
      indications other than mCRC will also be collected and reported.

      Biospecimens from 25 patients who have had early recurrence (≤ 12 months) and 25 patients who
      have had late recurrence (> 12 months) of their metastatic colorectal cancer will be
      appropriately collected, processed, shipped, and tested. The frequency and sites of mutation
      may be hypothesis generating to help identify those patients at higher risk for early
      recurrence and aid in identifying future treatment options and in selecting better treatment
      options for this poor prognostic group.

      REGISTRATION PROCEDURES Written documentation of full, noncontingent IRB approval must be on
      file before a patient can be registered. The registration process begins when the coordinator
      has obtained a signed informed con-sent. Patient demographics will be into the Clinical Trial
      Management System (CTMS); this is the Web-based intranet system for the delivery of trial
      information across USOR. A unique patient number (UPN) will be assigned to the patient at
      that time. Entering a patient into CTMS does not signify that the patient has been registered
      in the study.

      Once the patient has a UPN number, the coordinator can go to the Patient Report and select
      the patient to be registered. Located to the left of the patient's UPN will be the letters
      "Reg" in blue. The coordinator will click on the blue "Reg" to open up that patient's
      information. Each page that needs to be completed will be in yellow. The site will answer the
      questions on the Inclusions, Exclusions, and Prestudy Assessment pages. Once all questions on
      each page are answered, that page will turn green. An ID number and study arm will be
      directly assigned.

      SAMPLE PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES USOR study sites will be supplied with tumor collection kits
      through the US Oncology Investigational Product Center (IPC).

      Biospecimens will have a date of shipment within 4 weeks of the patient signing the consent
      in order to be enrolled in the study. Tissue will be sent to a central laboratory. Details
      for shipping will be provided in the Clinical Trials Information (CTI) provided separately by
      USOR.

      Reference laboratory manual for tissue preparation and shipment instructions.

      SAMPLE ANALYSIS AND CONFIDENTIALITY It is the intention of USOR and Quintiles that patient
      confidentiality will be maintained throughout the procedure. USOR maintains rigorous
      standards of confidentiality for clinical studies by coding samples with patient initials and
      a unique identifier (UPN number/patient/study ID number) and study number. A patient is in
      screening upon signing the ICF and registered in CTMS. A patient will be considered enrolled
      in the study if a standard of care biospecimen is available for biomarker testing with a
      shipment date within 4 weeks of ICF signature. If a standard of care biospecimen is
      unavailable, for any reason, within 4 weeks the patient is deemed a screen failure.

      BIOSPECIMEN ASSESSMENT High throughput sequencing utilizing the Life Technologies Ion Torrent
      platform or similar alternative will be used. This methodology provides high-quality deep
      sequencing coverage ideally suited for SNP detection and mutational analysis. Point mutation
      identification analysis will include targeted whole exome sequencing of tumor tissue that
      will cover several hundred human protein-coding exons. Results from the profiling will be
      compiled and arranged according to relevancy to clinical practice. All clinically actionable
      results will be provided back to the physician using the same identifiers referenced above.

      SAMPLE TESTING FAILURES Samples submitted for analysis will be from archived FFPE tissue.
      Ability to perform the AmpliSeq testing may be limited based on the quality and quantity of
      the sample available. Reasons for testing failures may be due to an inability to extract
      sufficient quality and quantity of DNA, inability to create a sequencing library or inability
      for a sample to sequence. Should a testing failure occur, the reason for the testing failure
      will be recorded by the laboratory and reported back to the clinician. A patient will have
      the opportunity, in discussion with their study physician, dependent on space in the study
      and approval from the US Oncology Clinical Project Manager, be allowed to re-submit one
      additional sample for sequencing. If a sample from a patient is a testing failure after 2
      testing attempts, the patient is considered a permanent testing failure and will not be
      offered an opportunity to submit any additional samples.
    
  