
    
      Results from the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) showed that more aggressive
      and intensive management of diabetes leads to a reduction in the incidence of diabetes
      related complications in adolescents and adults. Therefore, early initiation of intensive
      insulin regimens that have been proven to normalize blood sugars as much as possible need to
      be initiated in youth with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) to improve outcomes in adulthood.
      However, despite this understanding, there remains no consensus for how to best manage
      insulin delivery in children diagnosed with T1DM.

      Intensive insulin treatment of diabetes typically entails one of two therapies: MDI (multiple
      daily injections) or CSII also know as insulin pump therapy. MDI requires several insulin
      injections per day to achieve near normal glycemic control which can also lead to a
      subsequent increased risk of severe hypoglycemia. The insulin pump allows the user to program
      in various basal insulin rates, as low as 0.025 units/hr, throughout the day and night to
      better match one's physiologic insulin secretion, and eliminates the need for insulin
      injections throughout the day.

      Management of T1DM in the pediatric setting presents several challenges for the patient,
      caregivers, and health care providers. Children and adolescents tend to have wide
      fluctuations in their blood glucose levels due to varying amounts of physical activity from
      day to day. Additionally, infants, toddlers, and school age children have eating habits that
      are very unpredictable and often eat small quantities making it quite difficult to accurately
      administer small doses of insulin through an insulin syringe or pen device. Finally, there is
      increasing evidence to support that infants and toddlers who experience severe hypoglycemia
      may have resultant neurologic deficits. Previous research has demonstrated that pediatric
      patients on insulin pump therapy had better glycemic control when compared to pediatric
      patients who were managed on MDI alone. Patients on insulin pumps and their parents have
      reported more flexibility with meals and daily activities, lower hemoglobin A1c levels,
      decreased variability in blood sugar readings, and fewer episodes of hypoglycemia.

      Despite the vast research documenting the benefits of insulin pump therapy, some insurance
      companies continue to be hesitant in covering CSII in pediatric patients with diabetes. The
      findings from this study and supporting evidence will be presented to medical directors at
      Missouri Medicaid to help expand coverage of CSII in pediatric patients with diabetes.
    
  