
    
      Osteoarthritis of the first carpometacarpal joint (CMC I OA) treatment strategies typically
      focus on pain relief and restoring motion and function. Besides different other treatment
      modalities, such as trapeziectomy (removal of the trapezium bone) alone, the
      resection-suspension-interposition arthroplasty (after trapezium resection additional
      stabilisation with a tendon strip) (LRTI) are the most popular interventions. When performing
      trapeziectomy, alone or in combination with suspension and tendon interposition, the surgeon
      perceives individual differences in joint stability. However, there are no quantitative data
      available on the stability of the CMC I joint after trapeziectomy. Furthermore, the relative
      contribution of the different surgical steps to the stability of the joint is unknown. The
      goal of the current study is to objectively measure intraoperative thumb stability and
      evaluate if there are differences in the stability between the patients and with the
      different surgical steps. Additionally, the subjective stability rating of the surgeon will
      be compared with the objective measures. Additionally, the subjective stability rating of the
      surgeon will be compared with the objective measures and if there is a correlation between
      clinical/patient-related parameters and the measured intraoperative stability.

      Procedure 1: Patient enrollment

      During the preoperative consultation, the surgeon identifies patients which meet the
      inclusion criteria. Before any study specific examinations are performed, the patient has to
      give written informed consent to participate in the study according to the clinical
      investigation protocol. Patients will have enough time to decide for or against participation
      until before the surgery (usually one-six weeks after the consultation).

      Baseline data:

      After inclusion in the study, documented by patient informed consent, the following data will
      be collected:

        -  Z-deformity will be measured with a goniometer.

        -  Grip strength of the affected hand will be measured with the help of a Jamar dynamometer
           and key pinch will be measured using a pinch gauge. Both measurements are performed
           three times. For each of these, the average of the three measurements is taken. The
           standardized testing position as recommended by the American Society of Hand Therapists
           will be used.

        -  The ability to oppose the thumb will be quantified using the Kapandji index.

        -  Joint laxity will be quantified using the Beighton Hypermobility Score.

        -  X-rays will be rated for the stage of OA according to the criteria described by Eaton &
           Littler.

      Furthermore, the participant answers questions about his/her hand usage in daily life, pain
      and completes the brief Michigan Hand Outcomes Questionnaire.

      Procedure 2: Surgery

      Stability Assessment:

      After trapeziectomy according to the standard surgical procedure, the surgeon subjectively
      rates the CMC I joint stability (stable, somewhat stable and instable) by displacing the
      thumb proximally. The objective stability measurement is performed after the subjective
      assessment: The hand is standardized positioned in a pinch grip position. A standard
      reposition forceps is attached to the base of the first metacarpal bone. Next, the reposition
      forceps is connected to the force sensor and the thumb ray displaced by 10 mm towards the
      scaphoid with a guide. While the counteracting forces are measured with a force sensor. This
      procedure is applied by the surgeon after every step of the LRTI surgery:

        1. Trapeziectomy

        2. Suspension

        3. Interposition

        4. Closing of the joint capsule

      The measurement is repeated three times for every step. A high value indicates high
      stability. For blinding purposes, the surgeon will not see the measurement results.
    
  