
    
      2.1. Design and scope This is a quasi-experimental study, with a before / after design, in
      which a control group It will be used, with one year of follow-up to evaluate the
      effectiveness of the training intervention in clinical ultrasound to family doctors. The
      control group will be composed of family doctors of similar characteristics, who do not
      participate in the AECAP. The project will be developed with family doctors working in
      Spanish primary health care centers.

      2.2. Study population 20 family doctors who want to participate voluntarily and meet the
      following inclusion criteria will be included in the study: 1) Physicians should work in a
      Spanish primary health care center where there is an availability of ultrasound, belonging to
      the Health Service of Castilla and León (Sacyl) and the Salamanca Health Area. 2.- They must
      have a list of patients over 800. 3.- Participants must lack prior training in clinical
      ultrasound. 4.- Participantsmust sign a commitment of assistance and participation in the
      AECAP. A selection of the control group will be made, with family doctors of similar
      characteristics, in terms of age, gender, training, work center and number of assigned
      patients. Participants will be recruited in the first quarter of 2020.

      2.3.-Intervention The intervention designed in the AECAP consists of a basic structure and a
      specific methodology, which will be developed in the teaching classroom of the San Juan
      Health Center in Salamanca.

      Structure: The Material necessary for the realization of the training activity will be:
      Esaote MyLab ™ Six Echograph (Esaote Spain, Barcelona, Spain); Esaote MyLab ™ Gamma portable
      ultrasound, a 56-inch high resolution TV with HDMI connection to ultrasound; Fixed computer
      connected to ultrasound and TV and examination table.

      AECAP training methodology: The ultrasound classroom will be biweekly, on the second and
      fourth Tuesdays of each month, from 6:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. At the beginning of the AECAP, the
      necessary material will be delivered to individually complete the ultrasound training and
      will be developed with the following structure.

      Basic course of clinical ultrasound (abdominal and thyroid) lasting 30 hours, of which 15
      hours are theoretical and 15 hours are practical. The course will take place in the first
      quarter of 2020.

      Clinical sessions with patients. At this stage, participants verify the practical usefulness
      of clinical ultrasound through clinical cases with real patients, who have agreed to
      participate by signing the informed consent. The sessions will be presented following a
      structured clinical methodology with a clinical session format with a real patient with the
      following steps. Before the patient enters the classroom, the clinical case is presented to
      the participating physicians, then the patient enters to perform the ultrasound with
      visualization on the classroom screen and written report on the result (Figure 1). All data
      is incorporated into the "Case Presentation Model. This phase will take place from April to
      October 2020. The monitor of each session will collect the informed consent of the
      participating patients.

      Final practice: All students must present during the training process, a clinical case in
      which the use of ultrasound is useful for diagnosis, which will be used to assess the
      training process. In each clinical case the following variables will be recorded: relevance
      of ultrasound in the case, agreement of results with clinical data and registration of
      therapeutic plan and need to perform ultrasound by radiology service or the request for other
      imaging tests (CT, MRI) ) and endoscopies.

      Evaluation of the intervention: Primary and secondary outcomes Primary results: Assessment of
      knowledge and skills. An initial knowledge evaluation will be carried out, prior to the
      beginning of the training intervention consisting of 10 single-type test questions: 5
      theoretical questions about the basis and use of ultrasound and 5 images to interpret
      pathologies or ultrasound anatomy. Once the training sessions and practices are started, a
      continuous evaluation system will be used through which students will be evaluated by
      teachers / monitors, assessing in a standardized way, theoretical, practical and
      interpretative aspects. For the final evaluation, on the one hand, a new test of 10 test
      questions similar to the initial one (5 of theory and 5 of common images) will be carried
      out. On the other hand, there will be a structured assessment of the presentation of the
      final clinical case by each student. Finally, the ultrasound examination of 6 patients with
      common pathologies or normal ultrasound, who have an abdominal or thyroid ultrasound,
      previously informed by the radiology service, assessing concordance in the description,
      measures and diagnosis will be assessed.
    
  