
    
      Patients will be randomized to intervention or control groups. Patients will receive
      therapies according to their group assignment until hospital discharge or day 28, whichever
      comes first.

      The intervention group will receive in-bed cycle ergometry within 48 hours of randomization
      if safety criteria are met. In-bed cycle ergometry has been shown to be safe and feasible in
      the critically ill and is approved for use in this population. Subjects enrolled in the
      intervention arm will be screened at least 5 days per week to evaluate if they meet
      pre-defined safety criteria based on other studies of early mobilization and cycling in the
      Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Patients will be positioned in the semi-recumbent position for
      cycling as per ICU guidelines. The cycler will provide 3 different possible modes of
      cycling-passive, active-assisted, and active. The investigators will start with passive
      cycling and the patient may progress to active-assisted and active cycling. The goal duration
      of cycling will be 30 minutes. Subjects will receive in-bed cycling at least 5 times per week
      for the duration of the ICU stay or until day 14, whichever comes first. During cycling and
      therapy sessions, the physical therapist will also complete a case report form noting vital
      signs, level of mobilization, and other safety measures.

      In addition to cycling, the intervention arm will receive early physical therapy (PT). This
      physical therapy will be performed according to a protocol of additional ICU and
      hospital-administered rehabilitation strategies that were previously developed. Patients will
      receive 30 minutes of Physical Therapy (PT) at least 5 times per week when they are
      conscious. If unconscious, subjects will only receive passive range of motion (PROM) for 10
      repetitions per body part daily. Once conscious, subjects will progress through the different
      levels of PT with an emphasis on ambulation.

      Physical therapy for the intervention arm patients will continue while hospitalized through
      day 28. Outpatient therapy will be provided at the discretion of the patient's treating
      physicians.

      The control group will receive usual care physical therapy as ordered by the treating team
      both in the ICU and on the floor through hospital discharge. These subjects will also receive
      therapy as outpatients only as ordered by their physicians.
    
  