
    
      It is important to make a distinction between posterior urethral stricture and a pelvic
      fracture urethral distraction defect. Urethral stricture indicate a narrowing of the urethral
      continuity due to either instrumentation or partial urethral tears. In urethral distraction
      defects there is a gap between the membranous urethra and the bulbar urethral end. A
      distraction injury also involve all or any portion of the membranous urethra.

      The management of posterior urethral disruption secondary to blunt pelvic injury remains
      controversial. While many groups have recommended early realignment of urethral distraction
      injuries, Classic reports advocate a suprapubic cystostomy at the time of injury with
      delayed, perineal approach urethral re- construction 4 to 6 months after injury. Timing of
      the intervention typically is classified as :

        1. -Immediate treatment: when it takes place less than 48 hours after injury,

        2. -Delayed primary treatment : after 2 to 14 days, and

        3. -Deferred treatment : 3 months or more after injury.

      Immediate open repair of posterior urethral injuries is usually associated with a higher
      incidence of strictures, re-stenosis, incontinence and impotence. Difficulty in identifying
      structures and planes as a result of hematoma formation and edema also hamper adequate
      mobilization and subsequent surgical apposition.

      Contemporary urethral realignment employs actual realignment by fluoroscopic and endoscopic
      guidance of flexible cystoscopes that keep the urethral ends in the same cephalocaudad axis,
      followed by Seldinger technique catheter placement. The urethral catheter, which is usually
      maintained for 4 to 6 weeks, acts as a guide that allows the distracted urethral ends to come
      together as the pelvic hematoma slowly resorbs.

      In the unstable or multisystem trauma patient, realignment often is delayed a few days to
      weeks (typically 2 to 14 days). the patient is managed by damage control and resuscitated in
      the intensive care unit while the urine is diverted by suprapubic tube placement first. Once
      the patient is stable, delayed urethral realignment is performed. Endourologic and radiologic
      techniques for realignment, theoretically, should not affect potency or urinary continence
      because no manipulation occurs of the periprostatic tissues or neurovascular bundles.

      Types of surgical repair employed in posterior urethral distraction defect are 1) anastomotic
      urethroplasty, 2) Buccal mucosal urethroplasty, 3)Scrotal or penile island and 4) Johansen's
      urethroplasty. We aim to compare the outcomes of different management approachs for patients
      with posterior urethral distraction injuries after pelvic fractures in Assiut University
      Hospitals.

      Aim of the work To evaluate outcomes of posterior urethroplasty in patients with pelvic
      fractures and posterior urethral distraction defect according to different patient
      characteristics (Age, prior manipulation), type of injury (type of fracture, gap length) and
      time of intervention.
    
  