
    
      This project investigates microcirculation in skin and muscle after different surgical
      treatment of pertrochanteric fractures of the femur for detecting the less damaging method.
      Three different systems are compared: the PCCT and the osteosynthesis with nails ( two
      minimal-invasive methods) and the conventional dynamic hip screw ( DHS). All three are long
      established and show no difference in results in any clinical trials. The method for every
      patient is chosen randomly.

      The microcirculation is measured as parameter for tissue damage and wound heeling. It is
      registered by O2c, which works with measuring reflected lightwaves. It is strictly
      noninvasive and causes absolutely no pain for the patient. The measurement device consists of
      two small probes, which simply stick to the patient´s skin. There are eleven measurements on
      this study: one directly before and one shortly after and one 6 h after the surgery, followed
      by three measuring appointments after 12, 24, 48 hours. Afterwards there are appointments
      planed after 4, 7 and 12 days. After 7 days a CT controls the leg-rotation. In addition it
      detects any dislocation of the fracture or fixing item.The next appointments are planed after
      6 week. In the last two sessions the patients are questioned according to established
      questionnaires, e.g the Harris hip score to evaluate any loss of functionality of the
      operated leg. And a control of physical strength is planed on these appointments. It is known
      today that most patients can not reach the same level of physical strength after the
      treatment as before the fracture. Additionally an EMG records muscle damage. And the level of
      pain is evaluated with the Visual Analogue Scale simultaneity with the O2c-measurements.

      The last measurement is planed after 6 month. Then the fracture is controlled by an X-ray.

      Clinical parameters like operation time, blood loss, ASA score (for pre-existing condition)
      are included to create comparable patient profiles. Therefore the AO classification of the
      fracture and the grade of osteoporosis according to the Singh-Classification is recorded,
      too.

      Also on every measuring appointment blood samples are tested on parameters of systemic
      inflammatory response and muscle cell destruction.

      Furthermore this project is meant to establish limits of microcirculation measured with O2c.
      So in the future is will be possible to predict any wound heeling difficulties with this
      no-invasive measuring technic.

      Therefore this study will research on the one hand if these three operation methods differ in
      wound heeling, functionality or level of pain and on the other hand establish a possibility
      to detect wound heeling complications early and easily.

      Both results are extremely relevant to be able to choose the treatment most suited to the
      individual patient. So the pertrochanteric fracture of the femur, which is common in older
      and multimorbid population, will no longer result in risky re-operations due to wound heeling
      complications or limited functionality and quality of life.
    
  