
    
      Project aims:

      Aim 1: To examine the salivary carriage of COVID-19 in individuals before and after use of
      mouthwashes known to reduce oral microbiota, using real time reverse transcriptase
      quantitative PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) to quantify viral load.

      RESEARCH STRATEGY:

      A. Recruitment and baseline data:

      This is a cross-sectional interventional 4 arm study. 60 subjects between 18-80 years of age
      will be recruited from those who are being treated for COVID-19 at the Ohio State University
      Medical Center. There is no data upon which to base sample size estimates, and investigators
      have landed on this number in an effort to obtain a representative sample of Ohio's
      population. If the potential subject is interested in participating, the study coordinator
      will collect contact information from the candidate and the consent form will be presented to
      these individuals. Subjects will be allowed sufficient time to read and ask questions, and
      once sign these forms, a detailed history including information about ethnicity, education,
      income, age, sex, race, medical status (including pregnancy) and dental history will be
      elicited. Subjects will self-collect saliva in a 5 ml collection tube, following which they
      will be asked to use one of 3 mouthwashes (chlorhexidine, povidone iodine, hydrogen peroxide
      or control(saline) for thirty seconds and spit them into collection tubes. Investigators will
      use Peridex, Hydrogen Peroxide and Betadine, which are commercially available formulations of
      chlorhexidine, hydrogen peroxide and betadine respectively, to reduce formulation bias.
      Investigators have attached the product labels as appendices to this proposal. The exact
      mouthwash will be decided by random chance using a random number generator. Investigators
      have generated the following randomization schedule using Microsoft excel: Each subject will
      be assigned a number as they are recruited (E.g. first patient to sign the consent will be
      patient 1, and the second will be patient 2 and so on). Patients 1 and 2 will receive saline
      and 3 will receive chlorhexidine etc. base on the above randomization schedule. Subjects will
      then collect saliva in separate collection tubes 15 and 30 minutes after rinsing.

      B. Sample collection Saliva will be collected using a methodology described by previous
      investigators. Briefly, subjects will be asked to collect saliva in their mouth for 3 minutes
      and then continuously drool into a tube for 3 minutes. This method will allow investigators
      to collect unstimulated saliva. Saliva will be collected using kits containing RNA
      (Ribonucleic Acid) stabilizer (Oragen RNA kit).

      C. Measurement / Instrumentation

      Total RNA will be isolated from saliva using the mirVana miRNA (Messenger Ribonucleic Acid)
      isolation kit (Applied Biosystems). Microbial cells will be lysed and RNA will be extracted
      by Acid-Phenol:Chloroform and ethanol precipitation and eluted in nuclease-free water.
      Investigators will use well validated primers to quantify copy numbers of COVID-19 spike
      protein mRNA (Messenger Ribonucleic Acid) from the saliva. For an absolute quantification of
      COVID-19, investigators will use one step RT-PCR (Reverse Transcriptase) assay by using an
      appropriate commercially available kit. In this step investigators will convert mRNA to cDNA
      (complementary Deoxyribonucleic Acid) and then quantify the cDNA by using targeted primers
      and then copy numbers of the COVID-19 will be calculated by comparing ct (cycle
      threshold)Values samples against standard curve. In order to generate standard curves for
      absolute quantification, target genes will be amplified with PCR. The PCR products will be
      cloned into suitable vector. Then plasmids will be extracted, serially diluted, and used as
      templates in qPCR (quantitative polymerase chain reaction) for generating standard curves.

      D. Internal Validity Subjects will be recruited randomly through voluntary participation.
      This will eliminate presentation bias.

      E. Data Analysis

      Descriptive statistics will be provided as estimates of salivary carriage of COVID-19.
      Frequency of salivary carriage of the virus will be expressed as a percent of the total
      sample population. Reduction in COVID-19 following mouthwash use will be expressed as fold
      change and compared between the three mouthwash groups using parametric tests.
    
  