
    
      1. Objectives(s): We plan to conduct a feasibility pilot trial of the Family Partnership
           Intervention (FPI) compared to patients in the HF Wait-list (WL) condition. We plan to
           demonstrate feasibility, estimate variances of major outcome variables, and to obtain
           preliminary estimates of effect sizes in preparation for subsequent grant applications.
           We will be able to develop a cost-effectiveness model for the relative benefit of FPI
           vs. no family-based for use in longer-term studies.

        2. Research Design: This is a short-term, randomized clinical trial which will involve
           assessments for participants in the FPI condition at a pre-intervention Baseline point,
           immediately post-intervention, and 6 months post-intervention. Participants in the WL
           condition will be assessed at Baseline, undergo an approximately 8 week waiting period,
           and then the FPI. A longer follow-up is not planned based on the purpose of this study
           as a feasibility trial.

        3. Methodology: We plan to randomize 40 Veterans and their family members to either the FPI
           condition or WL condition, in equal proportions. We will recruit patients with at least
           Stage C Heart Failure (NYHA class I - IV) from the Cardiology clinic of the Philadelphia
           VAMC. FPI will involve 4-6 hours of intervention delivered over a period of 6-8 weeks.
           Assessments at a pre-treatment baseline point, 8 weeks (immediately post-treatment), and
           6 months will cover the following domains: a) patients' demographic characteristics and
           clinical functioning, b) self-care, including self-management of symptoms, knowledge of
           HF, and adherence to medication and dietary intake of sodium, c) measures of family
           functioning relevant to the medical care of the patient, and d) health care utilization
           costs. Primary outcome measures will be patients' self-reported HF self-care and health
           care utilization costs. We anticipate that patients in the FPI condition will exhibit
           better self-care over time compared to patients in the WL condition. We also anticipate
           that patients and family members will exhibit an improved family environment and better
           HF knowledge.
    
  