
    
      Background:The Asia Fracture Gap Taiwan Study (AFGTS) showed that among fragility fracture
      sufferers, only 1/4 of them underwent bone mineral density (BMD) tests and 1/3 of them
      received treatments for osteoporosis. Secondary fragility fracture prevention services are
      needed to improve the care gaps. In addition, one-year adherence to oral anti-osteoporosis
      medication (AOMs) was only about 30%. In recent years, efforts have been made to change the
      delivery of these medications from oral form to injection form every, 3, 6 or 12 months to
      increase adherence. However, both patients and providers are sometimes confused about the
      multiple choices. Also, patients may receive extra medications if providers did not keep
      tract of their previous AOM uses or patients may changes providers. There were urgent needs
      to provide AOM monitoring and management services to improve cares.

      . Aims: (1) to Establish the FLS services at the National Taiwan University Hospital Jinshan
      Branch. (2) To establish a anti-osteoporosis medication management service at Jinshan Branch.

      Method: The FMS was designed following the 13 'Capture the Fracture Best Practice Standards'.
      The National Taiwan University Hospital (NTUH) institutional review board approved the study
      in Aug., 2015. Patients were eligible to be enrolled into the FMS part of the study if they
      had

        -  Age >=50 and one of the below

        -  New hip fracture in orthopedic ward

        -  Newly identified radiographic vertebral fractures from plan films in geriatric ward or
           clinical vertebral fractures in outpatient clinics

        -  Newly prescribed with AOMs

        -  Recent change of AOMs

        -  Poor adherence to AOMs

        -  Participating physicians feel that the service will benefit the patient in overall
           osteoporosis and medication managements.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Life expectancy less than 2 years or can't be assessed for communication problems

        -  Atypical fractures

        -  Patient in other medication clinical trials

        -  Unwilling to accept the assessment and treatment

      Osteoporosis-related assessments, treatments, consultations on diet, medications, exercise,
      fall prevention were given mainly by care managers. A system is set up to remind patients to
      take their medications at home or to return to clinic for regular injections of medications.
      Follow up assessments included adherence to education instructions, medications, fall and
      fracture incidences. During the whole study period, we planed to enroll 200 patients. Each
      patient would be assessed at baseline, and every 4 months last for two years.

      Anticipated results:

      Establish Osteoporosis-related patient database combined with NTUH Participating physicians
      and care managers will learn new skills in managing osteoporosis patients.

      Enhance adherence to AOMs The results published in the International Osteoporosis Conferences
    
  