
    
      Type II diabetes mellitus is an increasingly common condition among adults in the United
      States and is associated with substantial morbidity and mortality. The microvascular and
      macrovascular complications of diabetes lead to significant disability and early mortality,
      in addition to tremendous costs to the healthcare system. It has been clearly demonstrated,
      that both microvascular and macrovascular complications can be reduced through specific
      interventions that can be carried out by office-based primary care physicians. Despite the
      accumulation of evidence regarding specific interventions that can reduce diabetes-related
      morbidity and mortality, multiple studies have shown that the care provided for diabetic
      patients frequently falls short of recommended standards.

      The researcher's goal is to investigate a comprehensive, provider-focused intervention to
      improve the quality of care for diabetic patients in a large, primary care practice at
      Brigham and Women's Hospital. This will be accomplished through pharmacist-delivered
      recommendations provided to primary care providers prior to routine scheduled office visits
      for diabetic patients.

      Adult diabetic patients age 18 years and older receiving primary care in the Brigham Internal
      Medicine Associates (BIMA) practice will be randomized to intervention and control groups,
      based on the practice subset (Suite) within BIMA in which they receive their ongoing care.
      Patients who receive care from providers in Suites A, B, E, and F will be assigned to the
      intervention group, while patients who receive care from providers in Suites C, D, G, and H
      will be assigned to the control group. Patients will not be contacted regarding the study;
      providers who practice in the intervention Suites will receive specific written
      recommendations regarding optimal diabetes care parameters from our study pharmacist prior to
      each patient's visit. Providers who practice in the control Suites will not be contacted.
      Pre- and post-intervention compliance with multiple diabetes quality-of-care measures (eg,
      Hemoglobin A1c measurement, LDL cholesterol measurement, pneumococcal vaccination, etc.) will
      be assessed in the intervention and control groups.
    
  