
    
      Purpose

      To describe the incidence of cerebral mitochondrial dysfunction in comatose patients admitted
      to the Neurointensive Care Unit (NICU) at Odense University Hospital and to evaluate the
      possible correlations between cerebral and jugular bulb microdialysis in an effort to develop
      new, effective and less invasive diagnostical tools for relevant patient groups.

      Background

      The hallmark of several serious neurological and neurosurgical disorders including severe
      traumatic brain injury, intracranial haemorrhage, cerebral infection and global hypoxic
      injury after cardiac arrest, is that the primary insult is out of reach for therapeutic
      intervention. Secondary injuries however, ensuing in the days to weeks after the primary
      insult are amenable to prevention or treatment. Inflammation, transient ischemia, free
      radical formation, cellular Ca2+-influx and mitochondrial dysfunction are therefore all
      examples of current research topics in neurointensive care.

      The research group has a long history of experimental and clinical work in the area of
      cerebral metabolism in neurocritical disease. In recent years neuromonitoring with cerebral
      microdialysis has been a main focus, as well as mitochondrial dysfunction as a possible
      therapeutic target . In 2004 the investigators showed how monitoring SAH-patients with
      cerebral microdialysis could predict delayed neurological deterioration/vasospasm related
      complications, results that were corroborated by later external studies. In 2012 and 2014,
      results have been published showing how to diagnose mitochondrial dysfunction on the basis of
      the biochemical patterns of cerebral microdialysis experimentally as well as clinically.
      Briefly, a cerebrochemical pattern with elevated lactate/pyruvate-ratio with simultaneous
      normal or supranormal levels of pyruvate and glucose seen together with normal tissue oxygen
      monitoring indicates mitochondrial dysfunction. Mitochondrial dysfunction most likely plays a
      key role in the worsening of outcome in a variety cerebral pathological conditions, and might
      be amenable to pharmacologic intervention.

      The microdialysis technique is based on a thin probe with a semipermeable membrane being
      inserted in affected brain tissue, collecting interstitial fluid from a small area
      surrounding the probe. The fluid is analysed for metabolites, proteins or pharmacological
      substances and has earlier been shown to be of great value in guiding NICU care and
      prognostication. One problem with the technique is, however, that the measurements are
      regional and limited to the very small sampling volume of the probe. Another obstacle is that
      the technique is intracranial invasive.

      Aims

      In the current prospective cohort study, the investigators will describe the incidence of
      mitochondrial dysfunction in a patients admitted to the NICU with severe subarachnoid
      haemorrhage (SAH). As patients suffering from SAH often have a non-ischemic cerebral
      metabolic affliction, a global cerebral measurement would presumably be as useful or more so
      than a focal measurement from only a very small regional brain volume. The investigators wish
      to evaluate a new method of monitoring, namely microdialysis of cerebral venous blood
      drainage. The cerebral venous drainage passes almost without exception through the jugular
      bulbs, left or right sided majority depending on dominance. The investigators will compare
      results of regional cerebral and venous measurements in order to confirm the hypothesis that
      metabolic disturbances of the brain are mirrored in the venous blood drainage in the jugular
      bulb. A pilot study of patients undergoing open heart surgery has confirmed significant
      differences in lactate and pyruvate in arterial systemic vs jugular venous blood. Yet
      unpublished data from this groups porcine experimental model supports the possibility of
      global metabolic venous monitoring.

      Perspectives

      If jugular bulb microdialysis can be confirmed to give a reliable global estimate of cerebral
      metabolic state it might be possible to a implement a new, less invasive diagnostic tool for
      NICU-patients. Surrogate measures in use today as e.g. NIRS (Near Infrared Spectroscopy)
      correlate poorly to cerebral metabolic status.
    
  