
    
      This multicenter, prospective randomized study is approved by the Institutional Review Boards
      at both the University Hospitals Case Medical Center, Cleveland, OH, USA and MetroHealth
      Hospital, Cleveland, OH, USA (Identifiers 07-11-37 and FWA00003938, respectively). Adult
      women who presented to the Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery (FPMRS)
      outpatient clinics at both the University Hospitals Case Medical Center and MetroHealth
      Hospital with symptoms of stress, urge, or mixed urinary incontinence and who were
      recommended by the evaluating staff to undergo urodynamic studies (UDS) are eligible. The
      staff physician will approach the patient for participation in this study after the standard
      clinic visit is completed and the initial diagnosis is made. A research coordinator will then
      explain the study and obtain informed consent if the patient agrees to participate. The
      patient will then be given instructions for a 24 hour pad test and standardized pads to use.
      The patient will also be given instructions for a three day voiding diary along with routine
      instruction regarding the urodynamic procedure. The patient will be asked to perform the 24
      hour pad test the day prior to the UDS appointment. The three day voiding diary will be
      performed during a typical and sequential three day period during the week prior to the UDS.
      Patients will then asked to bring these items to the UDS appointment.

      During the initial appointment with the study coordinator, patients will be randomized to 4
      groups (A, B, C, and D). Patients in group A will be scheduled to undergo Cough Stress Test
      (CST) with a comfortably full bladder. This will be subjectively reported by the patient.
      Patients in group B will be scheduled to undergo CST with an empty bladder after straight
      catheterization. Group C patients will be scheduled to undergo CST with a bladder infused
      with 200 cc of saline. Patients in group D will be scheduled to undergo CST with the bladder
      filled to half functional capacity as determined from the largest voided volume recorded in
      the patient's voiding diary. CST will be performed in the standing and sitting position for
      each patient in each of the above groups. The sequence of performing the standing and sitting
      CST will be randomly assigned for each patient.
    
  