
    
      This is a staged, multicentric, controlled, prospective, open-label clinical study whereby
      patients undergoing routine cataract surgery will have bilateral implantation of hydrophobic
      acrylic refractive trifocal intraocular lenses (Isatis TF) or the monofocal control device
      Isatis.

      The investigational device, Control lens and all study products, including the devices used
      for the study examinations, will be used within the intended use specifications from the
      manufacturer. In addition, no invasive or other burdening examinations will occur for the
      patient.

      The study will be carried out in up to five clinical centers in Spain.

      The device under investigation is a hydrophobic acrylic trifocal intraocular lens (IOL)
      manufactured by the sponsor of this study. The trifocality of this investigational device is
      based on a purely refractive principle with the goal to provide additional near and
      intermediate visual acuity with low photic side effects. The IOLs will be implanted in the
      course of routine cataract surgery and will benefit to patients suffering from cataract
      development.

      The control device (Isatis) is a hydrophobic acrylic monofocal intraocular lens to be
      implanted during cataract surgery. This control lens is CE approved and commercially
      available in Spain. Isatis monofocal lens is the parent lens of the device under
      investigation and both lenses share mechanical and material properties.

      In total 180 patients will be recruited for this clinical study and undergo bilateral
      implantation of the Isatis TF intraocular lens or Isatis lens in a 2:1 ratio. Subjects
      participating in the trial will attend a total of maximum 11 study visits over a period of
      11-13 months. Subjects would have the option for unscheduled visits if required medically.

      Data analyses will be performed after the last patient finished the 120-180 days
      postoperative examination.
    
  