
    
      The development of postoperative organ failures severely affects the prognosis of surgical
      patients, and substantially increases the utilization of resources and the costs of care. The
      presence of tissue hypoxia is particularly common and likely results from an impairment of
      the adaptive mechanisms of myocardial function, leading to an inappropriately low cardiac
      output and from the effects of inflammatory mediators. Importantly, tissue hypoxia can be
      detected early. Indeed, hypoxic tissues will compensate the hypoperfusion by increasing
      oxygen extraction (O2ER) over a threshold value, a change that will also be reflected by a
      decreased venous oxygen saturation, and if uncompensated by lactic acidosis. Hence, the use
      of oxygen extraction calculated from arterial and central venous oxygen saturation as a
      therapeutic goal is appropriate to monitor goal-directed hemodynamic strategies, as it
      reflects the balance between oxygen delivery and consumption. In place of O2ER or its
      surrogate, mixed venous oxygen saturation, the use of oxygen-derived values measured in
      central blood drawn from the routinely placed central line, in place of pulmonary artery
      catheter, may represent a valuable alternative. Indeed, recent evidence suggests that a
      multifaceted goal-directed strategy, including fluid challenge, blood transfusion and
      inotropes titrated to keep central venous oxygen saturation higher than a predetermined
      threshold of 70% was associated with decreased mortality and rate of organ failures when
      applied from the early phase of septic shock or severe sepsis. The aim of the present
      multicentre prospective randomized study was to compare the outcomes of patients randomized
      to a conventional management or to a therapeutic strategy guided by O2ER estimate (O2ERe)
      calculated from the arterial oxygen saturation and the central venous saturation ScvO2.
      Specifically, we hypothesized that the use of a goal-directed protocol aimed at maintaining
      the O2ERe below a previously defined "critical" (able to discriminate survivors from
      non-survivors) value of 26.7% during surgical interventions in high-risk patients will reduce
      the rate of postoperative organ failures, hospital length of stay and mortality, as compared
      with the standard management based on the monitoring of mean arterial pressure, central
      venous pressure and urine output.

      High Risk surgical patients scheduled for elective abdominal extensive surgery were eligible.
      After enrollment, the patients were randomized to one of the two groups of treatment (A or B)
      by a phone system on a 24-hour-a-day, 7-day-a-week basis. Randomization was based on a
      permuted-block algorithm, allowing stratification for each center. The exclusion criteria
      from the study were : age below 16 years, preexistent neurologic, or malignant haematologic
      diseases.

      In preparation for surgery, the patients were equipped with central and peripheral venous and
      arterial catheters. Standard monitoring included continuous recording of electrocardiography;
      body temperature, heart rate, pulse oxymetry and arterial blood pressure. Central venous
      pressure, ScvO2 , arterial blood gases, lactate concentration, body temperature, and urine
      output were recorded hourly. Hemoglobin concentration was measured when deemed necessary by
      the anesthesiologist. For the purpose of the study, blood gases measured on arterial and
      central venous samples, arterial lactate and O2ERe (SaO2-ScvO2/SaO2 [SaO2 : arterial oxygen
      saturation, ScvO2 : central venous saturation]) were recorded after induction of anesthesia
      (T0), hourly after cutaneous incision (T1a-f), throughout surgery, during the first 6 hours
      of the postoperative period (T2a-f) and on postoperative day 1.

      In both groups, the patients were managed to achieve predefined standard goals, i.e. a meen
      arterial pressure (MAP) >80 mmHg and an urine output > 0.5ml/kg/h. The patients of the
      "protocol group" (Group A) were managed to keep O2ER below 26.7%, following algorithms
      detailed in figure 1. In brief, a fluid challenge (colloids 250-1000 ml infused over 30 min
      to restore central venous pressure to at least 10 mmHg), dobutamine (incremental doses of 3
      µg/kg/min up to 15 µg/kg/min) and/or packed red cells (in cases of hemoglobin below 10 g/dl
      or intraoperative hemorrhage > 1000 ml) could be administered. There was no specific
      requirement regarding the type of anesthesia in any of the groups.
    
  