
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a progressive loss in renal function over a period of months
      or years. As kidney function declines, there is progressive deterioration in mineral
      homeostasis manifesting as disruption of serum and tissue concentrations of phosphorus and
      calcium (Ca), as well as changes in circulating levels of hormones such as parathyroid
      hormone (PTH). These mineral and endocrine functions are critically important in the
      regulation of both initial bone formation during growth (bone modeling) and bone structure
      and function during adulthood (bone remodeling) Residual renal function (RRF) plays an
      important role in maintaining fluid balance, phosphorus control, nutrition, and removal of
      middle molecular uremic toxins. Decline of RRF also contributes significantly to anemia,
      inflammation, and malnutrition in patients on dialysis.

      Inflammation and activation of acute-phase responses are common in chronic kidney disease
      patients.

      The causes of inflammation in HD patients are multifactorial. Inflammatory reaction may
      originate from several sources, including graft or fistula infections, bioincompatible
      dialysis membrane, dialysate, endotoxin exposure, back filtration, chronic infections, and
      malnutrition. High-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) assay is useful for sensitive
      detection of the inflammatory state.

      Residual renal function (RRF) in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) receiving renal
      replacement therapy is defined as the ability of native kidneys to eliminate water and uremic
      toxins. In clinical practice, it is considered synonymous with such parameters as daily
      diuresis and/or glomerular filtration rate (GFR). The optimal method to measure RRF has not
      been established . RRF remains important even after beginning of dialysis. RRF contributes
      significantly to the overall health and well-being of patients on dialysis Residual Renal
      (RRF) plays an important role in maintaining fluid balance, phosphorus control, nutrition,
      and removal of middle molecular uremic toxins and shows inverse relationships with valvular
      calcification and cardiac hypertrophy in patients on dialysis.

      Decline in RRF also contributes significantly to anemia, inflammation, and malnutrition in
      patients on dialysis . RRF may allow for a reduction in the duration of hemodialysis (HD)
      sessions and the need for dietary and fluid restrictions in both patients on peritoneal
      dialysis (PD) and patients on HD. More importantly, the loss of RRF is a powerful predictor
      of mortality. Much of RRF is lost during the first 18 months of HD, and appears to depend on
      the primary cause(s) of kidney failure as well as on other patient-related and
      treatment-related factors
    
  