
    
      Children (birth to 21 years of age, inclusive) with first-episode venous thrombosis in
      association with a reversible clinical trigger (key exclusions: history of cancer; severe
      thrombophilia state disclosed) are enrolled and prescribed anticoagulation according to the
      clinical standard of care and American College of Physicians (Chest journal) 2012
      recommendations. At the 6 week (post-diagnosis) follow-up visit, repeat radiologic imaging is
      performed to determine residual thrombus burden and its degree of occlusion. In addition,
      those subjects with antiphospholipid antibodies (APA) disclosed at enrollment will undergo
      repeat APA testing.

      Patients with residual occlusive thrombosis or persistent APA are excluded from
      randomization, and followed on parallel cohort arms (observational), with conventional
      anticoagulation durations. All other patients are randomized to a total anticoagulant
      duration of 6 weeks versus 3 months. Children are followed for primary efficacy endpoints of
      symptomatic recurrent venous thromboembolism (VTE) and primary safety endpoints of
      clinically-relevant bleeding (major plus clinically-relevant non-major, as per International
      Society of Thrombosis and Haemostasis Scientific and Standardization Committee [Journal of
      Thrombosis & Haemostasis] 2012 definitions/recommendations).

      Children are followed through 2 years (with primary endpoint at 1 year). Those with deep
      venous thromboses affecting venous return from the limbs also undergo standardized
      post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS) outcome assessment using the Manco-Johnson pediatric PTS
      instrument.

      The non-inferiority analysis uses a bivariate endpoint approach, modeling the inherent
      clinical trade-off between the risks of recurrent VTE and bleeding. The trial will enroll 750
      children across 40 participating centers, and allows for a 25% rate of exclusion from the
      per-protocol population due to randomization non-eligibility (i.e. parallel cohort),
      withdrawal/loss to follow-up, and protocol non-adherence.

      A sub-study, completed in late 2013, used investigational dalteparin in lieu of formulary low
      molecular weight heparin (typically enoxaparin) in those children who were clinically
      prescribed a low molecular weight heparin for sub-acute anticoagulation. The goal of this
      sub-study was to report dose-finding and outcomes data in children treated with dalteparin
      for VTE. Outcomes in these patients were qualitatively compared with those of patients who
      received enoxaparin, warfarin, or other anticoagulants for sub-acute anticoagulation. This
      portion of the study was an industry-sponsored investigator-initiated sub-study with an
      investigator-held IND. Since the closure of the sub-study, the overall Kids-DOTT study is no
      longer conducted under an Investigational New Drug (IND) application.

      Principal aims and hypotheses:

      Specific Aim #1: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of shortened-duration (6 weeks total)
      versus conventional-duration (3 months total) anticoagulation for first-episode, provoked,
      acute venous thrombosis among children in whom thrombus resolution/non-occlusion (i.e.
      established blood flow) is evident after the initial 6 weeks of anticoagulant therapy

      Hypothesis: Among children with first-episode, provoked, acute venous thrombosis in whom
      thrombosis is resolved or non-occlusive at six weeks follow-up, a shortened duration of
      anticoagulation (total six weeks; i.e. no further therapy) is non-inferior in efficacy to the
      conventional duration (total three months) of anticoagulation with respect to the risk of
      symptomatic recurrent VTE at 1 year, and is superior in safety with respect to the risk of
      clinically-relevant bleeding.(The hypothesis will also be tested in secondary analysis at 2
      years, using the same efficacy and safety outcomes as for the 1 year primary analysis.)

      Specific Aim #2: To compare the composite efficacy of shortened-duration (6 weeks total)
      versus conventional-duration (3 months total) anticoagulation for first-episode, provoked,
      acute venous thrombosis among children in whom thrombus resolution/non-occlusion (i.e., blood
      flow) is evident after the initial 6 weeks of anticoagulant therapy.

      Hypothesis: Among children with first-episode, provoked, acute venous thrombosis in whom
      thrombosis is resolved or non-occlusive at six weeks follow-up, a shortened duration of
      anticoagulation (total six weeks; i.e. no further therapy) is non-inferior to the
      conventional duration (total three months) of anticoagulation with respect to a composite
      efficacy endpoint comprised of the 1-year risk of symptomatic recurrent VTE or PTS. (The
      hypothesis will also be tested in secondary analysis at 2 years.)

      Specific Aim #3: To determine whether outcomes of first-episode, provoked, acute venous
      thrombosis (specifically, with respect to recurrent VTE and PTS) among children treated with
      conventional-duration (3 months total) anticoagulation differ between those with and without
      thrombus resolution/non-occlusion at 6 weeks.

      Hypothesis: Among children with first-episode, provoked, acute venous thrombosis treated with
      conventional-duration (3 months total) anticoagulation, the cumulative incidences of
      recurrent VTE and PTS are significantly lower among those in whom thrombus
      resolution/non-occlusion was, versus was not, evident after the initial 6 weeks of
      anticoagulant therapy.

      Specific Aim #4: To establish a clinical trial-derived plasma and nucleic acids biorepository
      for future proteomic, genomic, and metabolomic investigations of predictors and modulators of
      VTE outcomes in children.

      Specific Aim #5: To investigate whether duration of anticoagulation (over the range of 3
      months to indefinite duration, as determined clinically in routine care) on influences the
      risks of symptomatic recurrent VTE and clinically-relevant bleeding among children with
      first-episode, provoked, acute venous thrombosis in whom persistent antiphospholipid antibody
      (APA) positivity is evident at 6- and 12 -weeks post-diagnosis.

      Hypothesis: Among children with first-episode, provoked, acute venous thrombosis in whom
      persistent APA positivity is evident at 6- and 12 -weeks post-diagnosis, duration of
      anticoagulant therapy is not a predictor of symptomatic recurrent VTE but is directly related
      to the risk of clinically-relevant bleeding.

      Specific Aim #6 (Exploratory Aim): To evaluate whether the effect of treatment duration on
      the risks of symptomatic recurrent VTE and clinically-relevant bleeding in children with
      first-episode, provoked, acute venous thrombosis differs substantively between subgroups
      defined by type of sub-acute anticoagulant therapy in real-world clinical use (all prescribed
      clinically, with the exception of investigational dalteparin, which was prescribed under an
      investigator-held IND through December 2013).
    
  