
    
      Bevacizumab is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody against VEGF. It has been approved
      by the FDA for the treatment of metastatic colon cancer 18. We hypothesize that VEGF also
      plays a role in the development of CNV in pathologic myopia. Therefore, employing a mode of
      therapy that would decrease the risks posed to eyes with attenuated sclera, we have treated,
      through special approval by the Pharmacy and Therapeutic Committee of the Johns Hopkins
      University School of Medicine, two patients with persistent myopic CNV with intravenous
      bevacizumab 19. Despite multiple treatments with PDT, the CNV remained active and vision
      continued to decline in these two index patients. After four infusions of bevacizumab, the
      CNV became inactive. Six months after the last infusion in each patient, the CNV showed no
      evidence of activity or leakage on fluorescein angiography. Vision also improved in the
      diseased eyes of both patients. The two patients tolerated the infusions well, with no
      adverse events detected. In particular, blood pressure remained stable and no proteinuria was
      noted on serial analyses of 24-hour urine collections. The Bascom Palmer Eye Institute at the
      University of Miami has also recently reported favorable outcomes of bevacizumab administered
      in repeated doses to 14 patients (age > 65 years) with CNV secondary to AMD that has been
      refractory to other therapies.

      We propose a non-randomized, open-label pilot study to evaluate the effect of bevacizumab in
      patients with CNV due to any cause other than AMD. This design will allow us to closely
      monitor safety and tolerability of bevacizumab while we evaluate 3 bioactivity outcomes.
      Based upon dramatic responses in two patients with CNV due to myopic degeneration, we
      hypothesize that treatment with bevacizumab may have major advantages over current standard
      of care.
    
  