
    
      Transition is the purposeful, planned movement of adolescent and young adults with chronic
      health conditions from child-centered to adult-oriented health systems. Transition includes,
      but is not limited to transfer to adult care. Transfer of care, which occurs during a
      vulnerable developmental period around age 18 introduces gaps in continuity of care that can
      lead to detrimental health outcomes in young adults. Therefore, provision of coordinated and
      developmentally appropriate care during the transition period is necessary to maintain health
      and to sustain investments made in pediatric health care.

      Clinical practice guidelines for transition to adult care recommend the use of patient
      navigators to coordinate the entry of patients into a complex and unfamiliar adult health
      care system. Patient navigators provide individualized supports to facilitate medical
      follow-up and adherence. A limited number of studies have shown that access to a patient
      navigator during transition decreases drop-out from medical care and disease specific adverse
      events. No study to date has evaluated the benefits of a patient navigator to improve patient
      and or health system outcomes, when implemented across multiple chronic disease settings.

      Objectives/Methods

        1. to evaluate the impact of a patient navigator intervention compared to treatment as
           usual for 16 to 21 year olds living with chronic health conditions who are transferring
           to adult care with respect to healthcare utilization and patient reported outcomes

        2. to obtain perceptions of stakeholders regarding the role of patient navigators in
           reducing barriers to adult-oriented ambulatory care

        3. to determine the net health care cost impact attributable to the navigator intervention

      A qualitative study sampling participants randomized into the intervention arm at the
      beginning and end of the trial will also be undertaken to understand the patient experience.
    
  