
    
      Acne is a common skin disease that affects 85-100% of the population. Although it often
      appears during puberty, it may persist during the third decade of life and even later. It is
      characterized by a variety of lesions consisting of non-inflammatory lesions known as
      comedones, and inflammatory lesions such as papules, pustules, nodules and cysts. It commonly
      occurs on the face, chest, and back. Although not as noticeable as facial acne, truncal acne
      may also affect a person's self esteem and body image and reduce one's participation in
      sports because of the need to undress in a shared locker room. Most acne studies focus on
      facial acne and ignore treatment outcomes in the chest and back.

      The pathogenesis of acne is multifactorial, developing in the sebaceous gland. These factors
      include intrafollicular hypercornification, which induces follicular obstruction resulting in
      comedone formation, excess sebum production, Propionibacterium acnes activity and
      inflammation.

      Hormone therapies, such as oral contraceptives and antiandrogens (e.g. spironolactone)
      counteract the effects of androgens on the sebaceous glands. It has been over ten years since
      estrogen-containing oral contraceptives (OCs) first obtained FDA approval for use in acne.
      Since then, several randomized controlled trials have corroborated their efficacy and safety
      for this growing indication in women of child bearing age. Studies have shown hormonal
      therapies to be effective in treating moderate acne vulgaris in women with no known
      contraindication to OC therapy.

      YAZ is an oral contraceptive that is FDA approved for acne vulgaris. Unlike other progestins,
      drospirenone has unique antimineralocorticoid (mild diuretic effect) and antiandrogenic
      properties. The antiandrogenic property of drospirenone means that it blocks the male sex
      hormones that can cause acne. In two multicenter, double blind, randomized,
      placebo-controlled studies, 889 subjects, ages 14 to 45 years, with moderate acne received
      YAZ or placebo for six 28 day cycles. The primary efficacy endpoints were the percent change
      in inflammatory lesions, non-inflammatory lesions, total lesions, and the percentage of
      subjects with a "clear" or "almost clear" rating on the Investigator's Static Global
      Assessment (ISGA) scale on day 15 of cycle 6.

      Subjects will be assigned to a treatment group upon randomization. Bayer HealthCare
      Pharmaceuticals personnel, investigators, subjects and study nurse/coordinators will be
      blinded to the study product treatment assignment. The study duration will be 24 weeks with
      visits at screening, baseline (week 0), week 6, week 12, week 18, and week 24. Lesion counts
      (total, inflammatory, non-inflammatory) and an ISGA, and photography will be performed on
      every visit. A physical examination will be done at baseline and Week 24. Safety will be
      assessed from reported adverse events (AEs).
    
  