
    
      The pathophysiological mechanisms that influence the development of urethral stricture are
      not established. In developed countries, the most common etiology of urethral stricture is
      idiopathic (41%) followed by iatrogenic (35%).

      Serum testosterone is important in urethral development, in the integrity of the corpora
      cavernosa and has been shown to play a fundamental role in the development of genital
      structures. Recently, hypoandrogenism (HA) has been associated with a decrease in urethral
      androgen receptors and periurethral vascularization. Furthermore, low serum testosterone
      levels appear to be implicated in an increased risk of urethral atrophy.

      In recent years it has been proven that coagulation, in addition to influencing the formation
      of the provisional matrix, participates in mechanisms of tissue injury through the activation
      of PARs. As a result, the coagulation cascade directly influences several key aspects of the
      wound healing response, from platelet aggregation and vasoconstriction, but also inflammation
      and scar formation. Although it is strictly regulated under normal conditions, an imbalance
      in favor of a procoagulant state as occurs in many pathologies of other organs (liver, lung,
      kidney) has the potential to deregulate inflammatory and tissue repair mechanisms and
      culminate in fibrosis.

      In general, it is accepted that the probability of developing a urethral stricture after
      endoscopic treatment is around 2-10% of cases. However, this complication has never been
      studied in depth and the true incidence of urethral stricture, and its consequences in
      quality of life, after a transurethral procedure is unknown.

      The aim of this study is to analyze the potential role of serum hormonal status and
      coagulation disorders as risk factors for the development of urethral stricture after
      transurethral surgery.
    
  