
    
      ZD6474 is a new drug that is thought to block the formation of new blood vessels. The growth
      of new blood vessels is called angiogenesis. Angiogenesis is thought to be essential for the
      growth of tumors beyond a small size.

      Before treatment starts, you will have several tests and procedures performed. These tests
      will include a complete medical history and physical exam, including recent weight loss,
      vital signs, and a test to check how easily you swallow. Laboratory tests needed will require
      a urine sample, and blood samples (about 3-4 teaspoons). Women who are able to have children
      must have a negative blood pregnancy test in order to participate in this study. You will
      have an electrocardiogram (ECG--a test to measure the electrical activity of the heart),
      heart function tests, and scans of your brain, chest, and bones. You will also have PET scans
      performed.

      You may take part in this study if you are a patient with NSCLC who is not able to receive
      chemotherapy.

      If you are eligible to participate, you will receive ZD6474 by mouth once a day every day,
      along with radiation therapy. You must take your medication on an empty stomach, at
      approximately the same time each morning. ZD6474 should be swallowed as a whole tablet (not
      chewed, crushed or divided) and taken with 8 oz of water. Missed doses may be taken by the
      end of the same calendar day. However, if a subject misses taking their scheduled dose on the
      same day, he or she must take the next scheduled dose and the missed dose will not be made
      up. The missed dose must be documented on patients medication diary ZD6474 will be given 5-7
      days before starting radiation therapy and will continue through the entire course of
      radiation therapy, unless there is proof that the cancer is progressing. ZD6474 may interact
      with many commonly prescribed medications. A list will be provided to you.

      Radiation will be given every weekday (Monday - Friday) for 3-7 weeks as your doctor thinks
      is necessary and useful. You will have weekly evaluations during radiation treatment,
      including blood samples (3-4 teaspoons) for routine testing, oxygen saturation (a test that
      measures how much oxygen is in the blood), and physical examination.

      If you need anti-nausea medication (such as Zofran) during this study, you will have an ECG
      performed within 24 hours of starting the medication and then again at least once a week
      while you remain on the medication.

      You will continue on study, unless there is evidence that the disease has gotten worse or
      intolerable side effects occur.

      You will be seen for a follow-up visit one month after completing radiation therapy, and
      again at 3 months. You will then come in for a follow-up visit every 3 months for 2 years,
      then every 6 months for 3 years, then once a year. Scheduled tests and follow-ups should be
      performed within 1 week (before or after) of the scheduled time period (a 14-day window). At
      these visits, you will have blood draws (about 3-4 teaspoons), urine tests and x-rays. You
      will have an ECG, lung function tests, and PET/CT scans.

      Participants who are blood donors should not donate blood during the study and for 3 months
      following their last dose of study treatment.

      This is an investigational study. ZD6474 is not FDA approved, and has been authorized for
      research only. A total of up to 48 patients will take part in this study. All patients will
      be enrolled at UT MD Anderson Cancer Center (MDACC).
    
  