
    
      We are proposing a trial to directly compare a high intensity weight loss protocol to a
      moderate intensity weight loss protocol to determine which leads to greater improvements in
      physical function in severely obese older adults. We are also interested in comparing the
      safety of the two approaches. If we can demonstrate effective weight reduction that happens
      with sufficient expediency and impact to improve physical functioning without increasing
      adverse events in severely obese older adults, a sizable percentage of the population would
      benefit and there would be significant reductions in disability resulting in cost savings for
      the healthcare system.

      This application specifically addresses objective 3 as detailed in the announcement of this
      pilot funding mechanism (Objective 3. To develop and reliably test in clinical or
      pre-clinical studies novel interventions which target adiposity, peripheral or central
      nervous system, vascular, body composition and/or musculoskeletal related factors for
      preventing the age-related decline in physical function and preventing or reversing the
      progression to disability). This application describes a pilot randomized, controlled trial
      designed to address the following aims:

        -  Assess efficacy and safety of high intensity medical weight management in severely obese
           (= stage II BMI) older adults for functional outcomes (i.e., functional weight loss)
           compared to a moderate intensity weight loss intervention.

        -  Determine if a potential dose response relationship exists between weight loss volume
           (primarily as excess fat) and improvements in several measures of physical function.

        -  Identify changes in body composition (fat and lean including bone) that are associated
           with changes in physical function.

        -  Identify biomarkers (specific focus on markers of inflammation) that provide potential
           mechanistic links between weight reduction and changes in physical function in severely
           obese older adults.

      Our primary hypothesis is that there is a greater improvement in physical function with a
      high intensity weight loss intervention compared to a moderate intensity intervention.
    
  