
    
      The study is a pragmatic, single center, prospective cohort study (single cohort) to be
      conducted in Silkeborg, Denmark. The outcomes will be collected in the period from 3 to 10
      weeks after surgery by an assessor blinded to exercise compliance. The study will adhere
      methodologically to the STROBE guidelines and checklist for prospective cohort studies
      (www.strobe-statement.org).

      The study design and completion is conducted in a research collaboration between the
      Interdisciplinary Research Unit at Elective Surgery Centre based at Silkeborg Regional
      Hospital and Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Research - Copenhagen (PMR-C) based at
      Hvidovre Hospital.

      Primary objective, eligibility criteria, exposure/intervention and outcome measures are
      entered elsewhere. At June 28, 2017, two outcome measures were added to the study. At 10
      weeks after surgery, patients will be asked both to describe change in hip problems (from
      preoperatively to 10 weeks after surgery) and to describe their perception of outcome after
      surgery. The outcome measures will be used for exploratory analysis of patient acceptable
      symptom state (PASS) and minimal clinically important improvement (MCII)

      Primary analysis:

      A simple linear regression analysis will be performed to evaluate the association between
      performed exercise dose and change in score on gait speed. Furthermore descriptive statistics
      will be used to quantify exercise compliance and to indicate the exercise dosage with the
      greatest response. Patients will be divided into four compliance-quartiles and summary
      statistics of the primary outcome (change in gait speed) will be presented graphically to
      illustrate possible dose-response relationship.

      Secondary analyses:

      For change in patient-reported function the analysis will be similar to the analysis for
      change in gait speed. Summary statistics on the rest of the secondary outcomes will be
      presented for the compliance-quartiles.

      In a multiple regression analysis the association between gait speed (at 10 weeks follow up)
      and self-efficacy, 24-hour physical activity, performed exercise dose and gait speed (at
      baseline) will be analyzed.

      Furthermore summary statistics will be presented for demographic data and other pre-specified
      outcomes.

      Additionally, an embedded qualitative study will be performed to explore motivation and
      barriers related to exercise compliance. This study will be reported in a secondary paper
      with a clear reference to the primary trial and trial registration.

      Regional Hospital Central Jutland and The Danish Rheumatism Association is partly funding the
      salary for physiotherapists involved in the study. Further external funding will be applied
      for.
    
  