
    
      Statement of problem

      Psychosocial interventions, such as counselling, are effective in improving social
      functioning in common mental disorders. Specifically, culturally adapted psychological
      treatments are effective in the treatment of depression, according to a recent meta-analysis.

      Psychological treatments may be provided by non-medical health workers (NMHW) to increase
      accessibility. Task-shifting of screening and treatment of non-communicable diseases to
      non-medical health workers is both effective and cost-effective. A recent review included
      five randomized controlled trials to assess effectiveness of NMHW provided psychological
      interventions to treat common mental disorders and depression, and all five trials found the
      intervention beneficial over usual treatment.

      In the MANAS trial in India, for example, those receiving the intervention were 55% more
      likely to recover from common mental disorders than the control group in public health
      facilities. The stepped-care intervention was provided by NMHWs who had received a two-month
      training in counselling. In Pakistan, a psychological treatment delivered by Lady Health
      Workers (NMHWs) resulted in 78% reduction in maternal depression, compared with usual care.

      In Nepal, the need for psychosocial interventions led by NMHWs is high because of the very
      limited number of mental health professionals. Centre for Victims of Torture (CVICT) has
      extensive experience in developing psychosocial counseling services and training counsellors.
      CVICT has experienced that even a short intervention, including only 1-5 counselling
      sessions, leads to decreased mental distress. Positive feedback has been given both by the
      patients and the people working in primary health care. However, no rigorous research has
      been conducted on the effectiveness of counselling on the symptoms of common mental
      disorders. This will be the first study comparing the effectiveness of psychosocial
      counseling and enhanced usual care to enhanced usual in rural Nepal.

      Conceptual framework

      This trial will examine the added value of psychosocial counseling in individuals with
      psychological distress when provided together with enhanced usual care in rural health posts.

      The psychosocial approach emphasizes the close connection between psychological aspects of an
      individual's experience (namely, thoughts, feelings and beliefs) and the wider social
      experience (namely, relationships with family, community and friends) as well as the broader
      social environment (i.e. culture, traditions, religion, socio-political environment). There
      is a dynamic relationship between the psychological and social effects of experiences on the
      individual person, with each continually influencing the other.

      Psychosocial counselling starts with the complaints that a client brings into the session,
      and is aimed at decreasing disability. The client is assisted in dealing with problems
      himself/herself within a counselling process, or is sometimes referred to other existing
      resources if the counsellor feels that to be more appropriate. Specifically, the counselling
      process consists of: (i) introduction, explanation and rapport building; (ii) assessment of
      and understanding of the problem (including looking for positive assets); (iii) goal setting
      (asking the client what outcomes are preferred); (iv) problem management (exploring and
      identifying solutions, brainstorming, working with existing coping strategies, using social
      and cultural resources, and additional techniques such as relaxation and psycho-education);
      (v) implementation (making a plan of action and transition); and, finally, (vi) termination
      of counselling (including closing and follow-up). This process helps to reduce psychological
      distress experienced by the patients and is practiced by trained psychosocial counselors.

      Enhanced usual care is provided by health workers, who have already been trained on diagnosis
      and treatment of common mental disorders, and usage of basic psychosocial counseling skills
      (communication, listening and basic emotional support).

      It is important to note that in this conceptual framework psychosocial counselling is just
      one part of the spectrum of psychosocial care and dealing with distress in Nepal's context
      where there are other issues such as poverty, human rights abuses, gender based violence etc.

      General objective

      To assess the effectiveness of psychosocial counseling as practiced by non-medical
      psychosocial counselors in improve the outcomes of persons with common health disorders in
      primary health care setting.

      Specific objective

      To assess the effectiveness of psychosocial counselling on:

        -  reducing symptoms of depression and anxiety

        -  improving functional capacity

        -  improving coping and use of available resources

      To assess acceptability of psychosocial counseling.

      Study variables

      Depressive symptoms, anxiety symptoms, coping mechanisms and usage of available resources,
      functional capacity

      Covariates: Demographic variable (gender, age, socioeconomic position)

      Study population

      Residents of Dang

      Study units

      Individuals

      Sampling methods

      As this is a randomized controlled trial, randomization will be done using a randomization
      table. Participants coming to the health post for treatment of symptoms of psychological
      distress will be potential participants for this research. Individuals referred by the
      counselors during their field mental health promotion work will also be potential
      participants for this research. Individuals will be screened with the General Health
      Questionnaire (GHQ-12, validated Nepali version, and those who score 6 or more on will be
      invited to participate in the study. The Research Assistant will use the GHQ. In the Nepali
      context, score of 6 or more in the GHQ-12 reveals psychological distress. The GHQ-12 was
      validated using Likert scale in Nepal. Randomization will be done by a health worker at the
      health post. Research Assistant will be blinded to the study.

      Sampling size

      A sample size of 132 in each group will be required to detect a clinically important
      difference of three points on the Beck scale of depression (BDI: Beck Depression Inventory),
      using a two-tailed test of the difference between means and a power of 80%, and a
      significance level of 5%. Based on a previous study, we assume a standard deviation of 8.7
      for BDI and also the calculation is based on the assumption that the measurements on BDI are
      normally distributed. However, considering the possible 30% dropout rates, we will need to
      recruit 176 individuals per group, 352 in total.

      Data collection technique

      Data will be collected on paper and stored safely in lockers. No names will appear on study
      forms. All participants will be read out consent forms and asked to sign on the form. All
      questions of the data tools will be read aloud and participants will be asked to choose which
      level they agree with on Likert's scale. RA's data and counselors data will be kept
      separately. Study coordinator will enter data into SPSS bi-weekly. Participants will be
      referred by the project counselors, female community health volunteers and health workers of
      other health posts to the centres for study/ treatment.

      Data collection tools

      For the Quantitative study, questionnaires will be used to collect the data from each group.
      The questionnaire will have five sections. The sections are: Socio and Demographic
      information, Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI), World Health
      Organization Disability Assessment Schedule-II (WHODAS-II) and Resource and Coping Mechanism
      will be used. All in all tools are validated in Nepal and study area (Dang), availed in
      Nepali language and used by CVICT in their previous Research.
    
  