
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose for the combination of selinexor and ibrutinib in
      patients with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic
      leukemia(SLL)/B-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (PLL) or aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the safety and tolerability of the combination of selinexor and ibrutinib
      in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL/SLL/PLL or aggressive NHL.

      II. To characterize the pharmacokinetic (PK) properties of the combination of selinexor and
      ibrutinib in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL/SLL/PLL or aggressive NHL.

      III. To obtain preliminary evidence on efficacy of the combination of selinexor and ibrutinib
      in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL/SLL/PLL or aggressive NHL.

      IV. To obtain preliminary evidence of response in CLL/SLL/PLL and diffuse large B-cell
      lymphoma (DLBCL) patients receiving the combination of selinexor and ibrutinib as related to
      CLL/SLL/PLL karyotype and immunoglobulin variable heavy chain (IgVH) mutational status and
      DLBCL subtype, respectively.

      V. To evaluate the inhibition of the B-cell receptor signaling pathway in patients with
      relapsed or refractory CLL/SLL/PLL who receive the combination of selinexor and ibrutinib.

      VI. To evaluate the change in localization of tumor suppressor and growth regulation proteins
      in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL/SLL/PLL following treatment with selinexor in
      general and as related to response.

      VII. To preliminarily assess potential causes for primary and secondary resistance to
      selinexor and ibrutinib.

      VIII. To measure intracellular levels of selinexor and metabolites in peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells and to identify how this relates to pharmacodynamics effects and clinical
      outcomes.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of selinexor.

      Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) on days 8-28 of course 1 and on days 1-28 on
      subsequent courses and selinexor PO twice daily (BID) weekly on day 1 or bi-weekly on days 1
      and 3. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks and then every 6
      months thereafter.
    
  