
    
      Laparoscopic colorectal surgery has now become the standard of care in the treatment of many
      colorectal pathologies. In comparison to open or conventional surgery it has the benefit of
      decreased length of hospital stay (1), reduced postoperative pain, earlier return of bowel
      function (2,3) , earlier return to normal activities and improved cosmetic results.

      Several criteria must be met before patients are discharged from the hospital. These
      discharge criteria are the same objective criteria we use to discharge our surgical patients:

        1. Return of bowel function (as manifested by passage of flatus or bowel movement)

        2. Ability to tolerate a regular diet

        3. Stable vital signs for 24 hrs

        4. Good pain control on oral medications

        5. Ability to void freely

        6. Return to a similar level of preoperative functioning

      All attending surgeons will strictly adhere to the above 6 criteria when discharging
      patients.

      Poor pain control is known to increase the length of hospital stay after surgery. Good pain
      control thus becomes essential in order to decrease the length of hospital stay and make
      patients more comfortable.

      Pain control has been traditionally achieved through the intravenous route with the use of
      narcotic and non-narcotic medications. Postoperative pain is mainly incisional in nature and
      is due to enhanced responses to mechanical and thermal stimuli in the area of incision (6).
      Despite the fact that laparoscopic surgery is done through smaller incisions, several of
      these incisions are required to place the different trocars needed to safely perform the
      procedure. These incisions still cause a significant amount of pain and discomfort.

      Opioid narcotics delivered systemically through the intravenous route are well known for
      their side effects, which range from mild nausea to opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (6).
      They are also known to prolong postoperative ileus by blocking coordinated bowel motility
      after surgery. The pathophysiology of ileus is multifactorial and incompletely understood.
      Major mechanisms contributing to ileus include surgical stress from physical manipulation of
      the bowel, secretion of inflammatory mediators, changes in fluid balance, hormones and
      electrolyte concentrations (7). Postoperative ileus can take several days to resolve and
      every effort should be made to help the bowel regain its function. This includes judicious
      use of IV fluids, correcting electrolyte abnormalities and finding the right balance between
      adequate pain control and delivering the right amount of intravenous pain medications.
      Controlling postoperative pain in an adequate manner without substantial systemic side
      effects becomes of primary importance. One way would be through the use of epidural analgesia
      where local anesthetics are injected through a catheter placed into the epidural space. The
      injection can cause both a loss of sensation and a loss of pain, by blocking the transmission
      of signals through nerves in or near the spinal cord while preserving motor function. The
      epidural space is the space inside the bony spinal canal but outside the membrane called the
      Dura mater. Thus there is no contact with the cerebrospinal fluid and the spinal cord itself.

      Several trials of epidural analgesia in colorectal surgery patients have demonstrated the
      potential benefits of this technique such as decreased postoperative pain (8-10,12,14-18),
      faster return of bowel function with faster resolution of ileus (8,9,12, 14, 16,17) as well
      as a decreased incidence of nausea (17). These trials also showed that patients using
      epidural analgesia required less pain medications (10,11). A retrospective review from Sweden
      demonstrated a reduction in mortality after epidural anesthesia in patients undergoing rectal
      resection (19).

      However, the results of these reports concerning length of hospital stay, cost and quality of
      life have been inconclusive. Most of the trials conducted until now have been very small with
      no more than 39 patients in each arm in the largest trial (9-17). The only study that showed
      a decreased length of hospital stay consisted of a cohort of 22 patients compared to a
      "historic" standard group (12). This study was small and non-randomized (12). The remaining
      studies, despite being randomized, were again small and thus have failed to show a decreased
      length of hospital stay in patients receiving epidural analgesia as compared to intravenous
      analgesia (9-11, 13-15, 16). The hypothesis advocated by some was that if the epidural
      decreases postoperative pain and allows for a faster recovery of bowel function then it
      should decrease the length of hospital stay. On the other hand, epidurals are usually left in
      place for 2-3 days following surgery before patients are transitioned to different forms of
      pain medications. This transition might in fact take time and actually increase the length of
      hospital stay thus potentially adversely affecting hospital costs. In addition, all the
      studies conducted until now have failed to adequately assess quality of life in patients
      receiving EA after laparoscopic colectomy.

      Other measures that have been shown to reduce length of hospital stay and opioid induced side
      effects are with the use of alvimopan which is a peripherally acting μ-opioid receptor
      antagonist, recently approved for the reduction of postoperative ileus after colectomy.
      Alvimopan was associated with reduced ileus-related morbidity compared with placebo, without
      compromising opioid-based analgesia in patients undergoing surgery (20-21). Thus the use of
      alvimopan may obviate advocating the use of EA solely to reduce opioid-induced ileus.

      This is a large prospective randomized trial recruiting 160 patients in each arm: an epidural
      arm and a conventional analgesia one. The trial will be performed in adult patients
      undergoing elective laparoscopic colorectal surgery for both benign and malignant conditions
      at the University of California, Irvine (UCI). The primary end point of the study would be to
      show a difference in length of hospital stay of one day between the 2 groups, and the
      secondary end points would be to show a decreased incidence of pain, earlier return of bowel
      function, earlier ambulation, better quality of life, less incidence of complications and
      side effects in the epidural group. This will be the largest randomized trial looking at the
      use of epidural analgesia in laparoscopic colorectal surgery to be ever conducted. It will
      hopefully provide definitive answers regarding any difference in the length of hospital stay.
      It will also address issues related to cost-effectiveness as well as quality of life using
      validated questionnaires, points that were not addressed by previously published data.
    
  