
    
      Aim To develop, implement, and evaluate a stress management program, in form of patient
      education, to improve stress management and emotional well-being, health-related quality of
      life, as well as readmission to hospital in patients with chronic heart failure (CHF).

      Hypothesis It is hypothesised that a Coping Effectiveness Training (CET) stress management
      program adapted for CHF improves stress management and emotional well-being (primary
      endpoint), health-related quality of life (secondary endpoint) and reduces readmission to
      hospital (tertiary endpoint) in patient with CHF.

      Method A randomized controlled study design will be employed in which the intervention
      consists of patient education, Coping Effectiveness Training [CET]. CET is a manual based
      group intervention, which is based on the cognitive transactional theory of stress and
      coping. The CET programme will in this study be adjusted and modified to patients with CHF.

      The control group (n=45) will receive standard health care. The intervention group (n=45)
      will receive CET intervention in form of patient education, led by a nurse with a master
      degree in nursing science and extensive experience in heart failure care. The intervention
      will consist of seven 90-minute weekly sessions. Each group will consist of 8 to 12 patients.

      Measurements of the included variables will be performed before the intervention, directly
      after the intervention, six weeks, six months and one year after the intervention period. The
      following instruments will be employed for measuring outcome variables; PANAS for measuring
      emotional well-being; HADS for measuring depression and anxiety; B-IPQ for measuring the
      patients' appraisal and cognitive representation of of living with CHF; RAND-36 for measuring
      quality of life; Brief COPE for measuring coping strategies and thereby stress management and
      ESSI for measuring social support. Clinical variables that will be included are readmission
      to hospital and NYHA-class.

      Data collection will be held at Danderyd Hospital. The inclusion criteria is patients
      diagnosed with CHF hospitalized at a heart failure ward or a heart failure outpatient clinic
      in Stockholm County Council, Sweden, are classified in NYHA-class II-III and are aged over 18
      years. Exclusion criteria are cognitive dysfunction, life threatening disease such as cancer
      or primary organ failure and/or severe psychiatric diagnosis such as psychosis or severe
      depression, and not being able to understand the Swedish language.

      Statistical analysis A preliminary power analysis, with a moderate effect size of Cohen's d =
      0.50 and alpha = 0.05 indicates that to obtain a power of 0.80 a sample size of 90 patients
      (n=45 for each group) is needed (Cohen, 1988). MANOVA for repeated measurements for
      evaluating the intervention effect.

      Readmission/health care consumption will be measured by:

        1. Time to first readmission cardiovascular readmission or cardiovascular death.

        2. Time to first readmission all cause or death despite cause.

        3. Total time for inpatient care. Primary analysis will be conducted through MANCOVAS for
           repeated measures. Survival analysis (Kaplan Meyer and Cox regressions analysis) will be
           conducted for assessing the effect on readmissions to hospital.
    
  