
    
      The study was carried out following the approval by the local ethics committee (Malatya
      Clinical Studies Ethics Committee, 2017/76), and informed consent was signed by the parents.
      A total of 135 children (69 females 51.1%, 66 males 49.9%), aged 7-8 years (7.37±0.48 years),
      were admitted to Inonu University Faculty of Dentistry Department of Pediatric Dentistry. The
      study was planned with 135 children with 15 children in each group. For that purpose 9 groups
      were formed as 6 restorative and 3 protective applications. The restorative treatment groups
      included procedures with- and without-local anesthesia (LA). Procedures with LA included the
      groups as root canal treatment, pulpotomy, two-surface restoration and one-surface
      restoration. Procedures without LA included the groups as two-surface restoration and
      one-surface restoration. The protective application groups included the groups as fluoride
      application (by disposable arch tray or by cotton roll) and fissure sealant. The diagnosis
      and treatments were carried out by the same dentist (BA).Frankl's Behaviours Rating Scale
      (FBRS) is a method that is frequently used in studies based on the rating of behaviours.
      Children's attitudes during the dental examination were evaluated using FBRS. Behaviours of
      the child are examined in four groups in FBRS: definitely negative (Frankl-1), negative
      (Frankl-2), positive (Frankl-3), and definitely positive (Frankl-4).In terms of the
      standardization of the groups, only the children who were compatible with Frankl-3 or 4
      classes were included in the study. Children with Farnkl-1 and -2 classes had negative
      compliance to treatment and therefore they were not included in the study. The patients were
      grouped according to treatment needs. Each patient who participated in the study was informed
      about the treatment to be applied to him/her and the measurements to be performed by using
      the tell-show-apply behavior method. Furthermore, the child informed the dentist about any
      discomforting stimuli by "raising his/her left hand up" and the dentist stopped when he/she
      received this warning. In the groups treated with local anesthesia, banana or strawberry
      flavored topical anesthetic gel (Vision Dental Pat Gel, WP Dental, Germany) that children
      might like was applied first. Then, the local anesthetic solution [Ultracain D-S ampoule (40
      mg articain + 0.012 mg epinephrine) Aventis Pharma, Istanbul, Turkey] was injected by the
      traditional method with the help of a 2 cc set inject plastic dental injector (Tıbset Sterile
      Medical Equipment Industry Istanbul, Turkey). Only conventional root canal treatment and
      extirpation were planned for the children included in the root canal treatment group in the
      measurement session. In the groups to be treated with pulpotomy, it was noted that at least
      one of the approximal surfaces of the teeth had decay and iron sulfate (ViscoStat®,
      UltraDent, South Jordan, USA) was used as pulpotomy material. A Tofflemire matrix retainer
      and 0.05 mm thick matrix band (Hahnenkratt, Königsbach-Stein, Germany) were used in groups
      with a two-surface cavity. 2% NaF (Polimo® IMICRYL, Konya, Turkey) was preferred in groups
      who received fluoride application.

      An aerator and micromotor were used as cavity preparation in the restorative treatment
      groups. Only the micromotor was used for polishing purposes in the protective treatment
      groups. FIS (Facial Image Scale) was assessed at three stages: at the moment they sat in the
      dental chair, 15 minutes after the start of the treatment, and 15 minutes after the end of
      the treatment. From the moment the patient sat in the dental chair, the probe of the bed-side
      monitor was attached to the patient's left index finger, and his/her heart rate and SpO2
      (peripheral oxygen saturation ) of were monitored during the treatment period and the data
      were recorded. After the treatment of the patients was completed in that appointment, the
      CFSS-DS (Children's Fear Survey Schedule-Dental Subscales) was filled in by the patients
      under the supervision of their parents. In the mornings, 3 salivary samples were taken from
      the patients by their parents in the home environment, i.e. one day before the treatment, on
      the day of treatment and one day after the treatment. The non-stimulated total saliva was
      collected from the patients. The parents were warned about the fact that all of the three
      salivary samples should be taken at the 30th minute after awakening, between 07:00 and 07:30
      am. Eating, drinking, brushing the teeth and using dental care products were not allowed.
      During the treatment period in the clinic, salivary samples were taken between 09.00 and
      11.00 am. Saliva samples were taken in 3 stages, i.e. at the beginning of the treatment, at
      the 15th minute of the treatment, and 15 minutes after the end of the treatment. Sampling at
      15th minute of the treatment process was standardized to correspond to the cavity with an
      aerator (at the enamel level) in restorative treatment groups and to the stage of polishing
      procedure with a micro motor in protective treatment groups. These measures were taken to
      prevent the saliva from contaminating the cavity.
    
  