
    
      Schizophrenia is a serious mental disease characterized by a combination of positive and
      negative symptoms, and it is associated with social and occupational dysfunction. The
      positive symptoms reflect an excess or distortion of normal functions (delusions,
      hallucinations and disorganized behavior), whereas the negative symptoms are related to
      flattened affect, alogia, avolition and decreased cognitive function. One recent study
      reported that schizophrenia is associated with distortions of reality, changes in perceptions
      and thoughts, difficulties in social situations and problems with daily functions.

      Schizophrenia generally appears at the end of adolescence or at the beginning of adulthood
      and affects approximately 1% of the population. The disease has a deteriorating course and
      does not involve large neurological changes. Its etiology may be explained by interactions
      between factors associated with genetic susceptibility and adverse environmental factors.
      Recently, it has been hypothesized that alterations in neuroplasticity may be an important
      factor for the development of schizophrenia.

      IGF-1 is an important growth factor that induces neuroplasticity (neuronal survival, cell
      differentiation, cell proliferation, synaptic plasticity and neurogenesis). Schizophrenic
      patients have lower serum IGF-1 levels than healthy individuals. Because IGF-1 levels are
      lower in schizophrenic patients and this is associated with the etiology of the disease, it
      is important to investigate treatments that may increase serum IGF-1. Antipsychotic drugs
      such as olanzapine stimulate the phosphorylation of AKT, which is part of the main downstream
      pathway of IGF-1. It is possible to activate AKT through several intracellular signals and
      receptors, including activation of the insulin receptor (IR). However, activation of the
      IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1R) appears to be the main activator of AKT phosphorylation.

      In addition to antipsychotic medications, resistance exercises may be another way to increase
      IGF-1 concentrations. This type of physical exercise has been growing in popularity in
      society. In recent years, evidence has shown benefits from this exercise for different age
      groups in both healthy and sick individuals, and it has been indicated to augment bone
      mineral mass, strength and muscular mass; to prevent or treat sarcopenia; to decrease frailty
      and functional impairment; and to improve cognitive function and hypertension, among other
      benefits.

      Studies conducted with the young and the elderly who underwent resistance training have shown
      increased serum IGF-1 levels. However, studies showing the effects of resistance training on
      schizophrenia and serum IGF-1 levels have not been performed. Studying resistance training is
      important for several reasons. Importantly, it is a low-cost treatment that may be a possible
      therapeutic tool, not only to increase IGF-1 concentrations but also to decrease disease
      symptoms, especially negative symptoms, and the side effects of antipsychotic drugs
      (extrapyramidal effects, weight gain and tiredness), which may improve quality of life.
      Therefore, the aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of 20 weeks of resistance
      training on psychotic and depressive symptoms, quality of life and serum IGF-1 concentration.
    
  