
    
      Introduction:

      Chronic aortic regurgitation is a common valvular heart disease with prevalence of
      approximately 1% in European population; affecting rather younger patients. The most common
      causes of chronic aortic regurgitation in developed countries are calcific aortic valve
      disease and bicuspid aortic valve. Another relatively frequent cause of the chronic aortic
      regurgitation is the aortic root dilation, which is genetically determined and it is also
      frequently diagnosed in younger patients. According to current guidelines for valvular heart
      disease, surgical treatment is recommended for patients with the severe symptomatic aortic
      regurgitation and for patients with the severe asymptomatic aortic regurgitation when left
      ventricular ejection fraction (LV EF) is < 50% or if other cardiothoracic surgery is planned
      (Class I). Current guidelines also recommend considering surgical strategy (Class IIa) in
      asymptomatic patients with severe aortic regurgitation, left ventricular ejection fraction
      (LV EF) ≥ 50% and left ventricular end-systolic diameter > 50 mm or indexed diameter > 25
      mm/m2. There are two reasons for considering this earlier surgical treatment. Surgical
      techniques and perioperative treatment have improved recently and postoperative patient
      outcome are significantly better. There is also strong evidence that left ventricular (LV)
      diameter decreases shortly after surgery but left ventricular ejection fraction (LV EF)
      remains unchanged in majority of patients and left ventricular ejection fraction (LV EF) is
      one of the main determinants of patient's future quality of life and life expectancy.
      However, surgical correction might be indicated too late in clinical practice, typically in
      women. The Mayo Clinic authors group reported that women exhibit an excess late mortality
      compared to male population. They showed that women were severely symptomatic at the time of
      surgery compare to male population where left ventricular (LV) enlargement was more frequent.
      Bonow at al reported 33% incidence of clinical events, death and deterioration of left
      ventricular ejection fraction (LV EF), in natural history of asymptomatic patients with
      severe aortic regurgitation and preserved left ventricular ejection fraction (LV EF).

      The optimal timing of surgical treatment is crucial but it has not been clearly established
      yet. New methods of identifying subclinical left ventricular (LV) function impairment are
      needed for better timing of the surgical strategy. Clinical follow-up with routine
      echocardiography study is recommended every 6 to12 months in patients with severe
      asymptomatic aortic regurgitation because sudden deterioration of left ventricular (LV)
      function might occur and we aim to operate on our patients before this happens. It is clear
      other parameters are needed than only left ventricular ejection fraction (LV EF) and left
      ventricular (LV) size. Diffuse myocardial fibrosis is a common feature of pathophysiology of
      the chronic left ventricular (LV) overload. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LV EF) and
      left ventricular (LV) size are less sensitive and non-specific markers of this process.
      Fortunately several novel methods of non-invasive quantification of the diffuse myocardial
      fibrosis have been introduced recently. The most promising method is the magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) - derived T1 relaxation time mapping introduced by Messroghli in 2004, Modified
      Look-Locker inversion recovery (MOLLI) sequence. Based on published data, MRI derived native
      T1 relaxation time is a reliable marker of diffuse myocardial fibrosis. The native T1
      relaxation time with cut off value of ≥ 1010 ms is an accurate marker of extensive (>30%)
      myocardial fibrosis with high sensitivity and specificity (Ss=90%, Sp=73%, area under curve
      (AUC) =0.82). Extracellular myocardial volume (ECV) calculated from MOLLI sequence is also a
      sensitive marker of diffuse myocardial fibrosis and extracellular myocardial volume (ECV)
      cutoff value of ≥ 0.315 showed high accuracy to identify extensive (> 30%) myocardial
      collagen content (Ss=80%, Sp=90%, AUC =0.85). Speckle tracking echocardiography is another
      promising imaging method for diffuse myocardial fibrosis. Two-dimensional LV global
      longitudinal strain (GLS) has a potential to discover subclinical left ventricular (LV)
      functional impairment

      Project Plan:

        1. All patients will be scanned by MRI including Modified Look-Locker inversion recovery
           (MOLLI) within one week after inclusion and all complete and anonymized studies will be
           sent to CoreLab in IKEM. Off-line analysis will consist of the left and right ventricle
           volumetric and ejection fraction assessment. The aortic regurgitation will be measured
           using methods of flow sequence at sinotubular junction level (phantom correction
           required) and ventricular stroke volume difference. Modified Look-Locker inversion
           recovery (MOLLI) sequence will be acquired before, 10 and 15 minutes after contrast
           agent administration. T1 relaxation time will be measured within interventricular septum
           and ECV will be calculated from T1 relaxation time of the myocardium and the blood pool.
           Off-line analysis will be performed by two independent operators blinded to clinical and
           ECHO findings and intra- and inter-observer variability will be calculated.

        2. All patients will undergo 2-D and 3-D transthoracic echocardiography within one week
           after inclusion and every six months during follow-up in each participating centre. All
           full volume anonymized studies will be sent to the CoreLab in IKEM. Off-line analysis of
           the left ventricular ejection fraction (LV EF),left ventricular (LV) volume, left
           ventricular (LV) mass, speckle tracking left ventricular (LV) global longitudinal strain
           (GLS), radial strain and left ventricular (LV) twist will be performed by two
           independent operators in a blinded fashion. Similarly aortic regurgitation grade will be
           assessed by two operators using colour Doppler, vena contracta measurement, and Doppler
           flow measurements. Inter- and intra-observer variability will be than calculated.

        3. In all patients 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) will be recorded and blood sample will
           be taken during each visit. Brain natriuretic peptide serum level will be measured
           routinely at each participating centre. One blood sample will be stored frozen at -80 C°
           for further analysis including for example galectin levels, etc. This specific analysis
           will be performed in 1.Faculty of Medicine Charles University in Prague under the
           supervision of Prof. Sedmera.

        4. Sub-study.

             1. All patients who will be scheduled for aortic valve surgery during follow-up
                (strictly according to current guidelines) will undergo perioperative myocardial
                needle biopsy from interventricular septum in each participating centre. All
                myocardial samples will be processed and analysed in 1.Faculty of Medicine Charles
                University in Prague under the supervision of Prof. Sedmera.

             2. All patients who will be scheduled for aortic valve surgery during follow-up will
                undergo repeat magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study including Modified
                Look-Locker inversion recovery (MOLLI) sequence within 1-3 months prior to the
                operation and 6-12 month after the operation. The complete study will be repeated
                as described above. Postoperative left ventricular (LV) remodelling will be
                precisely assessed by off-line analysis. A correlation of the left ventricular (LV)
                remodelling and preoperative regurgitation grade as assessed by magnetic resonance
                imaging (MRI) and echocardiography (ECHO) will be calculated. Postoperative left
                ventricular (LV) remodelling will be also correlated with preoperative T1
                myocardial relaxation time, extracellular volume (ECV) and global longitudinal
                strain (GLS).

      Project Hypothesis:

        1. We hypothesize that the increased native T1 longitudinal relaxation time as assessed by
           T1 mapping (Modified Look-Locker inversion recovery sequence) > 1010 ms and decreased
           global longitudinal strain (GLS) < 17 % are novel potent prognostic markers of clinical
           deterioration in patients with moderate to severe and severe chronic asymptomatic aortic
           regurgitation despite preserved left ventricular ejection fraction (LV EF).

        2. We hypothesize that inter- and intra-observer variability of the aortic regurgitation
           severity assessment will be lower for the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study than
           for the echocardiography (ECHO) study.

        3. We hypothesize that the degree of postoperative left ventricular (LV) recovery (decrease
           of the left ventricular (LV) volume and left ventricular (LV) mass) will correlate
           better with preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) regurgitation grade assessment
           rather than with echocardiography (ECHO) derived grade.

      CoreLab The CoreLab will be located in Institute for Clinical and Experimental Medicine
      (IKEM) centre. All full volume anonymized magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and 2-D and 3-D
      echocardiography (ECHO) studies will be sent to this CoreLab for off-line analysis. Two
      independent operators, specialists in the field of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and
      echocardiography (ECHO), will review all studies in a fully blinded fashion. One operator
      will repeat the analysis at least one month after the first reading. Inter- and
      intra-individual variability will then be calculated.

      Myocardial biopsy and histology Myocardial sample will be obtained by experienced surgeon in
      all patients undergoing cardiothoracic surgery of the aortic valve. Under visual control a
      deep myocardial needle (SuperCore™ Semi-Automatic Biopsy Instrument 16 gauge x 9 cm) biopsy
      will be performed from the basal interventricular septum via the left ventricular outflow
      tract approach. A myocardial sample will be immersed immediately in 10% buffered formalin,
      embedded in paraffin blocks and later on sectioned at 3 micrometres (μm) thickness and
      stained with Picrosirius Red (PSR). PSR is a collagen specific stain and is an optimal tool
      for collagen quantification using normal light and also polarized light, which is helpful to
      distinguish between new and more matured collagen fibres. Percentage of myocardial fibrosis
      will be calculated as the ratio of Picrosirius Red (PSR)-positive area over total area using
      Image J software with differential thresholding. Histology analysis will be performed by
      experienced specialist on this field in a fully blinded fashion.

      Laboratory analysis Fasting blood samples will be obtained during each visit and serum level
      of Hemoglobin, C-reactive protein, Hemoglobin A1c, Creatinine and Glucose level, Brain
      Natriuretic Peptide, Galectin 1 and 3 level will be measured. Creatinine clearance will be
      calculated using Cockcroft-Gault equation. One sample of frozen plasma will be stored for
      further analysis (but not for genetic analysis).

      Number of included patients 100 - 150 patients in total.

      Data Collection Patient data will be collected in one database system shared on-line with all
      centres. It will require an identification code for a patient and a centre. Under no
      circumstances will the patient data such as name, identification number (ID), address or
      other contact details be collected.

      Study duration 2016 - 2022 (2 years recruitment + 5 years follow-up)
    
  