
    
      Women receiving chemotherapy for early stage breast cancer often gain weight and body fat,
      and this contributes to the health burden that cancer survivors face. Weight gain is a
      concern not only for overall health status, but also as a possible factor for risk of cancer
      recurrence. Unfortunately achieving weight loss, after a gain has occurred, is difficult, and
      there are no satisfactory methods for maintenance of weight loss. This study proposes to
      design and test a novel telephone-based intervention for preventing weight gain during
      treatment for breast cancer in a pilot, randomized study. The 12-month intervention will
      target maintenance of current weight and prevention of body fat gain using counseling for
      moderate exercise and a low-fat, high fruit-vegetable diet. The counseling approach will be
      based on motivational interviewing techniques and will be delivered through telephone
      appointments. Motivational interviewing is a client-centered type of counseling that elicits
      active participation of the patient. By taking a more active role, patients may be more
      likely to follow through with the recommended lifestyle changes. Study endpoints will include
      blood markers of dietary compliance, pedometer steps, self-monitoring logs, questionnaires
      (including quality of life) and anthropometric measures (including body fat by DEXA). An
      important goal of the study is to establish recruitment methods and demonstrate recruitment
      rates in newly diagnosed stage I-IIIA breast cancer patients. The study data also will
      demonstrate implementation of the counseling approach and provide a basis for sample size
      estimates for a larger trial. This type of intervention, namely a combination of exercise and
      diet, has been indicated to have good potential for prevention of recurrence. It is therefore
      necessary to develop effective methods for eliciting these behaviors.
    
  