
    
      FORCE project aims to measure actives forces of malignant tumor by FRM. Two main forces are
      considered as key indicators of therapeutic response and metastatic potential: interstitial
      force and traction force at the cell/tumor interface. Biomarkers of these forces will be
      developped using direct images of magnetic resonance force (FRM). Efficiency of these
      non-invasive biomarkers will be evaluated through their capacity to predict tumoral
      environment invasion, notably micro-vascular invasion, and therapeutical results in
      Hepatocellular Cancer (HCC).

      Principal criteria will be

        1. micro-vascular invasion assessed by pathological examination of surgical pieces (gold
           standard).

        2. interstitial force and traction force at the cell/tumor interface assessed by FRM.

      Secondary criteria will be :

        1. Percentage of nodular necrosis in HCC as a marker of a therapeutic response assessed by
           pathological examination of explant liver (gold standard).

        2. interstitial force and traction force at the cell/tumor interface assessed by FRM.

      Population of patients will be divided in three groups (see below). Inclusion of patients
      will occur during 24 months for a total study duration of 36 months.

      Moreover, patients in group 2 and 3 will be asked to participate to an ancillary study
      consisting in circulating tumoral cells (CTC) measurement. If they accept, a blood sample
      will be collected just before the MRI in order to evaluate the correlation between CTC and
      micro-vascular invasion.

        -  Group 1 will be constituted of 20 volunteer patients coming for abdominal MRI with no
           known hepatic disease, in order to determine the feasibility of FRM.

        -  Group 2 will be constituted of 60 patients with resectable HCC eligible for surgery.
           This group will enable to evaluate the tumoral environment invasion. Patients of this
           group will be selected during multidisciplinary medical meetings. If they accept to
           participate to the ancillary study, a blood sample will be collected (2 tubes of 6 mL
           and 10 mL respectively) just before the MRI, an exam always performed before hepatic
           resection with a 5-minute- additional sequence to measure FRM. As soon as the surgery is
           performed, surgery pieces will be analysed by anatomopathology laboratory in order to
           assess, notably, presence of mirco-vascular invasion.

        -  Group 3 will be constituted of 50 patients with HCC eligible for transplant with
           transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) treatment as pending treatment before
           transplant. This groups will enable to evaluate the efficiency of TACE through the
           necrosis percentage in treated HCC. Patients of this group will be selected during
           multidisciplinary medical meetings. If TACE was already performed at inclusion and if
           patient accepts to participate to the ancillary study, a blood sample will be collected
           (2 tubes of 6 mL and 10 mL respectively) just before the MRI, an exam always performed
           before hepatic transplant with a 5-minute- additional sequence to measure FRM. As soon
           as the transplant is performed, surgery pieces (whole patient liver) will be analysed by
           anatomopathology laboratory in order to assess, notably, presence of necrosis on HCC
           nodules previously treated by TACE. If TACE was not performed at inclusion, TACE will be
           planified as usually. Data from TACE will be collected in the case report form (CRF).
           After TACE, same exams will be performed as described above.

      All patients will have MRI as usual care. FRM is performed during MRI with the use of a
      specific medical device and therefore corresponds to an additional procedure of the research.
    
  