
    
      The overreaching goal of this line of research is to establish a methodology to produce
      patient and tumor specific treatment planning for Yttrium-90 radioembolization of
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The proposed project will facilitate the collection of
      preliminary data to support a larger study to more fully establish the relationship between
      tumor perfusion parameters and delivered radiation dose. Y-90 radioembolization delivers
      millions of small resin or glass beads attached to or containing (depending on the product)
      the beta emitting radioisotope of Yttrium. These beads are injected into the patient's
      hepatic artery during an interventional radiology procedure. The beads are pushed into the
      hepatic vasculature system by pulsatile flow and eventually become lodged, due to their
      finite size, in the microvasculature of the liver and tumor and deliver the radiation dose
      from the high energy beta particles (average energy 0.94 MeV) released during the radioactive
      decay (half life of 64 hours) in a highly local (~2.5 mm range) manner. The beads are
      permanently embedded in the vasculature and the radioactivity eventually decays to
      background.

      Current practice is to calculate and deliver an average liver lobe radiation dose based on
      either the lobar volume or the patient's body surface area. However, because of the
      hypervascular nature of HCC lesions, the tumors receive a greater proportion of the beads
      than the healthy liver parenchyma and hence are assumed to receive radiation doses well above
      that of calculated average liver dose and the dose to the normal liver. Due to the differing
      vascularity and characteristics of tumors and patients, each Y-90 treatment does not deliver
      the same dose to the tumor. A less vascular tumor may receive substantially less radiation
      than a more vascular one which affects the tumoricidal efficacy of the treatment and
      ultimately the patient's final outcome. New techniques using Positron Emission Tomography
      (PET)/CT following Y-90 treatment allow for retrospective dosimetry to determine the actual
      dose delivered to the tumor. However, no methodology exists to plan the dose to be delivered
      to the tumor prior to the treatment.

      This research aims to collect preliminary data to begin to establish a prospective method to
      use Computed Tomography (CT) perfusion studies of the liver to calculate the expected dose to
      the HCC lesions and the normal liver based on the blood flow and blood volume. This goal will
      be achieved by prospectively collecting CT Perfusion studies prior to Y-90 radioembolization
      treatments and PET/CT immediately following treatments. The relationship between the
      perfusion parameters representing the vascularity of the lesions and the normal liver and the
      post treatment PET/CT dosimetry will be established by this line of research. The
      hypothesized correlation between the perfusion parameters and the tumor dose as established
      by PET/CT will allow for patient and tumor specific treatment planning ensuring that the
      appropriate tumoricidal radiation dose is reliably delivered.
    
  