
    
      Design A prospective, multi-center, single arm open label study, 12-month study of 400 ODOCOR
      II CCM™ leads in 200 subjects .

      Method Subjects shall be enrolled that have been diagnosed with NYHA Class III-IV heart
      failure and left ventricular ejection fraction (25-45% inclusive). Eligible subjects will
      receive the Optimizer IPG device implant with 2 ODOCOR II CCM leads. Subjects will return for
      follow-up visits at 2-weeks, 6 months and 12 months following the device implant.

      Endpoints Primary Safety endpoint

      The primary safety endpoint is the incidence of lead-related complication free rate at 12
      months post-index implantation procedure compared to the incidence previously described in
      the literature for pacing therapy leads.

      Secondary Safety endpoint

      The secondary safety endpoint is an assessment of the lead-related "observations" occurring
      during the 12-month study.

      Primary Efficacy endpoint The total amount of CCM delivered to the cardiac tissue of the
      right ventricle (measured by CCM percentage) will be measured over a period of 12 months.

      Secondary Efficacy endpoint Change in QOL, as measured by the Minnesota Living with Heart
      Failure Questionnaire (MLWHFQ), from baseline to 12 months following index implantation
      procedure.

      Additional Endpoints Handling characteristics of the lead will be evaluated by the implanting
      physician. Ease of insertion, lead visibility on x-ray, and the ability to visualize the
      helix deployment will be assessed via a questionnaire administered at the completion of an
      implant procedure.

      Patients, sites Four hundred (400) ODOCOR II CCM leads will be implanted in 200 eligible
      subjects from up to 40 sites in Europe.

      Duration The total investigation is expected to last approximately 3 years , including
      enrollment and follow-up periods.
    
  