
    
      The study population was composed of subjects presenting to the Department of Oral Surgery
      for evaluation and management of bilateral, partially-impacted mandibular third molars. The
      protocol for this study was approved by the local ethics committee and all participants
      signed an informed consent.

      A patient who was referred for extraction of mandibular third molars was examined clinically
      and radiologically according to the inclusion criteria.

      Before the partially-impacted mandibular third molar surgery, randomisation was achieved by
      use of sealed envelopes, selected by the patient. The envelopes contained cards labelled
      'right' or 'left', which indicated the surgical side to receive CGF application.The envelopes
      were opened by the surgeon after the patients made their selection.

      Both partially-impacted mandibular third molars were extracted by the same experienced
      surgeon. For each patient, the sites operated on were randomly divided into two study groups.

      Group I (test); in which CGF fibrin matrix was applied to the extraction socket Group II
      (control); in which CGF was not applied to the extraction socket Each patient was listed for
      two surgical appointments. The second extraction was done on the control side, three weeks
      after the first extraction.

      Patients were blind as to which side the CGF was placed, in order to avoid any influence on
      visual analog scale (VAS) scores. To obtain an objective assessment of pain, patients were
      informed that CGF application was used on all sites by the surgeon. The surgeon was not blind
      to the CGF application or the suturing. Therefore, clinical parameters were assessed based on
      the classifications by an independent observer specializing in oral surgery.

      Study variables The primary variable of this clinical study was CGF application. CGF
      Preparation CGF was prepared according to Sacco protocol. The patients' blood was collected
      in 9 ml glass two tubes with vacutainer. The tubes were centrifuged immediately in a special
      centrifuge device (Medifuge, France). After the following settings were used: 2 min 2700 rpm,
      4 min 2400 rpm, 4 min 2700 rpm and 3 min 3000 rpm, three layers were observed in the tubes.
      The upper layer, comprising platelet-poor plasma and the lower one, the red blood cells, were
      separated from the 'buffy coat', the CGF, by forceps and scissors.

      The primary outcome variable was soft tissue healing around the extraction socket. The
      secondary outcome variables were pain, swelling and trismus.

      Before surgery, patients rinsed their mouths with 0.12% clorhexidine gluconate as an
      antiseptic mouthwash for 60 seconds.

      All surgeries were carried out using the same protocol by the same experienced surgeon. As
      local anesthetic, 2% lidocaine with 1:80.000 epinephrine (1/200.000 Jetokain®, Adeka,
      İstanbul, Turkey) was applied. A mucoperiosteal flap was elevated to expand initial access
      without releasing. The surgical approach for each tooth was as follows: bone removal, simple
      mobilization, extraction of tooth without sectioning and curettage of the socket. After
      extraction, the socket was irrigated using 60 mL of sterile saline.

      CGF fibrin matrix was placed in one socket which was randomly selected (test side). After
      three weeks, extraction of the tooth on the opposite site was performed and the socket left
      to heal naturally (control side). The flap was sutured with 4/0 atraumatic silk suture (½
      cutting edge, 75 cm, Doğsan, İstanbul, Turkey) for each surgical site.

      Postoperatively, amoxicillin (500 mg/8 h, Largopen®, Bilim Pharmaceuticals, İstanbul, Turkey
      for five days), 0.2% chlorhexidine mouthwash (twice per day for seven days; Kloroben®,
      Drogsan Pharmaceuticals, Ankara, Turkey) and paracetamol (500 mg, every 4-6 h, Parol®, Atabay
      Pharmaceuticals, İstanbul, Turkey) were prescribed by the surgeon. After one week, sutures
      were removed.

      All subjects were recalled postoperatively at the 3rd and 7th days by the blinded examiner.
      Soft tissue healing, pain, swelling and trismus were evaluated on the 3rd and 7th days and
      pain scores, noted from 1st to 7th days by the patient, were collected. Demographic values
      for patients' age and gender were also noted.
    
  