
    
      Protocol 86-EI-0062 began as a randomized, double-masked, placebo controlled study to
      evaluate the efficacy and safety of 0.5% topical cysteamine but was subsequently amended as a
      natural history protocol. Additional protocols conducted at the National Eye Institute (NEI)
      at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) began after this protocol and tested various
      formulations of cysteamine topical solution for efficacy and safety in patients with
      cystinosis. Subjects from these NIH protocols testing various formulations were ultimately
      transferred to this natural history protocol for open-label treatment once it was established
      that the formulation within this study was the most effective. All subjects enrolled in this
      protocol received the most effective cysteamine topical solution formulation in both eyes.
      The control was defined as the natural course of corneal crystal accumulation in patients
      with cystinosis. The efficacy data were obtained from all of the studies conducted at NIH
      evaluating various cysteamine ophthalmic solution formulations from 1986 until 2005. The
      safety data were collected from 1986 until the termination of this protocol in July 2013.

      OBJECTIVE:

      The free thiol cysteamine depletes cystinotic leukocytes and other cells of cystine, whose
      accumulation is considered the cause of organ damage in cystinosis. This organ damage
      involves most tissues of the body. Cysteamine therapy improved growth and stabilized renal
      function in pre-renal transplant cystinosis, without substantial toxicity but there was no
      noticeable effect on cystine crystal accumulation in the cornea, most likely because of
      inadequate local cysteamine concentration in the cornea. Previous studies have shown the
      safety of cysteamine 0.5% topical solution in benzalkonium chloride and its efficacy in
      resolving the cystine corneal crystals. The main purpose of this protocol is to maintain
      topical cysteamine treatment in patients with nephropathic cystinosis until the drops are
      approved by the FDA. When the NDA for the Sigma-Tau standard formulation is granted, the
      present protocol (86-EI-0062) will be terminated.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      Up to 350 adults and children over two years old, who have a confirmed diagnosis of
      cystinosis will be enrolled.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      This is an open label treatment protocol. Eligible subjects will receive drops of cysteamine
      0.5% topical solution in benzalkonium chloride hourly while awake in both eyes. They will
      undergo an eye examination at their baseline visit. They will take cysteamine eye drops in
      both eyes every hour during waking hours. They will return to the NIH Clinical Center for a
      follow-up safety eye examination one year after the baseline visit, and then every two years
      thereafter until the drug is available commercially.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      The initial pre-specified primary outcome measure was the reduction of cystine corneal
      crystals. The post-hoc primary outcome measure (after the protocol was modified) was the
      collection of safety data.
    
  