
    
      Eligible patients will be identified through the clinical care team by undergoing chronic
      dialysis at one of the study centres. Dialysis patients will be initially approached during a
      routine dialysis session by a member of the clinical team to discuss the study and a
      participant information sheet will be provided. A minimum of 2 days after the provision of
      the participant information sheet, the clinical team will inform the research team about the
      patients who are interested in this study. Potential participants will be re-approached in
      person by a trained research physician to determine whether they are willing to participate
      in the study. If they are interested, the information sheet will be discussed with them and
      any questions will be answered. The investigators will explain the nature of the study, its
      purpose, the procedures involved, the expected duration, the potential risks and benefits and
      any discomfort it may entail to each potential participant. Each participant will be informed
      that the participation in the study is voluntary and that he/she may withdraw from the study
      at any time and that withdrawal of consent will not affect his/her subsequent medical
      assistance and treatment.

      All potential study participants will be provided with a participant information sheet and a
      consent form describing the study and providing sufficient information for the participant to
      make an informed decision about their participation in the study.

      The participant will be given a copy of the signed document. The consent form must also be
      signed and dated by the investigator (or his designee) and it will be retained as part of the
      study records. After consent is obtained, the participant will be allocated an unique study
      identification (ID) code.

      Patients are free to discontinue their participation in the study at any time, without having
      to give a reason for their withdrawal.

      Patient exposure will be censored for discontinuation of dialysis because of regaining renal
      function or patient's wish, study withdrawal and transfer of the patient to a
      non-participating dialysis unit. Patients undergoing renal transplantation during the
      observational period will not be censored, but will be reassessed 3 and 6 months after
      transplantation.

      First, written informed consent will be obtained from the patient. After we have obtained
      informed consent patients will undergo their standard three times weekly hemodialysis
      sessions or their daily peritoneal dialysis session. At the time of enrolment into the trial
      all patients will undergo a detailed clinical assessment including a medical history and a
      physical examination. At the beginning and the end of the dialysis session, at the time of
      the monthly routine blood tests additional venous blood samples will be collected. Serial
      assessments will be performed in 6 monthly intervals until the enrollment target has been
      met. After reaching the enrollment target the observational period will continue for another
      year.
    
  