
    
      The primary aim of the present study was to compare the scores of OHQoL-UK of patients with
      periodontitis to who didn't have periodontitis/healthy controls. Our second aim was
      investigate the factors (education, smoking, gender, periodontal clinical parameters) may
      related to oral health related quality of life).

      Materials and methods Study group The present clinical study was conducted with a study group
      of 50 untreated periodontitis patients and a control group of 50 individuals without
      periodontitis (age and gender matched) who applied to Hacettepe University Faculty of
      Dentistry Department of Periodontology. Clinical examination and evaluation of patients'
      complaint All participants underwent comprehensive periodontal examination by a calibrated
      and masked examiner. probing pocket depth (PPD = distance between gingival margin and bottom
      of the periodontal pocket) and clinical attachment level (CAL = distance between the
      cement-enamel junction and bottom of the periodontal pocket) were evaluated. All periodontal
      measurements were recorded at six sites around each tooth by a periodontal probe excluding
      third molar.The patients' complaints/symptoms associated with periodontitis (gingival
      bleeding and edema, halitosis, flaring, mobile teeth, gingival hyperemia, bad taste,
      dentin/root sensitivity) were also evaluated by using Visual Analogue Scale [VAS (0-10)]. In
      the evaluation with VAS, a straight line of 100 mm was used on the vertical axis and the
      starting and ending points were numbered 0 and 100. Individuals were asked to what extent
      they perceived the symptoms of periodontitis and were asked to make an evaluation between 0
      and 100 on the scale and to put an x mark on the scale. In the evaluation of the scale, the
      marking point of the patient was measured with a caliper from the beginning of the scale.

      Assesment of OHRQoL OHRQoL was assessed using the Oral-Dental Health-Related Quality of
      Life-United Kingdom (OHRQoL-UK) scale. It consists of 4 different categories and 16 questions
      evaluating the effects of OHRQoL in positive and negative areas. These categories are as
      follows; symptoms (2 questions), physical status (5 questions), psychological status (5
      questions), social status (4 questions) ' Questions on the OHRQoL-UK scale were scored using
      the Likert-type scale as 'very bad effect-score 1, bad effect-score 2, no effect-score 3,
      good effect-score 4, very good effect-score 5. The scores obtained from all questions were
      summed to give the scores of the 4 sub-categories separately and the total OHRQoL score. A
      higher total score indicates a higher OHRQoL.
    
  