
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To estimate the event-free survival (EFS) distribution for newly-diagnosed patients with
      BRAFV600-mutant high-grade glioma (HGG) without H3 K27M mutations excluding anaplastic
      pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (aPXA) and anaplastic ganglioglioma (aGG) treated with
      radiation therapy followed by a maintenance combination of dabrafenib mesylate (dabrafenib)
      and trametinib dimethyl sulfoxide (trametinib) and to compare this EFS to contemporary
      historical controls.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the overall survival (OS) distribution for newly-diagnosed patients with
      BRAFV600-mutant HGG without H3 K27M mutations excluding aPXA and aGG treated with radiation
      therapy followed by a maintenance combination of dabrafenib and trametinib.

      II. To describe the EFS and overall survival (OS) distribution for newly-diagnosed patients
      with BRAFV600E-mutant aPXA and aGG without H3 K27M mutations treated with radiation therapy
      followed by a maintenance combination of dabrafenib and trametinib.

      III. To describe the EFS and overall survival (OS) distribution for newly-diagnosed patients
      with BRAFV600E-mutant HGG including aPXA and aGG with H3 K27M mutations treated with
      radiation therapy followed by a maintenance combination of dabrafenib and trametinib.

      IV. To define and evaluate the toxicities of combination therapy with dabrafenib and
      trametinib after radiation therapy in newly-diagnosed patients with HGG.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To bank tumor specimens and body fluids (blood, urine and cerebrospinal fluid) for future
      studies.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo standardized local radiation therapy (RT) 5 days a week (Monday-Friday) for
      6-7 weeks. Four weeks after completion of RT, patients receive dabrafenib mesylate orally
      (PO) twice daily (BID) and trametinib dimethyl sulfoxide PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at disease relapse, every 3
      months for year 1, every 4 months for year 2, every 6 months for year 3, then annually for
      years 4-5.
    
  