
    
      Background

      Cardiac arrhythmias are common and may have devastating consequences for affected patients.
      To prevent f.e. strokes due to atrial fibrillation, heart failures as a consequence of
      long-standing tachyarrhythmias or death due to ventricular fibrillation, accurate and timely
      diagnoses are essential. The standard diagnostic tool for heart rhythm disorders in everyday
      clinical life is the 12-channel surface electrocardiogram (ECG). However, despite its
      strengths, the surface ECG suffers from several limitations. Especially on the
      supraventricular level, the low atrial signal amplitude renders it prone to errors and causes
      surface ECGs to quickly reach the limits of their diagnostic capacities.

      This limitation could be overcome by recordings through the esophagus. Owing the close
      anatomical relationship, esophageal ECGs have an excellent atrial signal quality. To fully
      exploit their potential, a novel esophageal ECG catheter (esoECG catheter) with 3-dimensional
      electrode arrangement was developed. The aim of this study is to use the esoECG-3D catheter
      to develop and validate a non-invasive esophageal mapping system in order to improve the
      diagnostics of cardiac arrhythmias and consequently the therapy of patients suffering from
      these disorders.

      Objectives

      Primary objective (A1): Development of an esophageal non-invasive mapping system which shall
      be able to depict

        -  A1.1: the source of focal triggers

        -  A1.2: the sequence of cardiac depolarization

      with high spatial and temporal resolution.

      Secondary objectives (A2):

        -  A2.1: outperform the diagnostic accuracy of 12-lead ECGs in bedside arrhythmia
           diagnostics

        -  A2.2: estimate the speed of myocardial depolarization on the left atrial wall from
           esophageal ECG tracings

        -  A2.3: extract respiration signals from esophageal ECG tracings

        -  A2.4: determine the wearing comfort of the device

        -  A2.5: determine the operability of the device

      Safety objective (A3): Determination of safety of the esoECG-3D catheter for esophageal ECG
      recordings with respect to:

        -  A3.1: device related adverse events

        -  A3.2: device related serious adverse events

        -  A3.3: device failures, including insertion failure

      Methods

      Esophageal ECGs will be acquired from a total of 52 participants using the esophageal
      esoECG-3D catheter. 40 of these will be recorded during an electrophysiological study and/or
      ablation procedure to obtain a reference (intracardiac measurements) for the evaluation of
      outcome measures. In a subset of patients, defined pacing maneuvers will be performed;
      12-channel ECG and breathing sensor recordings will be obtained from all participants in
      parallel to eECG measurements. The acquired data will be used for development of algorithms
      to non-invasively map the hearts depolarization process from recordings in the esophagus.
      Outcome evaluation will be performed after completion of all measurements and after
      implementation of the final mapping algorithms.
    
  