
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the breast cancer-free interval in elderly women with resectable, hormone
           receptor-negative breast cancer treated with pegylated doxorubicin hydrochloride
           liposome (PDL) vs observation or PDL vs cyclophosphamide and methotrexate.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the tolerability of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the safety and toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the overall and progression-free survival of patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the sites of failure in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the competing causes of death in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the rate of second non-breast malignancy in patients treated with these
           regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center. Patients are assigned, based on patient preference, to 1 of 2 treatment
      groups.

        -  Group 1: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms (arms I and II).

             -  Arm I: Patients receive pegylated doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome (PDL) IV over
                1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 8 courses in the absence of
                disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm II: Patients undergo observation only.

        -  Group 2: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms (arms III and IV).

             -  Arm III: Patients receive PDL as in arm I.

             -  Arm IV: Patients receive oral cyclophosphamide once daily on days 1-7 and oral
                methotrexate twice daily on days 1 and 4. Treatment repeats every week for 16
                courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      All patients may undergo radiotherapy according to institutional standards either during
      surgery or after the completion of chemotherapy.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at 3, 6, and 12 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,296 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  