
    
      Graves' orbitopathy is the most relevant non-thyroid manifestation of Graves' disease. Its
      clinical status varies from subclinical to severe deformities. Clinical features include
      palpebral retraction, exophthalmos, restrictive strabismus, chemosis, ocular surface lesions
      and optic neuropathy. There are two stages of the disease. There is an active phase in which
      the inflammatory process is present and the orbital changes evolve. The inactive phase
      comprises a stable clinical picture regarding the sequelae of the active phase. Orbital
      decompression surgery is the main treatment procedure for this inactive phase for functional
      and cosmetic rehabilitation purposes. In the last decades, great advances in the techniques
      and indication of this surgery have been observed. However, a consensus about the ideal
      technique does not yet exist. The most commonly used techniques are antro-ethmoidal
      decompression and lateral wall decompression alone or associated with other walls. The
      present study will be based on patients with Graves' orbitopathy diagnosis for at least 2
      years and who are already in the inactive phase for at least 6 months. There are no
      prospective studies comparing the 2 main orbital decompression techniques through a detailed
      analysis of surgical outcomes from computed tomography images, digital photographic images
      and ocular motility examination. These informations will be collected in the preoperative and
      postoperative periods. The investigators will evaluate the decompressive potential of each
      technique calculated by the tomographic images. Participants will be followed up for a period
      of 6 months after the surgical procedure and the effect of decompression on ocular motility,
      ocular bulb positioning, ocular surface, vertical palpebral fissure, and the patient's
      quality of life will also be analyzed. The findings of this work will bring important
      contribution to the improvement of this surgical procedure of great relevance in the
      rehabilitation of patients with Graves' orbitopathy.
    
  