
    
      Background

      The proposed study aims to explore why acute pain turns, in some patients, into chronic pain,
      and to develop tools for prediction of this transition. Based on the clinical and
      psychological assessment along with psychophysical and neurophysiological assessment of pain
      perception, with the analysis of connectivity between several brain centers relevant for pain
      processing, together with pain genetics, we expect to develop a tool, that will predict, for
      the individual patient with acute pain inflicted by a whiplash injury, what are the chances
      for him/her to go into chronic pain situation. Further, by knowing the dysfunctions of pain
      processing that a patient has, it will be possible to offer the treatment of highest chances
      to succeed.

      Our specific aims are to evaluate, in the setup of acute whiplash injury, the risk of
      transition to chronic pain based on each of the following testing domains: (i) Psychophysical
      and neurophysiological data describing facilitatory and inhibitory modulation capacity of the
      patient. (ii) Psychological data describing patient's behavior such as catastrophyzing, fear
      of pain, post-traumatic stress and depressed mood. (iii) Structural and functional
      neuro-imaging data describing brain anatomy and function, where we assess resting state MRI
      activity, grey matter properties using T1 weighted imaging, and white matter properties using
      diffusion tensor imaging. (iv) Genetic data describing the genetic epidemiology of every
      patient for the examination of genetic variants associated with transition to chronic pain,
      and (v) individual case data related to age, gender, education, socioeconomic parameters and
      personal medical history, as well as features of the specific injury. Overall, we aim to
      construct a composite scoring system, based on the most relevant of the above mentioned
      parameters, yielding the highest relative predictive value in identifying acute pain patients
      who have higher risk for chronification.

      Subjects One hundred and twenty healthy subjects (range 20-79; 20 subjects per age decade, 10
      M and 10 F) will participate in the first phase of the study aimed to collect normative data
      from healthy population.

      Seven hundred and fifty acute whiplash-injury based mild TBI will participate in this study.

      Study design Phase I - Normative data collection for the inhibitory and excitatory pain
      modulation responses, a study on healthy subjects

      Phase II - Multi-modal assessment of acute mild TBI whiplash patients and follow-up

        1. Initial experimental assessment, will consist, in most cases, of two sessions, one
           during the ER visit, and the next within 72 hrs of injury, pending on team and device
           availability, such that all tests will be completed, as follows:

             1. Physical examination with a full neurological exam, and assessment of neck
                movement.

             2. Psychophysical pain measurements:

           i. Pain thresholds. ii. Suprathreshold pain magnitude estimation; iii. Mechanical TS and
           electrical TS iv. CPM - as described for the phase I protocol. It is noted that similar
           protocols of pain measurement are commonly performed in many labs worldwide in many
           acute and chronic pain setups, and are considered safe, with no damaging effect on the
           disease state.

           c. Psychological examination via filling questionnaires for evaluation the following
           variables: i. Pain Catastrophizing ii. Depression iii. Post-traumatic Diagnostic Scale
           (PDS) iv. Fear of pain v. The perceived stress of the subjects is assessed by the
           validated Hebrew version Cohen's Perceived Stress Scale (PSS).

           vi. Five factor model (FFM)

           d.Blood collection for genetics. Whole blood sample (10cc) will be collected from each
           subject and placed in EDTA-coated tubes. Genomic DNA will be isolated using DNA
           Extraction Kit . Quality and quantity of the DNA sample will be measured using a
           NanoDrop Machine.

           e. MRI/fMRI examination in a 3T scanner.

           f. Neurophysiological assessment of pain modulation with 64-channel EEG recording (Brain
           Products GmbH, Munich, Germany) of CPM and TS.

           i.Neurophysiological assessment of CPM ii.Neurophysiololgical assessment of TS will be
           based on electrical evoked potentials obtained with a constant current stimulator

        2. Follow up Patients will self-report their pain levels and use of analgesics once in two
           weeks.

      At 6 and 12 month visits patients will be invited to repeat the psychophysical and
      neurophysiological pain assessments and psychological questionnaires. Selected patients will
      undergo a second MRI assessment.
    
  