
    
      There are many factors that are involved in the ability of foods to suppress appetite, for
      instance the fiber, fat and protein contents of the food. The novel whole grain Salvia
      hispanica may significantly lower appetite compared to refined carbohydrates and other whole
      grains because of its composition. First, Salvia hispanica's high fiber content may help
      lower postprandial glycemia. Whole grains are much higher in fiber than refined
      carbohydrates. High fiber foods are thought to be more satiating because they have lower
      energy densities and delay gastric emptying, causing glucose to be released more slowly into
      the circulation. This, in turn, is hypothesized to increase satiety by preventing a sudden
      drop in blood glucose levels, which would normally trigger hunger . Another mechanism by
      which fiber may promote satiety, independent of glycemic responses, is through the secretion
      of gut hormones that signal fullness . Furthermore, Salvia hispanica may be more satiating
      than other whole grains due to its higher fat and protein contents. Protein and fat also
      prolong satiety due to mechanisms such as delayed gastric emptying and secretion of gut
      hormones .

      Results from preliminary studies confirm the satiating effects of Salvia hispanica, as they
      demonstrate that this grain induces increased subjective satiety and reduced postprandial
      glycemia. It is presumed that if a food is satiating, it will decrease subsequent intake of
      other foods because hunger is suppressed. A lower caloric intake, in turn, would help promote
      weight loss.

      Salvia hispanica may also encourage weight loss via another mechanism. Preliminary studies
      suggested that this grain has a lower glycemic index value than white flour. Consumption of
      low-GI foods compared to high-GI foods has been suggested to reduce obesity by discouraging
      fat deposition and promoting fat oxidation . Thus, Salvia hispanica could potentially promote
      weight loss by reducing both hunger and the amount of body fat stored.

      In order to study Salvia hispanica's ability to promote weight loss, feasibility studies must
      first be done to determine what amount is optimal for satiety and also whether enriched
      products are most satiating in liquid or solid form.
    
  