
    
      Introduction: Tracheostomy is one of the most frequently required surgical techniques for the
      management of hospitalized patients in Intensive Care Units (ICU). This procedure is
      justified to facilitate the improvement of the patient, facilitate early rehabilitation,
      reduce sedation and analgesia requirements, and reduce the length of stay in the ICU and the
      days of mechanical ventilation (MV). However, tracheostomy is associated with various
      complications, from mispositioning and accidental decannulation, to hemoptysis, tracheal
      fistulas, air leaks, and ventilatory difficulties. In a pre-post quasi-experimental study
      where the effect of the DYNAtraq technological innovation device on tracheostomy fixation and
      alignment was evaluated, it was found that it can correct 83% of cases, which contrasts with
      only 2% when they did not have the device. (p <0.01). This previous study allowed us to
      conclude that technological innovation through DYNAtraq is pertinent, relevant and effective
      to correct the position of tracheostomy tubes in patients hospitalized in the ICU and under
      mechanical ventilation.

      Objective: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of the DYNAtraq medical device to keep
      tracheostomy tubes in correct alignment and fixation in adult patients with tracheostomy
      hospitalized in the ICU and under invasive mechanical ventilation.

      Methodology: Randomized, controlled clinical trial (two-parallel arm), assigned in a 1: 1
      ratio, in a sample of 74 patients mechanically ventilated in intensive care unit (37 in
      intervention group and 37 patients in control group). This study is conducted in two centers
      for intensive care patients in two Colombian cities and

      The patients randomized to the intervention group will have the external fixation system for
      the tracheostomy installed, which is a non-invasive plastic device, from the start of the
      tracheostomy to ventilatory weaning. Patients in the control group will receive the usual
      management of the tracheostomy given in ICU. To evaluate alignment , the cephalo-caudal (C-C)
      and lateral-lateral (L-L) angles will be evaluated through photographs and analyzed with the
      MY MEASURES application. The mean values of the angles were obtained in degrees and their 95%
      confidence intervals. Angular means were compared using the paired Student's t test.

      Expected Results: The DYNAtraq device is expected to be effective in improving the proper
      fixation, orientation, and alignment of the tracheostomy tube in mechanically ventilated
      patients, reducing the complications of lacerations, bleeding, decannulation, and respiratory
      infectious complications.
    
  