
    
      Screening and Consent - Index cases:

        1. Hospitalized patient with the diagnosis of severe CDAD

        2. At screening visit the study investigator(s) will explain the study in detail, answer
           any questions the candidate may have, and give the candidate a consent form to read and
           sign.

        3. After signing the consent form, the candidate subject will be asked to provide a
           complete medical history and undergo a physical examination.

        4. Blood will be drawn for a complete blood count (CBC) and bacterial culture

        5. Stool will be collected and archived for use for further analysis as deemed necessary by
           the principal investigator. All analyses will be performed in an anonymous coded method,
           without any disclosure of the patient identifiers.

      Screening and Consent - Donors:

        1. Identified by recipients, generally an intimate partner or adult family member

        2. Willing to donate stool

        3. Exclusion criteria (per questionnaire):

             1. Had taken antibiotics within 90 days of the planned procedure

             2. Fever, diarrhea, vomiting, or any other symptoms of infection, which occurred
                within the two weeks prior to the day of the procedure.

             3. Known exposure to HIV or viral hepatitis (within the previous 12 months)

             4. High-risk sexual behaviors (examples: sexual contact with anyone with HIV/AIDS or
                hepatitis, men who have sex with men, sex for drugs or money)

             5. Use of illicit drugs

             6. Tattoo or body piercing within 6 months

             7. Incarceration within previous 12 months

             8. Known current communicable disease

             9. Risk factors for variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease

            10. Gastrointestinal co-morbidities

            11. History of inflammatory bowel disease

            12. History of irritable bowel syndrome, idiopathic chronic constipation, or chronic
                diarrhea

            13. History of gastrointestinal malignancy

            14. Recent ingestion of a potential allergen (eg, nuts) where recipient has a known
                allergy to this agent

            15. Systemic autoimmunity, for example, multiple sclerosis, connective tissue disease

        4. Exclusion criteria (per laboratory assays):

             1. Positive HIV, hepatitis C virus, hepatitis B virus, Syphilis antibodies

             2. Stool culture positive for the enteropathogenic bacteria Salmonella, Shigella, or
                Campylobacter

             3. Stool stain positive for Ova and Parasites

             4. Stool positive for Giardia- and Entamoeba histolytica-specific antigens

             5. Stool positive for C. difficile toxins

      Fecal Microbiota Transplantation Protocol Donor

        1. Provide informed consent (laxative administration)

        2. Report symptoms of infection, which occur between screening and the day of the procedure

        3. Take a single dose of osmotic laxative (one tablet of "Laxadin") on the evening before
           the procedure

        4. Provide fresh stool, at least 50 grams

      Recipient 1. Provide informed consent

      Fecal solution preparation

        1. Universal precautions (gown, gloves, eye protection) during stool processing

        2. Fresh (<6 h) donor stool specimen

        3. About 50 grams of donor stool, diluted and shaken vigorously in sterile Saline 0.9% to
           homogeneity.

        4. Filter stool through gauze if necessary to remove large debris

        5. Stool suspension drawn up into 50 mL slip-tip syringes

      Procedure

        1. Informed consent for colonoscopy obtained including the additional theoretical risk of
           infection related to fecal transfusion

        2. Document that examination of the colon is not adequate for cancer screening purposes
           (stool infusion interferes with visualization)

        3. Colonoscopy performed aiming to reach the cecum with or without decompression without
           bowel inflation. If the cecum is not reachable the injection will be performed at the
           most distal site.

        4. No biopsies taken

        5. Upon withdrawal, injection of the fecal suspension via the biopsy channel of a
           colonoscope, majority into the right colon. Deliver between 300-500 ml.

      Post procedure

      1. Patient encouraged to retain stool (if possible) for 4 hours

      Clinical and laboratory follow up

        1. A blood culture will be drawn immediately following the procedure

        2. Subjects will be followed during hospitalization and after discharge for at least 30
           days. Data on symptoms of CDAD, on-going medical history review, physical examination,
           and laboratory tests as described in Table 1 will be collected.

        3. Safety will be assessed by monitoring the subjects for adverse events.
    
  