
    
      OBJECTIVES OF THE TRIAL

      The objectives of this study are:

      To investigate the efficacy of Greek Mountain Tea as a disease course modifying treatment for
      MCI in a phase III double-blind placebo-controlled study.

      To investigate the effects in objective measurements in patients with MCI.

      STUDY DESIGN This is a Greek, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study group of
      compared Greek Mountain Tea placebo. Qualifying patients will be randomly assigned to receive
      12 grams of Greek Mountain Tea or mediterranean dietary protocol on a daily basis for 24
      months. Patients undergo assessments at baseline,12 and 24 months +/- 7 days after beginning
      of the treatment.

      Duration The total study duration will be 36 months. Patients will receive study medication
      for 24 months.The recruitment will be about 6 months and the statistics and the preparation
      of the paper other 6 months. Number of Subjects One hundred fifty (100) subjects total will
      be enrolled. ; Fifty (50) in the experimental group (Greek Mountain Tea); and Fifty (50) in
      control Group 2(same dietary habits mediterranean dietary protocol).

      Patient Eligibility Screening Form (ESF)

      An eligibility form documenting the patient's fulfilment of the entry criteria will be
      completed by the assessor. The following information will be included in the

      ESF:

      Patient identification: Initials (First initial of first name and First initial of surname),
      date of birth and Patient Identification Number.

      Eligibility Screening; Checklist of inclusion and exclusion criteria Eligibility Statement;
      for patients found to be ineligible, the reason for ineligibility must be stated Written
      informed consent will be obtained from the subject . The informed consent form must be
      co-signed by the physician. The nature of the study and the potential risks associated with
      the trial will be explained to all subject candidates and their responsible informants.

      Signature and date: the ESF may be completed by an assessor but it is required that the
      principal investigator/study clinician sign and date the ESF to verify eligibility of the
      patient for inclusion.
    
  