
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety of chemotherapy isolated to the pulmonary circulation by determining
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D). (Phase I) II. To
      determine the rate of local recurrences in patients receiving pulmonary suffusion, compared
      to historical controls in patients with completely resected pulmonary metastases (unilateral
      and bilateral disease). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the local and systemic toxicities associated with pulmonary suffusion. (Phase
      I) II. To determine disease-free survival (DFS) in patients receiving pulmonary suffusion
      compared to historical controls, in patients with completely resected pulmonary metastases
      (unilateral and bilateral disease). (Phase II)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the pulmonary suffusion-associated changes in local tumor microenvironment
      (TME) and potential of suffusion as an immune modulation enhancement. (Phase II) II. To
      determine overall survival (OS) in patients receiving pulmonary suffusion compared to
      historical controls, in patients with completely resected pulmonary metastases (unilateral
      and bilateral disease). (Phase II) III. To compare histology of tumor samples with previously
      resected specimens with attention to biomarkers of systemic immune recognition in patients
      eligible for repeat suffusion. (Phase II) IV. To obtain tumor and systemic immune biomarkers
      including cytokine activations for correlation with clinical responses. (Phase II) V. To
      correlate local control with biomarker for tissue effect from chemotherapy (including tissue
      levels of platinum, alkaline phosphatase [ALP]). (Phase II) VI. To correlate local disease
      control with tumor biomarker for metastasis (circulating [circ] ribonucleic acid [RNA], micro
      [mi]RNA). (Phase II)

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo pulmonary suffusion consisting of cisplatin via infusion. Patients then
      undergo metastasectomy. Patients found to have unresectable sarcoma may receive chemotherapy
      within 4-8 weeks of metastasectomy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 months and then every 6
      months for up to 5 years.
    
  