
    
      Cardiovascular disease remains the most common cause of death in Ireland. Usage of
      antiplatelet agents and cardiac procedures such as coronary angioplasty has dramatically
      improved the morbidity and mortality associated with coronary artery disease. In patients
      with a coronary stent, dual antiplatelet therapy is recommended. Aspirin is the main
      antiplatelet agent used. For many years, clopidogrel was the second antiplatelet of choice.
      Recent studies have revealed new antiplatelet drugs that can substitute clopidogrel, one of
      which is ticagrelor. Ticagrelor received approval from regulatory authorities such as the
      Food and Drug Administration and the European Medicines Agency based on the PLATO trial which
      demonstrated a reduction in overall mortality and thrombotic cardiovascular events when
      compared to clopidogrel. Ticagrelor is approved in Europe and specifically in Ireland for use
      in patients with ACS and in patients undergoing coronary angioplasty. The degree to which
      ticagrelor reduced the overall mortality compared to clopidogrel in the PLATO trial suggested
      that ticagrelor possibly has a pleiotropic effect and that the reduction in mortality is not
      simply due to its antiplatelet effects. The ticagrelor molecule resembles adenosine. It has
      been shown that ticagrelor increases adenosine concentration, by interfering with its red
      blood cells' uptake and by inducing the release of ATP which is then converted to adenosine.
      Adenosine has been shown to be cardioprotective.

      Peripheral Arterial Tonometry (EndoPAT 2000 system (Itamar Medical, Caesarea, Israel) is a
      method for evaluating endothelial dysfunction. The device has received a CE mark (approved
      for use in Europe). It uses a non-invasive assessment called fingertip pulse amplitude
      tonometry.

      The reactive hyperaemia response as detected by the reactive hyperaemia index (RHI) has been
      shown to be related to multiple traditional and metabolic risk factors. It has also been
      found to positively correlate with flow mediated dilatation (FMD) and coronary vasoreactivity
      as assessed by intracoronary acetylcholine. A significant advantage of the endoPAT device is
      the reproducibility of results when compared to FMD in assessment of peripheral endothelial
      function. Smaller studies have shown positive effects of ticagrelor on endothelial function
      assessment compared with clopidogrel or prasugrel but no randomised study has been done to
      date.

      The aim of this project is to study the effects of ticagrelor on the arterial system using a
      noninvasive method. The study will employ the measurement of peripheral endothelial function
      of patients who undergo percutaneous coronary intervention who are on ticagrelor vs.
      clopidogrel using a cross over trial design.
    
  