
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) occurs with increasing age and is the leading cause of death
      worldwide. A causal relationship between salt and CVD, although well established in animal
      models, has been difficult to prove in human populations. First, because humans do not live
      under the strict experimental conditions necessary to quantify sodium intake, and second,
      because tissue sodium stores cannot be detected with the available clinical methods, making
      reliable measurements of total body sodium extremely challenging.

      The investigators have previously implemented 23NaMRI technology to detect and quantify
      tissue Na+ stores in humans. Previous studies have sown that humans store large amounts of
      Na+ in their skin and muscle as they age and that skin Na+ storage is linked with
      hypertension, while muscle Na+ storage is coupled with insulin resistance and diabetes. More
      recent studies show that the adverse effect of Na+ on human health goes far beyond the
      well-established salt-blood pressure relationship. The investigators have found that urea
      and/or Na+ storage in barriers such as kidney or skin is a key principle of water
      conservation.

      This study aims to test the hypothesis that water conservation in the skin is essential for
      systemic fluid and blood pressure homeostasis, and that skin Na+ storage is utilized to
      prevent water loss, even at the expense of increased cardiovascular risk.

      This is a cross-sectional study design with one study visit and a recruitment period of 3
      years. 600 participants will be recruited from the Biobank cohort and tissue Na+ will be
      measured using 23NaMRI. The study will test whether increased Na+ storage in the skin is
      coupled with transepidermal water loss at the expense of high blood pressure levels, and
      examine the association between tissue sodium storage and specific cardiovascular markers.
    
  