
    
      Video assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) is a type of minimally invasive thoracic surgery
      (MITS) procedure used for diagnosis or treatment of chest pathologies (pulmonary,
      mediastinal, chest wall). Most main procedures traditionally performed by open thoracotomy
      can be performed with smaller incisions using video support. Literature shows that resections
      performed with VATS result in shorter hospital stay, lower complication rates, lower
      mortality rates and similar survivability rates in comparison to thoracotomy. While being
      less invasive in comparison to open surgery options, thoracoscopic surgery may damage the
      intercostal nerve and damages muscles. Also it provokes soft tissue edema at the incision
      area. Therefore, pain can be more intense than expected after thoracoscopic procedures.
      Post-operation pain is not just an acute problem; 20% of the patients develop chronic
      incision pain after a thoracic surgery.

      Post-operative pain is a type of acute pain which starts with surgical procedure and ends
      with tissue recovery. Eliminating this pain is one of the important purposes of anaesthesia.
      Post-operative analgesia methods may prevent the patient from feeling pain, but there has
      been no consensus regarding pain management, and generally a multi-modal approach is the most
      preferable approach. While various methods are used for post-operation analgesia, studies to
      increase patient satisfaction are still ongoing.

      Thoracic epidural analgesia (TEA) and paravertebral block are gold standard of analgesia
      methods for thoracoscopy operations, and these are widely used for VATS procedures. An
      epidural application generally performed at the level of T5-7 intervertebral space for
      thoracic surgery. While intra-operative analgesia is also provided using by an epidural
      catheter, it is also the first preference in post-operative analgesia management. It can be
      applied by continuous infusion of local anesthetic, or bolus dosages with 4-6 hours
      intervals.

      Erector spina plane block (ESPB) is a type of block applied by injection of a local
      anaesthetic into the interfacial plane under the erector spina muscle, and it is defined as
      an analgesic method for thoracic neuropathic pain in 2016. The dermatome area it covers
      varies according to the level of application. It can be applied under USG guidance and its
      application may be considered less invasive in comparison to thoracic epidural. Due to its
      easier application it can prove to be a more popular approach in the future. In thoracic
      surgeries, single-shut at the T5-6 level can be used or multiple shuts at multiple levels can
      be applied or continue analgesia can be applied by catheter

        -  There has been no randomised controlled study comparing epidural versus erector spinae
           plane block in the literature.

      particiants hypothesis is that continue ESP block catheter application is non-inferior than
      epidural catheter application in the first post-operative 48 hours regarding post-operative
      pain relief. The purpose of this study is to invertigate the effects of TEA and ESPB on
      post-operative pain in patients undergoing VATS.
    
  