
    
      About 30% of cirrhotic patients will develop ascites. Sodium restriction and diuretics are
      the first step treatment. Total paracentesis is used in patients with cirrhosis and tense
      ascites. Paracentesis alone was found to induce a decrease in effective arterial blood
      volume. This circulatory dysfunction may induce inhospital complications such as impaired
      renal function or hyponatremia and is associated with a significant reduction in long term
      survival. Intravenous albumin administration after paracentesis has been shown to prevent the
      post paracentesis decrease in arterial blood volume. Paracentesis also induces arteriolar
      vasodilation which plays a major role in initiating the decrease in arterial blood volume.
      Therefore, administration of a vasoconstrictor may decrease paracentesis induced arteriolar
      vasodilation and prevent the resulting decrease in effective arterial blood volume. Two
      randomised pilot studies suggest that Terlipressin may be as effective as intravenous albumin
      in preventing a decrease in effective arterial blood volume in patients with cirrhosis
      treated by paracentesis for tense ascites. The combined treatment, albumin plus terlipressin,
      could have additional effect and may improve ascites in such patients. In several studies the
      combined therapy, albumin plus terlipressin, has shown beneficial effect in cirrhotic
      patients with hepatorenal syndrome characterized by a sever decrease in arterial blood volume
      and vasodilation. In these studies, combined therapy was well tolerated.The aim of this study
      is to compare ascites relapse between two groups of cirrhotic patients with recidivation
      ascites treated by paracentesis and intravenous albumin perfusion plus terlipressin or
      placebo. In this double blind randomized multi-center trial, all patients receive albumin
      perfusion at the dose 8 g/l of removed ascites and Terlipressin (1mg) or placebo,
      administrated before and at the end of the paracentesis.
    
  