
    
      The International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI), together with partners, has pioneered
      an approach to improving the safety of food sold in informal markets by professionalizing
      informal traders who operate in these markets in low- and middle-income countries. The
      approach involves training vendors in hygiene and business skills and improving their ability
      to market products through brand creation, building skills in sales and milk promotion,
      and/or social marketing. The approach appears sustainable and scalable, but the nutrition and
      health impacts, though potentially important, have not been evaluated. The objective of the
      study is to assess the impact of a Training, Certification and Marketing intervention for
      milk vendors in the informal sector on milk safety and nutrition outcomes in children in
      peri-urban areas of Kenya.

      The study will be conducted in 3 sub-counties in peri-urban Nairobi, Kenya. The study area
      was selected for its peri-urban status, ongoing urbanization, and high density of livestock
      and dairy production. The target wards are characterized by neighborhoods with adequate
      infrastructure and multi-storey buildings and areas with tin-roofed houses and limited access
      to piped water, sanitation and electricity. Importantly, it is estimated that about 70%
      (Kenya Market Trust, 2016) of the milk consumed in the study area is sold through the
      informal dairy vendors-vendors that sell unpackaged or not-formally processed milk-who are
      the focus of this study.

      A two-arm cluster-randomized, non-masked, community-based trial will be used to estimate the
      effectiveness of the MoreMilk intervention. The RCT aims at answering the following two
      research questions:

        -  Does a "training, certification and marketing" intervention for dairy vendors operating
           in the informal dairy markets in peri-urban Nairobi improves the microbiological quality
           (i.e. safety) of the unpacked milk sold in informal markets?

        -  Does a "training, certification and marketing" intervention for dairy vendors operating
           in the informal dairy markets in peri-urban Nairobi increase the natural log of mean
           dietary adequacy of protein, Ca, and vitamin B12 for children 12-48 months (at baseline)
           in consumer households?

      The study population will include dairy vendors operating in the informal sector (businesses
      selling unpackaged or not-formally processed milk to individual consumers; this includes raw,
      boiled and unpacked pasteurized milk) in the study areas and consumer households that
      purchase most of their weekly milk from those vendors. The unit of randomization is a cluster
      of 1 to 5 vendors and the households consuming milk from those vendors. Clusters are
      identified using a hybrid approach based on a computer-based algorithm informed by the GPS
      locations of the informal milk vendors in the target areas. The resulting clusters ensure
      that vendors in one cluster are located at least 250m away from any vendor in a different
      cluster. Study clusters will be randomly assigned to one of two arms:

        1. Treatment arm: Training, certification, and marketing scheme for milk vendors.

        2. Control arm: Delayed intervention (implemented after endline survey). Study vendors in
           the intervention (treatment) clusters will be offered the possibility to participate in
           a 12-15hr training. Trainings will be offered free of charge. Upon completion of the
           endline survey, vendors in the control clusters will also be offered the training, which
           will follow the same format as the one used in the intervention clusters. The training
           will be offered a few hours per day over 5-days to accommodate vendors' time
           constraints, which we expect to be more severe for female vendors. The trainings will be
           given by business development service (BDS) providers. BDS correspond to a "wide range
           of non-financial services provided by public and private suppliers (BDS providers) to
           entrepreneurs to help them operate efficiently and to grow their business with the
           broader purpose of contributing to economic growth, employment generation and poverty
           alleviation" (Kimando, 2012). The Kenyan register of BDS providers will be used to
           identify available BDS providers. The selected BDS will receive a full training course,
           covering the intervention content and specific teaching methods to be used during the
           training of vendors.

      The study will include 142 vendor clusters (with a minimum number of vendors per cluster of
      one and a maximum of five), 240 vendors and 852 households at baseline. For the health
      outcome, the study will be powered to detect a 0.4 standard deviation difference between the
      natural log of TBC in the treatment and control groups. This equates roughly to a 20
      percentage point increase in the proportion of vendors selling milk meeting EAS one year
      after the intervention, off of a proportion of 37% in the data we collected in the study
      areas in 2017. For the nutrition outcomes, the study will be powered to detect a change in
      the natural log of mean dietary adequacy of Ca, protein, and vitamin B12 that corresponds to
      a daily increase of 75gr of milk (0.5 cups) consumed per child. This is one-third of the
      median daily milk consumption for children 24-48 months of age in the MilkMarkets data
      collected in Dagoretti in 2017.

      Randomization of vendor cluster to treatment or control arm will be conducted immediately
      after completion of the baseline surveys for vendors and consumer households, and hence
      post-consent. After randomization, vendors in clusters allocated to the intervention will be
      contacted, informed of the training schedules available in their ward, and offered the
      possibility to attend 1 of up to 3 scheduled training options. Vendors in the control
      clusters will be informed that they will be given the option to participate in the trainings
      one year later.

      Selection and recruitment of vendors - From the full list of identified clusters, we will
      randomly select the 142 to meet the study sample size requirements. In each cluster, a
      minimum of 1 and a maximum of 5 vendors will be recruited.

      Selection and recruitment of households - For each participating cluster, we will recruit up
      to 6 consumer households that meet our inclusion criteria. Each recruited vendor will be
      given a small add to display in their business/premise advertising the study and inviting
      interested consumers to register interest to participate in the study by providing their name
      and telephone number in a registration form. Vendors will be encouraged to bring the study to
      the attention of their customers. The information will be kept at the vendor's premise for up
      to 10 days and then collected by field workers. Registered consumers will be contacted and
      information collected to check their eligibility (see criteria above). If not enough eligible
      households were identified, a second approach to recruitment will be used. A field worker
      will spend 2-3 hours in the morning or the evening of a given day at the recruited vendor's
      premise and approach customers that purchase liquid unprocessed milk during this time period.
      A brief set of questions will be asked to confirm whether the consumer household meets our
      inclusion criteria. If it does, the study will be presented and interest to participate in
      the study will be recorded. Basic contact details will be obtained to facilitate follow up.
      After identification of all eligible households in the cluster, 6 households will be randomly
      selected to participate in the study aiming at achieving equal number of household per
      vendor(whenever there is more than 1 vendor in a cluster) and ensuring there is at least one
      household per vendor in each cluster.

      Selection of the index child - In each recruited household one child 12 months to 48 months
      of age will be selected. If only one child falls into this age window at the time of
      baseline, this child will be the index child. In case there are multiple children in the
      household meeting the age criterion, the index child will be randomly selected manually or by
      the computer-assisted personal interview software.

      A baseline survey and an endline survey will be conducted in recruited vendors and households
      prior to the intervention (baseline) and 12 months after baseline (endline). The
      questionnaire to vendors will gather information on the following three elements: (i) milk
      hygiene and handling practices of daily operations, including sourcing of milk, equipment
      available and use of quality testing; (ii) business performance, recording milk volumes
      purchased/sold, expenditures, revenues and cost of equipment; (iii) women's empowerment in
      their business and related household gender dynamics. In addition, two un-announced visits to
      the participating vendors will be conducted between the intervention and the enline survey,
      where observable features on milk hygiene and handling will be recorded through a short
      questionnaire. These two mid-term visits will allow for collection of information on business
      performance indicators and any unexpected negative consequences from participation in the
      study. In households, questionnaires will record the following information (i) household food
      expenditure, with focus on milk products; (b) milk consumption, handling and hygiene
      practices; (c) a 24hr dietary recall for the selected child 12-48 months at baseline; (d)
      presence of diarrhea in the past 7 days (diarrhea understood as one or more days having at
      least 3 loose stools/day).

      At baseline, endline, and at the 2 unannounced visits, up to 100ml of milk sold by
      participating vendors will be bought. Samples will be tested for total bacterial counts
      (TBC), enumeration of enterobacteriaceae and presence and enumeration of coagulase positive
      staphylococci. For vendors in the intervention clusters, results of the laboratory analysis
      and feedback on milk hygiene practices will be communicated after each testing.

      The "multiple-pass" 24hr recall method will be used. This approach uses a special method to
      help the primary caretaker, usually the mother, of a child remember what was consumed and
      ensure that enumerators do not miss important information. Using the 24hr form, enumerators
      review the day's food and drink several times with the primary caretaker of the child. Each
      time, or "pass" more detailed information is added to the recall form, thus reducing the
      probability that foods are omitted. A detailed 24hr recall protocol has been developed.
      Length/height and weight of the selected child and his/her mother will be recorded.

      The process evaluation will examine the primary inputs, processes, outputs, and outcomes
      along the program impact pathway to determine the "how" and "why" of program impact. The
      scope of the process evaluation is limited to providing a qualitative assessment of issues
      related to program implementation and delivery. A combination of random and purposive
      sampling techniques will be used for the process evaluation. Quantitative data will be
      collected through precoded questionnaires. Qualitative data will be collected through
      semi-structured continuous observations of program activities, semi-structured individual
      qualitative interviews with implementation staff and beneficiaries, and group free listing
      with beneficiaries.

      A scientific advisory committee has been set up, formed of 3 individuals external to the
      research team and to the project partner institutions. The Committee will revise and provide
      feedback on the study protocol and the study research tools (questionnaires, consent forms,
      …), as well as conduct data monitoring for selected indicators. The Committee will select a
      chair for the duration of the study, who will convene meetings as required based on the
      outcomes of the monitoring.
    
  