
    
      Anemia associated with chronic kidney disease is due to several factors, primarily the
      inability of the diseased kidneys to produce adequate amounts of endogenous erythropoietin.
      Ancillary factors include the shortened lifespan of red blood cells, iron and other
      nutritional deficiencies, infection, and inflammation. The presence and severity of anemia
      are related to the duration and extent of kidney failure. Anemia is associated with increased
      mortality, increased likelihood of hospitalization, reduced cognitive function, and increased
      left ventricular hypertrophy and heart failure.

      Erythropoiesis stimulating agents have been established as a treatment for anemia in chronic
      renal failure subjects, and have improved the management of anemia over alternatives such as
      transfusion. Peginesatide is a parenteral formulation developed for the treatment of anemia
      in patients with chronic kidney disease. Peginesatide binds to and activates the human
      erythropoietin receptor and stimulates erythropoiesis in human red cell precursors in a
      manner similar to other known erythropoiesis-stimulating agents.

      Study participants received doses of peginesatide administered once every 4 weeks or
      darbepoetin alfa administered once every 2 weeks. Total commitment time for this study was a
      4 week screening period followed by a minimum of 52 weeks of study treatment. Eligible
      participants were randomized in equal proportions to two peginesatide treatment regimens and
      one control, darbepoetin alfa, treatment regimen.

      To evaluate the cardiovascular safety of peginesatide, a cardiovascular composite safety
      endpoint (CSE) was defined for use in prospectively planned analyses which combined
      cardiovascular safety data from the four Phase 3 peginesatide studies (NCT00598273,
      NCT00597753, NCT00598442, and NCT00597584). The CSE consisted of six events: death, stroke,
      myocardial infarction, and serious adverse events of congestive heart failure, unstable
      angina, and arrhythmia. An independent Event Review Committee (ERC) was used to provide
      blinded adjudication of potential CSE events.
    
  