
    
      Alcohol dependence (alcoholism) is a chronic medical illness with a relapsing course and a
      major public health problem. Alcoholism is clinically characterized by periods of
      uncontrolled alcohol consumption and withdrawal, during which counter-adaptive mechanisms
      such as stress and dysphoria are recruited. Neurobiological research into the pathophysiology
      of the illness suggest that both the primary rewarding effects of ethanol as well as
      neuroadaptive changes that occur during chronic alcohol exposure involve persistent changes
      in various brain neurotransmission systems, such as the dopamine, glutamate, and gamma-amino
      butyric acid (GABA) systems. Recent views of the illness also emphasize the long-lasting
      recruitment of the brain stress system. Unfortunately, despite this progress, available
      pharmacological agents for the treatment of alcoholism are too few and not sufficiently
      efficacious.

      The brain endocannabinoid (EC) system is a recently discovered brain neurotransmission
      system, which involves endogenous cannabinoid agents (ECs) that act upon specific receptors
      (CB1 and CB2). CB1 receptor is abundant in the human brain and acts as an inhibitory
      modulator of classical neurotransmitters. ECs and CB1 receptors appear to modulate the brain
      reward system, and animal studies have demonstrated an important role of CB1 receptor
      stimulation in alcohol- and drug-related behaviors. During chronic alcohol exposure, EC
      levels in the brain are elevated and CB1 receptor levels are consequently reduced; this
      appears to be reversible following withdrawal. Animal studies suggest that CB1 receptor
      blockade in the abstinent phase may reduce alcohol craving and relapse. To what extent ECs
      and CB1 receptors are involved in the pathophysiology of alcohol dependence in humans is
      currently unknown. The lack of suitable methods to reliably quantify CB1 receptors in the
      living human brain has to date hindered the progress in this field.

      In this protocol, we outline studies aiming at elucidating the role of CB1 receptors in
      alcohol and cannabis dependence by using positron emission tomography (PET) and the recently
      developed radiotracer for CB1 receptors, [(18)F]FMPEP-d2. The aim of this project is to
      explore CB1 receptor abnormalities at various stages of alcohol and cannabis dependence in
      humans. For the studies in alcohol dependence, the primary hypothesis is that CB1 receptors
      are downregulated during chronic alcohol exposure and upregulated during extended abstinence.
      For the studies in cannabis users, our primary hypothesis is that CB1 receptors are
      downregulated during chronic cannabis use and upregulated during extended abstinence. Insight
      into the role of CB1 receptor function in human alcoholism and in chronic cannabis use may
      help guide future development of pharmacotherapies.
    
  