
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic, inflammatory rheumatic disease that predominantly
      affecting peripheral joints. Patients with RA are suffered from severe hand pain and
      functional loss because of synovitis in hand joints. The fact that patients with low disease
      activity may complain from hand pain suggests that pain is mediated by mechanisms other than
      inflammation. Contribution of central sensitization to pain sensation of RA patients is of
      interest currently. Several authors reported the neuropathic characteristics of hand pain in
      RA. Hand pain is primarily nociceptive in RA patients but the possibility of variances in
      cutaneous sensitivity due to nociceptive input from joints has been suggested. Increased
      sensitivity with light touch has been demonstrated over hands of RA patients. In RA patients,
      alterations in central processing of somatosensory function and allodynia over inflamed
      joints have been reported. Poor sleep quality is another issue for RA patients and it's
      association with pain was reported. However impact of neuropathic hand pain on sleep quality
      was not understood exactly probably due to the scarce of the studies investigating this
      association. Also, to the best of investigators' knowledge, the relation between neuropathic
      component of pain and sensory threshold alterations in rheumatoid hand was not studied to
      date.

      So, investigators have aimed to estimate prevalence of neuropathic hand pain in RA patients
      and it's relation with sleep quality and sensory thresholds. For this purpose a case-control
      study design was planned. Age- and sex-matched control subjects will be chosen among
      individuals submitted to out-patient clinic with nociceptive/mechanical pain complaint other
      than in hand lasting more than three months. Also whether sensory thresholds in rheumatoid
      hands differ from healthy hands will be assessed. Participants in control group will be
      subjected to same exclusion criteria too.

      This design will allow the investigators to determine whether hand pain in RA patients
      displays neuropathic character more frequently than any other chronic nociceptive pain does.
      Moreover, it will be possible to compare sensory thresholds between healthy and rheumatoid
      hand. RA patients diagnosed according to the 1987 American College of Rheumatology criteria
      will be recruited. Demographics and disease related variables will be recorded.
    
  