
    
      Cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy (CAN) is a common complication of type 1 diabetes (T1D)
      and is associated with increased cardiovascular risk. Otherwise, some studies have found a
      high frequence of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAs) in T1D. Cardiac autonomic
      modulations are deeply altered in OSAS. The combination of T1D and OSAS could therefore
      increase the severity of CAN and worsen the cardiovascular prognosis.

      The most common method used to explore CAN is the study of heart rate variability (HRV). HRV
      is a practical, non-invasive and reproducible measure of autonomic nervous system function.
      HRV abnormalities are a predictor of hypertension and increased mortality in T1D.

      Th investigators therefore propose to explore the severity of NAC in case of OSAS associated
      with T1D, and the hypothesis is that cardiovascular damage is increased in the presence of
      these two pathologies.

      The patients included in this study will be patients with type 1 diabetes diagnosed for more
      than 5 years.

      After overnight polysomnography, cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy will be evaluated by
      different methods: study of HRV, cardiovascular autonomic reflex test (Ewing), measurements
      of urinary levels of catecholamines and measurements of sweat gland dysfunction using
      Sudoscan.

      The severity of CAN will be evaluated in T1D patients with moderate to severe OSAS (apnea
      hypopnea index (IAH) ≥15 / hour) compared to T1D patients with IAH <15 / hour.

      Furthermore, glycemic holter will describe the links between glycemic variability, sleep
      architecture and CAN. Biological oxidative stress assays will improve physiopathological
      knowledge between T1D, OSAS and CAN. Finally, a 24-hour monitoring of blood pressure will be
      performed.

      An ancillary study is planned to evaluate the evolution of markers of the autonomic nervous
      system after three months of treatment with CPAP in 15 patients with severe OSAS (AHI ≥30 /
      hour) having previously participated in the main study. Fifteen patients with IAH <30 / hour
      will also be reassessed at three months to assess the intra-individual variability of the
      HRV.
    
  