
    
      The majority of individuals in criminal justice settings across the U.S. have a critical need
      for science-based, psychosocial treatment that targets substance use and HIV risk behavior.
      The investigative team has developed and demonstrated the efficacy of an interactive,
      computer-based, psychosocial treatment pro-gram, the Therapeutic Education System (TES),
      which can answer this need. TES is theoretically grounded in evidence-based psychosocial
      treatments (Community Reinforcement Approach and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy), and employs
      state-of-the-art, proven informational technologies and multimedia learning tools to promote
      skills acquisition, experiential learning and behavioral change. This computer-based
      therapeutic tool allows complex interventions to be delivered with fidelity to the
      evidence-based model and at low cost due to its self-directed nature (e.g., minimal staff
      time/training needed), thus offering considerable potential for future sustainability and
      dissemination within criminal justice systems.

      The study employs random assignment of incarcerated male and female offenders with substance
      use disorders (N=526) to either (1) TES (N=263), or (2) Standard Care (N=263), in a
      multi-site trial conducted in 8 prison substance abuse programs. Along with NDRI (the
      applicant organization), the collaborating study sites (University of California Los Angeles,
      Temple University, and the University of Kentucky) operate Research Centers that belong to
      the Criminal Justice Drug Abuse Treatment Studies (CJDATS) network, a NIDA-funded cooperative
      agreement, which has established relationships with criminal justice partners from
      Departments of Corrections across the U.S. Aim 1 is to test the comparative effectiveness of
      TES vs. Standard Care on measures of drug use (e.g., weeks of abstinence) and HIV risk
      behavior (both sex-related and drug-related HIV risk behavior) at 3- and 6-months post prison
      discharge, as well as on reincarceration rates using official Department of Corrections
      records. Aim 2 is to evaluate the cost and cost-effectiveness of TES relative to standard
      care. The investigators predict that TES will be significantly more effective and cost
      effective than Standard Care.

      The project is significant in its use of an innovative, computer-based technology and in its
      potential to produce a major increase in the effective and cost-effective delivery of
      science-based psychosocial treatment to substance-abusing offenders in prison, and thereby
      make a considerable public health contribution. Thus, funding the proposed 2-year project can
      markedly accelerate the pace and achievement of research and dissemination efforts to meet
      the needs of the U.S. correctional community by providing effective and practical treatment
      interventions for its large substance-abusing population.
    
  