
    
      Implementation of the Practice of the Study; In the standard practice of the delivery room
      clinic, where the study was planned, babies are clamped as soon as they are born, and their
      routine care (such as K vit and hepatitis B vaccine application) is taken under the radiant
      heater. The skin contact can not be applied between the baby and the mother. After the baby
      is cared, until the mother is transferred to the postpartum clinic, the baby is wrapped in a
      clean cotton sterile cloth under a radiant heater in the baby room.

      Routine care was applied to the babies of the control group mothers. No physical contact with
      the babies of the control group mothers was performed, standard applications were applied in
      the clinic (placing the baby under the radiant heater for clamping the umbilical cord as soon
      as it was born, K-vit application, Hepatitis B vaccine application etc.).

      As soon as the babies of the mothers in the experimental group were born, the babies were
      placed in a prone position with skin contact on their mothers' bare belly. The baby was
      gently dried, covered with a blanket and a beret was worn. The umbilical cord of the baby was
      clamped late (approximately 1-3 minutes). The baby was kept in this position for 30 minutes
      and then taken under the radiant heater for routine care.

      Blood was collected from women in the experimental and control groups for the 1st and 30th
      minutes after the birth of the baby for oxytocin and ᵦ endorphin analysis. After for both
      groups, VAS was applied after 2nd and 6th hours after birth, LATCH Breastfeeding Assessment
      and BSS were applied in 24th hour and 1 week later of the birth. Immediately after birth, a
      postpartum hemorrhage follow-up bag was placed on the gynecological table and followed by a
      bleeding bag until the mother got up from the gynecological table. When women were taken to
      bed from gynecological table, bleeding was followed up with a perineal pad. Weights of pad
      and mattress protections of women were weighed at 24 hours because normal women were
      discharged at 24 hours after delivery.
    
  