
    
      Burn injury lead to hypermetabolic set to heal the damaged tissue.Burn healing uses high
      energy consumption and as consequence is highly There is a huge activation of the endocrine
      system and immune system resulting a proinflamtory status.

      The nutrition component has an important role in the burn healing process by reducing the
      healing time and also in the quality of the scar tissue. It's been observed that many burn
      injury patients are suffering from anorexia. Since we know pro-inflammatory status modulate
      satiety rises the question is there a correlation between the level peptides of the immune
      and the endocrine systems to anorexia in children with burn injury.

      Catecholamines serum concentrations rise following a burn injury. These hormones have an
      important role in determining the basal metabolic rate (BMR). During the healing process the
      levels of growth hormone (GH) and Insulin like growth factor I (IGF-1) are reduced. Previous
      studies show a correlation between these lower levels and Interleukins and cytokines such as
      Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) Interleukin-6 (IL-6). Additional hormones, which are relevant,
      are cortisol and insulin. Cortisol levels are very high after severe burn injuries for a long
      period. insulin sensitivity state also has an important role in the healing process.

      TNFa and IL-6, which are inflammatory factors, found to have significantly elevated serum
      concentrations during the healing process. They are also known to be reducers to GH
      sensitivity and causes anorexia.

      This study will show the connection between the immune and the endocrine systems to the burn
      healing process and anorexia by examining the level of hormones, interleukins and
      neuropeptide during the burn healing. our goal is to try and improve the treatment in
      children with burn injury by nutritional or drug intervention.
    
  