
    
      90 participants in this study will be randomized into three groups based on computer
      generated numbers using computerized generated random tables. The patients enrolled in the
      study will be transferred to the operation room and monitored all through the surgical
      procedure using pulse oximeter, non-invasive blood pressure and ECG.

      To perform spinal anesthesia ,the patient will be positioned in the sitting position then
      sterilization of the back using betadine solution 5% will be done then the iliac crest will
      be identified and the opposite intervertebral space(L4-L5) will be marked then 5 ml of
      lidocaine 2% will be infiltrated in the skin and subcutaneous tissue then a spinal needle
      (25G) will be introduced to the intrathecal space and after ensuring that clear
      cere¬brospinal fluid will be in free flow injection of 15-20mg of bupivacaine 0.5% and 25mcg
      of fentanyl will be administrated then the patient will be positioned in the supine position.

      If hypotension, (decrease in the mean arterial blood pressure of more than 20%from base line)
      occurs, 9mg intravenous ephedrine will be given with 200ml bolus crystalloids. If bradycardia
      (heart rate below 50beat / minute) occurs, 0.5mg intravenous atropine will be given. After
      the surgical procedure the patients will be randomly allocated using computerized generated
      random tables in to three equal groups and the random numbers will be concealed in closed
      opaque envelopes which will be kept by the senior anesthesia staff, the three groups are:

        -  Group N: The patients in this group will be administered 500 mcg neostigmine (1 ml) + 1
           ml isotonic saline (22) as adjuvant to 20 ml bupivacaine 0.50 % in the adductor canal
           block.

        -  Group D: The patients in this group will be administered 8 mg dexamethasone (2 ml) (23)
           as adjuvant to 20 ml bupivacaine 0.50 % in the adductor canal block.

        -  Group C: The patients in this group will be administered 2 ml isotonic saline + 20 ml
           bupivacaine 0.50 % in the adductor canal block (control group).

      With the patient in the supine position, the procedural needle (Braun Stimuplex Ultra
      Insuflated Echogenic Needle 22G) will be inserted in plane from the anteromedial side at the
      mid thigh level. It will be advanced through the sartorius muscle and fascia under ultrasound
      guidance, using a Siemens Acuson X300 ultrasound equipped with a linear transducer after
      sterilization of the skin with betadine solution 5%, and the adductor canal, with the
      superficial femoral artery and vein within, will be identified. Once the needle tip will be
      located in the adductor canal, the anaesthetic solution will be injected anterior to the
      artery and deep into the sartorius muscle (24) then patient will be transferred to the PACU
      then to the ward.

      Postoperative

        1. Postoperative pain will be assessed by visual analog scale (VAS)

        2. A fixed dose of intravenous paracetamol 1 gram will be given every 6 hours to all
           patients in the three groups starting from 1 hour after the ACB.

        3. Postoperative pain assessment through VAS will be according to the scale as follow:

             -  Pain level 0: no pain

             -  Pain level1-3: mild pain

             -  Pain level 4-6: moderate pain

             -  Pain level 7-10: severe pain

        4. Postoperative pain will be managed as follow:

             -  Mild pain will be treated with ketolac 30mg IV.

             -  Moderate pain will be treated with ketolac 30mg IV + morphine 0.07mg/kg IV.

             -  Severe pain will be treated with ketolac 30mg IV & morphine 0.1mg/kg IV. Then
                patient will be reassessed and recorded as mentioned above and the specific
                treatment will be repeated after 8 hours from the initial dose according to VAS.

        5. Opioids complications such as respiratory depression will be recorded and managed
           supportively by oxygen mask, controlled airway and if persistent or severe
           hypoventilation occurs positive pressure ventilation may be needed, nausea and vomiting
           will be treated with ondansterone (4mg IV).
    
  