
    
      Transient Ischemic Attacks (TIAs) are common, easily misdiagnosed, not investigated
      appropriately and are often harbingers of disabling strokes. A TIA is best defined as an
      episode of neurological dysfunction caused by focal ischemia that lasts for less than 24
      hours (very often less than an hour). Minor stroke (NIHSS of <3) is often lumped together
      with TIAs. The distinction between minor ischemic stroke and TIA is unimportant in terms of
      prognosis. Numerous studies have shown that short-term risk of stroke is high after TIA and
      minor ischemic stroke, particularly in the first few days, even in patients treated with
      aspirin, the current standard of care. In patients with TIAs and minor stroke effective
      therapies can significantly reduce the overall burden of stroke if initiated immediately. The
      recently completed CHANCE study comprising more than 5000 patients with TIAs and minor stroke
      showed that a short course of combination antiplatelet medications (ASA+clopidogrel) for 3
      weeks significantly reduced the 90-day risk of stroke when compared to ASA treatment.

      There are three trials where patients with TIAs and minor strokes were treated early after
      onset of symptoms with combination treatment with clopidogrel and ASA versus ASA alone.
      FASTER was a pilot trial based in Canada (5). It evaluated clopidogrel (300 mg load and 75
      mg/day afterwards) on a background of aspirin in patients presenting within 24 hours of a TIA
      or minor stroke. The trial enrolled 392 patients. The risk of stroke (ischemic or
      hemorrhagic) at 90 days was 11% in those treated with aspirin alone and 7% in those treated
      with clopidogrel and aspirin, a non-significant 36% relative risk reduction (RRR) in this
      pilot trial (p=0.19). There were two Intra cerebral hemorrhages(ICHs) and these were both in
      patients treated with clopidogrel and ASA.

      The recently completed CHANCE trial (5170 patients enrolled within 24 hours of symptom-onset)
      from China showed that in patients with high-risk TIAs and minor strokes, there was a
      significant absolute reduction of early stroke at 90 days from 11.7 % to 8.2 % hazard ration
      (HR) 0.68, 95% Confidence interval (CI) 0.57-0.81; p<0.001) in patients treated with a
      combination of ASA and clopidogrel for 21 days compared to ASA alone (13). Similar to the
      EXPRESS study (3), most of the strokes developed in the initial days following the TIA. The
      observation that strokes occur very early, as is evident from EXPRESS and CHANCE suggests
      that perhaps the vascular pathology responsible for the events begins to heal rapidly once
      antiplatelet therapy is initiated. This allows for the possibility that shorter duration
      combination antiplatelet therapy may also be as effective as the 21 days treatment in CHANCE
      or the 30 days treatment in the NIH funded POINT trial. A prospective study that compares the
      outcome of stroke, MI or death at 90 days in patients treated with 10 days or 30 days of dual
      antiplatelet therapy will therefore be very useful. If the shorter duration dual antiplatelet
      therapy is as effective as the longer duration dual antiplatelet treatment, this will result
      in lower costs and the lower risk of side effects in stroke prevention in high-risk TIA
      patients.

      Hypothesis:

      The short duration use of dual antiplatelet agents for 10 days is as effective as a longer
      duration of 30 days or longer. The shorter duration treatment will however result in fewer
      hemorrhagic complications.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      The Primary Specific Aim of this randomized, multicenter clinical trial is to determine
      whether a 10 day course of treatment with clopidogrel 75 mg/day by mouth after a loading dose
      of 600 mg is as effective a similar treatment for 30 days in improving survival free from
      ischemic vascular events (ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction, and ischemic vascular
      death) at 90 days when subjects are randomized within 24 hours of time last known free of new
      ischemic symptoms in patients receiving aspirin 50-325 mg/day as the long-term antiplatelet
      therapy.

      There will be several secondary aims of the study, including comparison of the risk of major
      and minor hemorrhage, the risk of recurrent TIAs or minor stroke at 10-day, 30-day and 90-day
      evaluations and the measuring severity of any stroke in the two arms in the 90 days of
      follow-up. The NIHSS will be used for assessment of the severity of the stroke.

      Participation Centers During the course of the trial, approximately 10-15 sites will enroll
      approximately 1200 subjects with TIA or minor ischemic stroke. Before enrolling subjects into
      the study, all collaborating sites will obtain approval from local institutional review
      boards (IRBs), which will have access to all study documentation and educational materials.

      Study Population The study will include both TIA and minor ischemic stroke. Neurological
      impairment at the time of enrollment is expected to be minimal since the deficits prompting
      diagnosis will have largely resolved. Vascular risk factors, including diabetes,
      hypertension, and coronary artery disease, are expected to be common.

      Pregnant women will be excluded from the study because the safety of clopidogrel is not
      established in this population, and this drug may increase risk of harm to the fetus. Women
      at risk for pregnancy (see Exclusion Criteria) will also be excluded. No other vulnerable
      population will be excluded from the study.

      TREATMENTS Study Drugs This randomized study is primarily designed to compare a
      clopidogrel/aspirin combination versus an aspirin alone regimen for 10 days versus 30 days.
      This is an open-label design. Patients and physicians will be aware of the study medications.

      Aspirin tablets will be open label with the dose in a range 50-325 mg daily determined by the
      treating physician. A dose of 162 mg daily x 5 days, followed by 81 mg daily will be strongly
      recommended.

      Clopidogrel treatment will be offered in the following manner:

      Day 1: 8 tablets of clopidogrel 75 mg (loading dose of 600 mg) From D2 to D10 or D2 to D30:
      one tablet of clopidogrel 75 mg

      All patients will be on ASA 50-325 for the 90 days until the final assessment. Assignment to
      a Treatment Group The randomization will take place locally. To keep the study simple,
      sequential subjects will be randomized to 10 days (even number recruitment) and 30 day (odd
      number recruitment). All centers will recruit competitively into the trial.
    
  