
    
      Given the extremely high incidence of diabetes in Arab women and the current lack of
      interventions, all non-diabetic women can be considered "at risk" and warrant secondary
      prevention.

      The purpose of this study was to investigate the effectiveness of lifestyle intervention in
      reducing risky health behaviors and thus reducing modifiable risk factors associated with
      diabetes and cardiovascular diseases, through dietary modification, adherence to healthy
      low-caloric, low-fat diet and engaging in physical activity.

      Methods: The invistigators will conduct a quasi-experimental, pre-post intervention study
      between to investigate the effectiveness of community based intervention to change lifestyle
      habits and consequently reduce the modifiable risk factors for developing diabetes at all
      levels of prevention. All members of two targeted Arab women's community centers in
      East-Jerusalem will be invited to participate in the study. Potential participants will be
      interviewed for eligibility (over age 25, able to commit to the intervention timetable, and
      precluding pregnancy or serious mental and physical illness).

      Participants who will be included in the control group will not receive any intervention. The
      intervention group will be located in one community center in Zur-Baher neighborhood, and the
      control group will be located in one community center in the old city of Jerusalem.

      Data will be collected from both groups. Intervention: The Community-Based Lifestyle
      Intervention (CBLI) was developed based on the gold standard Diabetes Prevention Program
      (DPP) and adapting all intervention components to the specific culture, language, gender, and
      religious sensitivities of Palestinian female society. The intervention consisted of 20
      weekly sessions and will be taught by professional facilitators (nutritionists, exercise
      trainers, health coaches, and psychotherapists). The DPP's lifestyle curriculum includes
      sessions on nutrition, physical activity, stress management skills, and self-monitoring and
      was culturally adapted, translated into Arabic, and gender tailored.
    
  