
    
      This is a prospective , open, multicenter, randomized phase III study. We planed to include
      380 untreated high risk T cell lymphoma adults,to random to CHOP and c-ATT regimen groups
      after signature the informed consents. The patients will receive safety assessment every
      cycles, and efficacy evaluation every 3 cycles. Every-two-months follow up will be received
      after finishing the treatment.

        -  randomization Subjects will be randomly assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups based on a
           computer-generated randomization schedule prepared before the study.

        -  Dosage and administration

             -  Treatment Arm A (CHOP): cyclophosphamide(C), 750mg/m2 for injection on day1;
                doxorubicin(H), 50 mg/m 2 for injection on day1; and Vincristine(O), 1.4 mg/ m2 for
                injection on day1, prednisone(P) 60 mg/m2 orally on days 1 to 5. The therapy was
                repeated every 21 days for a total of 6 cycles.

             -  Treatment Arm B (c-ATT):Alternative 3 regimen to be used
                sequentially(CHOPB→IMVP-16→DHAP).The therapy was repeated every 21 days for a total
                of 6 cycles.

      patients with bulky disease or extranodal lesion wil be received radiotherapy after finishing
      the chemotherapy.

        -  Study evaluations

             -  Criteria for response categories Tumour response will be evaluated according to the
                International Workshop to Standardize Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's
                Lymphomas(1998)

             -  Efficacy Criteria Disease-free survival Disease-free survival for patients in CR or
                CRu is measured from the first assessment that documents that response to the date
                of disease progression or the most recent follow-up visit time. Response rate
                Response rate is defined as the proportion of subjects who achieve CR/Cru and PR
                relative to the total population.Overall survival Overall survival is measured from
                entry onto the study until death from any cause, or the most recent follow-up visit
                date

             -  Scheduling of tumour assessments Baseline total tumour burden must be assessed
                within a maximum of 21 days before first dose of treatment.Follow-up tumour
                evaluations will be performed during the last week of every 3rd cycle. After
                finishing the therapies, tumor evaluation will be performed every 3 months in the
                first and second years,following every 6 months after 2years. tumour assessments
                may be performed by CT/MRI for the internal organs lesion. In case of clinically
                measurable superficial lesions, accurate evidence should be performed in the
                original records.

        -  Clinical Safety Assessments

      The following, safety, assessments and procedures will be performed according to the schedule
      of assessments:

        -  A complete medical history (including demographics, smoking history, cancer/treatment
           history) will be performed at screening.

        -  Physical examination*

        -  ECG

        -  Weight

        -  Blood pressure

        -  heart rate

        -  respiratory rate

        -  ECOG Score

        -  Infection signs Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) reported according to
           NCI-CTC criteria. Patients will be assessed for adverse events at each clinical visit
           and as necessary throughout the study.

             -  Laboratory Safety Assessments

      The following will be completed according to the schedule of assessments:

        -  Hæmoglobin

        -  Haematocrit

        -  Leucocytes

        -  Neutrophils

        -  Platelets

        -  Serum electrolytes ( K+, Ca++)

        -  Serum chemistries (Total bilirubin, ALT [SGPT], AST [SGOT], total protein, albumin, LDH,
           alkaline phosphatase, urea [BUN], serum creatinine, creatinine clearance).

        -  Dipstick urinalysis. In case of a significant finding, a microscopic urinalysis should
           be performed.

      Note:Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) reported according to NCI-CTC
      criteria(Version 3.0)Patients will be assessed for adverse events at each clinical visit and
      as necessary throughout the study.

        -  Follow-up Patients on the study should be reassessed after completion of treatment at a
           minimum of every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months until the completion of the
           study.assessment content at follow-up visits should include history, physical
           examination ,blood picture, Urinalysis,liver and kidney function and tumor assessments.

        -  Statistical analyzes The proposed regimen was to be considered worthy for additional
           investigation in this patient population if a disease control rate of 15% or greater.
           The total sample size will be about 368 patients (to collect 380 evaluable patients,
           considering a drop-out rate of around 10%,each group number: 190). Treatment duration
           was defined as days from the first day of drug administration to the last regulated rest
           day of the final cycle.,Primary objective is overall survival d. Secondary objectives
           are response rate, safety and disease free survival Response rate is estimated using the
           binomial probability and exact 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were provided. disease
           free survival and overall survival curves are estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology.

      Adverse events and laboratory tests graded according to the NCI-CTC AE(Version 3).Adverse
      events will be assigned preferred terms and categorized into body systems according to the
      MEDDRA classification of the WHO terminology
    
  