
    
      The goal of this study is to assess the effect of a multifaceted implementation strategy
      aimed at increasing adherence to the 2015 U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF)
      recommendations for hypertension screening, with a focus on implementation in primary care
      clinics that reach medically underserved patients. The accurate diagnosis of hypertension is
      essential for targeting appropriate therapy at the patients who can most benefit from
      hypertension treatment. On the other hand, inappropriate diagnosis of hypertension can lead
      to unnecessary treatment with blood pressure (BP) medications, wasteful healthcare
      utilization, and adverse psychological consequences from being mislabeled as having a chronic
      disease.

      There are challenges to measuring BP in clinical settings that make inappropriate diagnosis
      common. A systematic review conducted by the USPSTF in 2014 found that 5%-65% of patients
      with elevated office BP do not have high out-of-office BP readings according to ambulatory BP
      monitoring (ABPM) or home BP monitoring (HBPM). This is commonly referred to as white-coat
      hypertension. In contrast to patients with sustained hypertension (elevated BP in office and
      out-of-office settings), patients with white-coat hypertension do not appear to be at
      increased cardiovascular risk nor to benefit from antihypertensive treatment. Based primarily
      on these observations, in 2015, the USPSTF updated their hypertension screening guidelines to
      recommend that patients with elevated office BP undergo out-of-office BP testing (ABPM or
      HBPM) to rule-out white-coat hypertension prior to a new diagnosis of hypertension. While
      ABPM is recommended as the first-line out-of-office screening test, HBPM is cited as a
      reasonable alternative if ABPM is unavailable.

      Despite the USPSTF guideline recommendation, ABPM and HBPM are currently infrequently
      utilized in the US, particularly as part of hypertension diagnosis. Accordingly, the
      investigators conducted focus groups with primary care providers, patients, and other key
      stakeholders (medical directors, nurse supervisors, medical assistants, nurse practitioners,
      front desk staff) to identify the major barriers to implementation of the new hypertension
      screening guidelines. The investigators then applied the Behavior Change Wheel, a
      trans-theoretical intervention development framework, to categorize barriers and select
      theory-informed intervention components that would address these barriers. The investigators
      arrived at a theory-informed implementation strategy for improving out-of-office BP testing,
      which included educational activities for providers (i.e., presentations at grand rounds or
      other venues at which physicians are present); training registered nurses to be capable of
      assisting with teaching patients to conduct HBPM; disseminating information on how to order
      ABPM and HBPM to clinicians, nurses, and front desk staff via huddles, emails, and other
      electronic communications; creating a computerized electronic health record (EHR)-embedded
      clinical decision support tool that prompts recall of the USPSTF hypertension guidelines and
      facilitates ordering of HBPM and ABPM for eligible patients; creating and disseminating
      patient information materials on ABPM and HBPM; providing periodic feedback about
      clinic-level success with adhering to the guideline, and developing an easily accessible,
      culturally-adapted and locally tailored ABPM service.

      The investigators now aim to test this multifaceted implementation strategy to increase the
      uptake of the USPSTF hypertension recommendations in the ambulatory care network (ACN) of New
      York-Presbyterian Hospital (NYP), a network of primary care clinics serving 120,000 patients
      from underserved communities in New York City. Specifically, the investigators are conducting
      a 2-year cluster randomized trial (Phase II of the project) following a 6-month
      implementation phase in which we randomize matched pairs of 8 ACN clinics (1:1) to either
      receive the multicomponent guideline implementation strategy (N = 4 clinics) or a wait-list
      control (N = 4 clinics). The investigators aim to assess the effectiveness of this
      intervention on the completion of out-of-office BP testing (ABPM or HBPM) prior to
      hypertension diagnosis (primary outcome) as well as the effect on out-of-office test
      ordering, irrespective of test completion (secondary outcome).
    
  