
    
      The investigators plan to examine 90 subjects without known diabetes a standard 75-gr oral
      glucose tolerance test (OGTT) will be performed. [30 first degree relatives of diabetics with
      normal OGTT (relatives), 30 with normal OGTT and no family history of diabetes (normals), and
      30 with abnormal OGTT (diabetics) matched for age and sex].

      Plasma glucose and serum insulin levels will be measured in venous blood collected at 0, 30,
      60, 90 and 120min after glucose loading. At the same time intervals, the investigators will
      measure:

        1. the carotid to femoral pulse wave velocity (PWVc) using the Complior apparatus

        2. the aortic pulse wave velocity (PWVa), central systolic blood pressure (cSBP) and
           augmentation index (AI) using an oscillometric method (Arteriograph,TensioMed) as
           markers of arterial stiffness and wave reflections

        3. the coronary flow reserve (CFR) at baseline and after adenosine infusion (140 μg × kg-1
           × min-1) for 3 minutes to assess coronary vasomotor function

        4. the perfusion boundary region (PBR- micrometers) of the sublingual arterial microvessels
           (ranged from 5-25 micrometers) using Sideview Darkfield imaging (Microscan, Glycocheck).
           Increased PBR is considered an accurate non invasive index of reduced endothelial
           glycocalyx thickness.

      In addition, the investigators will measure free fatty acids, triglycerides, glycerol, C
      reactive protein (CRP), transforming growth factor-b (TGF-b), Lipoprotein-Associated
      Phospholipase A2, (LP-LPA2), tumor necrosis factor (TNF-a), interleukin 6 (IL6) and
      interleukin 10 (IL10) propeptide of type I procollagen, (PIP), propeptide of procollagen type
      III (PIIINP), matrix metallopeptidases 9 and 2 (MMP 9 and 2), macrophage-colony stimulating
      factor ( MCSF).

      The investigators will measure insulin resistance a) after fasting, using homeostatic model
      assessment (HOMA) and hepatic insulin sensitivity (HIS) b) during oral glucose tolerance test
      (OGTT) using Matsuda index and insulin sensitivity index (ISI). The investigators will
      categorize patients in those with normal (<140 mg/dl at 120 min) and those with abnormal OGTT
      (>200mg/dl at 120min).
    
  