
    
      Specific Aim 1: To identify the effect of local infiltration of all wound layers with
      liposomal bupivacaine on opioid consumption up to 48 hours after cesarean delivery.

      For this aim, in-patient narcotic use, measured in morphine equivalents, will be documented
      by the nurses and totaled during each 24 hour period after cesarean section until discharge.

      Specific Aim 2: To identify the effect of local infiltration of all wound layers with
      liposomal bupivacaine on other, relevant, clinical outcomes, including time to first opiate
      use, time to mobility, occurrence of vomiting, use of rescue antiemetic medications, pain
      scores, and use of additional measures for pain control such as heating pads, muscle
      relaxers, gabapentin, between the study groups.

      Specific Aim 3: To determine the occurrence of adverse events in the infants of breastfeeding
      women who have received local infiltration of all wound layers with liposomal bupivacaine
      compared to breastfeeding women who received saline infiltration.

      Study Methods:

      Patients will be randomized to either receive 20 mL liposomal bupivacaine diluted to 90 mL
      (treatment group), or 90 mL normal saline (control group). Patients with a BMI greater than
      or equal to 40 will receive 150 mL normal saline of the liposomal bupivacaine formulation.
      Randomization will occur in a 1:1 fashion via Miami Valley Pharmacy staff. All patients will
      be given the current medications used during cesarean delivery at MVH including Duramorph in
      the spinal or epidural via the Anesthesia team, Toradol for 24 hours on scheduled followed by
      Motrin on schedule until discharge.

      Instillation of the liposomal bupivacaine or saline will be performed by resident physicians
      supervised by Wright State or private attending physicians. For each study group, 45 mL of
      their given solution will be infiltrated into the sub-fascial layer after its closure. Using
      an 18-gauge needle, 10 mL aliquots will be instilled into each lateral edge and six 2-mL
      aliquots into the superior and inferior fascial edges.

      Post-operative care will first take place in the PACU in the usual fashion according to the
      anesthesiologist. The anesthesiologists will be blinded to the study group and patients will
      be given rescue parenteral opioids as deemed necessary.

      The primary outcome of this study will be total oral morphine equivalents at 48 hours from
      the time of surgery. Nurses blind to the study group will record the total amount of opioid
      medications each patient used. This will be converted to a morphine equivalent of 1mg oral
      oxycodone to 1.5mg oral morphine.

      Selection of Patients:

      Recruitment: Patients will be recruited from Miami Valley Hospital Labor and Delivery and
      from Five Rivers Center for Women's Health. Investigators will identify potential patients
      from those who are admitted to Labor and Delivery for a scheduled cesarean delivery.
      Investigators will explain the study to potential patients and will obtain written informed
      consent from patients who agree to participate in the study.

      Data Management Data required for the study will be recorded in the medical record by
      physicians and nursing staff. Physicians will document the procedure for infiltration in
      operative notes, indicating that the patient was randomized to "active medication (Experel ®)
      or saline." MVH Pharmacy staff will record the randomization/treatment key. Investigators,
      nursing staff, and patients will be blinded to the medication given. Documentation of pain
      scores, opioid medications used, other pain control methods used (heating pads, muscle
      relaxers, gabapentin, etc.) will be done by the physicians and nursing staff according to
      standard procedures. Data collection will consist of medical record review to record data on
      the paper data collection forms.

      Confidentiality of Data PHI will be limited to information needed for the study objectives.
      Patients will be assigned a study ID number on the paper data collection forms and in the
      spreadsheet. Patient name and MRN will be kept in a separate key that will allow
      re-identification only if necessary to complete data collection.

      Risks:

      There is a risk of a breach of confidentiality. Risks to the Mother: Liposomal bupivacaine
      (Exparel ®). Liposomal bupivacaine is FDA approved for use via wound infiltration for
      post-surgical pain control. The most common adverse events include nausea, constipation, and
      vomiting. There have been reports of adverse neurologic reactions with the use of local
      anesthetics. These include persistent anesthesia and paresthesia. CNS reactions are
      characterized by excitation and/or depression. Toxic blood concentrations depress cardiac
      conductivity and excitability which may lead to dysrhythmias, sometimes leading to death.
      Allergic-type reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis and angioedema) are rare and may occur as a result
      of hypersensitivity to the local anesthetic or to other formulation ingredients. There have
      been reports of chondrolysis (mostly in the shoulder joint) following intra-articular
      infusion of local anesthetics, which is an unapproved use. Cases of methemoglobinemia have
      been reported with local anesthetic use. 12 In a Cochrane Review of 20 studies that used
      local anesthetic wound infiltration after cesarean delivery, no adverse cardiovascular or
      central nervous system reactions were noted in any of the included studies. 9

      Risks to the Infant: Liposomal bupivacaine is contraindicated in pregnant women. Therefore,
      the use of this medication will occur after the fetus is delivered. Liposomal bupivacaine and
      its metabolite, pipecoloxylidide, are noted to be present in breastmilk in small amounts.
      There is no available information on effects of the drug in the breastfed infant or effects
      of the drug on milk production. The Infant Risk Center has indicated that it is highly
      unlikely for plasma levels in the infant to reach a toxic level due to any exposure from
      breastmilk and suggests that use of liposomal bupivacaine is probably compatible with
      breastfeeding without restriction. 3

      Potential Benefits: Patients may receive benefit from the study by experiencing better
      postoperative pain control or by reducing opiate medication use while maintaining acceptable
      pain control. The potential benefit to women in the future is to have an effective option for
      pain control after cesarean delivery that does not require opiate medications.

      Statistical Considerations: Based on a previous study performed at this institution in a
      similar patient population the investigators anticipate a 25% reduction in total oral
      morphine equivalents at 48 hours. Using a power of 0.80 and an alpha of 0.05 the
      investigators will need 54 patients per group, or a total of 108 patients in order to detect
      a difference of this size.

      Data Analysis: Analysis of the data will be performed by members of the investigative team
      using SPSS. Repeated measures ANOVA will be used to compare pain pill (non-opioid) use,
      opioid pain pill use (in morphine equivalents) and pain scores over time for the study
      groups. Additional post hoc t-tests will be used as needed to identify specific group
      differences at the individual time points as appropriate. Potential covariates including
      parity, previous cesarean delivery, previous surgical history, and BMI will be examined for
      impact on opioid pain pill use and pain scores. Frequencies for adverse events in infants
      will be used to identify the occurrence of adverse events in infants exposed to liposomal
      bupivacaine versus those not exposed (including those who were not breastfed and those who
      were breastfed among mothers receiving the saline infiltration).
    
  