
    
      To date, the specific causes of multiple sclerosis (MS) remain uncertain, and in its
      pathogenesis an interaction between environmental and genetic factors has been implicated
      leading to inflammation, demyelination and neurodegeneration of the central nervous system
      (CNS). Epidemiological studies conducted in ethnic groups of families, twins, half sibs and
      conjugate pairs support a genetic component to this process. The risk for monozygotic twins
      is 300-times, and for first-degree relatives 20-50-times higher than for an individual in the
      general population of Northern-European origin with a prevalence rate of 0.1. The
      transmission patterns observed are not compatible with an autosomal dominant, recessive or
      X-linked inheritance. MS is a complex trait disorder, defined by several genes, each exerting
      small effect, and in an interaction with the environment. Phenotypic expressions of MS
      suggest the involvement of complex mechanisms with features of autoimmunity and
      neurodegeneration. The currently approved disease modifying drugs are mainly targeted towards
      the inflammatory components, but exert a limited effect on neurodegeneration in MS. The
      cognitive impairment can be an early feature of the demyelinating disease process, and in a
      few cases dementia has been documented in the absence of severe neurological signs. There are
      some correlation between disease subtype and cognitive impairment: in fact, it is well known
      that cognitive impairment occurs more frequently and is more severe in patients with
      progressive rather than in relapsing-remitting MS. Impairment of cognitive domains such as
      memory, mental processing speed attention and executive function can occur from the early
      stage of the diseases and tend to worsen over time. Moreover, the underlying
      pathophysiological mechanisms of the cognitive impairment and neuropsychiatric disorders
      observed in MS are not fully understood. White matter abnormalities alone cannot fully
      explain the extent of clinical symptoms in MS, including cognitive impairment. Furthermore,
      several MRI techniques have shown the involvement of gray matter in MS and the association
      between gray matter damage, physical disability and cognitive impairment. Therefore,
      biomarkers that reliably capture the different aspects of disease heterogeneity are needed,
      and might help to better understand MS disease aetiopathogenesis, diagnosis, and prognosis,
      to predict response outcome to treatments, and to develop new treatments.

      In particular, there is increasing effort to develop molecular diagnostic markers that meet
      requirements like easy accessibility e.g., from blood, high specificity and sensitivity, low
      costs and applicability by laboratories with standard equipment. Several blood, plasma, or
      serum MS biomarkers have been proposed to meet these criteria. In order of this the
      circulating markers are represented, in addition to the classic serum markers, also by the
      cells and by free circulating nucleic acids (DNA, RNA). In recent years, among the
      circulating nucleic acids, a possible role of mitochondrial DNA has emerged as a biomarker in
      the diagnosis of numerous pathologies.

      In humans, mtDNA is significantly smaller when compared with nuclear DNA (16.569bp vs. 3.2
      billion bp), and it possesses only 37 genes, among which 13 encode proteins belonging to the
      respiratory electron transport chain. Unlike nuclear DNA, mtDNA is devoid of protective
      histones and sophisticated DNA repair mechanisms, which makes it vulnerable to genotoxic
      stimuli including oxidative stress. In fact, high levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) are
      generated around mtDNA during oxidative phosphorylation occurring in mitochondria. Such an
      oxidative environment contributes to a high susceptibility of mtDNA to mutagenesis. In fact,
      mtDNA possesses roughly a 10- to 200-fold higher rate of mutagenesis than nuclear DNA under a
      comparable oxidative stress environment. This may be detrimental for those
      high-energy-demanding and post-mitotic cells including neurons and myocytes, which are mostly
      sensitive to altered respiratory chain activity and ROS-mediated damage yielded by mtDNA
      changes. Such a specific vulnerability of mtDNA determines the occurrence of a detectable
      amount of mitochondrial DNA fragments, which are released into the bloodstream as
      circulating, cell-free fragments (ccf-mtDNA). These correspond to double-stranded DNA
      molecules, which are biologically fragmented into both short (lower than 1 Kb) and long (up
      to 21 kb) segments. The high rate of mtDNA fragmentation is key in generating ccf-mtDNA,
      though it remains unclear whether mtDNA is released due to a disruption of the plasma
      membrane or it is actively extruded from the cell. For instance, oxidative stress or other
      stimuli can damage cell integrity, while producing apoptosis or necrosis, which in turn lead
      to mtDNA extrusion from the cell or release into the blood. Nonetheless, even in baseline
      conditions when the plasma membrane is intact, fragments of mutated mtDNA could be
      compartmentalized within cytosolic organelles and then released extracellularly. This latter
      mechanism would guarantee the preservation of mitochondrial function by removing
      dysfunctional mutated DNA fragments. This is supported by recent work from C. elegans
      neurons, which expel dysfunctional mitochondria when exposed to neurotoxic stress.
      Nonetheless, the biological role of ccf-mtDNA and its fragments is still controversial and it
      needs to be fully understood. In fact, DNA fragments may act as toxic molecules, which in
      turn impair mitochondrial function and cell membrane, and could also act on cell integrity
      and tissue repair. This is largely bound to the established, yet double faceted, involvement
      of mtDNA in innate immunity and inflammation. In fact, similar to bacterial DNA, mtDNA
      possesses non-methylated CpG sites, which once released in either cytosol or extracellular
      space behave as damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) to activate innate immunity and
      inflammation. This occurs via specific biochemical cascades involving the binding of mtDNA to
      Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) and subsequent activation of the stimulator of interferon genes
      (STING) pathway. These are key in generating inflammatory responses including antimicrobial
      immunity and neuro-immunological disorders. In fact, DAMPs accumulation activates resident
      macrophages and fosters tissue infiltration by leukocytes. As for most molecules involved in
      the immune response, the bulk of evidence concerning the measurement of ccf-mtDNA and its
      role in physiology and disease stems from studies carried out outside the CNS. In fact,
      ccf-mtDNA has been analysed in various clinical conditions like neoplasia, trauma,
      infections, stroke and cardiovascular diseases, where it has been tested as diagnostic and
      predictive biomarker. Only recently, mtDNA started being evaluated in neurological disorders.
      In line with the higher resistance of mtDNA to nuclease-dependent degradation compared with
      nDNA, mtDNA persists as ccf-mtDNA within extracellular ﬂuids including the CSF.

      CNS disorders featuring a strong inﬂammatory response are characterized by elevated plasma
      mtDNA level. In fact, elevated CSF ccf-mtDNA occur in relapsing-remitting (RRMS) and PMS.
      RRMS is characterized by an acute inﬂammatory response, which precedes neurodegeneration.
      Thus, the increase in ccf-mtDNA observed in RRMS is a direct consequence of increased
      activation of inﬂammatory cells. These cells release mtDNA in addition to nDNA, into the CSF.
      A persistent inflammatory reaction may recruit circulating immune cells while triggering a
      systemic response through the activation of mtDNA-induced inflammatory pathways. In this way,
      a vicious circle occurs where inflammatory cytokines and ROS may induce further damage to
      mitochondria and mtDNA. In this scenario, elevated ccf-mtDNA concentration in MS may reflect
      early, active inflammatory activity, which eventually culminates in mitochondrial damage,
      neural loss and brain atrophy. In this condition, the measurement of ccf-mtDNA concentration
      configures as a potential biomarker for acute inflammatory stress. Whether this phenomenon is
      specific for MS or it rather reflects a generic neuro-inflammation still needs to be
      investigated. Since mitochondrial damage occurs in active MS lesions, mtDNA in the CSF could
      reflect its role as a DAMP. Considering mtDNA as a DAMP in MS, may explain the "inside-out
      theory" which suggests that inflammation is secondary to a primary intrinsic process within
      neurons or other cells such as oligodendrocytes. This neuro-immune concept consists in the
      formation of intracellular compounds, which trigger biochemical cascades leading to immunity
      activation (inflammasome) which once released from the cell recruit in turn a focal immune
      response. In this scenario, the "inside" mtDNA fragment would be the inflammatory stimulus,
      which clusters the intracellular cascade leading to a molecular complex, which triggers the
      immune response. Once such a complex is exposed "out" of the cell, immunity is strongly
      activated.

      Thus, ccf-mtDNA may be a potential biomarker of cell death and non-specific tissue injury,
      and in the near future, it is supposed to become an innovative diagnostic tool in early stage
      screening and prognosis of several disorders.
    
  