
    
      An estimated > 230 million cases of major surgery are performed worldwide annually. Surgical
      interventions come with an inherent risk of complications. 15 - 30 % of all patients
      undergoing major abdominal surgery will develop a severe complication post-operative. These
      numbers correspond to the reported high postoperative in-hospital mortality, 8-9% after major
      upper abdominal surgery, increased in case of co-morbidities. Part of the high morbidity and
      mortality may be a result of delayed detection of severe complications due to the lower
      monitoring frequency in the general wards compared to the Post Anaesthesia Care Unit (PACU)
      and Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Improved observation may result in earlier detection and
      subsequently the possibility to implement interventions to divert a negative trajectory and
      ultimately reduce morbidity and mortality.

      This study wish to investigate the correlation between deviating physiological parameters and
      postoperative complications.

      In a prospective observational study, 500 patients enrolled for major abdominal cancer
      surgery at Rigshospitalet or Bispebjerg Hospital will be included after a signed declaration
      of consent.

      Demographic data will be recorded together with preoperative spirometry, timed-up-and-go,
      Mini Mental State Examination and an electrocardiogram.

      Post-operative when leaving the PACU, a wireless continuous monitoring system will be
      attached to the patients. The monitoring system will be recording the vital parameters 24/7.

      In parallel to the wireless monitoring, the patients will receive normal treatment and
      monitoring (Early Warning Score) from staff on the wards. Patients are monitored for 96 hours
      or until they are dismissed from hospital.

      Furthermore blood samples will be collected once every day for 96 hours and the patients are
      appointed daily by an investigator.

      Exposure variables is deviation of vital parameters from normal range. Secondary outcome is
      mortality, readmission up to 6 months after surgery, transferring to ICU and several
      pre-defined serious adverse events.

      Descriptive statistic will be used in analyzing the data.
    
  