
    
      The UK population is aging. Under-investigation and under-treatment of older people is
      common, with rates of surgery declining with age, despite the incidence of surgically treated
      gastrointestinal pathology increasing with age. There are large variations in outcomes in
      older people, between different surgical units in the UK, which suggests that not all
      patients are receiving the same level of care or access to resources. In GI surgery, the
      concern is that patients in centres with low elective surgery rates will be inappropriately
      denied the benefits of operative intervention (disease control, symptom improvement), with
      consequently higher rates of emergency admission and intervention. Conversely, in centres
      with high rates of elective surgery, patients may be inappropriately subjected to the
      morbidity or even mortality of surgery with limited or no benefit.

      Major surgery remains one of the most debilitating events that an older person may experience
      and may profoundly influence functional decline and disability. Optimisation of outcomes in
      older patients with comorbidities and frailty requires multi-professional input which is
      often lacking. Adverse factors associated with ageing include co-morbidity, polypharmacy,
      cognitive impairment, dependency and frailty, all of which are associated with increased all
      cause mortality in the general population. There is also a natural decline in
      cardiorespiratory fitness with age, however this may be modifiable with physical activity or
      exercise. Malnutrition and psychological problems are also very common in patients requiring
      gastrointestinal surgery. When these at-risk individuals are exposed to the stress of major
      abdominal surgery, post-operative mortality and morbidity also increase. Common lifestyle
      choices, including smoking, excess alcohol consumption and sedentary behaviours, add to this
      risk.
    
  