
    
      Older adults have been described as one of the most underserved and vulnerable groups, who
      are at the highest risk for coronal and root caries, especially because more elderly adults
      are retaining their teeth. The Northeast Philadelphia KleinLife site is an important
      destination for the region's Jewish population comprising of at least 6500 seniors, and
      assisting more than 4500 seniors through food security programs. Recently, Temple University
      Kornberg School of Dentistry (TUKSoD) purchased the dental center at the facility to expand
      the services provided to these underserved population and improve their oral health. The
      study aims to assess the efficacy of an oral health education group based activity versus an
      individual based oral health education activity in terms of changes in oral health related
      quality of life (OHRQoL), self-efficacy and oral health knowledge. Methods: A non-probability
      sample of 190 senior members will be invited to participate in the trial. Potential subjects
      will be obtained in person through the ongoing flow of patients at TUKSoD Clinic at Kleinlife
      and the dental school. Seniors who consent to participate in the study will be randomly
      allocated to one of the 3 groups (Control: subjects will continue receiving regular dental
      care at the clinic, Intervention 1: subjects will continue receiving regular dental care at
      the clinic and be invited to participate in 2 group based education sessions during a 12
      month period, and Intervention 2: subjects will continue receiving regular dental care at the
      clinic and be invited to participate in an individual-based education and prevention activity
      over a 18 month period. Randomization will be determined according to a predetermined random
      sequence, and neither the patient nor the research staff will be aware of the randomization
      outcome until after the patient has agreed to participate. The OHIP-14 will be used to assess
      OHRQoL, and self-efficacy scores will be the primary outcomes. Initially, we will assess the
      differences between the interventions and control using 2-sample t-tests. The main analysis
      will be based on linear mixed-effects models for repeated measures (using the OHIP 14 and
      self-efficacy scores as continuous outcome variables) to assess differences between
      intervention and control groups. Similar analyses will be conducted for secondary outcome
      measures Statistical significance will be set at p < .05.
    
  