
    
      During pregnancy mothers have to fulfill the tremendous physiological needs to support their
      own immune status as well as that of their babies. Accordingly, it appears highly valuable to
      provide mothers with a nutritional supplement during pregnancy and lactation to promote the
      immune development in newborns, thus reinforcing the infants' defenses.

      In that respect, an appropriate maternal diet must provide sufficient energy and nutrients to
      meet the mother's usual requirements and promote health status, as well as the needs of the
      growing fetus and beyond for the neonate.

      Key organogenesis steps take place during fetal life and many functional features of the
      immune system are already coded in the genetic asset of the individual. However, at birth the
      immune system remains fairly immature. An epigenetic, postnatal instruction seems to be
      extremely important for the maturation of the immune system allowing its full functionality.

      The cross-talk between the mother and her baby is, indeed, crucial for the optimal
      development of the foetus and subsequently for the full and functional maturation of the
      neonate.

      The newborn relies for his protection almost exclusively on his innate immune system that is
      initially instructed and educated early in life by factors derived from his mother as well as
      post-natal environmental factors such as early life colonization with micro-organisms that
      activates the innate immunity and enhance Th1-cell polarization thereby potentially reducing
      atopic dermatitis with respect to the hygiene hypothesis.

      A large part of this immune education is provided by factors transmitted from the mother
      pre-natally through the placenta or post-natally via the breast milk. Breast milk contains a
      number of nutrients and bioactive components, including immune cells, maternal antibodies
      (mainly secretory IgA), cytokines, growth factors, lactoferrin, nucleotides,
      triacylglycerols, fatty acids, oligosaccharides, and vitamins. All together, these components
      beneficially impact the health status of the newborn, conferring, among other functions,
      immune education and early protection.

      A typical example of such transfer of immune competence is the TGF-β that could be
      transmitted in active from either through the placenta or absorbed by the neonates through
      the milk. This TGF-β is an important IgA switch factor and this is likely to be responsible,
      in part, for the capacity of breast-fed infant to produce higher levels of mucosal SIgA
      compared to non-breast fed infants. Moreover, milk soluble CD14 transmitted to the newborn
      contributes to prime the neonatal gut to modulate the microbial recognition and establishment
      of endogenous microbiota.

      Diarrhea episodes are major manifestation of common infant infections of viral or bacterial
      aetiology and are a key health concern in paediatrics. As mentioned above there are evidences
      that some probiotic strains significantly improve diarrheal outcomes in infants, particularly
      rotavirus diarrhea. In that respect diarrhea occurrence was selected as the primary outcome
      in the present trial.
    
  