
    
      Recent laboratory studies have identified that an important pathway of inflammation called
      the "complement pathway" may play an important role in how Antineutrophil Cytoplasmic
      Autoantibodies (ANCA) cause damage to the blood vessels. Eculizumab is a monoclonal antibody
      that targets a key component of the complement pathway named C5, and blocks its activation.

      In a mouse model of ANCA vasculitis, it has been shown that blocking C5 activation can block
      the development of vasculitis or greatly reduce its severity.

      The researchers in this study would like to see if taking eculizumab, in addition to the
      drugs usually used to treat ANCA vasculitis, would be beneficial in treating ANCA vasculitis.

      Currently, the conventional treatment of ANCA vasculitis consists of corticosteroids and
      cyclophosphamide. The corticosteroids are given as by vein (methylprednisolone) for 3 days
      followed by prednisone by mouth daily for about 4-5 months. Cyclophosphamide is typically
      given by vein every 4 weeks for at least 3 months, but sometimes longer depending on whether
      the vasculitis is still active or not. After the vasculitis is in remission, a maintenance
      treatment with azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil may be used. For patients who cannot
      tolerate cyclophosphamide, or who have received it in large doses previously, another
      medication called rituximab may be used instead. However, patients who need rituximab or have
      recently been treated with rituximab cannot participate in this study.

      The study drug, eculizumab, is Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved for indications
      other than ANCA vasculitis. It is an investigational drug and it is NOT FDA-approved for the
      treatment of ANCA vasculitis.

      In this study, eculizumab will be given in addition to the standard of care treatment for the
      patients that will be randomised to the eculizumab group.
    
  