
    
      Results from the Intensive Diet and Exercise for Arthritis (IDEA) trial showed that 10%
      diet-induced weight loss combined with exercise (D+E) was twice as effective at relieving
      knee pain and improving function and mobility as previous long-term weight loss and exercise
      programs in similar cohorts. The treatment effects of D+E on these clinical outcomes were
      mediated by changes in self-efficacy over the course of the trial. However, most people tend
      to regain most or all of the lost weight in three to five years. The challenge is maintaining
      the weight loss and sustaining the efficacy of the intervention.

      Our current trial (WE-CAN) is designed to adapt the successful IDEA intervention to
      real-world clinical and community settings. As WE-CAN participants in the D+E group complete
      their intervention, the investigators will leverage our organizational infrastructure to
      maintain weight-loss without supervised intervention by increasing participant confidence to
      establish and adhere to a routine of good exercise and diet behaviors independently.

      Participants will include 212 older adults aged ≥ 51 yrs. with knee osteoarthritis (OA) who
      achieved a weight loss ≥ 5% in the D+E intervention arm of the WE-CAN trial. All WE-CAN
      participants meet the ACR clinical criteria for knee OA, which includes knee pain on most
      days of the week plus at least three of the following six: age ≥ 50 years, stiffness < 30
      min/day, crepitus, bony tenderness, bony enlargement, and/or no palpable warmth. Eligible
      WE-CAN D+E participants will be randomized to either 6-month facilitated weight-loss
      maintenance or health education control interventions. The primary aim is to compare the
      effects of a 6-month weight-loss maintenance intervention grounded in social cognitive theory
      to a health education intervention on maintaining weight loss subsequent to a 12-month
      unsupervised follow-up period. Secondary aims will compare the two interventions on WOMAC
      knee pain and function, health-related quality of life (SF-36), 6-minute walk distance, and
      weight-loss maintenance self-efficacy following the 12-month unsupervised period. The study
      team will also establish the cost-effectiveness of a 6-month facilitated weight-loss
      maintenance intervention for older adults with knee OA by conducting cost-effectiveness and
      budgetary impact analyses using data from the current trial in a validated computer-simulated
      model of knee OA.

      There have been numerous attempts to prevent weight regain in adults. This study is
      significant in that it is designed to encourage older adults with knee OA that have
      experienced significant weight loss to develop strategies that will build self-efficacy for
      maintaining weight loss on their own long after the active intervention ends.
    
  