
    
      The study will be an open-label, non-randomized, prospective study in patients with elevated
      risk of vasospasm after stabilizing the patient and treating the subarachnoid hemorrhage
      (SAH) to prevent further re-bleeds.

      Each enrolled patient will be monitored with the HS-1000 device for a period of 10 minutes,
      occurring daily, after completion of surgery for SAH. Following admittance to the intensive
      care unit (ICU), patients will undergo routine monitoring as per standard of care.
      Non-invasive recordings of 10 minutes in duration with HS-1000 device will be completed daily
      for up to 14 days contingent on staff availability and the patient's clinical status. In the
      event a monitoring session is interrupted or postponed, another attempt to re-monitor will be
      made when the patient is able. Flexibility will granted in lieu of patient or study team
      unavailability thereby allowing recording to be neglected for any given day if absolutely
      necessary.

      In the case the principle investigator (PI) or a member of the study team positively confirms
      vasospasm based on clinical assessment or follow-up care of the patient during the monitoring
      period, the patient will be recorded twice daily for up to a consecutive 14 days or for their
      duration in the ICU. The PI will determine the severity of vasospasm as per the vasospasm
      severity scale. Increased recording frequency will be implemented only for patients with
      vasospasm graded as asymptomatic moderate-to-severe or symptomatic mild-to-severe (i.e. those
      scoring 2a, 3a, 1s, 2s, or 3s).

      Prior to the HS-1000 recording session, the front-end will be placed in the patient's ears
      and connected to the monitor. The acoustic signal propagates through the cranium, and
      attenuates during its propagation. The receiving sensor in the other headset picks up the
      acoustic signal. The receiving sensor converts the acoustical signal into a digital signal
      and transmits it back to the monitor.

      Each recording session with the HS-1000 will last 10 consecutive minutes, if the patient's
      condition and clinical workflow permits. If required by the attending medical staff, the
      recording can be stopped and restarted at a later time during the day. The HS-1000 will be
      used as a seamless adjunctive, state-of-the-art, brain monitoring utility operating in
      parallel with standard care intensive neurological monitoring modalities. The non-invasive
      monitor will not replace or alter the standard care received by patients. Once all recordings
      are completed, the brain monitoring signals will be saved in the study's database.

      Daily neurological checks and collection of all routine clinical and radiographic data as per
      standard of care will be gathered as the gold standard data for statistical comparison.
      Neurocognitive tests will be performed routinely every 8 hours by attending physicians to
      assess for neuro-deterioration and radiological (Computed tomographic angiography (CTA) and
      Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) components. Data collected from patients will be
      stripped of all personal health identifiers. Each subject will receive a unique identifying
      patient number linking the individual to their deidentified clinical data set. Only the
      medical staff attending to the patient's standard care will be knowledgeable to the identity
      of the subject.

      Once data is collected, results of the HS-1000 recording sessions will be analyzed and
      correlated with deidentified supporting clinical/radiological data to assist in the
      identification of vasospasm-specific acoustic waveform patterns.

      Deidentified supporting clinical data will consist of standard care intensive neurological
      monitoring procedures currently used to confirm clinical diagnosis of vasospasm, principally
      based on evidence of neuro deterioration:

        1. Computed tomographic angiography

        2. Digital subtraction angiography

        3. Neurocognitive clinical assessments

        4. Routine clinical data as per standard of care

      Study workflow and HS-1000 recording sessions will be fully compatible with and will not
      alter the standard of care received by the patients in any way.
    
  