
    
      The aim of our research is to evaluate the effect of a cognitive stimulation program in
      people aged 65 or older with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and compare it, in the short,
      medium and long term, with the evolution of other people, with the same characteristics and
      for which this intervention has not been carried out.

      The significant increase in the number of people over 65 years of age in relation to the
      total population, suggests a significant increase in age-related pathologies. The problem
      that entails population aging increases when cognitive deterioration appears.

      From an economic perspective, the cognitive deterioration of the elderly person is estimated
      to contribute to health expenses of almost ten times more compared to people of the same age
      with cognitive functions preserved. Different studies show that a considerable proportion of
      people with MCI have a high risk of developing dementia and Alzheimer's disease.

      Cognitive stimulation is a treatment that has shown profitability and has been recommended as
      the treatment of choice in MCI.

      Our research is based on a cognitive stimulation that uses the Red Book of Mental Activation.
      The book consists of 4 practical exercises that work 10 cognitive aspects (memory,
      orientation, language, praxis, gnosis, calculation, perception, reasoning, attention and
      programming); in total 40 exercises. The models on which the notebook is based is the
      cognitive model and the human occupation model.

      In the Health Center San José Norte-Centro of Zaragoza (Spain), assessments were made to 416
      volunteer candidates, of which 294 were excluded for not meeting the inclusion criteria;
      being a total of 122 participants that have been part of the randomized controlled trial. Of
      the 122 participants; 54 have carried out the intervention as an intervention group and 68 as
      the control group. The control group did not perform any type of intervention.

      The intervention was carried out at the La Caridad de Zaragoza Foundation (Spain), consisting
      of 10 sessions of 45 minutes/week during 10 weeks. The conceptual framework of this
      intervention is formed by the International Classification of Functioning and Disability
      (CIF), the framework for practice of Occupational Therapy , the cognitive model and the human
      occupation model of Gary Kielhofner .

      To homogenize both the assessments and the intervention, a standardized training was carried
      out for the occupational therapists who carried them out and consisted of a theoretical part
      and a practical part of 10 hours each.

      The study began in December 2011, obtained the authorization of the Directorate of Primary
      Care of the Zaragoza II Sector and the approval of the project by the Research Ethics
      Committee of the Government of Aragon (CEICA). This study has followed the ethical standards
      recognized by the Declaration of Helsinki. The initial assessments began this month. The
      necessary sample size was reached in October 2012 and, from that moment on, randomization and
      intervention with the selected participants was carried out. Three other assessments were
      made, both for the intervention group and for the control group, immediately after the
      intervention, six months and one year after the intervention.
    
  