
    
      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of autologous
      genetically modified T cells transduced to express the high affinity NY-ESO-1c259 TCR in
      HLA-A201 patients. Eligibility screening will be performed in two steps. First, patients will
      undergo prescreening to determine if they have the correct HLA type in order to respond to
      the engineered T cell therapy, and to test for presence of the target antigen, NY-ESO-1 and
      LAGE-1, in their tumor cells. Patients, who are HLA-A201 positive and test positive for
      expression of NY-ESO-1 and/or LAGE-1 in their myeloma tumor will move on to complete all
      screening procedures to determine eligibility for the study.

      Patients will initially undergo a steady-state mononuclear cell apheresis for T cell
      collection. About 3-4 weeks later (to allow expansion/engineering/releasing the engineered T
      cells), patients will receive a short course of cytoreductive chemotherapy prior to receiving
      the engineered T cell infusion, comprised of 1.5 gm/m2 of cyclophosphamide, mesna will be
      given if in accordance with institutional standards.

      At day 0, patients will receive a dose of ≥0.1-1 x 1010 anti-CD3/anti-CD28-costimulated
      autologous T cells which have been genetically modified to express affinity-enhanced NY-ESO-1
      T cell receptors (TCRs). A minimum dose of 0.1≤x<1 x 109 will be permitted. Patients
      receiving this low dose level will be evaluated separately for safety and efficacy.

      Patients will undergo myeloma restaging approximately 1 week prior to the T cell infusion,
      and post infusion at days +28, +42 (week 6), +100 and 6 months post infusion and then every 3
      months until relapse/progression or until 1 year, whenever comes first. At this point,
      patients will be followed semi-annually for up to 5 years and then annually for long term
      follow-up for monitoring for delayed adverse events until 15 years after receiving the
      genetically modified T cells, in accordance with FDA Guidelines.
    
  