
    
      About 35% of veterans are obese. The MOVE! program is a nation-wide 8-week program of group
      classes nationally to help obese veterans lose weight. While the program is successful for
      some veterans, about 75% of veterans are unable to lose ≥5% of their weight 24 weeks after
      MOVE! New methods are needed to help obese veterans seeking weight loss. Using personalized
      genomic information dictating a specific diet, and information on exercise and eating
      behaviors, may be one means to help promote weight loss. Just a single nucleotide change or
      polymorphism (SNP) in a gene can increase a person's risk for obesity, or change their lipid
      profile in response to the consumption of different macronutrients such as of fats or
      carbohydrates. Over 54 genetic loci have been associated with obesity phenotypes and clinical
      studies are now reporting associations between SNPs and/or functional alterations of gene
      expression (epigenetics) and the ability to lose weight or not. We will implement a
      randomized clinical trial to test a set of genomic data called the FIT™ test (Pathway
      Genomics™) containing information on SNPs that affect obesity risk, confer specific diet
      recommendations, outline eating behaviors and suggest responses to various exercise regimens.
      The overall goal of this project is to evaluate if this supplemental genetic information with
      a genomically-derived diet built around packaged meals to improve adherence, in parallel with
      the MOVE! program at the VA in San Diego, will promote weight loss in more obese veterans
      than those receiving usual care and eating diets based around packaged meals. Our primary
      hypotheses are that more obese veterans in the MOVE! program will lose 5% of their weight if
      they receive personalized genomic information and a genomically-derived diet built around
      packaged meals when compared to veterans in the same program that receive usual care during
      MOVE! and packaged meals after 8 or 24 weeks. We also hypothesize that more veterans in the
      genomic group that lose 5% weight loss at 8 weeks will maintain this weight loss after 24
      weeks compared to veterans in the usual care group.
    
  