
    
      Hypericin-PDT study is an examination of patients with gastric cancer. The peritoneal
      carcinosis (PC) of the adult represents the final stage of an advanced tumor and was treated
      in the past, usually by means of palliative chemotherapy. An improvement in survival for
      patients with PC could be further improved through the use of maximum cytoreductive surgery
      (CRS) can be achieved with radical removal of the entire tumor mass and the combination of
      CRS and intraperitoneal hyperthermic chemotherapy (HIPEC) event-free survival and overall
      survival. A cure of patients is achieved only in the rarest cases. An essential problem in
      the treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis is that can only be poorly differentiated from
      surrounding tissue due to their location, the tumors often not well recognized because of
      their size or. This results to differ (as scar tissue) for the surgeon the difficulty between
      eigentlichem tumor tissue and surrounding tissue.

      Through the use of innovative diagnostic and therapeutic options (for example, photodynamic
      diagnosis (PDD) and therapy (PDT)) above mentioned problems can be improved. In photodynamic
      diagnosis contrast between tumor and surrounding healthy tissue is improved by an interaction
      of photodynamic active substance with light of a particular wavelength. The PDT is based on a
      topical or systemic administration of a photosensitizer (here hypericin), which is irradiated
      with light of a suitable wavelength and in the presence of oxygen oxygen radicals (with the
      consequence of a direct cytotoxicity of the tumor cells leading) forms.

      The study will be carried out in the Department of General, Visceral and Transplantation
      Surgery Tübingen at 50 adult patients. The study proposed would examine by
      hypericin-supported Fluoreszenzlaparoskopy in terms of tumor size, number and location of the
      combination of photodynamic diagnosis (PDD) and therapy (PDT) with regard to the detection of
      peritoneal metastases of locally advanced gastric cancer.
    
  