
    
      The aim of this randomized controlled clinical study is to evaluate and compare the
      effectiveness of platelet rich fibrin (PRF) and connective tissue grafts in the treatment of
      multiple gingival recessions.

      Primary outcome variables were percentage of complete root coverage and mean root coverage
      percentages at 6 months follow up. The secondary outcome variables include keratinized tissue
      and gingival thickness gain.

      Sample size has been estimated as 13 in each treatment arm. All recessions are treated with
      modified coronally advanced flap. On test sites PRF membrane and on control sites connective
      tissue grafts will be placed under modified coronally advanced flaps. Random allocation of
      the treatment sites to test and control groups were performed using a computer software
      designed for randomization.

      Clinical parameters such as gingival index, plaque index, keratinized tissue width, gingival
      recession depth and width were measured at 1, 3 and 6 months. Probing pocket depth, clinical
      attachment level, gingival thickness and gingival recession area were measure at baseline and
      6 months. All gingival recession-related parameters such as recession height, recession width
      and recession area and keratinized tissue width along with mean root coverage and complete
      root coverage were assessed on standardized clinical photographs using an image analysis
      software.

      Clinical photographs were obtained at baseline and 1, 3 and 6 months after surgical
      intervention. 4 mm length wire was placed on gingiva to check reproducibility and to obtain
      standardized pictures.

      Gingival tissue thickness were measured with an #15 endodontic reamer attached to rubber
      stopper inserted perpendicularly into the gingival tissue 2 mm below the gingival margin;
      thickness of the reamer will be measured with a digital caliper.

      Mean root coverage percentage was calculated as percentage of covered root surface area at 6
      months.

      Follow up of subjects was 6 months.
    
  