
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine the efficacy of combination of futibatinib and pembrolizumab in patients with
      advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and high FGF19 expression who has received at least
      one line of therapy using progression free survival (PFS) at 6 months.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the safety and tolerability of futibatinib and pembrolizumab combination through
      adverse event monitoring.

      II. Determine the overall objective response rate (ORR) and overall survival (OS) of patients
      with advanced HCC treated with futibatinib and pembrolizumab combination.

      III. Assess change in overall health-related quality of life, as measured by the global
      health domain of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of
      Life Questionnaire (EORTC-QLQ-C30) between baseline and at time of first-restaging scan.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the prognostic effect of baseline number of circulating tumor cells (CTCs).

      II. To determine whether the change in number of CTCs post 2 months of treatment from
      baseline is associated with PFS and OS.

      III. To evaluate the prognostic effect of baseline circulating cell-free deoxyribonucleic
      acid (cfDNA).

      IV. To determine whether the change in cfDNA at 2 months of treatment from baseline is
      associated with PFS and OS.

      V. To compare prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positron emission tomography/magnetic
      resonance imaging (PET/MR) or PET/computed tomography (CT) with conventional MRI or CT for
      evaluation of treatment response.

      VI. To correlate drug response in patient derived organoids with clinical response and
      characterize the tumor microenvironment.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive futibatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 for cycles 1-9, and
      days 1-42 for subsequent cycles and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day
      1. Cycles repeat every 21 days for cycles 1-9 and every 42 days for subsequent cycles for up
      to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completing study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 9 weeks for up
      to 18 months, and then every 6 months for up to 5 years.
    
  