
    
      Patients with congenital or acquired immunodeficiencies are at an increased risk to develop
      polyclonal or oligoclonal lymphoid malignancies. Some develop a lymphoproliferative disorder
      that can follow a clinically aggressive course and may represent a pre-malignant lesion.
      Although most of these lymphoproliferative disorders are of B-cell origin, T-cell or
      non-B-non-T-cell processes have also been observed. The pathogenesis is only partially
      understood. The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is thought to play an important role but the human
      herpes virus type 6 (HHV-6) has been implicated as well. An imbalance in the expression of
      several cytokines is observed and it is currently not clear whether this sustains the
      aberrant proliferation or is a result thereof. In the case of pre-malignant conditions it is
      often difficult to know when and whether a therapeutic intervention is necessary and a
      careful consideration of potential treatment-associated morbidity is indicated. Therapies
      have ranged from influencing the possible infectious etiology (by treating with acyclovir),
      decreasing the amount of immunosuppression (in transplant patients), to the use of
      immunomodulatory agents, including interferons and interleukins. Recent data have indicated
      that the use of differentiating agents, such as the retinoids, might offer yet another
      treatment option. In the current study we will try to get a better understanding of the
      pathogenesis and natural course of lymphoproliferative disorders in immunodeficient children.
      The study will mainly be open to children infected with the human immunodeficiency virus but
      patients who develop a lymphoproliferative disorder post-transplant or as part of another
      immunodeficiency state may also be enrolled. The study will have two parts: an initial
      observation period to obtain information on the natural course of these disorders, and then a
      six month treatment period with the combination of a differentiating agent (13-cis-retinoic
      acid was used until all-trans-retinoic acid became available on 7/96) with an
      immunomodulatory agent (interferon-alpha2a, IFN-alpha2a).
    
  