
    
      The Human Microbiome Project (HMP), started in 2008, aimed to characterize the microbial
      communities on the skin, in the oral and nasal cavities, and in the gastrointestinal and
      urogenital tracts. This project cross-sectionally described the microbial communities in a
      healthy human population, but did not adequately describe longitudinal stability. Out of the
      236 adults included in the HMP, a second saliva sample was collected on a small subset (N=74)
      with a long interval between collections, an average of 203 days. Community similarity was
      calculated between two visits; for saliva samples, the Spearman correlation was high
      (rs=0.8). However, it was unclear which metric of community similarly was being used for this
      calculation. When we obtained the HMP data and calculated the Spearman correlation for
      specific diversity metrics in the saliva samples, the correlations were weaker and ranged
      from 0.225 to 0.524 for the Shannon Index and PD tree, respectively. Other studies with fewer
      people, but more time points, have had conflicting conclusions on the temporal variation of
      the oral microbiome. Given this variability, it is vital to establish whether a single
      measurement is representative of the typical composition of microbiota in a specific body
      site using more than two time points.

      In epidemiological studies, it is often impractical, if not impossible, to collect biological
      samples or measurements multiple times for each participant during the study period. However,
      when a biological sample or a measurement is taken only once, there is concern that the
      single assessment is not representative of the typical value. For example, serum 25(OH)D
      levels, which are used to assess an individual s vitamin D exposure, have seasonal
      fluctuations, but studies have established that a single measurement is sufficiently reliable
      to represent typical exposure. The correlation between samples over time is also used to
      create more accurate power calculations for future studies.

      Since previous work has not adequately addressed temporal variation in the oral microbiome,
      we propose to: 1) establish a cohort of 40 adults willing to provide oral samples
      approximately every two months for one year; 2) process all oral samples and evaluate the
      presence and quantity of microbiota using 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing; 3) calculate
      appropriate reliability measures for the sample over time using the intra-class correlation
      coefficient (ICC) for and <= diversity metrics; and 4) empirically evaluate the efficiency of
      different longitudinal designs including two or more sample collections with an outcome such
      as body mass index (BMI). Because of the complexity and high prevalence of human DNA in
      saliva, metagenomic analyses of oral samples are not yet feasible, however, the samples
      obtained from this study will be available for use in future metagenomic analyses when the
      technology is operationalized. The current study is essential to establish the reliability of
      a single measure of the oral microbiome to determine appropriate sample sizes for future
      cohort studies considering the effect of the oral microbiome on the risk of cancer and other
      health outcomes.
    
  