
    
      Depression is a common but serious mental disorder that affects millions of people each year.
      Depression can severely impact people's lives, causing them to often feel sad and hopeless,
      as well as affecting people's sleep patterns, concentration, and energy levels. Women with a
      history of abuse are at an increased risk for developing symptoms of depression. However,
      treatments such as interpersonal psychotherapy and individual psychotherapy have been known
      to reduce symptoms of depression. This study will compare the effectiveness of individual and
      interpersonal psychotherapy in improving depressive symptoms and daily functioning in
      depressed women with a history of sexual abuse.

      Participants in this study will undergo a two-part screening interview at the Strong Adult
      Ambulatory Clinic. This screening will include both written questionnaires and face-to-face
      interviews regarding any experiences of sexual or physical abuse; suicidal thoughts; family
      relationships; and current attitudes, thoughts, or feelings. Participants who meet all
      criteria will then be randomly assigned to receive one of two treatments: interpersonal
      psychotherapy or individual psychotherapy, which is considered usual care. All treatment
      sessions will be held at the Strong Adult Ambulatory Clinic. Participants assigned to receive
      interpersonal psychotherapy will attend weekly 50-minute sessions with a therapist.
      Interpersonal psychotherapy will focus on current interpersonal stressors in daily life, such
      as difficulties in close relationships or at work. Treatment will also help participants
      examine the relationship between their mood changes and interpersonal problems. Participants
      assigned to receive individual psychotherapy will undergo cognitive-behavioral therapy,
      supportive counseling, or a combination of the two. Participants will work with their
      therapists to decide upon a treatment plan designed to help changes in mood and other
      difficulties in daily life. The number and length of treatment sessions for this group will
      be determined on an individual basis. For all participants, evaluations consisting of
      questionnaires similar to those from the initial screening will be completed at
      mid-treatment, post-treatment, and 3 months after treatment.
    
  