
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a major health problem that affects approximately 26 million
      Americans. Many of those suffering CKD will progress to develop end stage renal disease
      (ESRD) and require lifelong hemodialysis (HD) to filter wastes from their blood. There are
      nearly 2.5 million patients who receive HD worldwide, and this population is growing at a
      rate of 8% per year. This projects that the worldwide HD population to reach approximately
      3.4 million by the year 2020. There are over 600,000 patients on HD in the US and an
      estimated 100,000 new cases are reported annually. The interventions required to maintain a
      person on HD carry a significant financial burden, with costs estimated to be as high as $30
      billion annually. Given the increasing epidemic of obesity, diabetes, and heart disease, the
      burden of ESRD will continue to grow, making new interventions that can improve the social,
      physical, and financial realities of treating ESRD essential.

      A critical factor in the survival of renal dialysis patients is the surgical creation of
      vascular access. Despite the fistula-first initiative, many patients will start hemodialysis
      using a central venous catheter (CVC). This increases the risks of associated bloodstream
      infections, central venous stenosis, and poorer outcomes from subsequent vascular
      cannulations.

      Arteriovenous grafts have advantages compared with central venous catheters for dialysis and
      guidelines suggest their use as second choice after arteriovenous fistulas. The suggested
      advantages of grafts over fistulas is the ability to cannulate or access the graft earlier,
      traditionally 2 weeks for AVG rather than 6 weeks for AVF, and the lower rates of primary
      failure.

      Standard practice with expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) grafts has been to avoid
      cannulation for 2 weeks following placement, but new generation grafts have been marketed for
      their early cannulation properties allowing use as an alternative to central venous catheters
      for prompt access.

      The proposed BEACH Trial is a multi-center, prospective clinical trial to evaluate early
      access of an existing, FDA-approved bovine carotid vascular graft, approved as a general
      peripheral vascular graft and for hemodialysis. The BEACH Trial is seeking to demonstrate
      that early access, defined as within 72 hours post implantation, of the Artegraft device
      results in acceptable clinical outcomes including ability to support dialysis needs thereby
      obviating the requirement for interim catheter placement or facilitating the removal of an
      existing catheter with acceptable composite major adverse clinical events (MACE) rate up to
      26 weeks (6 months) post implant.

      Few vascular products approved in the 1970s have a broad level of acceptance in today's
      competitive market. Review of the original NDA application for Artegraft as well as the
      scientific literature revealed no clinical rationale for a waiting period of 14 days (for
      most access grafts) and 10 days (for Artegraft) before cannulation. The current literature
      does not seem to support the current guidelines as there is no evidence to suggest that a
      delay in cannulation of PTFE grafts will improve graft survival and patency.Note also that
      Artegraft cannot identify any scientific justification in the original NDA for the warning
      that was placed in the IFU to support the 10-day waiting period before cannulation.

      Further, if it is assumed that dialysis is conducted 3 times per week, by allowing
      cannulation to the Artegraft device in the 72-hour period, only 6 to 10 additional needle
      punctures are added during the first 10-day period depending on whether cannulation is
      initiated within 72 hours, respectively. Artegraft believes that this limited number of
      additional early needle punctures will not significantly affect the safety or efficacy of the
      graft or the cannulation procedure.
    
  