
    
      Study Aims:

      Aim #1 is to conduct a superiority trial that compares the efficacy of MB delivered by
      paraprofessional home visitors versus usual care (i.e., home visiting without MB) on
      patient-reported outcomes, including depressive symptoms, quality of life, parenting
      practices, engagement in pleasant activities, and relationship with one's partner.

      Aim #2 is to conduct a non-inferiority trial that compares the effectiveness of MB delivered
      by (a) mental health clinicians versus (b) paraprofessional home visitors.

      Aim #3 is to evaluate whether effectiveness of the two versions of MB (clinician led vs.
      paraprofessional home visitor led) varies according to patient characteristics (e.g., race,
      ethnicity, first-time mother, and/or geographic type of home visiting (HV) program (i.e.,
      urban vs. rural).

      Aim #4 is to examine the feasibility and acceptability of MB delivered by paraprofessional
      home visitors and mental health clinicians.

      Postpartum depression is a serious mental health disorder that poses significant health and
      mental health risks for mothers and their infants. Research suggests that prevalence rates of
      postpartum depression are higher among low-income women than among middle-or high-income
      women. There is also consistent evidence that low-income women are less likely to receive
      mental health services in the perinatal (i.e., pregnancy until child's first birthday) period
      than their more affluent counterparts due to a variety of factors including stigma related to
      mental health service use and lack of access to community-based mental health providers.
      Postpartum depression is a particularly serious problem for low-income women, as it has the
      potential to create two generations of suffering, for both mother and child. It is estimated
      that over 10% of low-income infants have a mother who has major depression and more than 50%
      have a mother with some depressive symptoms. Postpartum depression has negative consequences
      for maternal parenting practices. Compared with women not suffering from postpartum
      depression, depressed women tend to be less positive, less spontaneous, and less responsive
      with their infants. Postpartum depression has been linked to developmental delays among
      infants of depressed mothers, including social interaction difficulties, attachment
      insecurity, and cognitive impairments.

      Home visiting (HV) programs that provide services to perinatal women are one of the largest
      avenues through which perinatal women come to the attention of service providers, making HV a
      unique and viable setting for delivering mental health services. Although professional HV
      models exist (e.g., Nurse-Family Partnership), most HV programs in the United States use
      paraprofessionals. Previously, study investigators have established the efficacy of a
      group-based intervention -the Mothers and Babies (MB) Course-in preventing the onset of
      postpartum depression and reducing depressive symptoms when led by mental health
      professionals. However, to date there are no interventions led by non-health or non-mental
      health professionals that have demonstrated efficacy in preventing the onset and worsening of
      postpartum depression among low-income women. This project attempts to fill this notable gap.

      The investigators will conduct a cluster randomized trial in which HV clients receive either
      a) MB delivered by mental health professionals, b) MB delivered by paraprofessional home
      visitors, or c) usual home visiting services. This study design will allow the investigators
      to conduct a superiority trial that compares the efficacy of MB delivered by paraprofessional
      home visitors versus usual care. A superiority trial will allow the investigators to generate
      efficacy data on MB delivered by paraprofessional home visitors. The study design will also
      allow the investigators to conduct a non-inferiority trial that compares the effectiveness of
      MB delivered by mental health professionals versus paraprofessional home visitors. Should the
      investigators find that paraprofessional home visitors are not inferior to mental health
      professionals in delivering the intervention, HV programs throughout the United States will
      be able to implement the MB Course with paraprofessional home visitors-an approach that is
      considerably more efficient and cost-effective than employing mental health professionals.

      This study was born out of community stakeholders' need and desire for a low-cost
      intervention that could prevent the onset and worsening of depression among low-income women
      enrolled in HV programs. Maternal depression is an enormous challenge facing HV programs.
      However, there is consistent evidence that low-income women exhibiting depressive
      symptoms-including women enrolled in HV programs-do not access mental health treatment in the
      community. Lack of available mental health professionals, stigma in seeking mental health
      services, and logistical challenges (e.g., childcare, transportation) are a few of the
      barriers faced by perinatal women seeking mental health services. For those clients who do
      access services, most perinatal women are likely to receive pharmacological treatments,
      despite the fact that the vast majority of perinatal women prefer non-pharmacologic
      interventions.

      HV programs are ideal settings for delivering mental health care to perinatal women because
      their mission is not stigmatizing and HV programs tend to be trusted entities in the
      communities they serve. However, there is not yet an evidence-based intervention that can be
      delivered by paraprofessionals (such as home visitors), thereby limiting HV programs'
      capacity to meet the needs of their clients needing mental health services.
    
  