
    
      This study will use a randomized (1:1) waitlist controlled trial design to test the effects
      of a 15-week caregiver-implemented STAR intervention for children with HL. STAR incorporates
      a high intensity of home-based shared book reading sessions (i.e., 4 times a week) in which
      caregivers embed guided discussions about foundational reading concepts that are
      prerequisites for learning to read. Caregivers will receive individualized training and
      materials for implementing STAR at home with their child. Caregivers will be provided with
      materials and equipment to read and audio record their readings 4 times a week, and to engage
      in meaningful, instructional dialogue while reading, in order to help children learn about
      foundational reading topics, such as letter names and sounds.

      The study is guided by the following specific aims: Aim 1: Determine the extent to which
      caregivers of children with HL can effectively implement a home-based reading intervention
      for their children. Hypothesis 1: Caregivers will effectively implement the STAR intervention
      but there will be some variability. Aim 2: Improve the early literacy skills of children with
      HL, by implementing STAR. Hypothesis 2: Children whose caregivers are randomized to the
      home-implemented STAR intervention will demonstrate significantly greater gains in early
      reading skills over the implementation period, compared to those randomized to a waitlist
      control condition. Aim 3: Identify implementation barriers or challenges experienced by
      caregivers of children with HL. This aim is exploratory and will inform potential adaptations
      to the intervention that may be required for future, more successful intervention
      implementation by caregivers of children with HL.

      Upon completion, the investigators will have established the feasibility and effectiveness of
      the STAR intervention for children with HL and their caregivers. Data from this study will be
      the foundation for a large-scale randomized-controlled clinical trial that focuses on
      improving the reading outcomes of children with a range of communication disorders and
      identifying optimal methods for supporting their caregivers.
    
  