
    
      The use of high doses of chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplant has been shown to
      prolong disease control among patients with multiple myeloma and patients with lymphomas that
      have relapsed or recurred. Patients who receive autologous stem cell transplants have their
      own stem cells collected and stored prior to receiving high-dose chemotherapy, the stem cells
      are then given back to the patient as a transplant. However, the use of high doses of
      chemotherapy is associated with significant side effects of nausea and vomiting. Before the
      use of newer medications, the incidence of nausea and vomiting could be as high as 70-90%.

      Nausea is an unpleasant feeling and awareness of the urge to vomit. Vomiting is the process
      of throwing up forcefully the contents of the stomach. Retching is an act similar to vomiting
      but do not produce throwing up of the contents of the stomach. It is also called "dry
      heaves".

      There are three kinds of nausea and vomiting associated with chemotherapy. Acute nausea
      and/or vomiting occur within the first 24 hours after administration of chemotherapy. Delayed
      nausea and/or vomiting begins after the first 24 hours of chemotherapy and could last for
      several days afterwards. Anticipatory nausea/vomiting is experienced prior to administration
      of the subsequent chemotherapy.

      Chemotherapy produces nausea and vomiting by damaging the cells lining the stomach and
      intestines which results in the release a substance called serotonin. The serotonin binds to
      a protein or "receptor" (5-HT3 receptor) in the lining of the intestines. The receptors then
      send a message to the vomiting center in the brain. The brain then sends signals to the body
      to produce nausea and vomiting.

      Another substance, called substance P, is also released from the lining of the stomach and
      intestines with damage by chemotherapy, and is released together with serotonin. The
      substance P binds to another protein called "neurokinin-1 receptor" or NK-1 receptor. These
      proteins are found in the intestines and another portion of the brain called "tractus
      solitarius". The brain then signals the body to produce nausea and vomiting.

      The stimulation of the serotonin proteins results in acute nausea and vomiting. The
      stimulation of the NK-1 protein results in delayed nausea and vomiting.

      There are medications that could block the serotonin and NK-1 proteins. Serotonin blockers
      such as ondansetron or Zofran® are now considered the medications of choice to prevent and
      treat nausea and vomiting in the transplant setting. However, their use could still result in
      nausea and vomiting in up to 40-50% of patients.

      Nausea and vomiting negatively impacts the quality of life of patients undergoing stem cell
      transplant for their multiple myeloma and lymphoma. It can affect their appetite and sleep;
      and can interfere with activity, social life and enjoyment of life. Therefore, it is
      important to find better ways to prevent and control nausea and vomiting associated with
      chemotherapy.

      There are two new medications that are available for patients who receive regular doses of
      chemotherapy. One is the long acting preparation of the serotonin blocker called palonosetron
      or Aloxi®. It is used to control both acute and delayed nausea and vomiting. Another
      medication could block the NK-1 receptor, and is called aprepitant or Emend®. This prevents
      delayed nausea and vomiting.

      Although these two medications are tested and proven to be effective among patients who
      receive regular doses of chemotherapy, they have not been tested in combination among
      patients who undergo high doses of chemotherapy in the setting of autologous stem cell
      transplant.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate if the combination of these two medications,
      together with small doses of steroids (dexamethasone), would be effective in preventing both
      acute and delayed vomiting associated with high doses of chemotherapy and stem cell
      transplant for patients with multiple myeloma and lymphoma. The usual way to administer
      palonosetron is by single injection in the vein before chemotherapy. This is shown to be
      effective for chemotherapy given for 1 day. Since chemotherapy regimen for transplant
      requires multiple days of treatment, palonosetron will also be administered on multiple days
      thereby delivering higher doses of this drug. Aprepitant would be administered at standard
      doses. This study would assess if combining palonosetron and aprepitant as well as giving
      multiple and higher doses of palonosetron would be safe and effective in the control of
      nausea and vomiting in the setting of transplant. The study would evaluate the effect of
      combined palonosetron and aprepitant on the quality of life with regards to nausea and
      vomiting, of patients undergoing transplant.
    
  