
    
      Objective: In a pilot study to prospectively analyze the quality of life using QLQ-C30,
      EN-24, PHQ-9 and GAD7 in women undergoing primary surgery with robotic assisted laparoscopy
      for corpus cancer before and up to one year after surgery.

      The study aims to describe how, to what extent and when in relation to primary surgery
      women's quality of life is affected after the diagnosis of endometrial cancer. The long-term
      goal of the work is to be able to deploy any resources if needs exist, and in this case at a
      time when they are most useful, to promote the quality of life of the affected women.

      Question: How and when is the quality of life of women undergoing surgery for endometrial
      cancer affected? Is there any particular area / domain that is affected more than others and
      is this impact persistent over time? Method: The international and validated survey, QLQ-C30
      with the addition of EN24, developed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment
      of Cancer (EORTC) for quality of life measurement specifically for endometrial cancer in
      addition to PHQ-9 and GAD7 to evaluate depression and anxiety symtoms, is planned to be used
      just before primary surgery, 1-2 weeks, 3 months and 1 years postoperatively.

      Referens to the QLQ30 questionnaire below.

      Patients are included at Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Sahlgrenska University
      Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden for one year.

      All patients included should give their oral and written consent. All data will be registered
      coded and analyzed without personal identification number according to the scoring manual
      from EORTC.

      Aaronson NK, Ahmedzai S, Bergman B, Bullinger M, Cull A, Duez NJ, Filiberti A, Flechtner H,
      Fleishman SB, de Haes JCJM, Kaasa S, Klee MC, Osoba D, Razavi D, Rofe PB, Schraub S, Sneeuw
      KCA, Sullivan M, Takeda F.

      The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer QLQ-C30: A quality-of-life
      instrument for use in international clinical trials in oncology. Journal of the National
      Cancer Institute 1993; 85: 365-376.
    
  