
    
      Consecutive patients referred to the Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Audiology on
      suspicion of cancer during the study period from February to August 2011. Patients were asked
      for participation if they met the following inclusion criteria: age ≥ 18 years, suspicion or
      diagnosis with HNC, and first time referral. Patients were excluded if not able to understand
      and speak Danish, having severe dementia and/or renal impairment (women: p-creatinine > 180
      μmol/l, men: p-creatinine > 200 μmol/l).

      Every participant was observed for eight days after admission or referral to the clinic.
      Blood samples and interviews were performed at baseline and at day 2, 4 and 7.

      Potential factors defining high risk were analyzed by comparing those patients developing RFS
      or RFF with those that did not. Baseline information consisted of data from the interview and
      supplemental information in medical records. As a part of the interview, the participant was
      asked about dietary history in order to assess daily habitual energy end protein intake. Hand
      grip strength (HGS) was measured, and the participant performed a maximal step test on a 20
      cm high bench. The nutritional status was evaluated using the NRS-2002 screening tool (13)
      and refeeding risk according to the NICE-guidelines (14). Intake of energy, protein, and
      fluids was registered and compared to the estimated requirements. Standardized questionnaires
      were used for the interviews, and blood samples were analyzed as part of daily routine in
      in-patients, while outpatients had their blood samples collected by their general
      practitioner or by accredited hospital laboratories close to their homes. For participants
      with a body mass index (BMI) < 30 kg/m2, energy requirement was calculated using Harris &
      Benedict's equations for men and women respectively (15). A physical activity factor of 1.1
      for bedridden participants and 1.3 for non-bedridden participants was used. Protein
      requirement was calculated as 18 E-% of total energy requirement. For participants with a BMI
      ≥ 30 kg/m2 the following equations were used: Energy requirement (bedridden) = 85 kJ/kg body
      weight/day, energy requirement (non-bedridden) = 100kJ/kg body weight/day, protein
      requirement (bedridden) = 0.9 g/kg body weight/day, protein requirement (non-bedridden) = 1.1
      g/kg body weight/day (16). Energy and protein intake was estimated from the 24-hour dietary
      recall by using the computer program "Dankost 3000" (Dankost 3000, version 2.5, Danish
      Catering Center, Herlev, Denmark).

      For the step test, an audio file was used to dictate the rhythm, similar to the audio file
      used in The Danish Step Test (17). HGS was measured on the right hand with a hydraulic Jamar®
      hand dynamometer (scale 0-200 lbs). Three measurements were conducted with a break of 15
      seconds between each measurement, and the mean value was used for analysis. Head and neck
      pain were measured twice by visual analogue scale (VAS) (18) with added marks for consistent
      pain and for pain during eating.

      All statistical analyses were performed using STATA/IC 10.0 for Windows and Microsoft Excel
      2003. The Mann-Whitney rank sum test was used for group comparisons, and dose-response
      relationships were tested by the Spearman's rank correlation test. Potential risk factors
      were analyzed by the Chi2-test with Yates correction or the Fisher's exact test as
      appropriate.

      The primary outcomes were changes in p-phosphate and the development of RFS-symptoms after
      start of nutritional intake. A discriminative value for a clinically relevant
      hypophosphatemia or decline in p-phosphate was estimated from the coherence between the
      development of clinical symptoms and the lowest p-phosphate as well as the change in
      p-phosphate from baseline to the study day with the lowest p-phosphate value.

      In case of significant differences between groups, odds ratios (OR) were calculated and
      Spearman's rank correlation test was used to test for correlation between the potential risk
      factor and change in p-phosphate, and correlations were tested for linearity by linear
      regression analysis. Sensitivity, specificity, and predictive values were calculated for
      NRS-2002 total score ≥ 3, NRS-2002 A-score = 1 and NICE guidelines, respectively.

      The maximal increase in energy intake to be allowed without causing RFS was analyzed by
      correlating changes in p-phosphate and changes in intake in percentage of calculated energy
      requirements.
    
  