
    
      Rationale: Obesity is associated with a variety of co-morbidities. Children with obesity are
      more likely to have risk factors associated with cardiovascular disease (eg, hypertension,
      high cholesterol, and type 2 diabetes mellitus), but also non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
      (NAFLD). A recent meta-analysis has shown that the prevalence of NAFLD in obese pediatric
      populations is approximately 35%, compared to approximately 8% in general pediatric
      populations [6], making it a very important health threat in these populations. The golden
      standard for the diagnosis of NAFLD is liver biopsy. However, since liver biopsy is
      associated with a certain risk of morbidity and mortality, this method is inappropriate for
      screening large populations at-risk for developing NAFLD. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy has
      demonstrated excellent correlation with liver biopsy and the most accurate non-invasive
      method to measure liver fat content in children. However, MRS is an expensive method that is
      not available in all centers. A novel ultrasonographic measurement to quantitatively assess
      liver steatosis is the hepatorenal index (HRI), which is calculated as the ratio of hepatic
      and renal ultrasonographic brightness. Previous studies in adults have shown a high
      sensitivity and specificity of the HRI, as compared to liver biopsy as well as H-MRS.
      However, the measurement of the HRI has never been validated in children. The validation of
      this simple, non-invasive method to quantitatively assess fat accumulation in the liver,
      could improve the screening for, and follow-up of, NAFLD in at-risk populations.

      Objective: The aim of this study is to validate the ultrasonographic hepatorenal index in
      children with overweight, obesity and morbid obesity, by using MRS, and to determine cut-off
      points for the HRI according to liver fat percentages measured with MRS.

      Study design: cross-sectional study

      Study population: Overweight and obese children from the Centre for Overweight Adolescent and
      Childrens Healthcare (COACH) program.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Ultrasonographic hepato-renal index and liver fat percentage
      as determined by magnetic resonance spectroscopy.

      Secondary study parameters/endpoints: correlate liver fat percentage as measured with MRS,
      and HRI, with anthropometric, metabolic and cardiovascular parameters.
    
  