
    
      This project seeks to leverage the latest technological innovations for monitoring and
      modulating motor and neural states chronically, in order to comprehensively characterize gait
      deficits in PD, and to clarify the improvements ushered in by varying DBS parameters.

      The resulting observations will establish a rigorous understanding that will open new avenues
      for the design of evidence-based, clinically-relevant DBS strategies for locomotor deficits.

      Advances on the use of neural implants for electrical neuromodulation of deep brain
      structures are opening the unique opportunity to probing the function of dysfunctional
      circuits in patients suffering from a variety of neurological disorders.

      To date, acute experiments using deep brain stimulation (DBS) implants, either in
      intra-operative setups or shortly after surgery during so-called "externalization" phases,
      have widened our understan-ding of the neural signatures that underlie various motor and
      non-motor symptoms, and helped optimi-ze therapeutical parameters to better address such
      impairments.

      For instance, DBS therapies in Parkinson's disease (PD) have been refined over the past
      decades based on experiments that synergistically (i) explored and uncovered readouts of
      movement perfor-mance in response to changing stimulation parameters, (ii) identified the
      underlying neural biomar-kers from recordings of local field potentials, and even (iii)
      tested closed-loop strategies able to adapt in real-time to ongoing patient-specific
      requirements.

      These advances have mostly been applied to (and been successful for) improving motor signs of
      the upper-limb such as tremor, bradykinesia or rigidity, which exhibit fast dynamical
      responses to changes in neuromodulation (in the range of minutes), and which can be studied
      in the context of simple motor tasks using tethered technologies while patients are safely
      sitting or lying. These conditions have made it possible to tweak, tune and optimize
      parameters based on simple easily measurable readouts of motor dysfunction, and to record
      neural signals with minimal movement-related artefacts in the meantime.

      Unfortunately, these straightforward experimental conditions do not apply to the study of
      axial motor signs, such as locomotion:

        -  First, gait deficits are multi-faceted and high dimensional: Impairments are not merely
           restricted to leg movements, but also critically affect lower- and upper-limb
           coordination, trunk and pelvis oscillations, posture and balance. Their characterization
           thus requires of multi-modal sensing technologies and analytical methods able to capture
           all these aspects concurrently.

        -  Second, the emergence of key deficits (e.g. freezing of gait) necessitates of
           behavioural tasks that are more physically demanding and potentially risky, often
           involving multiple repetitions of back-and-forth stepping over longer distances or in
           environments that resemble everyday life activities. Patients thus need to be in a
           stable medical condition, and technologies must allow recordings of motor and neural
           states to be performed wirelessly.

        -  Finally, the modulation of neural circuits controlling gait have considerably slower
           dynamics in response to changes in DBS (up to several hours10) than those controlling
           upper limb function, hence imposing that monitoring and tuning protocols are stretched
           in time to appropriately capture such changes.

      These requirements critically put forward the need to study and devise novel therapies for
      gait deficits in the chronic state, using multi-modal technologies that can concurrently
      record neural and motor states remotely, in real-time and for long periods of time.

      This project seeks to leverage the latest technological innovations for monitoring and
      modulating motor and neural states chronically, in order to comprehensively characterize gait
      deficits in PD while patients execute a range of activities of daily living, and to clarify
      the improvements brought in by varying DBS parameters.

      In past years, a handful of studies have proposed new stimulation paradigms aimed to better
      target the neural circuits that control lower limb function during gait11. For instance
      strategies sought to combine varying DBS frequencies, or to target additional anatomical
      targets. They all highlighted promising, yet far-from-conclusive results. To date, the
      relevant approaches for therapeutic intervention remain unclear, and the underlying
      mechanisms largely unknown. Patients still endure life-long, debilitating gait difficulties
      that severely affect their everyday mobility and independence: they often feel insecure about
      leaving their homes due to the high risk of fall-related injuries, require personal
      assistance, and in general see their quality of life significantly diminished.
    
  