
    
      Abstract Background: Radiostereometric analysis (RSA) is a high precision in vivo measuring
      method and regarded as the gold standard for motion analysis. RSA has been around for over 40
      years and its accuracy is properly evaluated. The CT technics have evolved and now low dose
      CT scans can reproduce 3-D models of bone and joints. The Sectra Implant Movement analysis
      (IMA) is a new method using a low dose CT for high accuracy measurement. There is no study
      evaluating the precision and accuracy of the new CT based method.The investigator want to
      compare the accuracy of the two methods.

      Method/design: The RSA method will be tested in patients that already have tantalum markers
      inserted around the SI joints from earlier studies conducted at Ullevål University Hospital.
      There are 2-6 patients in the age of 40-50 years available for RSA analysis with and without
      provocation of the SI joints. Some are fused in one SI joint after insertion of the tantalum
      markers, but the contralateral joint can then be used for the analysis. At the same time,the
      investigator will perform low dose CT with and without provocation of the SI joints. The
      results of the analysis will be compared.

      Discussion: The conventional RSA is an invasive method using tantalum markers inserted in to
      bone. If the CT method has the same accuracy, then the tantalum markers will become obsolete
      and future studies can easily be performed using non-invasive low dose CT scans.

      Keywords: RSA, CT method, low dose CT, IS joint, movement

      Introduction:

      Because of the high accuracy and precision, radiostereometric analysis (RSA), has become a
      well- established method for three-dimensional (3-D) measurements of micro motion in joints.
      The implantation of tantalum markers is invasive, but no reports of patient injuries are
      reported. The markers might be inserted through the approach used during a surgical
      intervention or in an extra stab incisions in the skin to get the markers to the necessary
      position in the bony structures. The placements of the markers are of outmost importance to
      achieve good quality measurements. At least three no collinear markers in each segment and a
      good distance and distribution in all three axes (X, Z, Y) is essential for a good 3-D
      configuration.

      The CT techniques have evolved and now low dose CT scans can reproduce 3-D models of bone and
      joints. The Sectra Implant movement analysis (IMA) is a non-invasive method using a low dose
      CT scan. No tantalum markers are needed and joint provocation can easily be conducted in the
      CT. The CT scan is then sent to the Sectra AB for analysis.

      Method:

      Patients and methods:

      The RSA method will be tested in patients that already have tantalum markers inserted around
      the SI joints from earlier studies , approximately five years ago, conducted at Ullevål
      University Hospital. These are patients with long lasting severe sacroiliac joint pain. There
      are six patients in the age of 40-50 years available for RSA analysis with and without
      provocation of the SI joints, at the same time the investigator will perform low dose CT with
      and without provocation of the SI joints. For the non-provocation, the patient will be in a
      supine-position. The provocation x-ray/low dose CT will be performed; 1: anterior straight
      leg raise 2: One side figure of four position, both with 1kg of load. Some are fused in one
      SI joint after insertion of the tantalum markers, but the contralateral joint can then be
      used for the analysis. The investigators will also measure eventual movement in the fused
      joint and the symphysis (if tantalum markers present). The Center for Implant and
      Radiostereometric Research Oslo has extensive experience with RSA and established state of
      the art measuring method of movement in the SI joint. They will perform the RSA measurements.
      The CT scan is send to the Sectra AB for analysis.

      Statistical analysis:

      Null hypothesis (H0): There is no difference in the accuracy Alternate Hypothesis (H1): There
      is a difference in the accuracy Continuous variables will be described with mean and standard
      deviation\, and the normality of the data will be checked using the histograms, QQ-plots and
      the Kolmogorov-Smirnov-Test of normality. The differences of motion will also be tested for
      normality. The paired sample T-test will be used to detect possible significance in the
      difference between the two groups. Non-parametric tests are used if the assumption of
      normality does not hold. All analysis will be conducted using commercially available software
      (SPSS version 24, IBM Inc.) and the level of significance is set to p<0.05 in a two-sided
      test.

      Participants Project leader and responsible institution Stephan M. Röhrl, PhD, MD, Ass.
      Professor, Head of Center for Implant and Radiostereometric Research Oslo, President of Knee
      and Hip Register, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.

      PhD candidate Vinjar Myklevoll, MD, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen. Collaborating
      partner Thomas Kibsgård, Ass. Professor, PhD, MD, President Pelvic Girdle Pain Society, Head
      of Department Rikshospitalet, Oslo, OUS.
    
  