
    
      Introduction: The prevalence of cancer-related fatigue in women treated for breast cancer is
      about 30% having significant effects in reducing their quality of life. There is evidence of
      the presence of sleep problems and immune response. Several studies claim that physical
      exercise is effective during and after treatment of the disease as it improves the quality of
      life, cardiorespiratory function, physical functioning and symptoms of fatigue although not
      always found significant differences between intervention groups exercises compared with a
      control group. Although the results of these studies are promising, generally present
      methodological biases as small sample size, absence of masking, heterogeneous groups, lack of
      monitoring short and long term and especially lack of specificity in relation to prescribed
      exercise ( frequency, intensity, time and type of exercise).

      Subjects and methods: A randomized clinical trial, the examiner being blinded unaware of the
      intervention group to which subjects were assigned. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      two groups:

      An experimental group, where the participants will be treated with Therapeutic Exercise;

      And a group where will be done Physical Exercise according their preferences.

      Pre-intervention, immediate post-intervention, 3 and 6 months assessments will be made. The
      selection criteria will be: Adult women treated for breast cancer, completed at least 6
      months before, with persistent fatigue. All participants must understand and sign freely
      Informed Consent.

      Sample size: 40 women for each group.

      Data Analysis: A descriptive analysis of all variables was performed. It establish for all
      cases a confidence level of 95% (p <0.05). The effectiveness was assessed by comparing the
      experienced change of the two groups in outcome variables between physical therapy
      examinations.
    
  