
    
      Although research has demonstrated clear benefits of cognitive behavioral treatment for
      children with obsessive-compulsive disorder, typical rates of treatment response are far from
      absolute and even treatment responders tend to exhibit continuing symptoms. In one of the
      most cited and largest child OCD treatment study to date, only 39% of the participants showed
      a robust response to a 12-week course of CBT. In recent years, the basic research finding
      that D-Cyclocerine, a partial N-methyl-Daspartate (NMDA) receptor agonist, enhances
      extinction of learned fear among rats2 has generated significant interest among clinical
      researchers. This is not surprising given that the core component of CBT involves exposing
      the individual to the feared stimuli in the absence of the feared consequence (ie, extinction
      training). Indeed, data from several trials (for adults with social anxiety, specific phobia,
      and OCD) indicate that compared to placebo, when DCS is added to exposure, participants tend
      to respond faster and at higher rates to treatment. This significant development in clinical
      treatment for anxiety disorders has been examined in only one pilot study among children with
      OCD. In this study, the effects of DCS were modest but the methodology utilized (eg., no
      objective symptom measure, lack of information regarding aspects of treatment) make the
      results difficult to interpret. The present study will help clarify, albeit in only a
      preliminary way, whether DCS is a promising addition to the treatment options available to
      the OCD treatment provider. The greatest utility of the augmentation strategy may be the
      capability to hasten the rate of improvement, and thus, decrease the discomfort of treatment
      and decrease treatment drop-out.

      *Research Design and Methods: Describe in detail the design and methodology of the study.

      A) Overview We propose to examine the preliminary efficacy of D-cycloserine augmentation of
      eight sessions (two weeks) of intensive exposure and response prevention treatment
      administered to youngsters aged 7-17 with primary OCD. All subjects will be receiving
      clinical treatment through the UCLA Child OCD Intensive Outpatient Program and DCS will be
      introduced, and will be delivered during the third and fourth week (starting on the 9th IOP
      treatment visit) of the subject's participation in the IOP clinical treatment.

      To best address these aims, a total twenty-six 7-17 year-old children and adolescents will be
      recruited from UCLA Child OCD Intensive Outpatient Program. After completing an eligibility
      screen, all qualified participants will undergo a baseline evaluation including diagnostic as
      well as symptom assessments before randomization or treatment. This baseline assessment will
      be completed no more than 5 days prior to their 9th treatment visit (i.e., their first day of
      DCS medication).

      Following these assessments, subjects will be randomized to receive either DCS or placebo
      (PBO) 4 times weekly immediately preceding their treatment session for two weeks of treatment
      (4 sessions weekly). Study participants will receive the same cognitive-behavior treatment
      through IOP whether they are in the active (DCS) or placebo (PBO) condition. In addition, all
      subjects will continue clinical treatment in IOP for as long as clinically indicated.
      However, responders at study week 2 (CGI-I = 1 or 2) will be reassessed at three-month
      follow-up to establish durability of early response. Parents will participate in the child's
      clinical assessment, and fill out self-reports, to better help the research team understand
      the child's functioning. Please see attached table of procedures for overview.

      B. Core Clinical Assessment (Visit 1):

      Diagnostic assessment will be based on the Anxiety Disorder Interview Schedule for DSM-IV,
      Child Version and Parent Version (ADIS-C & ADIS-P; Silverman & Albano, 1996). The ADIS is a
      structured interview schedule designed to obtain information about symptomatology, course,
      etiology, and severity of anxiety disorders, mood disorders, and externalizing disorders in
      children and adolescents. The following sections will be administered at this visit: all
      anxiety disorders (except selective mutism), anxiety disorder NOS, MDD, dysthmia, bipolar,
      ADHD, CD, ODD, substance use disorders, and tic disorders. The ADIS currently provides the
      basis for psychiatric diagnosis in our ongoing CAMELS Study for which the Child OCD, Anxiety,
      & TS program is a collaborating center. All potential research subjects will undergo ADIS
      assessment by one of the trained study clinical interviewers. The ADIS interview will take
      approximately 90 minutes to complete and will be administered only at baseline.

      All study subjects will complete a core battery of dimensional psychiatric rating scales to
      more fully characterize OCD along with other key variables, including demographic status,
      other comorbid symptomatology, functional status, and adverse events or side effects. Many of
      these measures are derived from recent or ongoing treatment protocols in our OCD, Anxiety and
      Tic Disorders Program. In addition to the ADIS, the core battery will include the following
      measures:

        1. Demographics/History. Provides standardized information regarding demographic status,
           medical history, and past history of mental health treatment. (10 minutes, only at
           baseline)

        2. Children's Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (CY-BOCS): is a semi-structured
           clinical rating scale assessing OCD severity. The CY-BOCS was developed at Yale
           University for the definition of OCD symptoms and severity in children. The CY-BOCS will
           only be administered to youngsters with either parent- or child-report of obsessions or
           compulsions during the ADIS interview. (30 minutes at baseline administration; 15
           minutes at end of study week 1, week 2, week 4, week 6, week 10, and 3-month follow-up)

        3. Child OCD Impact Scale Child OCD Impact Scale (COIS; Piacentini et al., 2003) is a
           reliable and valid self-report measure of OCD-related functional impairment. (5-10
           minutes at baseline, end of study week 1, week 2, and 3-month follow-up).

        4. Children's Depression Inventory - (Kovacs, 1992). The CDI is a psychometrically sound
           rating scale comprised of 27 items (rated 0-2) assessing depressive symptomatology over
           the preceding 2 weeks. Age and gender-based T-scores are generated for five factors of
           depression. (10 minutes at baseline, end of study week 2, and 3-month follow-up).

        5. Clinical Global Impression of Severity (CGI-S): A clinician rated instrument designed to
           measure overall illness severity at that specific time point. This measure will be
           recorded at each time point but is clinician rated and will not affect subject burden.

        6. Clinical Global Impression of Improvement (CGI-I): A clinician rated instrument designed
           to measure overall symptom improvement at that specific time point relative to baseline
           symptom severity. This measure will be recorded at each time point but is clinician
           rated and will not affect subject burden.

        7. Side Effects and Adverse Events: Side effect and adverse events will be assessed at
           every visit using the using an amended Adverse Event Form from another study with which
           our group is involved. (5 minutes).

        8. Behavioral Approach Test (BAT): We have adapted the BATs for this study from Ollendick
           et (2011) who developed BATs specifically for children. When possible, BATs will be
           realistic in that children will be asked to approach and/or touch actual feared object
           or situation. When that is not possible, children pictures or video will be used. BAT
           assessments will be designed idiographically for each participant based upon their
           responses to the clinician administered CYBOCS instrument. The task will be administered
           at baseline (study week 0), at end of study week 1, and end of treatment (end of study
           week 2). The BATs consisted of a series of gradually more difficult steps (ranging from
           7 to 12 steps depending on the specific phobia). Due to the variability in number of
           steps on the BATs, percentage of steps completed will be used as the primary behavioral
           measure of BAT performance.

      For the BAT, the child will be instructed to do their best, but also informed they can
      terminate the BAT at any time if they wish to do so. BATs are terminated at the child's
      request or when the terminal step is achieved. Children are asked to provide ratings of their
      anxiety utilizing SUDS ranging from 0 to 8 (0 = None, 2 = A Little, 4 = Some, 6 = A Lot, and
      8 = Very Much). Ratings are obtained immediately following the last step of the BAT. (15-20
      minutes at baseline, end of study week 1, end of study week 2, and 3-month follow-up).

      Staff training and supervision on these and other project-specific clinical measures will be
      coordinated and supervised by senior research study personnel using standardized methods to
      maintain reliability over time. This portion of the assessment is estimated to take
      approximately 1.5 hours to 2 hours.

      F. Procedure:

      Following these assessments, a total of 26 eligible subjects from the UCLA IOP will be
      randomized by a computer-generated program in the UCLA research pharmacy in a double-blinded
      fashion to receive either eight-sessions of DCS augmented exposure plus response prevention
      (ERP +DCS) treatment (four times per week for 2 weeks) or eight sessions of placebo and ERP
      (ERP+PBO) for the same time period. All study staff and families have no knowledge of whether
      the individual youngsters are receiving placebo or DCS. All subjects will be clinically
      assessed after the first and second study weeks of treatment and again 12 weeks later.
      Additionally, there will be brief assessments (CY-BOCS and CGI measures) for the end of study
      weeks 4, 6, and 10. Parents will also participate in the child's clinical assessment, and
      fill out self-reports, to better help the research team understand the child's functioning.
      Please see attached table of procedures for overview.
    
  