
    
      Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the commonest cause of blindness worldwide. Its
      prevalence increases with age, being relatively rare under 60 years and reaching its peak
      incidence in those older than 80 years. AMD principally affects central vision, which is
      responsible for the ability to see fine detail and the disease rapidly destroys the ability
      to read normal print, recognise faces, drive, and watch television. It can therefore have a
      profound effect on quality of life.

      There are two main forms of AMD; the dry form, in which there is slow degeneration of the
      cells responsible for sight, resulting in gradual visual loss; and the wet form
      (neovascular), which occurs when abnormal blood vessels (choroidal neovascularisation) grow
      under the retina, the part of the eye which is responsible for sensing light, like the film
      of a camera. These new blood vessels have weak walls leading to leakage of fluid (oedema),
      and sometimes significant amounts of bleeding (submacular haemorrhage - SMH). These rapidly
      lead to central visual distortion and blurring. Although the dry form is commoner, the wet
      form more commonly results in profound central visual loss and is responsible for the
      majority of cases that ultimately require blind registration.

      The current best treatment ('gold-standard') for wet AMD is the drug ranibizumab (Lucentis®),
      which aims to shrink and destroy the abnormal blood vessels responsible for the visual
      symptoms. In several trials ranibizumab has been shown to improve vision in patients with wet
      AMD.

      It is not uncommon for patients with wet AMD to develop SMH, which when it occurs,
      significantly reduces the patient's visual prognosis. SMH is thought to have a number of
      toxic consequences on the retinal function.

      This study investigates the use of two drugs: tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), a
      'clot-buster' drug used to treat stroke, which is designed to dissolve the clot over the
      central retina (macula); and perfluoropropane (C3F8), a gas commonly used in retinal surgery,
      which is designed to displace the clot away from the macula.

      This study is a randomized, double-masked, clinical trial with a recruitment target of 55
      people with SMH and wet AMD. Participants will be allocated to one of four groups; a control
      group receiving none of the above drugs; one group receiving only tPA; one group receiving
      only C3F8; and one group receiving both. All patients will receive the 'gold-standard'
      treatment of ranibizumab for their underlying wet AMD. We aim to determine if tPA and/or C3F8
      produce a visual outcome that is superior to standard care, with a favourable safety profile.
      We will also measure the size of the blood clot and scarring using computer analysis of
      macula photographs.
    
  