
    
      Physical inactivity is a common issue amongst breast cancer patients. Previous studies have
      shown that physical activity can be beneficiary to both the cancer outcomes and the quality
      of life.

      However, most comparable studies had western populations or included some participants of
      Asian descent at best. Given the growing importance of effective and efficient follow-up care
      [1] and the lack of research on physical activity and sleep quality in relation to the
      Quality of Life (QoL) of cancer patients in Asian countries, the investigators aim to monitor
      the physical activity, sleep quality and subjective QoL of Taiwanese breast- and prostate
      cancer patients. Hence the investigators' main research question is: "Does physical and/or
      sleep activity affect the quality of life of (Taiwanese) breast and prostate cancer
      patients?". If this would be the case, the results might cover the bases for an intervention
      study aimed at improving physical and/or sleep quality in these cancer patients.

      This study focuses on whether or not physical activity and sleep quality correlate with the
      health of prostate and breast cancer patients. The activity data will be acquired using
      wearable actigraphy devices, which the subjects will wear for the duration of seven days. The
      sleep quality will be measured using a combination of actigraphy and the mandarin version of
      the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). By using this combination, the investigators will
      not only measure the objective physical activity while the patient is asleep, but also the
      subjective sleep quality. The questionnaire will also function as control data for the
      accuracy of the actigraphy device.

      Lastly, the quality of life will be measured using the European Organization for the Research
      and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30). This will provide
      an insight in the quality of life of the subjects, which will enable the investigators to
      draw a conclusion whether or not physical activity and sleep quality are related to the
      quality of life.

      This study will recruit approximately 30 breast or prostate cancer patients. The participants
      will wear a wearable actigraphy device for 7 consecutive days, which will provide accurate
      and objective movement and sleep data. This data is linked to a unique ID, which will be
      noted in the participant's case report. This case report also contains the participant's
      information and answers to the questionnaires.

      To retrieve results from the dataset, the data analysis will be divided in two parts:
      correlation between sleep quality and the Quality of Life, and between physical activity and
      the Quality of Life. Before commencing with the analysis itself, the data will be checked for
      outliers and missing data.
    
  