
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder of aging. Its
      cause is unknown. Current evidence supports a stress-diathesis model of pathogenesis whereby
      some yet-to-be identified environmental trigger conspires with a permissive genetic
      background to initiate the disease process. Based on neuropathological observations in other
      neurodegenerative diseases, such as chronic traumatic encephalopathy where pathological
      protein aggregates form in close association with damaged blood vessels, investigators have
      hypothesized that the environmental trigger resides in the bloodstream. As a corollary of
      this hypothesis, investigators propose that the PD pathological process begins in the brain
      of affected individuals only after disruption of the blood brain barrier (BBB), thereby
      allowing access of the inciting agent to nigrostriatal axon terminals in the neostriatum.
      This forms the foundation for the investigators' hypothesis that the BBB in the neostriatum
      of PD patients is disrupted. Indeed, in a post-mortem study, investigators demonstrated
      histopathological evidence for significant striatal BBB disruption in sections of striatum
      from PD subjects relative to age-matched controls. Critics of this study indicate that
      post-mortem effects may result in artefactual disruption of the BBB, calling into question
      the validity and relevance of this potentially important finding to PD pathogenesis and
      progression. Therefore, investigators are performing this imaging study of live PD patients
      as a follow-up of their convincing post-mortem study to definitively establish whether BBB
      dysfunction is a feature of PD.

      The neostriatal BBB is dysfunctional in PD patients relative to controls and this can be
      demonstrated by significantly increased parenchymal enhancement on magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI).

      The results of these studies could have important implications for the understanding of PD
      pathogenesis. There is emerging evidence that the key pathogenetic event in PD pathogenesis,
      aggregation of alpha-synuclein, begins within the axon terminals of neurons. The neurons most
      severely affected in PD reside in the substantia nigra and project to the neostriatum.
      Demonstrating disruption of the BBB in the PD striatum would render nigrostriatal axon
      terminals susceptible to a blood-borne disease trigger and allow researchers to generate
      hypotheses regarding the identity of this trigger. Immune/inflammatory candidates are
      particularly attractive in this regard. The results this study may also have therapeutic
      implications. For example, if alpha-synuclein disaggregating agents achieve therapeutic
      utility in the coming years, our studies may indicate that such agents may be capable of
      accessing nigrostriatal axon terminals without requiring pharmaceutical or mechanical
      disruption of the BBB.
    
  