
    
      The study consisted of clinical dental examinations performed at the time of DGA and at the
      six-month recall, along with OHRQoL questionnaires and data drawn from the patients' files.

        1. OHRQoL will be assessed with the early childhood oral health impact scale (ECHOIS) that
           is composed of items which assess the effect of oral health condition on different
           aspects of life of the patient .

        2. Children with Mental special health care needs will be recruited from G.A unit in
           department of pediatric dentistry , faculty of oral and dental medicine cairo
           university.

        3. Data will be collected for each of the study participants included age, gender ,Medical
           (type of disability and history of disability) , dental histories and clinical findings
           were correlated accordingly together with determining the type of disability,
           anthropometric measures (HT, WT,BMI) that will be measured at baseline and after 3 to 6
           months from dental treatment under general anesthesia.

        4. The parent or the care giver will be taken as a surrogate measure that will
           self-complete (ECOHIS) Before and after treatment with follow up after 3 & 6 months to
           assess and evaluate children's OHRQoL and anthropometric measures update.

        5. Each GA session included a comprehensive clinical dental examination and full dental
           rehabilitation. The Silness-Loe plaque index (PI) was used to assess oral hygiene
           status. That was measured in the four levels of distal facial, mesial-facial, facial,
           and lingual of first molars, first premolar and central in each quadrant using mirror
           and probe.

        6. The plaque index was obtained by adding the figures of the four above-mentioned areas of
           each teeth and dividing it by 4 before recording it in the examination form

        7. Parents/ caregiver will be asked to consider the last 6 months when responding the
           questions After ttt , Examine effect of oral rehabilitation under GA and its effect on
           improving quality of life ( pain , eating problems, sleeping problems ,growth parameters
           as (Wt, Ht, BMI) and any postoperative complications as postoperative pain and pharynx
           discomfort or fever
    
  