
    
      The types of tumors in the medial mediastinal area were different. Thymoma, germ cell tumors,
      ectopic parathyroid tumors, and lymphoid tumors were in the anterior mediastinum. Bronchial
      cysts, pericardial cysts, and lymphomas were in the middle mediastinum. The principles of
      treatment for mediastinal tumor surgery must be both safe and radical. Radical resection is
      the dominant position in the treatment of mediastinal tumors, including traditional open
      surgery and thoracoscopic assisted minimally invasive surgery. At present, minimally invasive
      surgery for mediastinal tumor includes video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery via subxiphoid
      approach, left or right intercostal approach, trans-cervical approach and "Da Vinci" robotic
      system. Compared with conventional sternotomy, thoracoscopic assisted minimally invasive
      mediastinal tumor resection has clearer, multi-angle surgical vision, less trauma, less
      intraoperative blood loss, early postoperative extubation, and short postoperative hospital
      stay, postoperative recovery faster, less pain, fewer complications and meet the beauty needs
      and so on. Thoracoscopic assisted mediastinal thymectomy is currently one of the most
      commonly used surgical methods, but there are some deficiencies.

      Minimally invasive surgery through the subxiphoid approach can achieve a good surgical field
      of vision. Compared with the traditional transcostal VATS medial mediastinal tumor resection,
      the subxiphoid thoracoscopic surgery had obvious advantages: (1) The surgical field is fully
      exposed. For patients with myasthenia gravis, it is particularly necessary to clean bilateral
      mediastinal adipose tissue; (2) Without intercostal surgery, damage to intercostal nerves can
      be avoided, postoperative pain can be reduced, and quality of life can be improved; (3)
      Operation time, intraoperative blood loss, postoperative Extubation time is similar to VATS.
      Disadvantages are as follows: (1) If there is a large hemorrhage during surgery, an emergency
      transfer to open the chest is required. The injury is greater and the operation is more
      troublesome; (2) Anterior septal space is Smaller, surgical instruments are more likely to
      interfere with each other. But there is still lack of evidence to prove which is better.

      In this study, 100 patients with anterial and middle mediastinal tumors were selected as
      study subjects. 50 patients undergoing subxiphoid uniportal VATS were included in the
      observation group, and 50 patients undergoing intercostal uniportal VATS were included in the
      control group. The operation time, incision length, intraoperative blood loss, postoperative
      drainage time, postoperative drainage, hospitalization and hospitalization costs of the 2
      groups would be observed. The clinical efficacy and incidence of complications were compared
      between the 2 groups. After six months of follow-up, postoperative pain and postoperative
      quality of life were observed in the 2 groups.
    
  