
    
      BACKGROUND: Rotator cuff injury (RCI) occupy third place in the population among the
      musculoskeletal system pathologies (16%) after low back pain (25%) and knee pain (19%).
      Partial thickness RCI (PTRCI) is the sum of degenerative, overload and microtrauma processes
      and their incidence increases significantly with age (up to 30% over 60). One of the factors
      contributing to the injury is a negative collagen balance and slowed tendon metabolism in
      proportion to its blood supply disorders. Conservative treatment of PTRCI of degenerative
      origin is the first choice management, but there are no clear guidelines. External supply of
      collagen and PRP could potentially counteract these processes.

      AIM: Comparison of the effectiveness of three treatment concepts: collagen with PRP, PRP
      alone, collagen alone in the treatment of PTRCI.

      DESIGN: Randomized prospective trial without blinding SETTING: Open study for outpatients,
      single center study POPULATION: local population METHODS: Three groups of patients (each
      group 30 patients) with PTRCI confirmed by ultrasound (N=90). The assessment of the
      supraspinatus tendon (SSP) in standard position of internal rotation of the upper limb for
      ultrasound examination, assessment of the thickness of the RC in cross-section (mm). Each
      group treated by three ultrasound guided injections into the shoulder bursa every consecutive
      week: Group A - collagen (3 amp Collagen MD Shoulder) together with PRP (2ml); Group B -
      collagen alone (3 amp Collagen MD Shoulder); Group C - PRP alone. All patients were allowed
      to continue rehabilitation protocol. Primary control tools: NRS, QuickDash, EQ-5D-5L in
      control points: IA (initial assessment), 6, 12 and 24 weeks after last injection. Secondary
      control tools: percentage of patients where the RC continuity were preserved and percentage
      of patients who had ultrasonographic signs of RC regeneration (crossection width increase,
      improvement of echogenicity) during the observation period between W0 and 24 weeks.
    
  