
    
      The National Comorbidity Survey suggests a lifetime prevalence of 17% and 1-year prevalence
      of 10% for major depression. Within primary care, approximately 10-30% of patients present
      with a depressive disorder. Over the past decade, primary care physicians have emerged as the
      predominant mental health care providers insofar as diagnosing and treating depression, with
      the majority of patients with mood disorders receiving treatment in a primary care setting.

      Comprehensive 'Collaborative Care' models of depression management in primary care
      significantly improve depression outcomes and health-related quality of life. Core features
      of these programs include use of a trained depression care manager to closely coordinate with
      primary care clinicians, provision of specific treatment recommendations/guidelines, patient
      education, appropriate follow-up by the depression care manager to ensure adequate treatment,
      as-needed access to psychiatrists for patients with more complex presentations, and,
      occasionally, on-site psychotherapy. For example, the IMPACT study of primary care patients
      with late-life depression found that a Collaborative Care program doubled the effectiveness
      of depression treatment and improved functional outcomes at 3 months, 6 months and 1 year
      compared to usual care. The RESPECT-D phone-based Collaborative Care program similarly had
      increases at 3 and 6 months in depression response, remission, and satisfaction with care,
      compared to usual care.

      Nonetheless, evidence based Collaborative Care leaves room for improvement. In both IMPACT
      and RESPECT-D, 40% to 50% of intervention participants failed to achieve a clinically
      meaningful depression treatment effect. Evidence based Collaborative Care models do not
      currently weave in the use of web-based or mobile technologies. These technologies offer
      unique features that may make collaborative depression care more effective. The enhanced
      digital health coaching program for depressive symptoms is a web-based tool featuring video,
      text and graphics which provides patients with education, self-management techniques,
      tailored feedback, and tools for tracking treatment progress. Incorporating a digital health
      coaching program for depressive symptoms into the flow of collaborative depression care and
      testing its impact is an important next step for the field.

      The RESPECT-D (Re-engineering Systems of Primary Care Treatment of Depression) intervention
      is a systematic approach to the assessment and management of depression by the primary care
      provider, with a centrally based care manager providing telephone support for patients. The
      essential components of this Collaborative Care model include prepared PCPs and practices,
      the Care Manager, and a Behavioral Health specialist all working in partnership with the
      patient.

      RESPECT-D-E (Enhanced) intervention is Collaborative Care depression treatment in primary
      care including care manager (the elements of RESPECT-D) plus patient access to on-line
      coaching, education, and symptom, side effect and medication adherence tracking which is
      automatically fed back to the Care Manager.

      The primary objective of this project is to compare the efficacy of an enhanced Collaborative
      Care model for depression (RESPECT-D-E) to the standard model (RESPECT-D) in primary care
      patients with minor and major depression and dysthymic disorder .

      The RESEPCT-D-E trial is a randomized, 12-week prospective 2-arm, comparative clinical
      effectiveness study. Primary care patients (N=150) with major or minor depressive disorder,
      or dysthymia and currently taking antidepressant medication will be randomly assigned to
      either Collaborative Care treatment for depression (RESPECT-D) or RESPECT-D plus a digital
      health coaching program for depressive symptoms intervention (RESPECT-D-E). Patients will be
      assessed at baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks, and 12 weeks using self-report and clinician
      -administered rating scales including the Hopkins Symptom Checklist and Hamilton Depression
      Rating Scale. Intervention participants will receive access to the online depression coach as
      well as the elements of standard Collaborative Care (RESPECT-D). The primary objectives are:
      reduction in depressive symptoms, improvement in health related quality of life and
      improvement in adherence to treatment regimen.

      The secondary objectives of the RESPECT-D-E trial are to: Evaluate the program impact on
      overall health, work productivity, and medical costs; Assess the usability of the enhanced
      digital health coaching program for depressive symptoms tool; Assess the program's impact on
      overall satisfaction with care.

      Hypotheses: Compared to RESPECT-D at 12 weeks, participants randomized to RESPECT-D-E will
      demonstrate: H1.1a: a greater reduction in depressive symptoms, as measured by the clinician
      administered Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D); H1.1b: a greater reduction in
      depressive symptoms, as measured by the self-report Hopkins Symptom Checklist Depression
      Scale (HSCL-20); H1.1c: a greater improvement in health related quality of life, as measured
      by the Mental Component Summary score from the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form (SF-36);
      H1.1d: a greater satisfaction with quality of depression care received.

      Hypothesis 1.2: Compared to RESPECT-D at 4, 8, and 12 weeks, participants randomized to
      RESPECT-D-E will demonstrate: H1.2a: more frequent contact with the depression care manager
      and primary care provider, as measured by depression care manager treatment logs and medical
      record review; H1.2b: greater adherence to their antidepressant regimen, as measured by
      participant self-report; H1.2c: greater exposure to depression counseling, as measured by
      participant self-report.
    
  