
    
      Participants: Males and females aging between 25 and 50 years referred from orthopedic clinic
      with chronic neck pain were included in the study. Recruitment extends through the time
      period extending from April 2016- April 2017) by notices to orthopedics department with
      measures of inclusion and exclusion. Data is being collected at Dammam Medical Complex.

      Sample: 34 participants with non-specific chronic neck pain (≥ 3 months)

      Procedures:

      Patients were screened for eligibility through inclusion and exclusion criteria. Consent
      forms were discussed thoroughly by the researcher to the patient and signed before the start
      of the study. Assessment will include the following: Detailed subjective information, and the
      data collection sheet demographic data (e.g., name, age, sex and side of scapular dyskinesia)
      (Appendix 5). Dyskinesia was identified using the Scapular Dyskinesis Test with 5 repetitions
      of active shoulder flexion and abduction, bilaterally, while holding a weight with either
      hand (1.4 kg for patients weighing less than 68.1 kg and 2.3 kg for patients weighing more
      than 68.1 kg). This test has good reliability and validity (McClure, Tate et al. 2009, Tate,
      McClure et al. 2009). Neck range of motion as well as active, passive and accessory movements
      were all assessed. Measurements were obtained three times. First time, at baseline from the
      patient interview and recorded on a data collection sheet and the second one was taken after
      completion of 3 sessions of treatment. The last measurement was taken at the end of all
      sessions.

      Patients were assigned with random allocation to one of 2 groups using a computer-generated
      sequence of numbers by an independent therapist. The groups are: 1) Manual therapy (MWM) +
      tape (postural correction of scapular anterior tilt) and 2) Control (conventional treatment +
      tape (postural correction of scapular anterior tilt) groups. The manual therapy intervention
      was of grade III mobilizations with movement, performed by a certified Mulligan practitioner,
      in sitting for 6-10 repetitions for 3 sets. Home exercises including cervical retraction,
      scapular retraction, deep neck flexors strengthening and active range of motion exercises of
      neck in all directions were all done during the session and at home with 10 seconds hold for
      10 repetitions for 5 times a day and were added in the same sequence in both groups. When the
      experimental group showed significantly improved results, some patients in the control group
      receive 2 extra sessions after all study measurements were obtained. Frequency of the
      sessions was carried out as 3 sessions/ week/ 30-60 minutes (Miller, Gross et al. 2010).

      Manual Therapy Technique: The patient was sitting in a good relaxed posture with the
      therapist standing at the opposite side of the affected scapula. Reaching across the trunk,
      the palm of the left hand was over the clavicle with the right hand controlling the scapular
      glide. Both hands applied corrective gliding force (grade III) to reposition the scapula to
      the optimal position using an adduction force along with posterior and external rotations of
      the scapula. While maintaining this position, the subject was asked to move his neck through
      the restricted movement point of pain onset and return to starting point. When the technique
      was indicated, the patient was able to achieve a considerably greater range without pain.
      When needed, further modifications of the humeral head repositioning could be introduced. MWM
      were repeated 6-10 times before reassessing the movement independent of scapular
      repositioning. If the pain improved, further 3 sets of 6-10 repetitions were carried out.

      Taping technique to correct anterior scapular tilt: A water-resistant active, elastic and
      adhesive kinesiotape was used I this study. An I-shaped elastic tape was applied over the
      muscle belly of the upper Trapezius (UT). The tape started with its anchor fixed anteriorly
      at the coracoid process and travelled posteriorly over the belly of upper Trapezius fibers
      and along the course of its lower fibers to get its final anchor at the thoracic spine.
    
  