
    
      Background: For 40 years, pharmacologic prevention of stress ulcer-related gastrointestinal
      (GI) bleeding with acid suppression has been the standard of care for mechanically ventilated
      critically ill patients. Worldwide, proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are more commonly used than
      histamine-2-receptor antagonists. Pantoprazole is the dominant PPI prescribed in the ICU.
      However, recent observational studies and a recent network meta-analysis suggest that PPIs
      increase the risk of ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) and Clostridium difficile
      infection (CDI). Further, the incidence of bleeding from stress ulceration appears to be
      lower than in the past, perhaps related to earlier resuscitation and enteral nutrition. Given
      the apparent decline in GI bleeding, and concern about infectious complications, a large
      randomized trial is needed to test the efficacy and safety of withholding PPIs in the ICU. We
      successfully completed the 91-patient REVISE Pilot Trial in Canada, Australia and Saudi
      Arabia, demonstrating a high consent rate (77.8%); recruitment rate (2.6
      patients/month/center); and protocol adherence (96.8%), thereby establishing the feasibility
      of a larger trial.

      Objectives of the REVISE Trial: To determine, among mechanically ventilated patients, the
      effect of withholding (placebo) vs administering (active study drug) pantoprazole on
      clinically important upper GI bleeding, VAP, CDI, acute kidney injury, and mortality.

      Methods: We will include ICU patients >18 years old who have an anticipated duration of
      mechanical ventilation of ≥48 hours. Exclusion criteria are acute or recent GI bleeding, dual
      antiplatelet therapy, combined antiplatelet and anticoagulant therapy, hopeless prognosis or
      intent to withdraw advanced life support, and previous enrolment in this or a confounding
      trial. Patients will be randomized in a fixed 1:1 allocation, stratified by center and
      pre-ICU acid suppression ('start or no start' strata, and 'continue or discontinue' strata).
      Research Coordinators will obtain informed consent using a deferred or a priori consent
      model. Study Pharmacists will obtain concealed allocation from the REVISE website; all
      research team and clinical team members, patients and families will be blinded. Patients will
      receive pantoprazole 40 mg or identical placebo intravenously daily while in ICU up to 60
      days. Patients will receive the trial intervention from the first administration until 60
      days or: 1) successful discontinuation of mechanical ventilation for >48 hours; 2)
      development of clinically important GI bleeding, or 3) death in ICU. Analyses will be by
      intention-to-treat and per protocol. The sample size is based on the logic of a
      non-inferiority trial; if the absolute increase in bleeding as a result of withholding
      pantoprazole is sufficiently low (in this case, 1.5% or less), we will conclude that
      withholding a PPI is non-inferior to administering a PPI. This non-inferiority threshold was
      selected on the basis that avoiding the risk of VAP and CDI with pantoprazole would warrant
      accepting an absolute increase in bleeding of up to 1.5%. REVISE will enrol 4,800 patients,
      conducted in collaboration with the Canadian Critical Care Trials Group, the Australian and
      New Zealand Intensive Care Society Critical Care Trials Group, other consortia and
      collaborators under the auspices of the International Forum for Acute Care Trialists.

      Ethical Imperative: Many factors converge to underscore the ethical imperative for this
      trial: critical care has evolved, epidemiology may have changed, the risk:benefit and
      cost:benefit ratios of prophylaxis have shifted, and our research standards have improved.
      Thus, stress ulcer prophylaxis may need to be REVISED.

      Relevance: Most mechanically ventilated patients around the world receive daily stress ulcer
      prophylaxis, although international variation exists such that some centers do not use any.
      Many of the RCTs of stress ulcer prophylaxis were conducted 10-30 years ago, several are at
      moderate or high risk of bias, and cointerventions in those trials do not reflect current
      ancillary critical care management. Today, infectious complications of PPIs have emerged as
      potentially more common and serious than upper GI bleeding. The number needed to prophylax to
      prevent 1 GI bleed and the cost per GI bleed averted may be very high; furthermore, the
      number needed to harm to cause 1 episode of VAP or CDI may be low. Recent practice guidelines
      are conflicting. The apparent decline in the incidence of upper GI bleeding, and doubts about
      the effectiveness and safety of PPIs, demand re- examining universal prophylaxis for possible
      de-adoption. Aligned with the 'Choosing Wisely' Campaign, REVISE and the companion economic
      evaluation (E-REVISE) will be incorporated into guidelines to inform global practice.
    
  