
    
      This study is part of workpackage 4 of the Braintrain project (EU-FP7 n°602186), which
      responds to a huge clinical need for mechanism-driven therapies in psychiatry. Advances in
      neuroimaging and other neuroscience techniques have produced a wealth of information about
      the neural networks that can contribute to these disorders and their treatment (Linden,
      2012). This information can now be harnessed to pinpoint both dysfunction and potential
      compensatory mechanisms in individual patients. It is important for the choice of
      neuroimaging technique that major nodes of such disordered networks are in deep regions of
      the brain such as subcortical nuclei (amygdala and nucleus accumbens) and/or midline cortical
      regions (medial prefrontal cortex, subgenual cingulate cortex, retrosplenial cortex), which
      are very difficult to probe via EEG alone. Through the development of fMRI-based NF
      (henceforth NF) techniques over the last decade by collaboration of members of this
      consortium (Weiskopf et al., 2004a; Weiskopf et al., 2004b), it has become a realistic
      proposition to train patients in the self-regulation of these networks and thus obtain
      clinical benefits (deCharms, 2007). In addition to this therapeutic option, NF can also take
      the investigation of the neural mechanisms of mental disorders to a new level because it
      allows the investigators to establish causal relationships by changing regional activity and
      assessing effects on behaviour and mental states in real-time.

      In the current study, the investigators aim to provide proof of concept for using NF with
      adolescents with varying anxiety levels aged 14-17 years. Anxiety disorders are common,
      having an estimated lifetime prevalence of 10-25%, and often begin in late childhood/early
      adolescence. There are currently no effective prevention programmes and current treatments
      yield variable outcomes. Improving our understanding of the mechanisms by which anxiety
      disorders first develop can inform the design of effective and targeted interventions for
      prevention. The transition to adolescence may mark one such developmentally-sensitive
      juncture for the onset of lifelong persistent anxiety problems, where new interventions such
      as NF may be particularly effective (Cohen Kadosh et al., 2013). Particularly, it has been
      suggested that increased emotionality and ongoing development in the neuro-cognitive bases of
      emotion regulation abilities during adolescence may be one of the factors contributing to the
      increased risk of anxiety disorders in this age group (Haller et al., in press).

      This study builds on previous work by the investigators, which has established the
      suitability of using NF with paediatric populations (Cohen Kadosh et al., in preparation).
      Specifically, here, the investigators will use NF to train 50 adolescent girls with varying
      anxiety levels to increase effective connectivity in the neural networks involved in emotion
      regulation abilities (Cohen Kadosh et al., in preparation; Kohn et al., 2014; Ruiz et al.,
      2013). The rationale for this approach is that by improving the information flow in these
      brain regions, emotion regulation abilities will also improve. Moreover, the investigators
      hope to be able to show that in turn, improvements in emotion regulation abilities will
      affect overall anxiety levels. Last, by recruiting participants across a wide range of
      anxiety levels, the investigators will also be able to assess variations in regulation
      success as a function of individual anxiety levels.
    
  