
    
      METHODOLOGY: Patients of acute pancreatitis will be screened as per inclusion/exclusion
      criteria and patients with first episode of acute pancreatitis who meet the ATLANTA
      definition, will be graded for severity as per Modified Marshall criteria. Control group for
      the study will include nondiabetic /non prediabetic volunteers who come to OPD for master
      health check up or who are being suspected to have functional syndromes like functional
      dyspepsia or irritable bowel syndrome.The study will be a prospective cohort study in which
      initial recruitment will be for 4 months from Feb 2019 to May 2019, & recruited patients will
      be followed for a period of 1 year each from the period of recruitment, and as such the study
      is expected to complete by May 2020. On admission in addition to routine blood investigations
      , specific investigations for acute pancreatitis will be done(complete details in proforma)
      which include serum amylase ,serum lipase, USG abdomen, CECT abdomen(after 72hrs of onset of
      acute pancreatitis) will be done to assess for pancreatic necrosis. Blood sugar (fasting,
      postprandial) & HBA1c will be done on admission to evaluate the diabetic status of the
      patient. C peptide and Fasting insulin levels which will help assess the insulin resistance
      will be done at onset only in these patients .Control group will be assessed clinically and
      only clinically relevant investigations in addition to blood sugar (fasting, postprandial) &
      HBA1c will be done at initiation & at 6months & 1 year of follow up(follow up will be via
      telephonic communication or if possible in person) On follow up at 2months , 6months & 12
      months patients will be reassessed either in person (if possible) or via telephonic
      communication for endocrine dysfunction , which will be assessed by simple and routine tests
      as mentioned ( Blood sugar-fasting, postprandial & HbA1c).Controls will be clinically
      assessed and if clinically stable and asymptomatic will be assessed for diabetic status only
      with Blood sugar (fasting, postprandial) & HBA1c at initiation & subsequently at 6 months and
      1 year end.

      Statistical analysis :Data will be collected using a structured study proforma. Data will be
      put in MS EXCEL for further analysis .Results will be expressed as mean(SD), median (IQR) for
      continuous variables and percentage for categorical variables etc. Appropriate parametric and
      non parametric will be applied. SPSS (21st version) will be used for statistical analyses.

      Primary outcome…. To estimate incidence of endocrinopathy (diabetes & prediabetes)among Acute
      Pancreatitis patients.
    
  