
    
      Study Overview:

      The study population will comprise 150 women with a BI-RAD 5 or 6 finding on recent imaging
      who are scheduled for contrast enhanced breast MRI. Recruitment will be from the pool of
      patients scheduled for an MRI in the Department of Radiology at Mayo Clinic Rochester. All
      patients will have a PEM study within 5 business days of the clinically indicated MRI.
      Subjects must meet the following eligibility criteria:

        1. Recent imaging study (mammogram, tomosynthesis, MBI or ultrasound) interpreted as highly
           suggestive of malignancy or a known biopsy proven malignancy [Breast Imaging Reporting
           and Data System (BI-RADS) Category 5 or 6]

        2. Scheduled to undergo or has recently undergone a contrast-enhanced breast MRI

        3. Age 25 or older

      The interpretation will be performed by different study radiologists blinded to the results
      of the other study. Prior breast imaging studies (mammography, tomosynthesis, MBI and
      ultrasound) and medical record will be available to the interpreting physician. Following the
      separate interpretations, an integrated interpretation of the MRI and PEM images will be
      performed to match any lesions seen and determine final clinical management of the patient.

      Reference standard will be surgical pathology or biopsy. For findings that were not resolved
      through biopsy or surgery, follow up data, including any imaging and / or biopsies performed
      in the 365 day period following study entry (date of the study PEM) will be collected through
      medical record review (and patient interview for those who do not return for further clinical
      management).

      The primary analysis is to compare the PEM diagnostic yield to the MRI diagnostic yield,
      which is considered the standard for this trial. The primary analysis will use the observed
      MRI diagnostic yield as the control value.

      If the 95% Confidence Interval (CI) for the PEM diagnostic yield lies entirely below the MRI
      diagnostic yield value, PEM will be deemed inferior to MRI for detecting breast cancer in
      this patient population. If the 95% CI for the PEM diagnostic yield contains the MRI
      diagnostic yield value, PEM will be deemed equivalent to MRI for detecting breast cancer.
    
  