
    
      Rationale:

      Dermatological side effects, such as papulopustular eruption, xerosis, pruritus, periungual
      inflammation, mucosal-, and hair abnormalities, and edema occur in up to 90% of patients
      during treatment with epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors (EGFRI). Patients are
      hindered in their daily activities and cannot maintain privacy about their illness because of
      the prominent side effects. The aesthetic discomfort, which is frequently associated with
      itching or painful skin or nails can lead to a decreased health related quality of life
      (HRQoL) and to dose reduction or discontinuation of anticancer treatment.

      Patients with dermatological side effects have also an increased risk for cutaneous
      infections (at least 38%) which can complicate dermatological side effects.

      At present, evidence of the effectiveness of the management options for dermatological side
      effects is lacking, and the effect of the dermatological side effects on HRQoL and adherence
      remains poorly understood.

      Dexpanthenol cream (Bepanthen®, Bayer) has been used extensively to ameliorate acute
      radiation induced skin toxicity, diaper dermatitis, irritant hand dermatitis, graft-donor
      site wound healing and burn patients. The hypothesis is that its skin healing possibilities
      decreases this kind of side effects.

      Study design:

      Multicenter, two-arm randomized, double blind, prospective parallel group design, phase III
      study

      Study population:

      Each patient starting for the first time with EGFRI anticancer therapy which can cause
      papulopustular eruption (cetuximab, panitumumab, erlotinib, gefitinib, lapatinib, or other),
      will be included.

      Intervention:

      80 patients will receive for the first 6 weeks of treatment Bepanthen cream, 80 patients
      Cetomacrogol cream to apply twice daily. Using FACT-EGFRI, a dermatology-specific
      questionnaire, this study examines the effect of these side effects on three domains of HRQoL
      - symptoms, emotions, and functioning. Severity of dermatological side effects will be
      assessed using the NCI-CTCAE v4.0. Correlation of dermatology HRQoL scores with NCI-CTCAE
      grade, sex, age, type of EGFRI, and cancer type will be conducted.
    
  