
    
      The present study by the German AML Cooperative Group has been designed in order to
      investigate the effects of AML typical therapeutic strategies for AML and related diseases.
      Thus, the entry criteria are age starting from 16 years with no upper age limit, de novo AML
      or AML secondary to chemotherapy or radiotherapy of another disease or myelodysplasia subtype
      RAEB with bone marrow blasts greater than 10 %. All randomization is stratified according to
      karyotype favorable / intermediate / unfavorable. Additional stratification is according to
      LDH </>= 700 U and age </>= 60 Y. Standard treatment is (A) double induction with TAD and
      HAM, consolidation with TAD and maintenance treatment with monthly AD-AT-AC-AT -, rotatingly.
      Experimental modifications to be compared with stan-dard treatment are (B) double induction
      with HAM-HAM, (C) multiple course G-CSF before and during chemotherapy courses and (D)
      instead of maintenance treatment myeloablative consolidation with Bu/Cy and autologous blood
      stem cell transplantation. Intent to treat conditions are guaranteed by randomization before
      induction treatment starts. In order to evaluate the effect of every single modification
      randomization to (C) is equally distributed to the patients in treatment arms (A) and (B)
      which is also true for the randomization to (D) (balanced randomization). Similarly balanced
      between treatment arms are the patients according to diagnosis, age and risk factors like
      serum LDH and karyotype. In order to adapt treatment intensity to age patients of 60 years
      and older receive the second induction course only in case of 5 % or more residual bone
      marrow blasts. In addition, the AraC dose in HAM is reduced to 1 instead of 3 g/sqm in this
      age group. Furthermore, there is no treatment arm including stem cell transplantation in
      patients of 60+ years. Pri-mary endpoint to compare the therapeutic strategies is event-free
      survival from treatment start (A, B, C) and from achievement of remission (D), respectively.

      By this design the AMLCG 2000 trial can contribute relevant experiences on optimum
      therapeutic strategies for the biological subgroups of de novo AML, secondary AML and MDS.
      Furthermore, new biological subgroups and their significance related to treatment strategies
      can be defined.
    
  