
    
      The prevalence of metabolic syndrome (MetS) and cardiovascular disease is expected to rise
      along with the global obesity epidemic. MetS is a cluster of clinical risk factors, including
      abdominal (visceral) obesity, hypertension, elevated serum triglycerides, low serum
      high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and hyperglycaemia.The MetS for example, significantly
      decreases the life expectancy of individuals with morbid obesity and increases the disease
      burden and economic costs associated with healthcare. In this sense, more recently, there was
      reported that body mass index (BMI) and fat distribution showed higher associations with
      inflammation, fat indices, and more prevalence of MetS in morbidly obese subjects, claiming
      for an early prevention of the MetS in the morbid obese state.

      Exercise training has proven to be effective in inducing a clinically significant weight loss
      and reducing cardiovascular risk. Exercise have reported to be associated with increased
      muscle mass, decreased body fat, and improved metabolic profile (i.e., improved glucose
      control and lipid levels). In addition, supervised RT improved muscle strength and functional
      capacity in patients with obesity undergoing bariatric surgery. However, although RT has been
      widely studied in obesity, there is little information in the morbid obesity. On the other
      hand, there is poor knowledge similarly, about the interindividual variability to exercise
      training in terms of responders and non-responders (NR). Thus, considering the poor knowledge
      about the MetS prevention in morbid obese patients, as well as the little information about
      Responders and Non-Responders for improving MetS outcomes, the aim of this study will be
      determine the effects of a RT program on cardio-metabolic outcomes of MetS in patients with
      morbid obesity. A second aim will be report the prevalence of non-responders in terms of the
      effects of resistance training on MetS markers and other health-related variables.
    
  