
    
      Schizoaffective disorder is a chronic illness and generally requires life-long treatment. To
      date however, no physical therapy has been evaluated in the maintenance treatment of
      schizoaffective disorder. This is a randomized (study drug assigned by chance), double-blind
      (neither physician nor patient knows the name of the assigned drug), medication-controlled,
      parallel-group, multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of repetitive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation(rTMS), as monotherapy or as an adjunct to antipsychotic,
      relative to antipsychotic drugs in delaying the time to relapse in patients with
      schizoaffective disorder. Patients with acute symptoms of schizoaffective disorder will be
      enrolled. The study will consist of 4 periods: an up to 7 days screening/tolerability period,
      a 6-week open-label flexible dose lead-in period, a 6-week open-label fixed dose
      stabilization period, and a 12 months double-blind relapse prevention period. Patients
      without previous exposure to rTMS will be given 4 to 6 days of rTMS for tolerability testing.
      Patients can continue their current antipsychotic drugs through Day-1 (the day before the
      start of the study period). During the open-label periods, all patients will be treated with
      Risperidone. Patients who meet pre-determined stabilization criteria will be eligible to
      enter the double-blind relapse prevention period and will be randomly assigned to either
      receive rTMS or rTMS+Risperidone treatment. Efficacy will be evaluated during the study using
      a relapse assessment(time between subject randomization to treatment and the first occurrence
      of a relapse during the Relapse Prevention Period). Secondary Outcome Measures:Secondary
      Outcome Measures: Symptom change as measured by the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale
      (PANSS) total and PANSS factor scores; Illness severity change as measured by Clinical Global
      Impression of Severity for depression(CGI-S-DEP); Change in subject functioning using the
      Personal and Social Performance Scale; Change in subject medication satisfaction using the
      Medication Satisfaction Questionnaire (MSQ). Safety will be assessed throughout the study by
      monitoring of adverse events, clinical laboratory tests, electrocardiograms (ECGs), vital
      sign measurements (temperature, pulse, and blood pressure), and weight. A 10 milliliter
      pharmacogenomic blood sample (sample for DNA research) will be collected from patients who
      give separate written informed consent for this part of the study.
    
  