
    
      Thumb (CMC) osteoarthritis is treated conservatively with splinting. The objectives of
      splinting the CMC joint include stabilizing the joint, reducing pain symptoms as well as
      enhancing performance of everyday activities. There is limited evidence to support the
      effectiveness of splinting in reducing pain and very little evidence to support the
      effectiveness of thumb splints to enhance function.

      This CMC splint comparison study is a cross-over community based study of the effect of two
      different types of CMC stabilizing splints on patients with thumb OA. The objectives include
      measuring clients' OA symptoms and function using the Australian Canadian Osteoarthritis Hand
      Index (AUSCAN-HI 3.1), grip strength, pinch strength and client's personal splint preference
      on 4 separate occasions in order to compare the two thumb splints. The two splints differ in
      material and design. One splint is softer and incorporates more of the hand. The evidence
      gathered will support the effectiveness of specific splint design. It will also provide best
      practice guidelines for splint selection in clients with CMC OA.

      We are using a one group own control cross-over design where outcome measures will be taken
      at week 1, week 4, week 5 and week 9. Each client will wear both splints for a 4 week period
      separated by a 1 week wash out period.

      Procedure:

      First appointment: At the initial visit the client will be randomly assigned to splint order.
      The client will complete the AUSCAN-HI 3.1, and a grip and pinch strength measurement. The
      first CMC stabilizing splint will be fabricated and fitted as per normal splinting treatment
      for clients with CMC OA. The client will be instructed how to wear and care for their splint.
      General instructions will include wearing the splint for symptomatic use as well as heavy
      activities.

      Second visit: The second visit will take place 4 weeks after the first unless the client
      needs to come in earlier for a splint adjustment. At this time the AUSCAN-HI 3.1 will be
      administered again. Grip and pinch strength will also be re-measured.

      Third visit: After a one week wash-out period where the client does not wear any splint, they
      will attend the OT Outpatient department and complete the AUSCAN-HI 3.1, perform a grip and
      pinch strength measurement. They will be provided with the second CMC stabilizing splint and
      instructed in a wearing regime and the care of it.

      Fourth visit: This will take place at approximately 9 weeks, 4 weeks after wearing the second
      splint. The AUSCAN-HI 3.1 will be completed for the last time as well as a grip and pinch
      strength measurement. The client will also be asked their personal splint preference at this
      time.

      Data will be collected and input into the computer.

      Note: The procedures for grip and pinch strength measurement will follow the guidelines set
      out in the ASHT Clinical Assessment Recommendations.

      Data Analysis: Data will be analyzed using ANOVA, to determine if there is a significant
      difference between the 2 splints for OA pain, function, grip strength and personal
      preference.
    
  