
    
      Participants will be asked to visit the Active Living Lab on 3 occasions. We expect each
      visit to take 30-60 minutes.

      At baseline, participants will meet with members of the research team to provide informed
      consent (ages 16+) or parent/guardian consent + participant assent (ages 13-15). Researchers
      will then record participants' baseline age, gender, height and weight. Participants will
      then be instructed to download the In The Moment iPhone application which will be used to
      measure smartphone use. Upon leaving the lab, all participants will be provided with an
      ActivPAL inclinometer to be worn on the leg, and a Fitbit Flex to be worn on the wrist for 7
      days to measure sedentary behaviour, physical activity and sleep.

      Following the week of baseline data collection, participants will return to the lab to
      complete a series of questionnaires focusing on self-reported sedentary behaviour
      (International Sedentary Assessment Tool, Sedentary Disorder Scale, Social Media Disorder
      Scale and SHAPES sedentary behaviour questionnaire), physical activity (International
      Physical Activity Questionnaire), sleep (Pittsburgh Sleep Index), food intake (SHAPES food
      frequency questionnaire) and mental health (Positive and Negative Affect Schedule and Center
      for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale). At this time participants will also be asked to
      write down the daily time spent using social media apps (this information can be found under
      Settings on their iPhone). After completing the questionnaires, participants will be told
      whether they are in the Intervention or Control groups.

      Participants in the intervention group will be asked to restrict their daily smartphone use
      by 50%, compared to the week of baseline testing. This will be achieved via the OurPact app,
      which allows the researchers to limit smartphone use to a specific amount of daily use for 7
      days (participants will be asked to download and install the app after being told they are in
      the Intervention group). Once participants have used their allotted daily smartphone time,
      entertainment apps will not function until the timer is reset the following day (the address
      book and calling functions are never restricted, so participants will continue to be able to
      make/receive phone calls, and access their address book at all times). Participants will also
      be asked to determine a nightly "bedtime", after which their smartphone will be able to
      make/receive calls, but no other applications will be available. Participants in the
      intervention group will also be asked to leave their phones outside of their bedroom at
      night, and will be provided with a digital alarm clock to reduce the use of phones for this
      purpose.

      Participants in the control group will be asked to maintain their typical daily smartphone
      use for 7 additional days.

      After the 7 day intervention/control period, participants will return to the lab to complete
      the questionnaires for a second time, and to return the Fitbit and inclinometer, and have the
      apps removed from their phones. Participants in the Intervention group will also be asked to
      complete a questionnaire on their experience with the intervention, and to provide any
      additional comments on their experience in the intervention.
    
  