
    
      Warfarin is the most widely used oral anticoagulation drug for preventing and treating
      thromboembolic events, but there is greater than 10-fold interindividual variability in the
      dose required to attain a therapeutic response. In 2007, the US Food and Drug Administration
      updated the label of warfarin, recommending consideration of pharmacogenetic information
      which has been confirmed to contribute significantly to the variability in warfarin dose
      requirements. Thereafter, multiple pharmacogenetic dosing algorithms were constructed to
      predict warfarin dose by integrating clinical and genetic factors. Taken together,
      approximately between one-third and one- half of the variability in warfarin dose could be
      explained by the proposed algorithms. However, the potential benefit of these dosing
      algorithms in terms of their safety and clinical utility has not been adequately investigated
      in randomised settings in Chinese patients.

      Study objectives:

        1. To apply routine pharmacogenetic (PG)-guided dosing of warfarin in clinical practice in
           Chinese patients.

        2. To compare the percentage out-of-range (%OOR) International Normalized Ratios (INRs)
           during the first 3 month of warfarin therapy using PG-guided dosing with historical
           standard (STD), empiric dosed controls.

        3. To compare the cost effectiveness, number of thromboembolic and bleeding events, time
           within therapeutic INR range, time to reach stable dose and number of supratherapeutic
           INR peaks during the first 3 month of warfarin therapy using PG-guided dosing with
           historical standard (STD), empiric dosed controls.

      Study design:

      This is a prospective, randomized study of Chinese patients who are to initiate chronic
      warfarin anticoagulation for specific, qualifying clinical reasons (i.e., atrial
      fibrillation, Deep vein thrombosis/pulmonary embolism, or Prosthetic valve replacement).
      Qualifying patients will be consented and randomized to an individualized, pharmacogenetic
      guided warfarin-dosing regimen (PG group) or to standard care (without knowledge of
      genotype)(STD group). All patients will receive a baseline INR. For patients in PG group, a
      maintenance dose for each patient will be predicted by the pharmacogenetic algorithm derived
      previously in Chinese. A maintenance dose of 3 mg/day will designed to each patients in STD
      group. The starting dose of warfarin that is twice the assigned daily maintenance dose will
      be prescribed on the first and second days, and then the dose will revert to the assigned
      maintenance dose.

      Study duration:

      Each patient will participate for at least 3 months.
    
  