
    
      Atrial fibrillation is the most common arrhythmic complication after coronary artery bypass
      grafting (CABG) (1). It remains challenging to prevent, treat, or cure (2). It contributes to
      increased mortality (3), heart failure (4), stroke (5), increase in length of hospital stay,
      intensive care unit readmission, and treatment costs (6). The pathogenesis of atrial
      fibrillation (AF) after cardiac surgery is considered to be multifactorial. Some of the
      factors include patient's preoperative status, age, and preexisting electrocardiogram
      abnormalities (7). Intra-operative stress also plays key role due to occurrence of
      reperfusion, inflammation, oxidative stress, or hemostasis (8, 9). Post operatively, almost
      all AF episodes occur within the first 6 days following cardiac surgery, with the peak
      incidence on the second or third post-operative day which coincides with the peak of systemic
      inflammation caused by surgery and with atrial stretch (10).

      Despite improvement in medical therapy, surgical technique, and anesthesia AF occurs in
      25-40% of patients undergoing CABG (1, 11). However a recent meta-analysis demonstrated that
      pharmacological therapy that reduces post-operative AF, reduces length of stay, the cost of
      the hospitalization, and potential stroke (12). Therefore, there has been great interest to
      establish strategies to prevent this arrhythmia. Ischemic preconditioning is among the
      strategies which have shown myocardial protective effect during CABG (13). It was first
      described in 1986 in dog to provide a protective effect on the myocardium that is later
      subjected to a sustained bout of ischemia (14). Subsequently, in various clinical setting it
      demonstrated that ischemic preconditioning reduces the incidence of cardiac arrhythmias (15).
      In addition the efficacy of preconditioning in cardiac surgery and percutaneous coronary
      interventions has been demonstrated in human being (16).

      The exact cellular mechanism of preconditioning is still controversial. Among mediators such
      as NO˙, ˙OH, and ONOO- which may play role in both ischemia/reperfusion injury and in the
      development of the cardio-protective effects of preconditioning (17); NO˙ has been considered
      to attenuate oxidative stress mediated cell injury during ischemia/ reperfusion. However,
      whether NO˙ plays a protective or detrimental role in myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury
      or preconditioning remains controversial (18, 19). In a recent study, Jannati et al.
      demonstrated that myocardial ischemic preconditioning by aortic cross clamping in patients
      undergoing CABG reduced the incidence of post operative AF (20).

      Currently there is no clinical preconditioning protocol or tool being utilized during CABG.
      Additionally, aortic cross clamping may increase the risk of embolic stroke, particularly in
      elderly patients (21). Therefore, we are conducting a prospective single-blinded randomized
      controlled study to demonstrate whether remote ischemic preconditioning reduces incidence of
      post operative AF.

      IV. RESEARCH DESIGN

      OBJECTIVE: To investigate if remote ischemic preconditioning will reduce the risk of post
      operative atrial fibrillation in patient undergoing elective CABG.

      Study Population

      This will be a prospective randomized controlled study on patients older than 18 years old
      who are undergoing elective CABG with or without valve surgery at Baystate Medical Center.
      Exclusion criteria include any preoperative rhythm other than sinus, history of atrial
      fibrillation, New York Hear Association (NYHA) IV congestive heart failure, cardiogenic
      shock, emergent CABG and/or valve surgery, bleeding diathesis, and women of child-bearing
      potential. Eligible patients will participate after obtaining consent. Patients will be
      blindly randomize patient into two groups:

      Study Groups

        1. Treatment Group: Patients in the treatment group will receive three sequential
           sphygmomanometer cuff inflations on their right upper arm after induction of anesthesia
           in the operating room. The cuff will be inflated by the OR nurse up to 200 mmHg for five
           minutes each occasion, with five minutes deflation in between inflations. Following this
           "pre-conditioning" phase, routine anesthesia procedures will be implemented. The entire
           pre-conditioning phase will last 30 minutes.

        2. Control Group: Patients in the control group will have the sphygmomanometer cuff placed
           on their right upper arm, but the cuff will not be inflated. Similar to patients in the
           treatment group, patients in the control group will undergo the same 30 minute delay
           before induction of anesthesia and surgery.

      Data Collection After completion of surgery, the telemetry monitor for atrial fibrillation
      will be reviewed daily and 12-lead electrocardiography will be obtained as needed. All
      episodes of atrial fibrillation on telemetry will be collected, reviewed, and entered in a
      data sheet. The data sheet will be available in the chart of all patients enrolled in the
      study (study and control groups). These data will be transferred and will be kept in a data
      set which will be coded with a study ID number. The identifiers will include age, sex,
      medical record number (MRN), date of admission, date of discharge, and length of post
      operative hospital stay. We will collect baseline characteristic including age, diabetes
      mellitus, hypertension, myocardial infarction, left ventricular ejection fraction,
      concomitant valvular disease, history of heart surgery, medications, type of surgery, and
      post-operation atrial fibrillation. Data collection will be closed at the end of one-year and
      will be presented for publication or presentation, while no patient will be identified.

      Subject Confidentiality To maintain patient confidentiality, all the collected data will be
      in a password protected computer and all the paper files will be kept in a locked cabinet in
      the PIs office. All data will be entered in a spreadsheet and will be immediately
      de-identified by creating a study ID number. The master list containing patient ID code will
      be in a password protected computer.

      Outcome Events The primary outcome will be atrial fibrillation lasting for five minutes or
      longer during the first seven days after surgery. Secondary outcomes include length of
      hospital stay, incidence of myocardial infraction, stroke, and postoperative day of
      arrhythmic event.

      EKG recording Twelve-lead electrocardiograms will be recorded preoperatively, following
      surgery on return to the intensive care unit, and daily during their first seven days of
      hospital stay. Also the arrhythmic events will be recorded through telemetry during hospital
      stay.

      Randomization Procedure Once eligibility has been established and consent has been obtained,
      patients will be randomized according to computer generated randomization procedure. Patients
      will be randomized in blocks sizes of 4 and 6. Permuted block randomization will insure that
      study groups will remain balanced at the completion of each block and that unbalanced study
      groups is minimized if the study is terminated during a block interval.

      Data analysis Treatment and control groups will be compared on baseline characteristics to
      identify patient or clinical factors that may not have been adequately balanced by the
      randomization procedure. Continuous variables will be compared using 2-sample t-tests or its
      non-parametric equivalent (Wilcoxon rank-sum test), while categorical variables will be
      compared using Pearson chi-square or Fisher's exact test. Differences on baseline
      characteristics achieving a p-value of .15 or less will be included in subsequent
      multivariable analysis. Multivariable analyses will be conducted using logistic regression.
      The dependent variable will be the dichotomous variable of the presence or absence of atrial
      fibrillation at any time during the 7-day follow-up period. Independent variables will
      include the dichotomous variable representing study group, as well as baseline
      characteristics requiring adjustment. Data will be analyzed on an intention-to-treat basis.

      Sample Size The sample size was calculated on an estimated 35% incidence atrial fibrillation
      over the 7-day period in control patients undergoing CABG. To detect an absolute reduction of
      13 percentage points (i.e., 35% in the control group vs. 22% in the treatment group) at 5%
      significance and 80% power, the study requires randomization of 205 patients per study group.

      Early Termination of Study To determine whether early termination of the trial is necessary
      due to larger than expect benefit or larger than expected harm, we plan one interim look at
      the data when 50% of the patients have completed follow-up. We use the Obrien-Fleming (1979)
      spending function to adjust the alpha comparison at the interim analysis and the final
      analysis in order to maintain an overall critical level of 5% (overall p-value is 5%). Thus,
      the trial will be terminated early if the at the interim analysis the absolute difference in
      the proportion of atrial fibrillation between the study groups achieves a significance level
      of p ≤ 0.003. For the final analysis at study completion, significance testing will be
      conducted at p ≤ 0.047. This adjustment insures that the comparisons will be conducted at an
      overall significance level of 5%.

      Budget No expenses are anticipated.

      Disclosures Patient confidentiality will be ensured by coding all the data. No direct patient
      contact. No active intervention affecting patient care or health is proposed. No vulnerable
      groups are included in the study. Patient consent would not be required for inclusion in the
      study. None of the investigators have a vested interest in the outcome/s of this study that
      may affect their objectivity in data gathering/analysis or the recommendations they make
      based on the results of the study.

      Risk benefit ratio Minimal risk is involved with this study. However, by demonstrating the
      benefit of non-invasive remote ischemic preconditioning in reducing the incident of post
      operative atrial fibrillation we will add new information to the literature. More
      importantly, another preventive option will be available in reducing the incidence of post
      operative atrial fibrillation.
    
  