
    
      In the year 2000, the American Board of Internal Medicine introduced continuous professional
      development as part of its board recertification process. The purpose of these changes were
      to achieve the following goals:

        -  To improve the quality of patient care;

        -  To affirm the high standards expected of a self-regulating, accountable profession;

        -  To foster continuing scholarship and self-improvement;

        -  To offer diplomats a portfolio of credentials attesting to competence; and

        -  To add value to the health care system.

      The most notable change in the new recertification process was the addition of practice
      improvement modules (PIMs). These modules require physicians to review how well they manage a
      particular chronic disease within their practice and to develop an improvement plan for their
      practice. In April 2005, it became a requirement that all internists complete a PIM as part
      of board recertification.

      Currently, it not known whether having physicians evaluate their management of certain
      diseases as part of board recertification will achieve its intended goal of improving patient
      care. Therefore, the purpose of this trial is to assess whether practice improvement modules
      result in improved clinical performance.

      The PIM selected for this study will focus on asthma. As PIMs seek to improve the quality of
      care within a practice, the unit of randomization in this study will be clinics (i.e.,
      practices) within the Henry Ford Health System. We will enroll practicing, board-certified
      internists within the Henry Ford Medical Group (~40 internists or 20 per arm). Clinics (~16
      or 8 per arm) will then be randomized to either complete the PIM or not complete the PIM.
      Participating internists at a site randomized to complete the PIM will be encouraged to work
      together to complete the asthma PIM. Participating internists at control sites will continue
      usual care and will not be asked to complete an asthma PIM.

      Comparisons: We will assess differences in asthma care by prospectively surveying patients
      seen by physicians in the intervention group and control group following the intervention
      period. These analyses will be adjusted by the baseline characteristics of asthma patients
      seen by participating physicians.
    
  