
    
      Drug resistant M. tuberculosis is an increasing problem in the United Kingdom and abroad. In
      the United Kingdom (UK) as a whole the number of isolates that were shown to be resistant to
      at least one of the first line drugs was nearly 400, with the total number of isolates
      approaching 5000. A total of 9040 cases were reported in the UK in 2009 and of these 6.9%
      demonstrated resistance to at least one first line drug(1). In certain populations the
      incidence of drug resistance is higher: in London, homeless patients, those who have been in
      prison and those from certain countries abroad, particularly Eastern Europe.

      The difficulty of drug resistant tuberculosis is that the treatment duration, cost and
      complexity is increased. Typically the patient will be on treatment for 18 months or more and
      the Health Protection Agency (HPA) has estimated the cost of this as being upto £50000.

      Current diagnosis rests on the culture of the M. tuberculosis and drug sensitivity testing.
      This can take six or eight weeks, meaning that patients may be on ineffective therapy for
      some time, leading to further transmission and deterioration of the patient's clinical
      condition. In this study the investigators would hope to develop a new test to improve and
      expedite the diagnosis of multi- drug resistant or MDR TB.

      The predominant mechanism by which resistance occurs in M. tuberculosis is by the development
      and selection of mutants containing single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP's)(2). Present
      commercial assays enable only a common subset (5-10) of the (900+) documented resistance
      mutations to be detected (www.tbdreamdb.com). It is highly likely that many more exist
      particularly in regions of the genome that may modulate sensitivity or resistance. This
      complexity is compounded by the requirement to treat TB with cocktails of antibiotics even
      for fully drug sensitive M.tuberculosis for which treatment consists of isoniazid (H),
      rifampicin (R), pyrazinamide (Z) and ethambutol (E). Multidrug resistant (MDR) and
      extensively drug resistant (XDR) TB cases are treated with second line drugs such as
      moxifloxacin, amikacin, capreomycin, para-aminosalicylic acid (PAS), thiocetazone and others
      for which genotypic markers of resistance are not tested. Such complex treatment combinations
      increase the need to screen multiple gene targets with the imperative to treat immediately
      with correct combinations of antibiotics.

      The large number of mutations makes exhaustive detection of all known SNP's impossible with
      existing diagnostic procedures. Whole genome sequencing offers the potential to interrogate
      the genome of clinical isolates of M. tuberculosis for all known mutations and from this to
      infer an antimicrobial sensitivity pattern.

      The extensive cost of treating and managing MDR cases(3) could potentially be reduced by
      obtaining a rapid genomic resistance profile early within the patients treatment. Cost
      benefit analysis of immediate whole genome sequencing (WGS) on all TB cases would be highly
      beneficial financially as well as clinically. The investigators propose to conduct a limited
      pilot study to assess the potential to acquire whole genome sequence directly from sputum
      specimens, early in a patient's treatment and to retrospectively define the potential impact
      of the availability of this data on patient care. This proposal will thus provide an evidence
      base for WGS to be developed into a routine diagnostic test/process with medical potential
      both at local National Health Service (NHS) level and globally so as to improve care pathways
      for MDR and XDR TB.
    
  