
    
      Although oral breathing children be studied by otolaryngologists, allergists, orthodontists,
      speech therapists and physiotherapists and the prevalence of mouth breathing range from 26.6%
      to 53.3% in Brazilian studies, physical, medical and social problems arising from the Mouth
      Breathing Syndrome(MB) are still not recognized as a public health problem. Behavioral
      changes in sleep quality and craniofacial development and consequently the quality of life
      after surgical, orthodontic and multidisciplinary approach to the MB children are
      known.However, little is known about the effectiveness of early physical therapy
      intervention, whereas postural abnormalities characteristic of mouth breathing children are
      relevant and that the postural pattern adopted may persist into adulthood.

      SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES

        1. Compare linear measurements of elevation, scapular abduction and depression among MB
           children in preoperative and postoperative adenotonsillectomy.

        2. Compare the angular measurements of upper / lower rotation, external / internal
           rotation, anterior / posterior tilt of the scapula and thoracic kyphosis, protrusion and
           retraction of the head and shoulders of protrusion and retraction group of MB children
           preoperative and postoperative adenotonsillectomy 3. Evaluate the impact of physical
           therapy intervention postoperatively.

      STUDY DESIGN: Cohort cross-sectional PARTICIPANTS: The sample size calculation was based on
      the results of Correa et al (2008) , who report similar to the effects of intervention
      proposed in this study.45 children will be recruited from the Clinic of MOUTH BREATHING (ARO)
      of the Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG). To ensure adequate statistical power in
      case of loss to follow-up will be considered sample of 55 children.

      ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA: 45 both male and female mouthbreathing children belonging to any racial
      group aged 4-10 years completed INCLUSION CRITERIA: diagnosis of upper airway obstruction by
      endoscopy (pharyngeal tonsil occupying 80% or more of the nasopharynx and / or palatine
      tonsils 3 or 4 ), history of oral route of access and loss of passive lip seal, display good
      understanding and whose family can signing the consent form approved by the Ethics Committee
      of the Federal University of Minas Gerais (COEP ).

      EXCLUSION CRITERIA: children with neurological disorders, or endocrine abnormalities that
      compromise the normal development of growth, with the presence of ankylosis, severe lung
      disease, congenital heart defects, craniofacial abnormalities with syndromic and who are
      unfit to perform the procedures proposed in this study.

      PROCEDURES Assessment and endoscopy will be held at ARO / UFMG where children will be
      screened according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria of this study. After passing the
      COEP, officials who accept to participate in the study must sign the Instrument of Consent.
      The collection of kinematic data will be held in the Motion Analysis Laboratory, Department
      of Physical Therapy. The physiotherapy intervention will be held at ARO, who works regularly
      on Thursdays for a period of three months.

      STUDY PROTOCOL: Demographic and clinical data will be collected from all participants. All
      the measure proposed below will be obtained previously (T0) and three months after surgery
      (T1). By completing measures based process randomisation will be performed and the patients
      will be divided into 3 groups: GROUP 1(G1) - without physical interventions, only oral health
      education; GROUP 2 (G2)- guidance booklet for home with some stretched exercises and GROUP
      3(G3) exercises -physiotherapy intervention proposal for a period of three months. After
      three months of allocation groups G1, G2 and G3 new measures will be carried out (T2). Those
      children who are identified with persistent postural changes will be forwarded to continue
      the specialized treatment.The G3 will be submitted to the postural reeducation through
      lengthening of the anterior muscles and strengthening of the posterior muscles of the trunk
      in a sitting position, in ventral and dorsal recumbency, including manual techniques,
      stretching the sternocleidomastoid and scalene muscles. Exercises for pelvic girdle
      positioning and stretching the hamstrings muscles tibial and sural triceps are associated
      with respiratory exercise. G2 family will receive a booklet of guidance of exercises to be
      performed at home and the G3 will not receive targeted intervention .

      MEASURES: The kinematics of the shoulder girdle, cervical and thoracic spine of the
      participants will be obtained through the System Qualysis ProReflex ® in 3 times, regarding
      reliability. This is a photogrammetry system based on video that has four cameras with
      illumination stroboscopy produced by a group of infrared reflectors located around the lens
      of each camera. Infrared light designed for each camera is reflected by passive markers
      placed on specific points or anatomical points on the body of the participants. The
      reflection of light on passive markers is captured by cameras generating a two-dimensional
      (2D) image of the respective positions of these markers. The triangulation of the images of
      at least two cameras, allows the reconstruction in three dimensions (3D) passive reflective
      of brands. Data obtained are processed by the Track Manager software. Subsequently, data are
      transferred to the Mat Lab program (Matrix Laboratory) software, where the angular
      measurements are calculated using the arc tangent function. For the measurements of the
      orientation of the cervical spine, scapula, and thoracic spine, sixteen reflective tags are
      used, 15mm diameter.

      TITLE:The orientation of the scapula includes three angular measurements (lower and upper
      rotation / anterior / posterior tilt, internal rotation / external) and two linear
      measurements (elevation and abduction). Upward rotation (U-Rot) A: occurs perpendicularly to
      the anterior-posterior axis and corresponds to the lateralization of the inferior angle of
      the scapula in relation to the spinal column on the frontal plane such that the glenoid
      cavity is oriented upwardly. Angle A was obtained from the intersection of a straight line
      passing through the C7 and T7 markers, a straight line passing through the medial edge of the
      scapula over the markers on the root of the spine and a marker over the inferior angle of the
      scapula.Scapular abduction (S-Abd) lateral shift of the scapula in relation to the spinal
      column. Horizontal distance (B) in millimeters from the centroid point of the scapula to the
      spinal column . Greater distance between markers indicated greater scapular
      abduction.Scapular elevation (S-Ele): linear upward shift of the scapular over the thoracic
      cage. C was obtained from the vertical distance in millimeters from the marker positioned
      over C7 to the centroid point of the scapula. Greater scapular elevation indicated a lesser
      distance between markers Measures of kyphosis of the thoracic spine, protraction / retraction
      and protraction of the head / shoulder retraction will also be undertaken.

      TIME FRAME: 3 months after each assessment with safety issue INTERVENTION PROTOCOLS The G3
      will be submitted to the postural reeducation through lengthening of the anterior muscles and
      strengthening of the posterior muscles of the trunk in a sitting position, in ventral and
      dorsal recumbency, including manual techniques, stretching the sternocleidomastoid and
      scalene muscles. Exercises for pelvic girdle positioning and stretching the hamstrings
      muscles tibial and sural triceps are associated with respiratory exercise. G2 family will
      receive a booklet of guidance of exercises to be performed at home and the G1 group did not
      receive intervention.
    
  