
    
      Hookah (water-pipe) smoking is rapidly increasing in popularity worldwide. Contributing to
      this popularity is the unsubstantiated belief that traditional hookah smoke is detoxified as
      it passes through the water-pipe. More recently, electronic hookah bowls-containing e-liquid
      that is heated electrically but inhaled through traditional water-pipes-are increasing in
      popularity in the United States among young female adults, who endorse marketing claims that
      these products are even safer than traditional hookah. With traditional hookah, in addition
      to nicotine and tar, smokers are exposed to carbon-enriched fine particles and significant
      amounts of carbon monoxide (CO), the latter of which has been shown to constitute an
      endothelial-dependent vasodilator. Though toxicant exposure is much lower than traditional
      hookah and without any CO exposure, e-hookah bowls deliver nicotine and fine particles that
      constitute putative vascular toxins. The main objective of this project is to investigate the
      comparative effects of traditional hookah smoking versus electronic hookah bowl inhalation on
      endothelial and vascular function and their mechanistic role in the development of
      cardiovascular disease. Specifically, the investigators will examine the role of oxidative
      stress and inflammation as potential mechanisms of action in hookah-induced cardiovascular
      disease. The investigators will test the hypothesis that; 1) in the absence of charcoal
      briquettes and virtually any CO exposure, e-hookah bowl inhalation acutely impairs
      endothelial function and evokes acute central stiffness, opposite from the endothelial
      function augmentation observed after traditional hookah smoking, which is likely mediated by
      the large CO boost emitted from burning charcoal briquettes used to heat the flavored
      tobacco; and 2) the processes of oxidative stress and inflammation play a pivotal mechanistic
      role underlying these vascular changes. In a cross-over study comparing traditional hookah
      smoking to e-hookah bowl inhalation, the investigators will assess endothelial function
      measured by brachial artery flow-mediated dilation and aortic stiffness by pulse wave
      velocity and augmentation index in 18 young healthy hookah smokers 21-39 years old, before
      and after ad lib 30-minute smoking/ inhalation session. To test for oxidative stress
      mediation, the investigators will determine if any acute impairment in endothelial function
      after e-hookah can be prevented by intravenous Vitamin C infusion, a potent anti-oxidant.
      Antioxidant defensive buffers, such as protective HDL or paraoxonase-1 activity, or an
      increase in oxidized lipoproteins will be collected. To test for inflammatory mediation,
      biomarkers including anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 and pro-inflammatory cytokines hsCRP,
      TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8 will be collected before and after the sessions as well as smoking exposure
      biomarkers (plasma nicotine and expired CO). The results of this proposal: (a) stand to fill
      in gaps in our mechanistic understanding of the comparative effect of traditional vs.
      e-hookah bowl on vascular and endothelial function; and (b) help inform policy decisions by
      the FDA about regulation of hookah products.
    
  