
    
      This pilot study will collect data from properly consented and subsequently enrolled subjects
      in the Psychiatric Continuity Service (PCS). All PCS programs provide both group and
      individual therapy designed to address various chronic mental health disorders such as major
      depressive disorder, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Group therapy and
      education focus on how chronic mental health disorders develop, the recovery process and
      psychosocial stressors that may contribute to both improvement in functioning and declines.
      Every patient is different with regard to how his or her program is tailored, but everyone
      receives weekly individual counseling from behavioral health providers (psychiatrists,
      psychologists and clinical social workers). PCS works in tandem with other treatment
      providers, case managers and chains of command. PCS is also equipped to transfer patients in
      need to higher levels of care in cases of emergency.

      All prospective subjects will be active duty service members who are enrolled in PCS.
      Subjects will be recruited by the Associate Investigator (AI) or Principal Investigator (PI).
      The primary outcome measure is the exploration of changes in specific brain wave activity in
      response to a Cranial Electrotherapy Stimulation (CES) intervention.

      Subjects who agree to participate in the study will complete a consent and Health Insurance
      Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) form and baseline questionnaires. In addition,
      since the fetal effects of the CES device is not known;, female subjects will have to present
      a negative pregnancy test within one week of the research intervention. Those female subjects
      to which pregnancy is unlikely (i.e. hysterectomy), will be excluded from a pregnancy test if
      this information can be verified medically. will self-report regarding as it applies
      menstrual cycle length and birth control method used within the last two weeks.

      The intervention will take place during clinic hours. This will be a one-time intervention
      that will last approximately 1 to 1 ½ hours. The AI will prepare the CES device, briefly
      explain the function, and place the CES ear clips on the subject. The CES device will not be
      turned on at this point. This is similar to clinic practice, however in clinical practice any
      PCS staff trained in the use of the CES device may prepare and administer the CES device to
      the patient.

      Next the AI will prepare the MindSet EEG device, ensure that it is functioning properly, and
      obtain signal acquisition. The AI will then explain the brainwave headset (MindSet) to the
      subject and properly place the headset on their head. Next a series of computer led
      activities to reduce extraneous artifacts (such as eye blink and muscle movement) will be
      completed by the subject. Following this, a baseline test measuring brainwave frequencies
      will be completed by the subject. This will last 30 seconds. Once this is completed, the CES
      device can be turned on and activated for 20 minutes. The CES micro amperage will be set by
      the subject based on therapeutic dose and locked in place on the CES device. Immediately
      following the completion of the 20 minute CES session, an EEG brainwave measure will be
      completed. Additional brainwave measure will be taken 5 minutes and 10 minutes post the CES
      session. Each of these brainwave measures will last 30 seconds.
    
  