
    
      All patients meeting specified criteria will be recruited for enrollment into the study.
      Informed consent will be obtained from the patient or health care proxy upon diagnosis of
      intertrochanteric hip fracture by the on-call orthopedic resident or research coordinator. At
      that time, each patient will be randomized into one of two cohorts (Figure 1) by the
      hospital's Investigational Pharmacy using computer generated randomization and allocation
      concealment. The Investigational Pharmacy will also be responsible for the storage,
      preparation and distribution of both the tranexamic acid and the placebo injections. The two
      patient groups will include:

        1. 1g of intra-venous tranexamic acid upon presentation to the emergency department and
           again at the time of surgical incision.

        2. Placebo injections upon presentation to the emergency department and again at the time
           of surgical incision.

      Both patients and the treating surgeons will be blinded with regard to placebo vs. treatment
      until completion of the study. All patients will be treated surgically with a long
      trochanteric femoral nail (TFN). Blood transfusion criteria will remain consistent with
      hospital standards (Hb<8 g/dL or symptomatic anemia) as determined by an independent, blinded
      medical team who will follow the patient throughout the hospital stay. Total number of blood
      transfusions received will be documented upon patient discharge.

      All patients will be permitted to weight bear as tolerated post-operatively and deep vein
      thrombosis (DVT) prophylaxis will be standardized: subcutaneous heparin, 5000 units every 8
      hours beginning upon admission until 12 hours prior to surgery and beginning 6 hours after
      surgery for a total of 6 weeks. Calf mechanical compression devices will also be utilized
      during the inpatient stay and will remain on at all times with the exception of physical
      therapy sessions. Diagnostic studies to assess for thromboembolic events (i.e. DVT, pulmonary
      embolism (PE), and stroke) will be ordered only if the patient develops clinical signs or
      symptoms that justify their use. Patients will be followed at regular intervals (6wk, 3mo,
      6mo, 1 year) and at each time point the patient will be asked to report any adverse events
      (DVT, PT, Stroke, myocardial infarction, infection, hospitalization) that have occurred since
      their last visit. In cases where patients are unable to accurately report their medical
      history, care providers will be questioned and records will be obtained from care facilities
      if necessary. An attempt will be made to contact any patient who is lost to follow-up via
      telephone and U.S. Mail.

      Safety of the study will be monitored by an independent Data Safety Monitoring Board at 6
      month intervals and the study will be discontinued at their discretion based on the number of
      adverse events.
    
  