
    
      PICO: For children with non cyanotic congenital heart defects having corrective heart surgery
      (P) does intraoperative dexmedetomidine (I) reduce real-time changes in mitochondrial
      function and content (O) compared with children not receiving dexmedetomidine (C).

      The study drug (dexmedetomidine or placebo) will be mixed in a standardized syringe of
      4mcg/mL for active syringes or 50mL 0.9% sodium chloride for placebo. Blinded syringes will
      be prepared by the Research Support Pharmacy.

      Administration is via the existing central venous line. A bolus dose of 0.125mL/kg (0.5
      mcg/kg dexmedetomidine) infused over 10 minutes will be administered, followed by a
      continuous infusion for the duration of the surgery. The dexmedetomidine/placebo continuous
      infusion (CI) dose will run at 0.15mL/kg/hr (0.6 mcg/kg/hr dexmedetomidine).

      Blood samples will be obtained from each child at three points in the operating room: 1)
      after the induction of anesthesia, 2) at the first separation from CPB (prior to
      administration of blood products), and 3) at the end of the surgery.

      Samples obtained will be analyzed for mitochondrial function and morphology, total cellular
      mitochondrial biomass, and mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid (mtDNA) damage:

        1. After isolating lymphocytes, we will use high content imaging (HCI) to assess
           mitochondrial function and morphology. The lymphocytes will be stained with
           tetramethylrhodamine methyl ester (TMRM), which stains mitochondria in proportion to
           mitochondrial membrane potential, giving a metric for mitochondrial function. In
           addition, the cells will be stained with MitoTracker Green®, which can be used to assess
           mitochondrial morphology. Mitochondrial morphology will be quantified in a non-biased
           fashion using a mathematical image analysis algorithm.

        2. After extraction of genomic DNA, total cellular mitochondrial biomass and mitochondrial
           DNA damage will be measured using traditional and long-patch quantitative polymerase
           chain reaction (PCR).

      Myocardial tissue will be also collected prior to closure of the atriotomy. Samples will be
      placed into 3% buffered glutaraldehyde at the time of biopsy, and imaging of mitochondrial
      structure using electron microscopy will be performed.
    
  