
    
      Thorax CT scoring was performed by an experienced radiologist, while LUS scoring was
      performed an experienced anaesthesia and reanimation specialist. The demographic
      characteristics, clinical parameters, prognosis, thorax CT and LUS scores of the patients
      were recorded prospectively. The correlation between thorax CT score and LUS score was
      evaluated.Lung ultrasound score (LUSS):

      LUS was performed by an intensive care specialist with experience in this field using a 2- to
      5-MHz transducer (Esaote MyLabSeven, Getz Healthcare Malaysia). The transducer was covered
      with a probe cover, and the transducer and ultrasound device were cleaned with disinfectant
      wipes after each use. LUS examinations were performed at the bedside, in the supine position,
      and twelve-zone examinations were performed. Each hemithorax is separated into 6 quadrants:
      anterior, lateral, and posterior zones (separated by the anterior and posterior axillary
      lines) each divided in upper and lower portion (Figure 1). Each zone was scored according to
      the LUS pattern as follows: the presence of lung sliding with A-lines or fewer than two
      isolated B-lines, scored 0; when multiple well-defined B-lines presented, scored 1; the
      presence of multiple coalescent B-lines, scored 2; and when presented with a tissue pattern
      characterized by dynamic air bronchograms (lung consolidation), scored 3. The worst
      ultrasound pattern observed in each zone was recorded and used to calculate the sum of the
      scores (total score = 36).

      CT Technique and Image Interpretation The thorax CT scans in the study were obtained using
      the low dose protocol of our hospital with a 128-slice multi-detector CT scanner (Optima;
      General Electric Healthcare, Wisconsin, USA). All CT scans were performed during a single
      breath-hold without contrast administration.

      As in the ultrasound evaluation, each lung was divided into anterior, lateral and posterior
      quadrants based on the anterior and posterior axillary lines, and then each quadrant was
      divided into upper and lower sections. Each quadrant was scored between 0-3. It was scored 0
      when there was no parenchymal involvement, 1score when the parenchymal involvement rate was
      between 0 and 33%, 2 score when it was between 33% and 66%, and 3score when it was above 66%.
    
  