
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Stroke is the third cause of death and the leading cause of handicap among industrialized
      countries (1). Spasticity following stroke is responsible for spastic equinovarus foot (SEF)
      in 18% of cases (2). Spastic equinovarus foot is due to spasticity (muscle hypertonia) of the
      calf muscles (soleus, gastrocnemius and tibialis posterior), often complicated by contracture
      and by the weakness of peroneus longus and peroneus brevis muscles (3). Therefore, stroke
      patients walk slowly, and often require assistive device as orthosis or canes. This
      disability limits their social participation and their quality of life.

      Spastic equinovarus foot treatments include oral medications, physical therapy, orthosis,
      chemical denervations (botulinum toxin, alcohol or phenol injections), selective neurotomy
      and orthopedic surgery (4, 5). Intra-muscular botulinum toxin injection induces a chemical
      denervation reducing spasticity of injected muscles. Functional block of the neuromuscular
      junction due to botulinum toxin is reversible and lasts about 3 months. Therefore, this
      expensive treatment must regularly be administered, with a risk of antibodies development.
      Selective neurotomy is a neurosurgical procedure consisting in partially and selectively
      cutting motor branches innervating the spastic muscles. For a low cost, it can permanently
      reduce muscle spasticity.

      Botulinum toxin injection effectiveness has largely been demonstrated in spastic equinovarus
      foot treatment by double-blind randomised controlled trials against placebo (6, 7, 8).
      Selective tibial nerve neurotomy effectiveness has only been suggested in spastic equinovarus
      foot treatment by uncontrolled and unrandomised case reports (9, 10, 11).

      International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) of the World Health
      Organisation (www.who.int / icidh, 2001) is the framework of the Physical and Rehabilitation
      Medicine (12). This model describes how a disease can influence patient impairments, activity
      and participation. Spastic equinovarus foot treatments have already been evaluated in the
      impairments field: spasticity, muscle strength, walking parameters and gait analysis
      variables. These treatments should also demonstrate their effectiveness on the patient
      activity (disability) and on his participation (quality of life).

      OBJECTIVES

      The aim of the present project is to study the effectiveness of selective tibial nerve
      neurotomy on the spastic equinovarus foot, by comparing it with botulinum toxin injection.
      The functional assessment will explore the three ICF domains.

      METHODS

      We will recruit 20 chronic stroke patients presenting with spastic equinovarus foot. This
      spastic equinovarus foot will be due to calf muscles spasticity without contracture. This
      spasticity will not have been managed effectively by physical therapy.

      First, a lidocaïne selective diagnostic motor branch block will systematically be carried out
      to confirm the treatment indication, and to determine the muscles and / or nerves to treat
      (14). Once the muscles responsible for the spastic equinovarus foot will be identified, they
      will surgically or chemically be denervated.

      Than, patients will be randomized in two groups:

        -  One group receiving botulinum toxin injections (toxin group).

        -  One group undergoing a neurotomy (neurotomy group).

      Patients will be assessed before treatment, 2 months and 6 months after treatment among the 3
      ICF domains. Impairments will be assessed by the Stoke Impairment Assessment Set (SIAS), the
      Ashworth and Tardieu scales (spasticity) and the MRC scale (muscle strength). Spasticity and
      gait disorders will quantitatively and objectively be evaluated by the muscle stiffness
      measurement (15) and an instrumented gait analysis (11). Disability will be evaluated by the
      ABILOCO scale (16) and the participation (quality of life) by the StrokeQol scale (17) and
      the SF-36 questionnaire.

      The patients selection, the lidocaïne hyperselective diagnostic blocks, the botulinum toxin
      injections and the selective neurotomies will be achieved at Cliniques universitaires
      Mont-Godinne. The functional assessment (clinical evaluation, gait analysis, muscle stiffness
      measurement) will be achieved in the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation department (READ
      unit) by a blinded assessor.

      PERSPECTIVE

      From this study, we hope to demonstrate the effectiveness of the selective neurotomy in
      spastic equinovarus foot treatment among the 3 ICF domains (impairment, activity and
      participation). This should promote this effective, permanent and cheap spastic equinovarus
      foot treatment.
    
  