
    
      People with SLOS have a deficiency of the 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase enzyme that makes
      cholesterol. Consequently, they exhibit deficient cholesterol levels and increased
      cholesterol precursor lipids, which are thought to be toxic. Cholesterol itself normally
      regulates the cholesterol synthesis pathway in the body and under conditions of low serum
      cholesterol seen in SLOS, more of the toxic cholesterol precursors are made. Since
      cholesterol is also necessary for production of bile acids in the liver, which help digest
      dietary cholesterol from the intestine, it is likely that low cholesterol levels in SLOS
      impairs bile acids from being made, which in turn prevents dietary cholesterol from being
      absorbed properly and contributes to the cholesterol deficiency seen in SLOS. Raising serum
      cholesterol in SLOS people by improving its absorption from the diet is expected to decrease
      the potentially toxic cholesterol precursor lipids, and both changes would be theoretically
      beneficial for SLOS people.

      The objective of this study is to determine whether treatment with cholic acid (a major bile
      acid made in the body that improves fat absorption) will increase dietary absorption of
      cholesterol, reverse serum cholesterol deficiency, and reduce harmful cholesterol precursor
      lipids. These changes would be favorable for SLOS people. To accomplish this objective, SLOS
      participants will be given dietary cholic acid (brand name Cholbam, manufactured by
      Retrophin) for 8 weeks and serum cholesterol and its precursor lipids will be measured before
      and while taking the drug.

      SLOS participants who are between 2 years and 25 years of age and are taking supplemental
      dietary cholesterol for at least 3 months will be enrolled. Participants must be clinically
      stable and able to travel to a study site. No change in supplemental dietary cholesterol
      intake will be allowed during the study, and dietary records will be obtained throughout the
      study.

      To qualify for cholic acid therapy, participants must have two measurements of serum
      cholesterol ≤100 mg/dl within one month before starting cholic acid. Participants will be
      treated with cholic acid for 8 weeks and will have blood specimens drawn at baseline (day 0),
      4-weeks, 8-weeks and 12 weeks (4 weeks after stopping cholic acid therapy).
    
  