
    
      Parent peer navigation (PPN), provided by other caregivers who have lived experience raising
      a youth with mental health conditions, holds promise as a service that can aid in improving
      both youth and caregiver outcomes by overcoming system- and individual-level barriers to
      care. This proposed study will support initial testing of a research- and theory- based
      Parent Peer Navigation (PPN) model created by one of the nation's leading advocacy
      organizations for caregivers of children and youth with mental health challenges, the
      federally funded Family-Run Executive Directors Leadership Association. This model, called
      the National Parent Peer Support Practice Model (Practice Model) has an associated training
      program and aims to effectively engage parents/caregivers in necessary treatment for their
      children by helping them connect with assessment, treatment and community-based resources and
      prepare them to independently navigate the child serving system, community-based resources,
      and ongoing opportunities for support once the PPN provider is no longer involved. The
      Practice Model incorporates five theory- and research-based components of support: (1)
      information/educational, (2) instructional/skills development; (3) emotional/ affirming, (4)
      instrumental; and (5) advocacy. The study will focus on children in early stages of
      impairment as a result of mental health challenges for which prevention of further disability
      is possible. It will take advantage of implementation of the Practice Model through two
      non-profit family-run organizations (FROs) and will occur in three phases, beginning with
      preparatory work to develop recruitment strategies in collaboration with local schools,
      formalize implementation outcomes (acceptability, appropriateness, feasibility, fidelity) and
      other measures followed by a Feasibility Study to finalize recruitment, procedures and
      measurement frames. Finally, in Phase 3, the investigators will conduct a cluster randomized
      trial to provide a preliminary test of the impact of the Practice Model on key caregiver and
      child outcomes. Children who are experiencing mental health challenges but have not had
      exposure to formal mental health services will be identified by collaborating schools and
      FROs/FSOs and referred for family support. Consenting families will be randomly assigned to a
      treatment group who will receive PPN services based on the Practice Model from participating
      FROs, or a comparison group who will be referred to a Family Support Organization which
      provide other types of resources (e.g., referrals, information). The investigators predict
      that youth and parents receiving PPN will show significantly greater rates of access,
      engagement and retention in services as compared to the comparison group. The investigators
      also predict that at 6 months following PPN onset, children in the treatment group will
      exhibit improved social/emotional functioning and that parents in the treatment group will
      exhibit increased empowerment and decreased parenting stress, as compared to those in the
      comparison group.
    
  