
    
      Introduction Guidelines for the treatment of asthma recommend the use of the smallest dose of
      inhaled steroid (ICS), which allows to maintain control of the symptoms of the disease. The
      GINA 2006 guidelines proposed (and later editions it upheld) that in the case of symptom
      control by monotherapy with ICS, to reduce their dose every 3 months, up to the lowest dose
      administered once a day, which should be used for one year before taking possible decision to
      stop it.

      There are no clear of simple and sensitive indicators that would allow detection of a
      threatening loss of control before the clinical symptoms worsen.

      Aim of the study Evaluation of the usefulness of induced sputum eosinophilia and other
      inflammatory indices [exhaled nitric oxide (NO), exhaled breath temperature (EBT), bronchial
      hyperresponsiveness] in predicting the failure of treatment reduction with inhaled
      corticosteroids in stable asthma in children and adolescents.

      Subjects Participants aged 12-18 years with stable asthma (mild or moderate), treated in the
      Allergy Clinic of the Hospital in Lesko with medium doses in ICS. The severity of asthma was
      initially determined in accordance with the GINA criteria and verified during several years
      of observation by the assessment of clinical symptoms, functional examinations and the dose
      of inhaled steroids controlling the disease.

      Project description A prospective, observational, single-blind study (blinded for a clinician
      in the field of inflammatory parameters). Clinician takes decision about possible reduction
      of ICS dose basing on clinical data only - is not aware of the results of the inflammatory
      parameters measurement.

      The study is consisting of two periods:

      First period (run - in):

      A four-week run - in period in which clinical symptoms and the use of short acting beta2
      agonists (SABA) and PEFR are monitored. At the end of this period, in participants with
      stable disease the following parameters are measured: eNO, EBT, spirometry, and sputum
      induction with hyperosmolar saline in combination with the hyperresponsiveness. Before the
      reduction of treatment on another day, an exercise challenge test is also performed.

      The criteria for the stability of asthma in the run - in period are:

        -  symptoms no more than 3 times a week

        -  SABA use less than 3 times a week

        -  without night wake up

        -  PEFR variability below 20%

        -  FEV1 above 80% of predicted

      Second period of the study - reduction of anti-inflammatory therapy. In participants with
      previously stable course of the asthma (confirmed in the run -in period), the control of
      asthma is monitored regularly throughout the observation period. All participants run an
      observation card (clinical symptoms) and PEFR measurements. Monthly spirometry, exhaled NO
      and exhaled breath temperature measurements are performed. Every 3 months and one month after
      the change of treatment (i.e in months 0, 1, 3, 4, 6 and 7), the hyperresponsiveness
      measurement is carried out with the sputum induction (combined method, [7]). Two months after
      the dose change (months 2, 5, 8) the exercise challenge test is carried out.

      Every 3 months control of the asthma symptoms is evaluated taking account the clinical data,
      and possible change of ICS dose is considered. Results of bronchial reactivity measurements
      and sputum cytology are not known to clinician who decide on a possible ICS dose change - he
      is blinded to the results of tests and the therapeutic decision is based solely on clinical
      evaluation.

      In participants with a stable course of the disease over past 3 months, the dose of ICS is
      halved, in accordance with GINA guidelines. In the case of loss of asthma control,
      appropriate treatment modifications are administered and the patient is withdrawn from the
      study.

      Participation in the study is continued until asthma control is lost or the lowest daily dose
      is reached (200 mcg, calculated as budesonide equivalent) - without losing asthma control at
      next visit.

      Measurements

        1. Daily clinical evaluation by the patient:

             -  symptoms score according to the Santanello questionnaire

             -  PEFR measurement

        2. Every month

             -  Asthma Control Test

             -  spirometry [forced expiratory flow in 1st second (FEV1), forced vital capacity
                (FVC), forced expiratory flow between 25% and 75% of FVC (FEF25-75)]

             -  eNO measurement

             -  exhaled breath temperature measurement (EBT)

        3. every 3 months

             -  quality of life test (QoL, Polish version of the questionnaire), i.e. months 3, 6,
                9

             -  cytological evaluation of induced sputum (i.e. months 0, 1, 3, 4, 6, 7)

             -  assessment of bronchial hyperresponsiveness:

                  -  one month after the ICS dose reduction and then before each subsequent dose
                     reduction in ICS ((i.e. months 0, 1, 3, 4, 6, 7) - during the sputum induction
                     with hyperosmolar salt (combined method)

                  -  2 months after each treatment reduction (i.e. months 2, 5, 8): exercise
                     challenge test (6-minute free-running test monitored by pulse)

      Criteria for loss of control [1, 6] - any of the following:

        -  use of bronchodilators> 5 times a week

        -  the need for treatment with oral corticosteroids

        -  PEFR decrease above 20% for 2 consecutive days, compared to the average run-in period In
           the case of loss of asthma control, beta-mimetic will be administered (temporarily) and
           return to the chronic administration of the previous, twice higher dose of ICS is
           restored (or further increase of treatment). In severe exacerbations, inclusion of oral
           steroids will be considered.

      Criteria for discontinuation of participation in the study

        1. Loss of asthma control (treatment strategy: beta-mimetic temporarily, return to dose of
           ICS before reduction or further increase of treatment; in severe exacerbations,
           inclusion of oral steroids).

        2. Lack of adherence to the recommendations or failure to report.

      The staff of the center has experience in the production of sputum induction in participants
      with asthma [Ciółkowski J, Mazurek H, Stasiowska B. Evaluation of step - down therapy from an
      inhaled steroid to montelukast in childhood asthma. Allergologia et immunopathologia (Madr.),
      2014: Jul - Aug; 42 (4): 282 - 288].

      The test will be performed in conditions ensuring patient safety, with the availability of an
      anaesthesiologist and anti-shock kit.
    
  