
    
      Acute kidney injury occurs up to 30% in cardiac surgery which influenced patients' mid-term
      and long-term outcomes. Furthermore, evidence shows patients who initiate renal placement
      therapy in hospital have higher mortality and morbility. The pathologies of Cardiac
      surgery-associated acute kidney injury (CSA-AKI) is not clear yet ,many researches find
      cardiopulmonary bypass is an independent risk factor in developing AKI, and inflammatory
      bursts during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) may play an important role in CSA-AKI.

      Statins are reported to have anti-inflammatory reaction in many researches. In Some
      multicenter RCTS, Statins are reported to reduce myocardial infarction,atrial fibrillation
      and have renoprotective effects due to pleiotropic effects in percutaneous coronary
      intervention. While in the cardiac surgery settings, the renoprotective effect of statin is
      still controversial. The investigators believe the differences between surgery and PCI may
      contribute to the discrepancy. The investigators plan to test the renoprotective effect of
      atorvastatin in a randomized,double-blind control manner and try to explore the mechanism of
      this protective effect.

      The investigators hypothesise loading dose atorvastatin pretreatment in elective coronary
      artery bypass grafting surgery may attenuate inflammatory response in CPB and therefore
      reduce postoperative AKI or help recovery from AKI.

      The investigators randomize patients into two arms, the Atorvastatin group takes Atorvastatin
      80mg 12h before surgery with another 40mg 2h before operation, the control arm takes placebo
      in the same regime. The investigators plan to compare the inflammatory cytokines at different
      time points and the incidence of AKI between the two groups. The investigators hope
      Atorvastatin group can decrease AKI incidence and has a lower level of inflammatory
      cytokines, what's more, the two have a good correlation in the time frame.
    
  