
    
      Background:

      Neoadjuvant chemoradiation is part of the standard of care for patients with stage II and III
      resectable esophageal and gastroesophageal cancer. This approach is based on the results of a
      large randomized clinical trial (CROSS) that demonstrated superior survival in patients
      receiving neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy followed by surgical resection compared to patients
      treated with surgery alone. Pathological complete response at the time of resection is
      strongly linked to better survival. However, with current strategies pathological complete
      response is achieved only in a minority (29%) of patients. Remaining patients, especially
      those with positive lymph nodes at the time of the resection, are at significant risk for
      recurrences. Five-year survival rate for these patients is only 37%, and overall survival is
      as low as 9 months for those with persistent lymph node disease. Among patients who develop
      recurrent disease, most present with distant metastases outside of the radiation field. This
      is not surprising since the accepted treatment paradigm for this disease does not target
      possible disseminated microscopic systemic disease. Hence, novel strategies are needed to
      improve outcomes of these patients. We propose conducting a phase I/II clinical trial
      evaluating a role of immune checkpoint inhibitor in combination with chemoradiotherapy and
      post-operatively in the management of resectable esophageal cancer.

      Study Rationale:

        1. A number of preclinical and clinical studies demonstrated synergism between radiation
           and immunotherapy, suggesting that combining these approaches can enhance anti-tumor
           activity and increase treatment efficacy.

        2. Immune checkpoint inhibitors have demonstrated promising activity in a subset of
           patients with metastatic esophageal and gastric cancers. Moving these agents into
           neoadjuvant setting may increase the cure rate of this disease compared to the standard
           approach.

        3. Current neoadjuvant therapy does not target any potential microscopic disease outside of
           the radiation field since chemotherapy serves primarily as a radiation sensitizer.
           Immunotherapy treatment will target both local and systemic disease.

      Hypothesis:

      We hypothesize that co-administration of avelumab with chemoradiation will be well tolerated
      and will increase pathological complete response rate in resected tumor specimens. We
      hypothesize that avelumab treatment will also decrease the rates of disease recurrence.

      Study Design:

      This is a 2 part Phase I/II clinical trial evaluating the safety, tolerability and efficacy
      of avelumab in combination with chemoradiation in patients with resectable esophageal and
      gastroesophageal cancer.

      Part 1: This is the run-in phase of the trial. This portion will determine the safety and
      tolerability of avelumab in combination with chemoradiotherapy in 6 patients. The proposed
      combination will be considered as safe if dose limiting toxicities are observed in at most 1
      patient.

      Part 2: This is a Phase 2 portion of the trial, which will evaluate the efficacy of the
      proposed treatment regimen in patients with stage II/III resectable esophageal and
      gastroesophageal cancer.

      Objectives:

      Primary: Evaluate the safety of avelumab in combination with chemoradiation in patients with
      resectable esophageal cancer and gastroesophageal receiving perioperative therapy.

      Secondary: Obtain efficacy data and further safety data of the proposed drug combination in
      this patient population.

      Exploratory objectives: The translational focus of the study will evaluate changes in tumor
      microenvironment that occur in response to radiation and immunotherapy.

      Endpoints:

      Part 1 - Primary endpoint: Establish safety and tolerability of the proposed treatment.

      Part 2 - Primary Endpoint: Pathological complete response rate.

      Part 2 - Secondary Endpoints:

        1. Safety and tolerability.

        2. Disease free survival.

        3. Incidence of surgical complications.

        4. Rate of R0 resection.

      Number of centers & patients: One center.

      Part 1: total of 6 eligible patients will be accrued to evaluate the safety and tolerability
      of the proposed combination.

      Part 2: 18 patients will be enrolled in the phase 2 portion of the trial.

      Population:

      Patients with histologically confirmed, potentially curable squamous-cell carcinoma,
      adenocarcinoma, or large-cell undifferentiated carcinoma of the esophagus and gastroesophagus
      who are candidates for neoadjuvant therapy and surgical resection.

      Investigational drugs:

      Avelumab (Provided by EMD Serono). IND information to be added as needed.
    
  