
    
      A CLINICAL STUDY TO EVALUATE THE EFFICACY OF CAUSTICUM 200C IN THE TREATMENT OF PRIMARY
      ENURESIS

      AIMS & OBJECTIVES:

      To assess and evaluate the efficacy of administering the Homoeopathic remedy Causticum 200
      Centesimal potency based on Homoeopathic principles in management of Primary enuresis A total
      number of 30 cases will be selected after screening 50 cases as per the inclusion criteria
      from the Outpatient Department of Father Muller Homoeopathic Medical College for the study
      and will be followed for a period of one year.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Age group between 5-15 yrs

        2. Both sexes are included

        3. Patients with Primary enuresis will be Included

        4. Patients with Nocturnal or Diurnal enuresis will be included

      Exclusion criteria:

      1 Patients with metabolic illness like Diabetes Mellitus or Diabetes Insipidus will be
      excluded 2. Congenital anomalies like horse shoe kidney, polycystic kidney will be excluded.

      3. Presence of Malignancy, Mental Retardation and Cerebral palsy will be excluded.

      The case shall be analyzed and prescribed the remedy Causticum in 200 Centesimal potency, 4
      globules once a week for 3 months with placebo to follow for the next few months and general
      management.

      RESEARCH PLAN:

      Purposive sampling will be followed in the study wherein patients who belong to the above
      category of Inclusion criteria will be taken up and subjected to screening so as to confirm
      the diagnosis of Enuresis.

      Each patient will be treated for one year with Causticum 200C in the first 3 months along
      with placebo to follow and attended to, once a week. At each follow-up they will be assessed
      clinically for evaluating the improvement status.

      The drug namely Causticum 200C potency will be ordered from Father Muller Homoeopathic
      Pharmaceutical division, which complies with the standards of Homoeopathic Pharmacopeia of
      India. The dosage shall be 4 globules prescribed once a week for 3 months with placebo to
      follow for the remaining period. This medicine shall be advised half an hour before food.

      RESEARCH METHODOLOGY AND STATISTICS:

      Criteria for deciding the Efficacy of Homoeopathic medicine Causticum200C shall be based on
      the following parameters:

        1. Frequency of Enuresis

        2. Odor of urine

        3. Diurnal and Nocturnal urination

        4. Modalities

      PLAN FOR ANALYSIS: The collected data will be analyzed by paired 't' test to determine the
      efficiency.

      RESEARCH HYPOTHESIS: There is significant improvement among Primary Enuresis cases in
      Paediatric age group after prescribing the Homoeopathic drug Causticum 200C.

      NULL HYPOTHESIS: There is no significant improvement among Primary Enuresis cases in
      Paediatric age group after prescribing the Homoeopathic drug Causticum 200C.

      ALTERNATIVE HYPOTHESIS: Significant variation in the above parameters before and after
      treatment.
    
  