
    
      Sharma et al. described in detail the changes of the intrapapillary capillaries seen with
      reflux inflammation. In the normal esophageal mucosa, submucosa all vessels are connected to
      the arborescent vascular network. Intrapapillary capillaries arise from the fourth branch of
      the arborescent vessels into the epithelial papillae and form single loops called IPCLs. It
      has been shown that IPCLs dilate and elongate along with an increase in the number and
      density of arborescent vessels in mucosal cancer. These changes are similar to those observed
      in inflammation.

      Estimated enrollment: 100 patients (NERD group: 50 patients and control group: 50 patients)

      Study design: This is an observational and analytical cross-section, population - based
      survey study, with prospective case collection, non-randomized and simple blind, performed in
      a Tertiary Academic Center.

      Study Design

        -  Allocation: Non randomized, simple blind

        -  Endpoint Classification: Efficacy

        -  Intervention Model: Non interventional

        -  Primary Purpose: Diagnosis

      Setting: Instituto Ecuatoriano de Enfermedades Digestivas (IECED), OmniHospital Academic
      Tertiary Center. We will include patients from September 2015 to November 2015. Patients will
      be recruited from the gastroenterology unit (IECED). The study protocol and consent form has
      been approved by the IRB and will be conducted according to the declaration of Helsinki.
      Patients will sign an informed consent and answer a questionnaire that includes
      constitutional data (sex, age, weight (Kg), height (m), BMI (Kg/m2), chronic diseases,
      medication and main reflux symptom).

      Population selection, inclusion and exclusion criteria: Patient selection was done after the
      following analysis. Each patients that had reflux symptoms (heartburn and regurgitation) and
      8 or more points at the Spanish version of GERD questionnaire validated by Zavala-González et
      al., underwent an upper videoendoscopy using initially high definition white light and then
      virtual chromoendoscopy (I-Scan™) in the three different image algorithms. After performing
      an upper endoscopy completely and reach the line Z, the entire esophagus was evaluated
      (upper, middle and lower esophagus). If they had any signs of reflux as ulcerative
      esophagitis, esophageal strictures, Barrett's esophagus or any erosive sign according to Los
      Angeles classification (Grade A to D), they were classified as GERD patients and were
      excluded from the protocol. The endoscopies were performed by the same three endoscopist that
      will carry on the study.

      If the esophagus was normal and no changes were seen by these two techniques, they were
      considered as NERD patients and a pH-impedanciometry was performed as gold standard study, in
      order to diagnosis reflux disease. GERD diagnosis was considered when there were more than 73
      episodes of reflux episodes in 24 hours or acid exposure time (AET) abnormal with ph <4
      measured in more than 4,2%of the time over 24 hours.

      After this phase, the investigators could discriminate patients that had a normal
      pH-impedanciometry and no reflux disease from the real NERD patients with reflux disease
      proven by a positive pH-impedanciometry with symptoms and no lesion.

      Two groups were selected. One was the control group and included patients that agreed to be
      part of the study and for whom we have certainty that they have no GERD (reflux symptoms but
      negative upper endoscopy with high definition white light or I-Scan and negative
      Ph-impedanciometry). The other group includes NERD patients with reflux symptoms, a positive
      Ph-Impedanciometry but a negative upper endoscopy with high definition white light or I-Scan.

      Survey: It will be use the Spanish version of the Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease
      Questionnaire survey, validated in Mexico by Zavala-González et al., but in an Ecuadorian
      population.

        1. How often did you have a burning feeling behind your breastbone (heartburn)?

        2. How often did you have stomach contents (liquid or food) moving upwards to your throat
           or mouth (regurgitation)?

        3. How often did you have pain in the center of the upper stomach?

        4. How often did you have nausea?

        5. How often did you have difficulty getting a good night's sleep because of your heartburn
           and/or regurgitation?

        6. How often did you take additional medication for your heartburn and/or regurgitation,
           other than what the physician told you to take (such as Tums, Rolaids and Maalox)?

      Endoscopic technique: All the patients included in the protocol (NERD group and control
      group) will be studied by upper endoscopy with Magniview™ scopes and EPK-i7010 processor (OE
      system™).

      The technique involves the use of a distal rubber hood (OE-A58) at the tip of the scope
      (EG-2990Zi). After reaching the line Z, the four quadrants of the three levels of the
      esophagus (upper, middle and lower esophagus) will be evaluated in the same way. The cup will
      contact to the esophageal mucosa and water will be instilled. Initially only the OE system™
      will be used (mode 1) If there is no evidence of minimal changes, the optical magnification
      will be implemented through the actions of a button on the Magniview scope. Finally the OE
      system™ will be off and only the Magniview™ will be used with white light.

      All changes seen will be recorded (by video and pictures) in the specific phase of the study
      (OE system™ alone, OE system™ with Magniview™ or Magniview™ alone). Finally, biopsies will be
      taken in both groups (one of each esophagus level randomly and one targeted biopsy to any
      lesion). The endoscopies will be performed by three endoscopist blind to the group selection
      and trained on this new technology (all of them with more than 10 procedures).

      Mucosal minimal changes will be evaluated as the Sharma et al. classification:

        1. IPCLs (number, dilatation, and tortuosity). Dilatation of IPCLs will be recognized as a
           change in the pattern characterized by increased size or caliber of individual IPCLs.
           Tortuosity is define by the presence of corkscrewing or the twisted nature of individual
           IPCLs.

        2. Presence of microerosions (definitive mucosal breaks not visible at standard endoscopy).

        3. Vascularity at the squamocolumnar junction.

        4. Presence of columnar island in the distal esophagus.

        5. Ridge-villous pattern below the squamocolumnar junction characterized by the presence of
           uniform, longitudinally aligned ridges alternating with a villiform pattern.

      Interobserver and Intraobserver Agreement: A data set containing pictures of the three
      esophagus levels in the three phase of the study (OE system™ alone, OE system™ with
      Magniview™ or Magniview™ alone) will be presented to three blinded endoscopists, who will
      confirm or not the findings. Inter- and intraobserver reproducibility will be measured based
      on comparison of still images between the three investigators. To evaluate the intraobserver
      agreement each investigator will assess the images three times and the answers will be
      compared. To evaluate the interobserver agreement all answers between the three investigators
      will be compared.

      Statistical analysis: Baseline characteristics as age, gender, body mass index, symptoms will
      be compared between case and control group using Chi-square o Fisher Test for categorical
      variable, and for continuing variables, we will use the Mann-Whitney Test. Diagnosis efficacy
      will be measured thought sensitive, specificity and accuracy. All the statistical analysis
      will be performed using SPSS software suite v.22.

      Limitations

        -  Only patients with typical reflux symptoms will participate in the study (heartburn or
           regurgitation).

        -  The protocol will be performed in only one center.
    
  