
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Coronary artery disease (CAD) and myocardial infarction (MI) are the leading causes of death
      in the Western world. Numerous epidemiological studies have demonstrated the impact of
      various risk factors, such as arterial hypertension, hypercholesterolemia and diabetes
      mellitus. While these risk factors are partly under genetic control, a positive family
      history remains an additional independent predictor of CAD, suggesting the presence of as yet
      unidentified susceptibility loci. Given the enormous public health burden of CAD, there is
      significant interest in identifying its specific genetic foundations. As intensive
      experimental investigations continue, the inflammatory component of the disease process
      leading to atherosclerosis evolves as a key aspect in the disease process. Recent evidence
      demonstrates that systemic markers of inflammation such as C reactive protein (CRP) can
      predict those at high risk of coronary events. CRP emerges with much attention as both a
      diagnostic marker and therapeutic target with serum levels determined to a significant extent
      by genetic factors.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      To elucidate the genetic basis of the inflammatory component of myocardial infarction and the
      regulation of C reactive protein, a gene function oriented evaluation of candidate genes will
      be conducted. Therefore the specific aims are as follows, 1. Identify positional candidate
      genes within regions identified for MI and CRP which are functionally related to inflammation
      and inflammatory processes. Sequence variation in selected candidate genes will be
      identified. 2. Evaluate the effect of these variants with regard to MI and CRP in two
      different ethnic populations: a family set of European Caucasians and a population-based,
      Hispanic family dataset. The role of CRP will be evaluated as a predictor of cardiovascular
      events in the study populations. Since clinical follow up data are available on both study
      populations, the extent to which CRP contributes to an increased risk for cardiovascular
      events will be analyzed.
    
  