
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the time to treatment failure in patients with hormone-refractory metastatic
           prostate cancer treated with two different schedules of docetaxel in combination with
           prednisone.

      Secondary

        -  Compare overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the response rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the safety of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the need for epoetin beta in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the effect of epoetin beta on hemoglobin response rate, transfusion rate, and
           quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to participating center and WHO performance status (0-1 vs 2). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 15 and oral prednisone
           once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 and prednisone once daily on
           days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients who experience anemia (hemoglobin < 11 g/dL) receive epoetin beta subcutaneously
      once weekly during chemotherapy.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, every 6 weeks during study treatment, at completion
      of study treatment, and then every 2 months thereafter.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 2 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 360 patients (180 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 4 years.
    
  