
    
      The greater trochanteric pain syndrome (GTPS) is a frequent soft tissue syndrome which is
      often not recognised by medical practitioners. Currently, there is no validated definition of
      this syndrome and it is classically defined as pain and tenderness in the region of the
      greater trochanter that may radiate down to the postero-lateral aspect of the thigh and may
      mimic nerve root compression.

      The prevalence of GTPS amongst adult patients referred to a spine clinic for chronic low back
      pain (LBP) has been reported to be 20-35%. In addition to pain, GTPS induces functional
      disability which at times may profoundly interfere with patients' daily activities. The
      diagnosis of GTPS is suspected in a patient complaining of lateral hip pain. The reproduction
      of typical pain on palpation of the posterior part of the greater trochanter is the only well
      recognised clinical sign, although other clinical signs have been described. As is frequently
      the case with these type of syndromes, the physiopathology of GTPS is probably a mixture of
      several musculoskeletal problems, among which trochanteric bursitis and gluteus medius (GMe)
      tendinosis are the most frequently cited.

      MRI studies have demonstrated GMe tendinosis or tears in patients with GTPS and MRI is used
      as the gold standard for the diagnosis of GTPS in many studies. Musculoskeletal ultrasound
      (US) is of increasing interest among rheumatologists. It readily demonstrates soft tissue
      lesions, fluid collections, allows dynamic examination and the undertaking of ultrasound
      guided procedures. GMe and gluteus minus (GMi) tendinopathy or tears as well as bursitis can
      be clearly demonstrated by ultrasound and US may guide steroid injection for the treatment of
      GMe tendinopathy. However, to date no study has compared the utility of MRI compared to US.

      There are very few well-performed studies regarding the treatment of GTPS. Although poorly
      studied, analgesics and non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are often used as
      first line therapy. The duration of therapy required with these oral agents is unknown and
      there are significant potential side-effects from these treatments. The vast majority of
      patients referred to secondary or tertiary centres have failed these oral therapies. Some
      authors advocate physiotherapy (massage or stretching) but once again, there is no strong
      evidence to support this approach. Thus, most patients are treated with an injection of a
      combination of steroids and local anaesthetic. However, there is no convincing evidence in
      the literature that this practice is effective.

      The use of musculoskeletal ultrasound (US) has been shown to improve the accuracy of
      corticosteroid injections for many joints and extra-articular structures such as bursa and
      tendon sheaths. Although small observational studies have suggested that local corticosteroid
      injection may be effective in the short term, no prospective controlled study has been
      carried out to establish the efficacy of this common intervention.
    
  