
    
      Despite improvements in peri-operative outcome, major hepatic resection and
      pancreaticoduodenectomy remains associated with a high risk of major blood loss and
      perioperative blood transfusion.The risks associated with allogeneic blood transfusions are
      well-known, including immunosuppression, incompatible transfusion, and transmission of
      infectious agents. Clearly, efforts to reduce the use of allogeneic blood products are
      warranted in order to avoid potential transfusion-related complications, reduce hospital cost
      and avoid periods of critical blood shortage.

      ANH is an approach to blood conservation that involves removal of whole blood from a patient
      immediately prior to an operation that is likely to be associated with significant blood
      loss. Following blood removal, euvolemia is restored with crystalloid and/or colloid. The
      harvested blood, which has a greater red cell mass than the blood lost intraoperatively, is
      re-infused as needed during the procedure or at the completion of the operation. ANH is more
      attractive than preoperative autologous blood donation for several reasons: it is technically
      and logistically much simpler, it requires no special equipment and costs less (no storage or
      administrative costs), it is associated with a lower chance of administration error, it
      requires no obligate pre-operative delay and is not associated with a waste of autologous
      units. In addition, because coagulation factors are preserved and later re-infused, ANH may
      reduce the need for post-operative fresh frozen plasma (FFP). Additionally, ANH may have an
      impact on low CVP anesthetic management during partial hepatectomy, which is standard at
      MSKCC and at many other centers.

      The present study will help elucidate the efficacy of ANH as a means of reducing the
      allogeneic transfusion rate in patients undergoing major hepatic resection. If shown to be
      effective in reducing the use of allogeneic blood products, ANH will not only impact the
      current practice of hepatic resectional surgery but may also change current practice in other
      surgical disciplines.

      This will be a prospective randomized study. Eligible patients will be consented for the
      trial prior to the operation.
    
  