
    
      Introduction:

      Adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder (GBCA) is the most common malignancy of the biliary tract
      and its incidence is alarmingly high in the Indian subcontinent. Complete surgical excision
      is the standard of care for both gallbladder and pancreatic cancers. Unfortunately, majority
      of these cancers are diagnosed at an advanced, inoperable stage and only 10-30% of the
      patient present with resectable disease.

      Gall bladder cancers which are T3/T4 with liver infiltration, with or without
      visceral/vascular infiltration or having large local lymph node metastases; in the absence of
      distant metastases are generally considered as locally advanced. There prognosis in terms of
      resectability and survival remains dismal in most of the reports.

      Even with aggressive surgery like extrahepatic bile duct resection or pancreaticoduodenectomy
      the 5 year survival rate for stage III disease ranges 30% to 42% in best of the reports. But
      these results are often not reproducible.

      Locally advanced Gall bladders cancers not amenable for curative resection are often treated
      with chemotherapy alone which is the current standard of care. Randomized trials have shown
      survival benefit with combination chemotherapy in gallbladder cancers. In a randomized trial
      combination chemotherapy of Gemcitabine and cisplatin was superior to Gemcitabine
      chemotherapy alone and local tumor response in terms of partial downsizing or stable disease
      was achieved in 81% of cases. With Gemcitabine and Cisplatin based Neoadjuvant chemotherapy
      (NACT) some locally advanced GB cancers do get downstaged to undergo resection. Recent
      publication from Tata Memorial Centre, where NACT alone was given which resulted in surgical
      resection rate of 43% median OAS and PFS being 13 months and 8 months.

      Study methodology:

      All patients with diagnosis of non metastatic locally advanced Gall bladder cancers who
      fulfill the study eligibility criteria will be evaluated for study participation and will
      undergo Positron emission tomography and contrast enhanced computerized tomography (PETCECT)
      scan and staging laparoscopy to rule out metastatic disease. Patients will undergo upfront
      randomization into one of the study arms.

      A proportion of patients are expected to have jaundice or cholangitis at presentation. At
      study inclusion there should be no clinical evidence of active cholangitis or unresolved
      biliary obstruction. Liver Function Tests, Renal Function Tests and CA 19-9 within 4 weeks of
      treatment initiation.

      Systemic Chemotherapy arm (Standard Arm or Arm A)

      Those randomized to NACT will proceed to receive systemic gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2delivered day
      1 and 8 every 3 weeks and cisplatin 25 mg/m2 for and 4 cycles (week 1- week 11).

      Chemoradiation arm (Study Arm or Arm B)

      The radiation dose will be 50-55 Gy/ 25 fractions to the gross disease and 45 Gy/ 25
      fractions to suspected microscopic disease along with weekly gemcitabine (300 mg/ m2).
      Radiotherapy will be for 5 weeks which will be followed by 2 cycles of chemotherapy (week 7
      to week 11)

      These radiotherapy (RT) doses have found to be safe in the investigators pilot study.

      During week 12-13 patients will undergo repeat PETCECT scan. If the scan shows partial or
      good response then patients will be evaluated for surgery. Surgery if possible will be done
      between weeks 13-15. In case of inoperable disease patients will receive further
      chemotherapy. With locally progressive/systemic disease on chemotherapy patients may be
      considered for second line palliative chemotherapy or best supportive care. The use of
      radical dose chemoradiation is not allowed on disease progression in the systemic
      chemotherapy arm. However palliative radiation may be used.

      Surgery

      Surgical procedure will be en-bloc resection including cholecystectomy with a liver wedge
      excision and periportal lymph node clearance. Nodal clearance from station number 8, 12, 13
      with sampling of inter aortocaval node will be done. Extrahepatic biliary excision or
      additional organ excision will be done as per the discretion of operating surgeon.

      Post Surgery all patients will receive additional adjuvant chemotherapy

      Number of patients enrolled: Screened 350 Enrolled 314
    
  