
    
      After informed written consent, 300 participants will have comprehensive sociodemographic and
      clinical profiling to establish extent of multi-morbidity. Demographic, lifestyle and medical
      history questionnaires will be completed, anthropometric measurements and blood pressure will
      be taken, handgrip strength test and sit-stand test will be conducted. The Montreal Cognitive
      Assessment, depression, anxiety and quality of life questionnaires will be conducted. Blood
      biochemistry will be assessed for vitamin D, blood counts, thyroid and renal function,
      hemoglobin and glycated hemoglobin levels.

      After the initial profiling participants will be randomized to standard care or the
      RESILIENCE Program group.

      In addition to the standard care participants would normally receive, the 150 participants
      assigned to the RESILIENCE Program group will receive a structured follow-up over the next 12
      months to monitor and adjust the participant's status and management from a seasonal
      perspective. These will include a combination of strategies designed to promote seasonal
      resilience.

      Specifically, this will include:

        1. Profiling of the participants seasonal vulnerability: prior to hospital discharge,
           participants will be clinically profiled and then fitted with an physiological monitor
           (to measure heart rate, physical activity levels) at the point of hospital discharge.

        2. Within 7-14 days after discharge a 60-80-minute home visit will be conducted by a
           dedicated RESILIENCE Nurse to assess:

             -  Physiological Status: The physiological monitor will be collected for analysis at
                this visit and blood pressure will be measured.

             -  Environment: A formal home environment assessment including presence/type of
                heating and/or cooling equipment, air quality and any other factors that might
                contribute to seasonal instability (e.g. lack of home insulation). Indoor versus
                outdoor temperature and humidity will also be measured.

             -  Behaviour: Participants will be asked to describe the adaptive changes they make to
                activity levels, diet, clothing and heating/cooling behaviours during winter versus
                summer and acute weather events; with an immediate assessment relevant to ambient
                weather conditions.

             -  Modulating Factors: The (socio-economic) capacity for the participant/family to
                apply resources/funds to maintain thermoregulatory control (including clothing
                choices and ability to pay power bills) throughout the year will be assessed;
                alongside those personal factors/decisions that potentially determine how they
                prioritize other forms of expenditure.

        3. Participants with the capacity and/or preference for videoconferencing will be offered
           "virtual/remote" attendance or a standard outpatient clinic appointment at the Austin
           Hospital RESILIENCE Clinic with a dedicated RESILIENCE physician to develop a long-term
           plan to help promote/maintain seasonal resilience. The clinic appointments will occur
           with the individual at 21 days, 6 months and 12 months post hospital discharge.

      At 12 months, the comprehensive socio-demographic and clinical profiling will be repeated in
      the RESILIENCE Program group.
    
  