
    
      Lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is one of the most common degenerative spine diseases in older
      people and is associated with mechanical low back pain, radiculopathy and/or neurological
      claudication. The results of The Spine Patient Outcomes Research Trial (SPORT) reported that,
      surgical treatment in these patients led to significantly greater improvement in pain and
      function than nonsurgical treatment. Nowadays, decompression with instrumented or
      non-instrumented fusion is commonly practiced which is regarded as the "gold standard"
      surgery for LSS.

      Over the last two decades, several retrospective studies comparing the surgical outcomes of
      decompression alone and decompression plus fusion for LSS have been published. Most of the
      studies concluded that decompression plus fusion had better clinical outcomes compared with
      decompression alone. However, in 2016, two randomized control trials (RCT) about LSS were
      published in the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) and raised some serious questions.
      The results of both studies showed that fusion did not have much additional value for
      patients with stable LSS, and moreover, it might be regard as an overcautious and unnecessary
      treatment, which were contradictory to most of the previous studies.

      Over the past few years, minimally invasive spine surgery (MISS) has been improving rapidly
      due to the development of related instruments, more experienced surgeons, and patients'
      demands. Compared with open spine surgery, MISS has already proved to be associated with less
      surgical trauma and rapid recovery with similar clinical outcomes. Minimally invasive spinal
      decompression (MIS-D) and minimally invasive spinal decompression and fusion (MIS-TLIF) have
      been performed widely for the treatment of LSS. However, there is no previous study comparing
      MIS-D to MIS-TLIF in terms of clinical outcomes, complications, reoperations, and other
      perioperative data. Therefore, a randomized controlled trial comparing these 2 common MISS
      techniques is warranted.
    
  