
    
      Chemotherapy and radiotherapy are important therapeutic modalities for head and neck cancer
      patients. Oral mucositis is a common comorbidity during chemotherapy and radiotherapy. It was
      reported that 30-60% of patients underwent chemotherapy and over 90% of patients receiving
      radiotherapy had oral mucositis. Oral mucositis not only reduces the quality of life of
      cancer patients during therapy but also causes dysphagia and poor nutritional status. Severe
      oral mucositis may necessitate unplanned gaps between treatment which can undermine the
      chance of local control.

      In terms of management of oral mucositis, maintaining of oral hygiene and avoid infection are
      essential manner. Topical agents such as sucralfate, benzydamine, antifungal drugs, vitamin E
      and treatment using laser were studied in the management of oral mucositis. Previous studies
      indicated the glutamine significantly reduced the incidence and severity of oral mucositis in
      patients underwent chemotherapy and bone marrow transplantation. However, few studies
      discussed the effect of glutamine on the impact of oral mucositis in head and neck cancer
      patients receiving radiotherapy with/without chemotherapy.

      This study will enroll 60 consecutive patients who are scheduled to receive radiotherapy
      with/without chemotherapy due to head and neck cancers. Basic data will be recorded along
      with tumor related variables. Then they will be divided randomly into study group and control
      group. The study group will receive oral glutamine while the control group will receive
      placebo during radiotherapy. The severity of oral mucositis (WHO grading system, every week),
      pain status (visual analogue scale, every week), quality of life questionnaires (before,
      during and after radiotherapy) will also be documented. The differences between the two
      groups will be analyzed.
    
  