
    
      Obesity and its related conditions are a significant cause of death and ill health. There
      have been a number of studies showing that weight loss, in particular that achieved by
      bariatric (weight-loss) surgery, results in improvement in obesity-related conditions such as
      type 2 diabetes mellitus. A large case-control study demonstrated a mean weight loss of 23.4%
      by 2 years and sustained mean weight loss of 16.1% compared to matched controls. 72% of
      patients with type 2 diabetes were in remission at 2 years and this was 36% at 10 years.
      Bariatric surgery also results in recovery from lipid disturbances with 62% of patients
      demonstrating normalisation of hypertriglyceridaemia (high fat levels in the blood) at 2
      years and 46% at 10 years. There is also a smaller cohort of patients who, despite
      significant weight loss, do not experience remission of their obesity-related comorbidities.

      The mechanisms for the improvement in obesity-related ill health are not well understood and
      little dedicated work has been undertaken on imaging in the obese population before and after
      treatment. For example, increased fat content in the liver, bone and pancreas is well
      described in obesity but it is unclear whether response to treatment is uniform across all
      these organs, or if there are specific patients who would benefit from additional or
      alternative interventions for hard to treat organ fat. The effect on remaining organ fat
      following treatment on clinical parameters such as body shape, and metabolism, is also
      unknown. Furthermore, it is not known if there are certain patterns of organ fat which may
      respond better to one type of therapy such as surgery compared to medical treatment for
      example, and choosing the best treatment for patients may be improved by a better
      understanding of organ fat. The effect of obesity on bone structure and strength, bone
      hormonal activity and metabolism is poorly understood. Finally, the link, if any, between
      patterns of organ fat and patients' genes, body shape and metabolism before and after
      treatment and is also unclear.

      Treatment options for obesity continue to develop. Several novel medical (non-surgical)
      treatments for obesity have become available and the number of patients undergoing bariatric
      surgery continues to increase. There is therefore need to understand the mechanisms behind
      both weight loss (and the contribution of individual organs to this) and the improvement in
      obesity-related conditions. By gaining greater understanding of this, we aim to better
      predict outcomes for individual patients and better select the most appropriate treatment for
      them.

      There has been recent research into MRI as a method of quantifying fat in abdominal organs
      such as the liver and pancreas. MRI has the advantages of being non-invasive (for example
      when compared to liver biopsy) and does not use ionising radiation unlike other imaging
      modalities.
    
  