
    
      Increased core temperature (hyperthermia) has been associated with impaired neuromuscular
      performance, with the majority of research suggesting that the observed fatigue is related to
      the central nervous system. Small doses of Ritalin has been used to study how changes in
      dopamine activity affects exercise capacity in the heat. This study found that 20 mg of
      Ritalin had no effect on exercise capacity in a thermoneutral environment of 18°C. However,
      when in a hot (30°C) environment, the Ritalin resulted in a 16% improvement in finishing time
      compared to the placebo trial. Interestingly, the higher output during the Ritalin-hot
      condition also resulted in higher rates of heat production and a higher (~0.6°C) core
      temperature, suggesting that dopamine enabled greater voluntary tolerance of hyperthermia.
      This matches recent work from our own work showing that motivational skills training
      increased both exercise tolerance and final core temperature, and it is possible that
      dopamine activity played a role in this improvement.

      Ultimately, fatigue is shown in an inability to sustain muscular force. However, the role of
      dopamine activity on neuromuscular function (e.g., central activation and recruitment of
      muscle) during hyperthermia is unknown. One study reported that 20 mg of Ritalin did not
      alter neuromuscular function, but this study was done without thermal stress.

      Therefore, our goal is to study the effects of dopamine activity, using Ritalin ingestion, on
      neuromuscular function over the course of a progressive heating and cooling protocol
      developed in our lab. We hypothesize that Ritalin will minimize the previously reported
      progressive impairment in neuromuscular function with hyperthermia (5, 7) compared to
      placebo, suggesting that dopamine activity preserves neuromuscular capacity with
      hyperthermia.
    
  