
    
      Ischemic heart disease, including acute coronary syndrome, is among the leading causes of
      death worldwide. Several factors have been shown to attribute to early re-admission to
      hospital for these conditions including comorbidities, insufficient discharge planning, lack
      of health literacy, and non-adherence to drug therapy. Adherence to treatment in post-acute
      coronary syndrome patients has been found to be poor in several studies. Pharmacists play a
      significant role in enhancing medication adherence and reducing rates of mortality and
      re-admission to hospital by performing medication reconciliation and tailoring, and patient
      education. The purpose of this study is to determine the effect of pharmacist-delivered
      multifaceted intervention on medication adherence and clinical outcomes of post-acute
      coronary syndrome patients in Vietnam.

      The study will be designed as a randomised controlled trial with blinded outcome assessors.
      Random allocation sequence will be generated using the website randomization.com. The
      participants will be stratified by age (<65 and 65 years or higher) and sex (male and
      female), and randomised into two parallel groups in a 1:1 ratio via block technique with
      random permuted blocks of 2, 4 or 6 patients. Investigators who perform patient recruitment
      and interventions will be concealed the sequence until the intervention is assigned. One
      group will receive usual care, called control group, while the parallel group will receive
      pharmacist-delivered multifaceted intervention in addition to usual care, called intervention
      group.

      Participants will be selected from patients who present to the Cardiology Institute at Ho Chi
      Minh city, Vietnam. The trial will continue till achievement of sample size and 3-month
      follow-up thereafter. Estimated duration of recruitment is about 12 months from November,
      2015 to November, 2016. The investigators will include patients who survive during
      hospitalisation with discharge diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome.

      The intervention group will receive two counselling sessions in-person and via telephone
      within 1 week before and after hospital discharge. The interventions will be performed by
      pharmacists and include medication reconciliation and tailoring, and support with pill
      organiser and drug information leaflet.

      Primary outcome measure is the proportion of patients adherent to medication at 1 month after
      discharge assessed by the Morisky Medication Adherence Scale - 8 items. Secondary outcome
      measures are the proportions of patients (1) adherent to medication at 3 months after
      discharge assessed by the Morisky Medication Adherence Scale - 8 items, (2) readmitted to
      hospital and (3) dying within 3 months after discharge. The investigators also measure (4)
      the change in quality of life assessed by the EuroQol EQ-5D-3L and (5) beliefs about
      medicines assessed by the Beliefs about Medicines Questionnaire (BMQ) from baseline at 3
      months.

      The process of data collection and management at baseline and during follow-up period is
      summarised in 9 steps as follows: (1) patient list review; (2) patient recruitment; (3) first
      data collection at baseline (data from patient interviews); (4) random allocation; (5) first
      counselling (intervention group only); (6) second data collection at baseline (data from
      medical records); (7) second counselling (intervention group only); (8) first outcome
      measurement (at 1 month after discharge); (9) second outcome measurement (at 3 months after
      discharge).

      Analysis will be performed using the intention to treat principle. Reasons for dropouts and
      proportions for each treatment group will be reported. The investigators will compare the
      differences in proportions of medication adherence and rates of mortality and hospital
      readmission between intervention and control groups.

      All patients taking part in the trial will be required to provide written informed consent at
      the time of recruitment. Consent form and the study protocol will be submitted to achieve
      approval from the Institutional Biomedical Research Ethics Committee of Cardiology Institute
      at Ho Chi Minh city, Vietnam. The participants will have the right to withdraw at any moment
      during the study period; their inclusion or exclusion from the study will not affect the
      usual care provided to them.
    
  