
    
      Few animal models have shown that intravenous vasopressor administration (including use of
      pure alpha agonists such as phenylephrine) can decrease blood flow to free musculocutaneous
      flaps (1-3). This has led to a dogmatic belief that all vasopressors should be avoided
      intraoperatively during a microvascular free flap reconstruction regardless of patient
      hemodynamics, even though there is little published evidence that pressors negatively affect
      free flap outcome (4). As a result, these patients often receive generous amounts of fluids
      during their intraoperative course to combat periods of hypotension. However, patients
      receiving head and neck free tissue transfers tend to be older with serious comorbidities
      related to long term tobacco use such as significant cardiovascular and pulmonary disease.
      Thus, they often exhibit intraoperative hemodynamic lability with periods of hypotension that
      may not necessarily be related to hypovolemia. Consistently treating periods of hypotension
      with more intravenous fluids can lead to serious postoperative complications such as graft
      failure (4), pulmonary edema, and congestive heart failure. In fact, we have just completed a
      retrospective review of 248 patients over a 34 month period that received a head and neck
      free tissue transfer; we discovered that a 1ml/kg/hr increase in intraoperative fluid
      administration significantly increased 30 day flap complication rate while intraoperative
      administration of vasopressors did not affect 30 day flap complication or 30 day failure
      rate.

      The FloTrac device is an approved and validated medical device that analyzes the arterial
      pressure waveform to calculate a stroke volume variation. This stroke volume variation can be
      used to better guide intraoperative patient therapy with regard to need for fluid vs. pressor
      management during periods of intraoperative hypotension (5). The use of the FloTrac device
      for goal directed therapy has been investigated in major abdominal surgery and found to
      decrease length of hospital stay and complication rate in this surgical population (5-6).
      Thus, it is possible that the intraoperative use of the FloTrac device can better guide
      anesthesia providers to provide the necessary therapy for intraoperative hypotension in
      patients undergoing head and neck freet tissue transfer, thus improving postoperative
      outcome.
    
  