
    
      We will evaluate whether dementia care training improves the perceived ability of PES staff
      (intervention) and nurse assistant staff (control) to care for hospitalized persons with
      ADRD. We will use survey methodology in a repeated measures design to evaluate within and
      between-group differences in attitudes, experience, and satisfaction toward managing patients
      with ADRD. Measures will be completed at baseline (T1), immediately following training (T2),
      and at end of the intervention period (T3). This study will utilize a repeated measures
      design to capture the impact of dementia care training on the experience of PES (intervention
      unit) and NA (control unit) staff to care for patients with dementia. Measures will be
      completed at baseline, prior to dementia training (T1: baseline), immediately after
      completion of the training program (T2: 3 months post-baseline) and following the completion
      of the 1-year intervention period (T3: 12 months post-training).

      A 3 month dementia training program will be implemented on both the intervention and control
      units. On the intervention unit, training will target the PES and on the control to the nurse
      assistants. The 3 month dementia training program is based on the John A. Hartford Institute
      for Geriatric Nursing and the National Alzheimer Association publications Try This: Best
      Practices in Nursing Care for Persons with Dementia, "ACT" on Alzheimers guide to dementia
      friendly hospitals, and the Person-Centred Care Training Programme for Acute Hospitals
      (PCTAH), the research team will provide PES staff with weekly 20 minute sessions. The
      sessions will consists of the following topics: types and impact of dementia, providing
      person-centered care, identification of and meeting peoples emotional and physical needs,
      effective communication, connecting to the family caregiver (FCG), the impact of the physical
      environment, and redefining and supporting behaviors staff may describe as challenging. In
      order to ensure all staff get the training, sessions will be repeated 3 times per week during
      change of shift.
    
  