
    
      Between 350,000 and 400,000 Americans have Multiple Sclerosis, a chronic neurological disease
      characterized by demyelination and axonal degeneration. Pain is an important symptom of MS,
      reported in 44% to 80% of patients.

      Duloxetine is FDA apprBetween 350,000 and 400,000 Americans have Multiple Sclerosis, a
      chronic neurological disease characterized by demyelination and axonal degeneration. Pain is
      an important symptom of MS, reported in 44% to 80% of patients.

      Duloxetine is FDA approved for use in treatment of diabetic painful neuropathy and
      depression. Since the analgesic mechanism of action of Duloxetine is believed to occur in the
      Central Nervous System, there is reason to believe that it may also be effective in central
      pain conditions, such as MS.

      Our study design includes a 1:1 randomization of Duloxetine to placebo. We hypothesize that
      the Duloxetine group will experience reductions in the weekly 24 hour average and worst pain
      scores that exceed 1.5 and that are significantly greater than reductions achieved in the
      placebo group. We also hypothesize that Duloxetine will be well tolerated with no significant
      group differences in adverse effects, sleep and quality of life as measured by the SF-36
      approved for use in treatment of diabetic painful neuropathy and depression. Since the
      analgesic mechanism of action of Duloxetine is believed to occur in the Central Nervous
      System, there is reason to believe that it may also be effective in central pain conditions,
      such as MS.

      Our study design includes a 1:1 randomization of Duloxetine to placebo. We hypothesize that
      the Duloxetine group will experience reductions in the weekly 24 hour average and worst pain
      scores that exceed 1.5 and that are significantly greater than reductions achieved in the
      placebo group. We also hypothesize that Duloxetine will be well tolerated with no significant
      group differences in adverse effects, sleep and quality of life as measured by the SF-36.
    
  