
    
      Patients presenting with painful procedures in the Emergency Department (ED) have been shown
      to frequently have inadequate pain management. The incision and drainage of an abscess is a
      common procedure that is usually treated by emergency physicians with only localized
      anesthetic for pain management. For those abscesses that require incision and drainage, a
      physician will usually inject a local anesthetic to help decrease sensation to the affected
      area prior to incision and drainage. Occasionally, physicians will administer a systemic pain
      medication, in addition to the localized anesthetic, as a method to better help alleviate
      pain associated with more complex procedures.

      Wilson and Pendleton (1989) wrote a landmark study that highlighted the problem of physicians
      undertreating patients pain in the ED, a problem known as oligoanalgesia. They found that
      only 50% of patients with moderate to severe pain were receiving narcotics. Since then the
      literature has highlighted a number of additional deficits in the use of pain medication in
      the ED to include the amount of time it takes patients to receive medication, the lack of
      education medical personnel receive in pain management, the bias that physicians have toward
      using pain medication, and the lack of pain medication given for painful procedures. Five
      areas of inadequate management of painful conditions in the ED include 1) failure to
      acknowledge pain, 2) failure to assess initial pain, 3) failure to have pain management
      guidelines, 4) failure to document pain and assess treatment adequacy, and 5) failure to meet
      patients expectations. The use of adequate pain medication for painful procedures covers has
      been a recent attempt to fill in the gap of one area contributing to oligoanalgesia.

      Incision and drainage procedures are a common condition that emergency physicians manage yet
      there is no evidence to suggest whether they are appropriately managing the pain associated
      with their treatment. We propose a trial to determine whether intramuscular (IM) Fentanyl,
      given prior to the incision and drainage of the abscess, decreases the level of pain
      during/after the procedure and increases the patients overall satisfaction with the
      procedure.

      This double blind protocol will randomize 50 patients with abscesses to receive either a
      combination of an intramuscular injection of Fentanyl followed by subcutaneous (SC) local
      bupivacaine analgesia (Fentanyl Group), or a combination of an intramuscular injection of
      normal saline (Control Group) IM followed by SC local bupivacaine analgesia. Patients will
      receive a questioner administered by a research assistant after the procedure to assess
      outcomes of study.

      Neither treating physicians, nurses nor patients and research assistants will be aware to
      which group the patient has been randomized. Fentanyl was chosen due to the rapidity of onset
      (7-8 minutes) and clearance (1-2 hours). The choice of abscess was made given the ease at
      which to make a diagnosis, standard treatment with incision and drainage and known
      association with pain during and after the procedure.

      After appropriate identification, screening, and consenting, the patient will then be
      randomized to receive intramuscular Fentanyl (1 ug/kg) OR Normal Saline (1.5 ml) 7-8 minutes
      before the procedure is began. Patients in either group will still receive usual care with
      local subcutaneous bupivacaine anesthetics. Patients are at liberty to request more local
      subcutaneous bupivacaine and or more pain systemic pain medication and the treating provider
      may deliver more at their discretion. Contamination may occur if patients receiving IM Normal
      Saline request systemic narcotics for pain levels not controlled with local bupivacaine
      alone. These patients may receive systemic narcotics again at the discretion of treating
      providers. However all patients will remain in the initial group to which they were assigned
      and data will be evaluated on an intention to treat analysis basis.
    
  