
    
      Recent studies suggest that bleeding complications have a strong influence on quality of
      life. During DAPT regimen bleeding complications occur from 5% to 15% of patients. Nuisance
      bleedings (BARC 1 bleeding) occur more frequently and show a strong influence on quality of
      life, depression, anxiety and compliance to the treatment.

      The aim of the study is to establish if a specific counseling programme might minimize the
      negative quality of life impact of nuisance bleedings. A computer-generated list will be used
      to randomize patients in a 1:1 ratio, stratified by age, sex, renal failure and P2Y12
      inhibitor, to either the bundle or the control group.

      All patients randomized to the control group (standard of care) will receive education from
      physician regarding dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) as part of the routine discharge
      process.

      All patients randomized to the bundle group will receive:

      i) a 15-min visit by a member of the research team 24 h prior to the anticipated discharge
      day. During this visit, a core set of DAPT risks will be addressed. Advantages and side
      effects of DAPT will be described. The importance of compliance will be discussed. The
      correct management of side effects (especially BARC 1 bleedings) will be discussed.

      ii) a 15-min visit by a member of the research team with a family member living near/with the
      patient. Advantages and side effects of DAPT will be described. The importance of compliance
      will be discussed. The correct management of side effects (especially BARC 1 bleedings) will
      be discussed.

      iii) brochure describing advantages, side effects and management of dual antiplatelet
      therapy. Contemporaneously, the investigators of the study will contact directly by phone
      and/or mail the general practionnaire of the patient to describe and explain the same topics
      and the clinical problem of her patient.

      iv) availability of phone number to discuss potential side effects of DAPT. In addition, the
      study coordinator of the study will contact two times by month the patient by phone to assess
      DAPT compliance and potential BARC 1 bleedings.
    
  