
    
      Severe aplastic anemia (SAA) is a life-threatening bone marrow failure disorder characterized
      by pancytopenia and a hypocellular bone marrow. Telomeres were reported to be short in up to
      one-third of patients with SAA.Initially this occurrence was presumed to be secondary to
      hematopoietic stress. However, the discovery of loss-of-function mutations in genes of the
      telomerase complex (TERC, TERT) established a genetic etiology for telomere attrition in some
      patients with marrow failure who did not have the stigmata associated to an inherited bone
      marrow failure syndrome. These findings implicated telomerase dysfunction in failed
      hematopoiesis. In family members of probands with SAA, telomerase mutations have been
      observed which were associated to varying degrees of cytopenias, idiopathic pulmonary
      fibrosis (IPF) and/or cirrhosis.

      Telomere length has been associated with human cancer. Telomere attrition has been implicated
      in a variety of solid organ malignancies including esophageal and colon adenocarcinoma. In a
      longitudinal population based study, shorter telomere length associated to a higher cancer
      mortality risk overtime. It is plausible that a shorter telomere length is not just a
      biomarker associated to development of cancer, but involved in its pathogenesis. Ample
      experimental data supports an important role of critically short telomere length in genomic
      instability. Furthermore, our laboratory data (unpublished) shows that similar chromosome
      instability occurs in bone marrow cells of mutant patients, confirming the experimental data.
      Thus, a common molecular mechanism appears to underlie risk for cancer and a range of
      clinical entities.

      In vitro studies suggest that telomere length could, in theory, be modulated with sex
      hormones.15 Exposure of normal peripheral blood lymphocytes and human bone marrow derived
      CD34+ cells to androgens increased telomerase activity in vitro and androgens increased low
      baseline telomerase activity in individuals carrying a loss-of-function TERT mutation to
      normal levels. In retrospect, the beneficial effects of sex hormones on telomerase activity
      may be the mechanism by which SAA patients treated over 40 years ago with male hormones
      showed hematologic improvement in some cases.

      In recent years we have seen patients referred to our clinic with varying degree of
      cytopenia(s) who had significant family history for cytopenia(s), IPF and/or cirrhosis. We
      have identified very short telomeres in these patients and in some mutations in TERC and
      TERT. We hypothesize that male hormone therapy might modulate telomere attrition in vivo and
      ameliorate progression or reverse the clinical consequences of accelerated telomere
      attrition. Therefore, we propose male hormone therapy in patients with cytopenia(s) and/or
      IPF who show evidence of telomere dysfunction by a short age adjusted telomere length
      associated to telomerase gene mutations. The primary biologic endpoint will be delay of
      telomere attrition over time compared to known rates of telomere erosion in normal
      individuals and in those who carry mutation in the telomerase genes. The main clinical
      endpoint will be tolerability of oral danazol over two years. Secondary endpoints will be
      improvement in blood counts and/or pulmonary function. The small sample size, lack of control
      groups, and variable clinical course among those with marrow failure and IPF, will not allow
      for definitive assessment of clinical benefit. Nevertheless, we believe this protocol will
      provide insight into the possible effects of androgen therapy on telomere attrition in humans
      and of possible clinical benefit in telomere related disorders, and serve as hypothesis
      generating for further larger controlled studies.
    
  