
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study and the study doctor thinks that
      the disease requires treatment at this time, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of
      a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. You will have an equal chance of being assigned to either
      group:

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will receive the inhaled form of ribavirin. You will inhale
           ribavirin 3 times a day for 3 hours each time in a tent in a hospital room. You will
           receive the drug for up to 10 days.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will take capsules of ribavirin 3 times a day for up to 10
           days.

      If the study doctor does not think that the disease requires treatment at this time, you will
      be assigned to Group 3. If you are in Group 3, you will not receive treatment with ribavirin,
      but you will have the same tests and procedures at the study visits described below.

      Study Visits:

      At all study visits, you will be asked about how you are feeling, about any side effects or
      symptoms you may be having, and about any other drugs you may be taking.

      On Day 3 (+/- 1 day):

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs

        -  Your nasal passages will be checked for RSV.

      On Days 7 and 14 (+/- 1 day):

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs

        -  Your nasal passages will be checked for RSV.

      Length of Study:

      If you are in Groups 1 or 2, you will receive the study drug for up to 10 days. You will no
      longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects
      occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions. If your doctor thinks you need
      treatment longer than 10 days, you will receive that as part of your routine care. This may
      mean changing to receiving the drug in inhaled form if you began the study receiving it by
      mouth.

      All participants will have end-of-study and follow-up visits, as described below.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      If you are in Groups 1 or 2, the end-of-study visit will be about 14 days after your last
      dose of the study drug. If you are in Group 3, the end-of-study visit will take place at
      about Day 21. The following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check for RSV
           antibodies.

        -  Your nasal passages will be checked for RSV.

        -  You will be asked about how you are feeling, about any side effects or symptoms you may
           be having, and about any drugs you may be taking.

      Follow-Up Visit:

      About 6 to 10 weeks after your last dose of study drug, you will have a pulmonary function
      test to check your lung function.

      This is an investigational study. Ribavirin is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of hepatitis C when given by mouth, and for severe RSV in children when
      inhaled. Giving the drug to adults with weak immune systems after a stem cell transplant is
      investigational.

      Up to 96 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  