
    
      The United States has the highest rate of incarceration in the world. There are over 1,821
      state and federal prisons housing over 2.3 million prisoners in the United States. The
      demographics of the prison population are shifting. Longer sentences and constrained options
      for early release compound this trend. The older adult segment of prison populations has more
      than tripled since 1990. The health status of aging inmates does not mirror the free-world
      population. In fact, prisoners typically present with health issues common to free citizens
      who are 10-15 years their senior. Prisoners are wards of that state, that is, the system is
      responsible for providing for not only custody and control of offenders, but also their care.
      Collectively, these trends have had a profound impact on prison systems: U.S. prisons are
      facing sharply increased demands in caring for aged and dying inmates. In response to this
      need, Phase I project Enhancing Care for the Aged and Dying in Prisons (ECAD-P) demonstrated
      that (1) there is a need and interest for products such as ECAD-P (i.e., corrections
      administrators and staff are interested in end-of-life (EOL) care training); (2) trainings
      should be short, intensive, engaging, interactive, and contextually sensitive to the specific
      environment; and (3) an interactive, media-rich prototype with high acceptability and
      usability could be developed. The specification document and commercialization plan indicate
      it is possible to develop a full-scale ECAD-P learning system in Phase II and market
      potential exists. The technological innovation proposed for the ECAD-P project is well-suited
      to the targeted market. Technical merit, feasibility, and market potential of the ECAD-P
      Learning System were demonstrated in the Phase I project. The purpose of this Phase II
      application is to continue research and development of the ECAD-P learning system with an
      emphasis on developing a scalable unit for commercialization and testing scale-up in a larger
      number of more diverse contexts. More specifically, the aims of ECAD-P Phase II are to 1)
      Develop a full scale media-rich interactive computer-based learning system consisting of six
      modules addressing EOL and geriatric care issues in prisons; 2) Conduct in-person usability
      testing of the full scale ECAD-P Learning System in state and federal prisons to evaluate the
      user interface, ease of use, and perceived barriers in order to optimize the scalable unit
      for broader dissemination; and 3) Test scale-up of the full scale ECAD-P Learning System in
      12 federal (n=6) and state (n=6) prisons across the nation to evaluate outcomes, usage
      patterns, and commercialization opportunities. Continued research and development will permit
      the refinement the scalable unit for commercialization. Expanded testing of the learning
      system will establish the effectiveness of the learning system and will provide critical
      insights relevant to dissemination of the commercial product.
    
  