
    
      Participants with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) (up to 8) will receive up to two PET/CT scans with
      11C-BU99008, a tracer alone and then a tracer scan following the administration of idazoxan.
      In addition, each participant will receive a structural MRI to enable anatomical registration
      of the PET data. These will enable the determination of the number and regional location of
      the I2BS in the brain of these conditions. These data will then be compared with that found
      in healthy human brains. In order to realise this, 11C-BU99008 scans alone and in conjunction
      with the mixed I2BS/α2-adrenoceptor drug idazoxan will be used. There is evidence that the
      I2BS have an age related increase in density. In order to be confident that any changes in
      the regional density and distribution of the I2BS that is seen is due to disease and not
      merely aging our AD participants will be age matched with the healthy participants.

      Potential participants that pass an initial telephone screen will be invited to a screening
      visit where their eligibility to take part in the study will be determined and informed
      consent taken. This will be at the Imperial CRF and Imanova Ltd. The screening will consist
      of an interview where the study will be discussed and explained. The participants'
      understanding of the procedure, requirements and commitments confirmed and any questions
      answered before informed consent taken. In addition to this interview the participants
      personal details and demographics will be recorded and a psychiatric and medical history
      taken as well as the following:

        -  Semi-structured interviews/questionnaires will be completed: Mini International
           Neuropsychiatric Interview 5 (MINI 5), Cognitive diagnostic test for dementia (CAMCOG)

        -  A medical examination and blood taken for clinical laboratory testing.

        -  A structural MRI.

        -  Review of your medical history and current state of health, including questions about
           psychiatric symptoms and your use of prescription and non-prescription drugs, as well as
           your use of illegal drugs and alcohol.

        -  Physical examination such as measurements of blood pressure and heart rate, ECG.

        -  Collecting a urine sample to check for presence of drugs.

        -  Alcohol breath test.

        -  An "Allen's Test" will be performed to check the blood supply to your hand.

        -  Other questionnaires: Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Eysenck personality
           (revised) (EPQ-R25), Spielberger Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), and MRI safety

      Participants that are eligible will then be invited to take part in the study. The schedule
      detailed below is the preferred scenario, however it may be necessary to perform the MRI and
      PET/CT scans on separate days due to considerations of logistics or participant convenience.
      If for some reason it is necessary to cancel or suspend a scan due to technical reasons (e.g.
      radioligand production failure, scanner failure, etc.), the participant will be asked to
      return on another day to repeat the scan/day. This will only happen if they have not had the
      radioligand administered for that particular scan by the time the study is suspended. This
      will mean that for those participants the days on which each of these scans takes place may
      be different.

      Each participant will receive up to two PET/CT scans and one MRI:

        -  Scanning Day; Morning (or Day 1) - structural MRI scan and baseline PET/CT scan with
           11C-BU99008 alone to determine the total number of binding sites (total, PET signal).

        -  Scanning Day; Afternoon (or Day 2) - blocking PET/CT scan with 11C-BU99008 in
           combination with a single dose of idazoxan (I2BS block)

      The combination of these two scans will allow the dissection of the regional contribution of
      the I2BS to the 11C-BU99008 specific signal, in order to get an accurate determination of the
      regional I2BS density.

      Scanning day - The participants will arrive at Imanova's scanning facility in the Burlington
      Danes Building, Hammersmith Hospital in the early morning. The exact time will be determined
      by the logistical constraints of the productions of 11C-BU99008. On arrival, participants
      will be asked if they agree to carry on participating in the study and their general health
      and compliance to study specific restrictions assessed by interview, urine drugs of abuse
      screen and breathalyser (for alcohol). Once it is confirmed they are eligible to proceed,
      they will undergo the procedures.

      The participants will be given a structural MRI scan and will then be cannulated in the
      radial artery and have a venous cannula inserted in the forearm or cubital veins. The
      arterial cannula is required for the collection of arterial blood sampling throughout the
      scan, to measure the concentration of the tracer in the arterial plasma for quantitative
      analysis of the PET signal. A venous cannula is required for the administration of
      11C-BU99008. Baseline subjective (e.g. Spielberger State Anxiety Inventory (SSAI) and visual
      analogue scales (VAS)) and objective measures (e.g. heart rate (HR) and blood pressure (BP))
      will be taken before they are prepared and positioned in the scanner for PET/CT scan 1. The
      scan will be up to 120 min in length, during which time HR and BP will be monitored. At the
      end of the scan, the participants will be removed and another set of subjective and objective
      measures taken. They will be given an acute dose of idazoxan (up to 80 mg; p.o.) about 120
      min before the start of the PET/CT scan 2 and another round of subjective and objective
      measures and arterial blood samples taken as in PET/CT scan 1. At the end of the last PET/CT
      scan of the day, the participant will be removed from the scanner, any indwelling cannulae
      removed, a final round of subjective and objective measures recorded, and their fitness to be
      sent home assessed by the attending clinician. If the participants are scanned on separate
      days, this assessment of fitness to be sent home will occur after that days scanning. When
      they are fit to leave they will be sent home in a taxi.
    
  