
    
      This is a prospective non-randomized study of patients with metastatic pancreatic ductal
      adenocarcinoma (PDAC) undergoing first-line systemic chemotherapy with either FOLFIRINOX or
      GP-based regimens, where tumour samples, baseline and serial blood and urine samples and
      standardized clinical and radiological assessments will be obtained. Patients planned for
      treatment with an investigational agent(s) within a clinical trial using either FOLFIRINOX or
      GP as the chemotherapy backbone will also be eligible, as long other eligibility criteria for
      the study are met.

      A total of 190 patients will be recruited over the study period. Patients will undergo fresh
      tumour biopsy at study enrollment for comprehensive molecular characterization (biopsy
      cohort). Patients who are unable to undergo biopsy but fulfill all other eligibility criteria
      will comprise the archival cohort, where limited genomic analyses will be performed on
      archival tumour samples. Patients with a radiological diagnosis of metastatic PDAC without a
      confirmatory histological diagnosis may be eligible; in these cases, tumour biopsy for
      establishing a pathological diagnosis will be given first priority. Remaining tumour samples
      will be used for research purposes only after the diagnosis of PDAC has been established. In
      the rare event (<5%) where the histological diagnosis is other than PDAC, patients will be
      censored from the study and all tumour materials stored for future clinical use outside of
      this study.

      All patients will undergo serial collection of plasma, serum and urine samples at baseline
      and every 4 weeks until radiological disease progression is confirmed using RECIST 1.1. These
      will be used for exploratory biomarker analyses. Serum CA19-9 will also be measured at
      baseline and every 4 weeks thereafter as part of routine standard of care until disease
      progression is confirmed. In addition, a whole blood sample will be collected at baseline to
      study germline DNA variants. CT chest, abdomen and pelvis will be performed at baseline and
      every 8 weeks, with radiological response to therapy assessed using RECIST 1.1.

      Patients in the biopsy cohort must have at least one tumour lesion amenable to biopsy from
      which a minimum of 3 tumour cores can be safely obtainable under CT or ultrasound guidance,
      as assessed by a staff interventional radiologist. A maximum of 5 tumour cores will be taken
      from each patient at baseline prior to treatment with FOLFIRINOX or GP. At the time of
      radiological disease progression, an optional second tumour biopsy will be collected to study
      changes in the molecular characteristics of tumours under the selection pressure of
      first-line systemic therapy. This tumour biopsy will be performed using exactly the same
      procedures described for the baseline biopsy. Tumour biopsies and molecular analyses will be
      performed through the Personalized Oncogenomics (POG) program of BC (British Columbia)
      pipeline. Depending on the amount of tumour material obtained from each patient, molecular
      analyses will be prioritized as described below.

      The primary endpoint of PanGen is the generation of molecular and phenotypic signatures of
      individual tumours in a clinically relevant timeframe. The signature data will be correlated
      with clinical outcome. One of the key strengths of this cohort approach will be the rigorous
      annotation of PDAC patients' clinical features and outcomes to all treatments (first-line and
      other) linked to the molecular profile. The investigators have the potential to be nimble as
      more data is generated, more hypotheses can be explored and others fine-tuned or eliminated.
    
  