
    
      Study design A crossover study and a case study design.

      Subjects Number of subjects 14 participants will be recruited for this study.

      Inclusion criteria Age:18 - 80 year Gender: men and women Level of amputation: unilateral
      transfemoral or transtibial Completed the rehabilitation program Functional Medicare
      Classification K-level 2-4

      Exclusion criteria Comorbidity (hemiplegia or neurological diseases) Stump pain or bad fit of
      the socket

      Procedures Recruitment process Experiments will take place at the research group Human
      Physiology and Sports Physiotherapy of campus Etterbeek from the Vrije Universiteit Brussel
      (Belgium). Participants will be recruited via clinical rehabilitation centers, such as V!GO
      (Wetteren or Pellenberg, Belgium), Jessa hospital (Hasselt, Belgium) or via advertisement and
      flyers. All participants will be providing written and oral information about the
      experimental protocol, potential risks and benefits before giving informed consent to
      participate in the study.

      Enrolment During a first meeting with the participant (either at home or at the laboratory)
      the experiment will be explained, informed consent is given, and a clinical anamnesis will
      occur. Eventually, appointments are made for the experiments. If necessary, a copy of the
      participants' current socket will be made to optimize fitting and alignment to the novel
      prosthesis.

      Familiarization The familiarization trial aimed to accustom participants to the experimental
      protocol, to get used to the measurements and the novel prosthesis. Participants will get
      enough time (60 minutes) to perform the tests with their current and novel prosthesis and to
      ensure a good alignment and fitting. Participants will be fitted and aligned to the novel
      device by a physiotherapist and prosthetist.

      Experimental protocol A (people with a transfemoral amputation) Participants with a Medicare
      Functional Classification K-level 2 are asked to visit the laboratory two times for a sit to
      stand test with their current prosthesis (first experiment) and the Cyberlegs X-leg (second
      experiment). During the sit to stand test (Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC):
      0.84-0.92), the participants will be asked to rise as often as possible from their chair in
      thirty seconds without support of their hands.

      Experimental protocol B (people with a transfemoral and -tibial amputation) Participants with
      a Medicare Functional Classification K-level 3 and 4 are asked to visit the laboratory two
      times for four consecutive tasks with ten minutes of rest in between each task. During the
      stair climbing test participants' will be asked to ascend and descend a staircase.
      Participants start in front of the staircase and are asked to ascend and descend as fast as
      possible. Bilateral handrails are required to allow support when needed. The ascending phase
      is initiated with the prosthetic side, while the first step of the descending phase is
      performed with the non-involved leg. The second task is the L-test (ICC: 0.97), where
      participants are asked to rise from a chair, walk through an office door, turn 90 degrees,
      walk down a hallway, turn 180 degrees and then return in the same way to the seated position.
      A total distance of 20 meter will be covered. The slope walking test assesses the
      participants' ability to ascend and descend an inclined ramp as fast as possible. For safety
      reasons bilateral handrails are warranted. Participants start the test in an upright position
      in front of the ramp and are asked to ascend the ramp, turn around on the platform, descend
      the ramp and return to the starting position. Finally, a hallway six-minute walk test (ICC:
      0.90 - 0.96) will be performed on a hallway at a self-selected walking speed, which closely
      relates to the most efficient walking speed.

      These four tests will be performed in four separate case studies with the POWER knee (Össur,
      Reykjavik) compared to the Cyberlegs X-leg, the POWER knee compared to the Cyberlegs X-leg
      knee with a passive ankle joint, the current prosthesis (either passive or quasi-passive)
      compared to the Cyberlegs X-leg and finally a passive or quasi-passive ankle joint compared
      to the Cyberlegs X-leg ankle joint. In the last case study, a participant with a transtibial
      amputation will be included.

      All appointments will take place at the same hour to counteract circadian rhythm effect, and
      at least 24 hours between each session will be planned to counteract mental and physical
      fatigue.

      Outcome measures and measurement devices Physical performance determinants will be gathered
      in terms of duration, number of stands and normal walking speed. Biomechanical outcome
      measures (spatiotemporal, kinematics and kinetics) will be recorded during the different
      tests with a motion capture system (VICON, UK), portable singe layer sensitive walkway
      (GAITRite®, CIR systems, USA) and inertial measurement units (Technaid®, Spain). Outcomes
      from these devices include joint angels, pressure plots, cadence, step width and length, and
      stance and swing phases. Physiological outcome measures (cardiovascular, respiratory and
      electrophysiological) will be collected with a heart rate sensor (Polar® M400, H7-sensor,
      Finland), an ergospirometric device (K5®, Cosmed, Italy), a life monitor vest (Equivital®,
      USA) and electromyography device (Mini Wave®, Cometa, Italy). Outcome measures from these
      devices include heart rate, oxygen uptake, carbon dioxide production, ventilation,
      electrocardiogram, skin temperature and muscle activity (peak and mean amplitude).
      Psychological outcome measures like the rating of perceived exertion (score between 6-20),
      the visual analogue scale ( score on 100) for comfort and fatigue will be collected after the
      tests. The EuroQol-5D (score on 100) will be filled in before each trial. Other
      questionnaires will be completed during the familiarization, i.e. the mini-mental state
      examination (score on 30), the prosthetic evaluation questionnaire and the system usability
      scale.
    
  