
    
      Background Women with motor disabilities have the same well-founded desire to become a mother
      as other women. Despite dedicated aids and adapted supportive measures, they face social
      blame from persons who believe they are not apt to provide adequate care to their children.
      When a rare disease caused the disability, planning to become a mother is even more critical,
      since most perinatal care providers are unfamiliar with the condition, and specialists of the
      disease are unfamiliar with pregnancy. Unsurprisingly, data on motherhood in women with rare
      diseases resulting in motor impairment are scarce.

      The institutions of the investigators run a joint care program dedicated to future parents
      and parents with disabilities, namely:

        -  Hôpital Universitaire Pitié Salpêtrière- Charles Foix (assistance Publique Hôpitaux de
           Paris and Université Paris 6), providing a gynecological and perinatal unit with care
           programs adapted to women with disabilities, plus a number of reference centers for rare
           neurologic and muscular diseases including research and clinical care.

        -  Service d'Aide à la Parentalité des Personnes en Situation de Handicap (SAPPH, Fondation
           Hospitalière Sainte Marie) providing training and support to parenthood to persons with
           motor or sensory disabilities. This training program aims at recognizing parental
           capacities, and if necessary enhancing them by information, training, adapting the
           environment, or seeking extra human help.

      The investigators felt the need to evaluate the outcome of our program, in terms of quality
      of infant environment, development, attachment, and interactions with their disabled mother.
      The investigators focused on parenthood in women with a rare disease resulting in motor
      impairment, a research field remaining largely unexplored so far.

      Hypothesis Our hypothesis is that when provided with a specific care program, mothers with
      motor impairment due to a rare disease and their partners have the capacity to offer their
      children appropriate social environment and care, resulting in child development,
      mother-infant attachment, and mother- infant interactions being similar to what one would
      expect in women without motor impairment.

      Objective Primary objective To describe social environment, child development, mother-infant
      attachment, mother- infant interactions, when the mother has motor impairment due du a rare
      disease.

      Secondary objective

        1. To describe maternal and perinatal outcome when the mother has motor impairment due du a
           rare disease

        2. To explore a potential relation between the outcome criteria of the primary goal with

             -  The severity of motor impairment

             -  The causal disease

             -  The personal history of the mother including her access to adapted care prior to
                pregnancy during pregnancy and post-partum

             -  The social status of the family

             -  The emotional status of the mother

        3. To compare the distribution of primary goal outcome criteria in our study population to
           what is expected in the general population, when appropriate

        4. To compare the distribution of primary goal outcome criteria in our study population to
           what we observed in women with motor impairment that does not result from a rare disease

        5. To describe the needs expressed by women regarding medical care, psychological, social,
           and environmental support

      Eligibility criteria Please see specific box

      Outcome measurements (assessed at least once before the age of 14 months, see specific box)
      Primary outcome Child development /Infant attachment /Social environment /Mother infant
      interaction/ Child protection legal decisions if applicable Secondary outcome Demographic and
      social characteristics Disease or event causing impairment Obstetrical history Somatic and
      psychic events before, during pregnancy, and post-partum History of access to care Severity
      of impairment and handicap Maternal emotional status Needs expressed by women regarding
      medical care, psychological, social, and environmental support

      Study design Pre inclusion: written and verbal information on the study to all women with
      motor impairment seeking care either at the Pitié Salpétrière Maternity unit or at the
      Service d'Aide à la Parentalité pour les Personnes en Situation de Handicap (SAPPH) Inclusion
      visit: During a planned training session, either pre natal or post natal Follow up visit:
      once of twice before the child is 14 months. A specific consent of both parents will be
      required for all outcome criteria concerning the infant.

      Research visits will take place during usual visits of our parenthood support and training
      program.

      Analysis The investigators shall describe the distribution of the primary outcome
      measurements in the subgroup of women with motor impairment related to a rare disease. The
      investigators shall compare this distribution to the expected distribution in the general
      population, and to that observed in women with motor impairment unrelated to a rare disease.
      The investigators shall also study primary outcome measurements as a function of the severity
      of maternal disability, of the mother's social characteristics and emotional status.

      The investigators shall also describe the distribution the distribution of perinatal
      morbidity globally, and as a function of the potential explanatory variables mentioned above.

      the investigators shall also report on the opinion of women regarding the support they were
      offered so far, and the support they declare they should benefit from.
    
  