
    
      The airway control is priority in patient resuscitation. The Laryngeal Mask Airway (LMA) can
      minimize complications, establishing a safe airway. Is fundamental to nurse acquired skills
      to act in emergency situations; the simulation is a important learning tool for this, because
      allows a realistic environment and allows to student the possibility of training skills.

      Hypothesis: There difference in acquisition of knowledge and skills in airway management to
      baccalaureate nursing students submitted to different learning strategies: classroom
      lecture-dialogued follow of laboratory activity practice with low-fidelity mannequin or
      simulation in laboratory with low-fidelity mannequin?

      The aim of this study is compare the effect of teaching-learning strategies: classroom
      lecture-dialogued follow of laboratory activity practice with low-fidelity mannequin or
      simulation in laboratory with low-fidelity mannequin, in the acquisition of knowledge and
      skills to baccalaureate nursing. This is a randomized controlled trial, the population is all
      students of baccalaureate nursing of EERP-USP, eighth period, 69 students in total; the
      sample will be voluntary and composed for students that accept participate of study. The
      intervention group (IG) will be submitted to simulation class and the control group (CG)to
      exhibition-dialogued class, and practical activity in skill lab. The study will have 3 steps:

        1. The participants will be recruited with letters and posters, randomized to IG or CG and
           follow submitted to write pre-test.

        2. The GI will submitted to simulation in laboratory and de CG classroom lecture-dialogued
           follow of laboratory activity practice. The focus will be the airway management with
           emphasis in LMA.

        3. All participants will be submitted to write post test and follow to practice test in
           simulation scenario, with medium-fidelity mannequin, which simulates human physiologic
           conditions.

      The scenario will have a appraiser with a checklist which performance scores of skills and
      interventions observed. The activities will be filmed and recorded. To data analysis will be
      used the SPSS software: descriptive statistics, chi-square test, t-test of Student.
    
  