
    
      Poor retention in HIV primary care results in lower rates of HIV viral suppression, higher
      rates of HIV transmission, and exacerbates racial and ethnic disparities in health outcomes,
      including survival. To date, there are no interventions that effectively relink and retain
      PWH in care when they are found outside the HIV clinic. Many persons with HIV infection (PWH)
      are hospitalized with life-threatening but preventable complications of inadequately treated
      HIV infection. They are among the most important patients to retain in care. Our previous
      research shows that among PWH who are out of care and hospitalized, avoidance coping, stigma,
      and mental health difficulties were nearly universal. Further, avoidance coping was a
      predictor of failure to re-engage in care after discharge. Acceptance and Commitment Therapy
      (ACT) is a transdiagnostic intervention with the capacity to address a range of psychosocial
      and behavior-related issues that PWH experience. ACT helps patients overcome avoidance,
      particularly avoidance of uncomfortable internal states and the situations that trigger such
      states, by promoting acceptance-based coping and re-engagement in meaningful and valued-life
      activities. Brief ACT interventions appear to be feasible, acceptable, and at least
      preliminarily, have efficacy. The investigators propose to develop, refine, and pilot a brief
      (4-5 contact hours) ACT intervention for hospitalized, out-of-care PWH. 'Targeting HIV
      Retention and Improved Viral load through Engagement' ('THRIVE') will aim to help patients
      overcome avoidance, a maladaptive coping strategy implicated in a range of problems,
      including depression, anxiety, substance abuse, and HIV-related self-stigma, all of which
      constitute barriers to care. Delivering THRIVE in the hospital with a phone booster session
      after discharge will increase therapy initiation and completion, the lack of which is often
      the greatest obstacle to effective delivery of mental health services for PWH. In Aim 1, a
      brief hospital-based transdiagnostic, individually delivered ACT intervention (THRIVE)
      tailored specifically for out-of-care hospitalized PWH will be developed. Input from a
      multi-disciplinary team of expert care providers and PHW will be utilized to create the
      therapist protocol and patient workbook. The investigators will then pilot THRIVE in 10
      hospitalized out-of-care PWH who will provide qualitative feedback on the intervention. The
      feedback, along with input from patients and the multi-disciplinary team, will be used to
      refine THRIVE. In Aim 2, the investigators will conduct a pilot randomized clinical trial
      (RCT) of the refined THRIVE intervention (N=35) compared to treatment as usual (N=35). This
      pilot RCT will 1) evaluate feasibility and acceptability for a full-scale RCT; and 2) examine
      trends in outcomes of interest for the definitive RCT. The investigators will then be
      positioned to submit a separate grant to test the efficacy of THRIVE in a fully powered
      randomized trial. This work has the potential to decrease HIV morbidity and racial/ethnic
      disparities and contribute to ending the HIV epidemic in the United States, which are NIH
      priorities.
    
  