
    
      The T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is an human retrovirus that was proved to be the
      main agent of the acute T cell lymphoma/leukemia (ATLL) and a progressive neurological
      disease called HTLV-1 associated myelopathy/ tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP).

      The HTLV-1 was first isolated in 1980 and it is endemic in Japan, Caribbean, Africa and South
      America. It is estimated that about 20 million people is infected worldwide. In Brazil it is
      present in all states with variable prevalences. The factors associated with HTLV-1
      transmission in Brazil are related to the social and demographic condition, characterized by
      rural exodus and increase of urban population in the coast areas.

      Several studies based in Brazil reported that the epicenter of HTLV-1 infection is on Bahia,
      Maranhão and Pernambuco with the highest prevalence of 1,8% in Salvador, Bahia capital.

      The urinary incontinence is a bladder-sphincter disturbance often found in HTLV-1 patients.
      In this infection the most common pathology finding is overactive bladder syndrome due
      detrusor overactivity and sphincter-detrusor dyssynergia and the symptoms are urgency,
      nocturia and incontinence.

      This disabling disease is associated with psychosocial issues like loss of self confidence,
      social isolation and reduced quality of life.

      The physical therapy treatment have the objective of promote social adequacy and reestablish
      the bladder function. It is based on resources like: bladder reeducation, biofeedback,
      kinesiotherapy of the pelvic wall, utilization of vaginal cones and electrostimulation.

      Those can be associated or not with anticholinergic drugs and bladder catheterization.

      The need of urologic and gynecologic physical therapy follow up in patients with HTLV-1 and
      neurogenic bladder is important to reduce disability, preserve pelvic muscles and renal
      function.
    
  