
    
      Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is characterized by a progressive decrease in beta cell function due to
      an autoimmune attack on the beta cells, which will lead to a reduction in insulin secretion.
      Endogenous insulin secretion can be determined measuring C-peptide, which is secreted in
      equal amounts to insulin. The loss of insulin secretion, indicated by an immeasurable
      C-peptide level, will hamper glycemic control which results in increased glycated haemoglobin
      (HbA1c) levels. Also, hypoglycemic events can occur more frequently. Initially, the belief
      was that this could be explained by the loss of all pancreatic beta cells due to the
      autoimmune attack. However, recent literature suggests that a considerable number of beta
      cells can survive this attack. This could mean that certain beta cells survived, but have
      lost their function. The ratio of functional and non-functional residual beta cells might
      play an important role in the degree of glycemic control. It would therefore be of great
      interest to study residual beta cell mass in two types of T1D patients that differ in
      glycemic control. Although both types of patients receive treatment, one group of patients is
      characterized by a stable near-normal glucose control while the second group is characterized
      by an unstable glucose control. In case glycemic control mostly depends on beta cell function
      and less on beta cell mass, novel therapies could focus on the functional reactivation of
      these non-functional beta cells to restore overall beta cell function. This could especially
      be in favour of patients with an unstable glucose control. Beta cell mass will be determined
      using Ga-68-NODAGA-exendin-4 positron emission tomography (PET), which allows visualization
      of pancreatic beta cells as well as absolute quantification of tracer uptake, providing a
      measure for the pancreatic beta cell mass. The outcome of this study will lead to a better
      understanding of the relation between the amount of residual beta cells, beta cell function
      and the influence of glycemic control. This could provide new insights regarding the
      development of new therapies to improve beta cell function and glycemic control, which could
      lower disease burden and improve the patient's quality of life.
    
  