
    
      Goltz syndrome or Focal Dermal Hypoplasia (FDH) is an X-linked dominant neurodevelopmental
      disorder. The primary features of FDH include areas of hypoplastic skin (atrophy, linear
      pigmentation and herniation of fat through dermal defects), digital patterning defects
      (syndactyly, polydactyly, camptodactyly, absence deformities), ocular and dental
      malformations, mild dysmorphism. Variable other defects include a pointed chin, hypoplastic
      ears, nasal deformities, short stature, papillomas of lips, gingival and larynx, dystrophic
      nails, sparse brittle hair. Mental retardation occurs in approximately 15%. 90% of
      individuals with FDH are female. 95% percent of all cases and 100% of male cases appear de
      novo.

      Using array-based comparative hybridization (array-CGH) a deletion was initially identified
      in PORCN in two girls with FDH. Sequencing of genes in this region has resulted in the
      identification of mutations in PORCN in >75% of other individuals affected with FDH. A
      manuscript describing these mutations was published in Nature Genetics (Wang, 2007). PORCN
      encodes the human homolog of the Drosophila porcupine protein and has been found in
      drosophila and mouse studies to be a key regulator of Wnt-protein signaling. We believe that
      the PORCN mutation may cause FDH by affecting Wnt signaling, but this has yet to be proven.

      For this study we are collecting information on patients with clinical findings suggestive of
      FDH or with known PORCN mutations. A detailed family history will be obtained when indicated,
      and additional family members will be evaluated afer appropriately obtained written voluntary
      consent. A detailed report of the history or physical findings will be obtained from
      referring physicians for patients identified at outside facilities or the participants may be
      evaluated by the study collaborators. Blood will be obtained from affected individuals
      unaffected parents and from other affected or unaffected family members where indicated.
      Occasionally, affected individuals may undergo surgical procedures with removal of tissues;
      in this case we may obtain tissues that would be otherwise discarded or that are not
      essential for further diagnostic studies or clinical care of the patient. It is anticipated
      that these specimens will be extremely valuable for understanding the pathogenesis of the
      investigated conditions. DNA, RNA or protein will be prepared from leukocytes and from
      tissues and used for mutation analysis and other molecular studies of the identified genes.
      Permanent lymphoblastoid cell lines will be prepared and stored in the laboratory as a
      permanent source of DNA for the molecular studies.

      We are not actively recruiting but study remains open for data analysis on existing data and
      samples.
    
  