
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the impact of adjuvant chemotherapy comprising epirubicin hydrochloride
           followed by cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil versus cyclophosphamide,
           methotrexate, and fluorouracil followed by epirubicin hydrochloride versus
           cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil on overall survival of patients with
           biologically aggressive, resectable, node-negative or node-positive breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To assess the disease-free survival and patterns of relapse in these patients.

        -  To assess the tolerance to and toxicity of treatment in these patients.

        -  To determine the quality of life of these patients.

        -  To verify the effectiveness of these treatments in different subgroups of patients.

        -  To collect, retrospectively, information on the expression of tumor suppressor gene p53,
           oncogene c-erbB-2, and bcl-2 protein involved in apoptosis. (exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to center, lymph node
      status (N0 vs N1-3), and estrogen receptor status (negative vs positive). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Beginning 4-6 weeks following surgery, patients receive epirubicin hydrochloride
           IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses. Patients then receive
           cyclophosphamide IV, methotrexate IV, and fluorouracil IV on days 1-8. Treatment repeats
           every 4 weeks for 4 courses.

        -  Arm II: Beginning 4-6 weeks following surgery, patients receive cyclophosphamide IV,
           methotrexate IV, and fluorouracil IV on days 1-8. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 4
           courses. Patients then receive epirubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1. Treatment repeats
           every 3 weeks for 4 courses.

        -  Arm III (closed to accrual as of 12/7/2009): Beginning 4-6 weeks following surgery,
           patients receive cyclophosphamide IV, methotrexate IV, and fluorouracil IV on days 1-8.
           Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 6 courses.

      Patients with estrogen receptor-positive disease receive tamoxifen daily for 5 years after
      completing chemotherapy.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6
      months for 4 years, and then annually for 5 years.
    
  