
    
      The research is based on a combination of retrospective, cross-sectional, and prospective
      cohort studies.

      In particular, the retrospective cohort study collects historical information of the studied
      cohort from 2014 to 2018 from secondary medical units, residents' community health service
      centers, emergency departments, and their health records. Patients' past diseases such as
      hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, information on the
      history of drug use, and lifestyle (if any) are collected and sorted out. Moreover,
      information on cardiovascular and cerebrovascular morbidity and death among members of the
      cohort is collected.

      The cross-sectional study builds on the baseline research conducts during 2019-2020.
      Specifically, baseline research contains the following procedures:

        1. Epidemiological survey: Design the Cardio-Cerebrovascular Disease Prevention and Control
           Questionnaire in accordance with the principles and requirements of the cohort study. On
           the premise of informed notification, data are collected through face-to-face interviews
           between the studied cohort and investigators who signed the informed consent and
           received uniform training. Quality control staff will review the questionnaire for
           quality control. The main content includes demographic sociology, lifestyle, physical
           exercise, daily eating habits, usage of dietary supplements, personal and family medical
           history, psychological assessment, and female fertility history.

        2. Physical examination: the examination is performed by the clinical professional
           physician in the health service center. The examination content includes height, weight,
           blood pressure, hearing, vision, internal surgery, body fat composition (optional),
           chest radiograph, electrocardiogram, B-ultrasound, carotid ultrasound (optional), and
           other imaging examinations.

        3. Clinical biochemical test: fasting blood collection should be performed by all
           individuals upon their enrollment. The blood samples collected are tested for
           biochemistry, liver and kidney function, blood lipid analysis, and electrolyte analysis
           in accordance with clinical testing requirements.

        4. Biological specimen collection: collect 10ml ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid blood
           samples using a health checkup, then send them to renji sample bank for separation
           within 2 hours, and store in -80℃ ultra-low temperature refrigerator.

      Lastly, the prospective study will be conducted from 2020 to 2025. Through annual active
      (phone, face-to-face interview, etc.) and passive follow-ups, we track the health status of
      the cohort including cardio-cerebral vascular disease occurrence, death, migration, etc.,
      collect data that matches its baseline value, analyze the morbidity and mortality of the
      cohort population, and grasp the morbidity, the order of the diseases, mortality, and order
      of the cause of death for each disease, especially the cardiovascular and cerebrovascular
      diseases.
    
  