
    
      Nutri-Bébé 2013 is the 5th edition of a survey conducted every 8 years since 1981 by the
      SFAE. The Nutri-Bébé 2013 survey is an observational cross-sectional study conducted in
      children living in France aged 15 days to 35 months by an official polling institute, the TNS
      Sofres according to the guidelines laid down in the Declaration of Helsinki. TNS Sofres
      fulfills the following standards and industry requirements (ESOMAR professional code of
      conduct and standards, ISO 20252:2012 international standard for market, opinion and social
      research, French data protection act (loi "informatique et libertés "). TNS Sofres ensures to
      conduct the surveys in accordance with the regulation on personal data protection and that
      respondents' personal identity is withheld. Moreover TNS Sofres appointed a data protection
      officer, the "Correspondant Informatique et Libertés", who is the point of contact between
      the "Commission Nationale de l'Informatique et des Libertés" (CNIL), the French data
      protection authority) and the company. The company is thus exempted, of the notification
      process to the CNIL. Given the type of survey conducted, namely a survey of consumption, and
      the characteristics developed above, the study does not require any opinion of the ethics
      committee.

      The survey includes a section on eating behaviours and a section on food consumption.

      After giving their informed consent, parents had to record the food consumption during 3
      non-consecutive days (2 week days and one weekend day)framed by two face-to-face interviews,.
      A second visit occurred seven days later to verify and complete the diary if necessary, and
      conduct a face-to-face interview with the mother about eating habits over the survey period.
      Both interviews were recorded using CAPI® software (Computer Assisted Personal Interviews,
      http://www.soft-concept.com). During this visit, the child was weighed (naked, with a clean
      diaper or underwear) using a Tefal PREMISS PP1000VO scale with a precision of 100 g.

      The child's food consumption diary was completed between the two visits of the TNS Sofres
      investigator. The person in charge of the child was trained to qualitatively and
      quantitatively report all liquid and solid foods consumed and all drinks, by specifying the
      exact name of the product, its potential trademark or whether it was "homemade". The type of
      water consumed was noted as being either "bottled" or "tap". The type (breakfast, morning
      snack, lunch, afternoon snack, dinner, nocturnal food intake) and timing of food consumption
      were collected. If applicable, vitamin, mineral or medicine supplements were noted. During
      the second visit the investigator reviewed thoroughly the record with the caregiver and
      checked the way of reporting the quantities as well as the interpretation of the photographic
      tool kit in order to be as close as possible to reality.
    
  