
    
      Craniosynostosis is a condition in which there is premature fusion of one or more of the
      sutures between the bones of the skull. Premature fusion of sutures in the skull limits the
      ability of the cranial vault to expand to accommodate the rapidly growing brain in infancy
      and early childhood and leads to bony deformation. Left uncorrected, craniosynostosis may
      adversely impact both neurologic and psychosocial development and in some cases, can result
      in high intracranial pressure and blindness.

      Craniofacial (CF) reconstructive surgery is performed in young children with craniosynostosis
      to improve physical appearance, prevent functional neurologic disturbances, and enhance
      psychosocial development. Due to the complexities of the surgery as well as the young age and
      size of the patients, CF reconstruction carries potential life threatening risks and can
      result in significant morbidity. Reported complications include massive intraoperative
      hemorrhage, intraoperative cardiac arrest, transfusion-related reactions, venous air
      embolism, hypotension, coagulopathy, bradycardia, postoperative seizures, surgical site
      infections, facial swelling with airway compromise, and unplanned postoperative mechanical
      ventilation. The most severe and most common perioperative issues relate to the rate and
      extent of blood loss.

      Fibrinolysis, which impairs adequate hemostasis, has been shown to occur in children during
      CF reconstruction. This most certainly contributes to the magnitude of blood loss in these
      types of operations. Thus, targeting this defect in clot hemostasis with the use of
      antifibrinolytics is a reasonable therapeutic approach.

      Amicar (ε-aminocaproic acid) is a synthetic lysine analog that blocks the lysine binding
      sites on plasminogen, resulting in antifibrinolytic activity through inhibition of plasmin
      formation. We have chosen to study Amicar in this clinical context for a number of reasons.
      First, major hemorrhage continues to be a significant perioperative issue in this cohort.
      Secondly, Amicar is commonly and safely administered to children undergoing other types of
      high-risk surgery (i.e., spinal fusion surgery and open heart surgery). In addition, Amicar
      is inexpensive and easily administered, making it a viable and novel therapeutic option if
      shown to be effective for this type of surgery.
    
  