
    
      1. Pregnancy cohort management and follow-up

        1. All pregnant women in the group are included in the study queue and have a uniform
           number, which is followed up until the birth.

        2. Detailed case reporting forms have been developed to record the data.

        3. We have set up a relatively complete electronic database of obstetrics, which will
           include modules related to this study, which will be available for this project
           management data.

        4. This project has a full-time research assistant as a high-grade nurse. He is responsible
           for the maternity examination and follow-up of pregnant women in the group and ensures
           the norms of the maternity inspection process so as to reduce the heterogeneity caused
           by inconsistent labor inspection times. All birth tests are conducted in accordance with
           the Guidelines for Pre-conception and Pregnancy Care.

        5. Pregnant women diagnosed as GDM will be managed in accordance with the Guide for the
           Diagnosis and Treatment of Pregnancy Combined with Diabetes(2014).

        6. In addition to conducting five blood samples and tissue collection, we have followed the
           existing clinical principles and guidelines in handling and intervening in pregnancy and
           childbirth-related issues.

      2. Collection Time and Content of Clinical Indicators

        1. Data collection time nodes: pregnancy 11-13 + 6 weeks, pregnancy 18-20 weeks, pregnancy
           24-28 weeks, hospitalization during childbirth, six months after delivery.

        2. When entering the group: age, pre-pregnancy weight, height, pregnancy, birth; Ask for
           history, history of marriage and family history in detail.

        3. items to be collected for each birth test: weight, blood pressure, palace height,
           abdominal circumference; Assess complications during pregnancy.

        4. Pregnancy B Super monitoring: At least 11-13 weeks of early pregnancy B super, 18-24
           weeks of three-dimensional color super, 32 weeks and 37 weeks of color Super.

      3. Collection time and content of laboratory indicators

        1. Data collection time nodes: pregnancy 11-13 + 6 weeks, pregnancy 18-20 weeks, pregnancy
           24-28 weeks, hospitalization during childbirth, six months after delivery.

        2. When entering the group(11-13 + 6 weeks of pregnancy): Extraction of blood 10 ~ 15ml to
           detect relevant metabolic biological indicators in the molecular influence center
           laboratory of our hospital or the National University of China Gene Company, such as:
           Asprosin, leptin, etc..

        3. Pregnancy 18-20 weeks ago: Extraction of blood 10 ~ 15ml in our laboratory molecular
           center laboratory to detect related metabolic biological indicators, such as: Asprosin,
           leptin and so on.

        4. Pregnancy 24-28 weeks: draw blood 10 ~ 15ml. Routine clinical examination and
           examination of OGTT test in our hospital examination department, and the detection of
           blood lipid and glycosylated hemoglobin. Additional metabolic biomarkers are detected in
           the central laboratory of molecular in our hospital.

        5. Inpatient delivery: routine inpatient blood collection examination, and blood extraction
           10 ~ 15ml in our hospital molecular influence center laboratory to detect related
           metabolic biological indicators, such as: Asprosin, leptin and so on.

        6. Six months after delivery: GDM group patients will undergo postpartum review in our
           hospital, draw blood 10 ~ 15ml in our hospital molecular influence center laboratory to
           detect related metabolic biological indicators, such as: Asprosin, leptin, etc..

      4. GDM diagnostic criteria 75g OGTT method: OGTT fasting at least 8 hours before the test,
      continuous 3 days normal diet before the test, that is, eating carbohydrates not less than
      150g per day, sit-in during the examination, smoking ban. At the time of examination, 5 min
      was taken orally with a liquid of 75g of glucose, and 1 and 2 hours of venous
      blood(calculated from the start of drinking glucose water) was extracted from the pregnant
      woman before and after taking sugar, and placed in a test tube containing sodium fluoride.
      Glucose oxidase method was used to determine blood sugar level.

      The diagnostic criteria for 75g OGTT: 1, 2 H before and after taking sugar, 3 blood sugar
      values should be below 5.1, 10.0, 8.5 mmol/L(92, 180, 153 mg/dl), respectively. Any blood
      sugar value that reaches or exceeds the above criteria is diagnosed as GDM.

      5. Measures to manage GDM Since there is currently no basis for the GDM management of
      pregnant women who meet the GDM diagnostic criteria 24 weeks ago, the OGTT anomaly is
      sufficient to diagnose the GDM for the standardized management of gestational diabetes. Refer
      specifically to the Guide for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Pregnancy with Diabetes(2014).
      Any test of abnormal glycolipids metabolism, or any other test to diagnose diabetes
      complicated pregnancy(this diagnosis is different from GDM, with an empty abdomen of 7.0
      mmol/L or 2 H to 11.1 mmol/L), Both began management of diabetes during pregnancy(the group
      will withdraw from the study).

      6. Monitoring and follow-up during childbirth. 6.1 Clinical data collection on pregnant women
      during childbirth Items to be collected during the birth of a pregnant woman: pregnancy,
      perinatal complications, mode of delivery, and the duration of the birth.

      6.2 Laboratory data collection on pregnant women during childbirth Pregnant women during
      childbirth: peripheral blood sugar test(fasting and 2 hours after meal blood sugar), glycated
      hemoglobin.

      6.3 Neonatal clinical and laboratory data collection

        1. The items to be collected by newborns: birth weight, length, head circumference,
           shoulder circumference, abdominal circumference, upper arm circumference, birth style,
           newborn Apgar score, whether to transfer to Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, Neonatal
           complications(hypoglycemia, neonatal hypocalcemia, neonatal hyperbilirubinemia, neonatal
           erythrocytosis, neonatal asphyxia, neonatal respiratory distress syndrome, etc..)

        2. Neonatal test: umbilical blood sugar(GDM group only)
    
  