
    
      Study Design and Approach This is a large-scale randomized pragmatic trial implementing
      pharmacotherapy guidelines and behavioral interventions in real-world settings.

      In this trial, the researchers will examine the comparative effectiveness of two approaches
      to reducing opioid dosages for chronic non-cancer patients (CNCP) who are on chronic opioid
      therapy (COT): shared decision making (SDM) and guideline-concordant pharmacotherapy (Arm 1)
      compared with cognitive behavioral therapy for chronic pain and motivational interviewing
      (CBT-CP+MI) and guideline-concordant pharmacotherapy (Arm 2).

      Rationale:

        -  Up to one-third of Americans suffer from chronic noncancer pain (CNCP) (Institute of
           Medicine, 2011).

        -  Opioids are often used to treat CNCP. Once on chronic opioid therapy (COT), individuals
           often continue with this class of medication for years (Martin et al., 2011; Vanderlip
           et al., 2014).

        -  Evidence for the effectiveness of COT to treat CNCP is limited, exposing individuals to
           known risks (Chou et al., 2014).

        -  Modified or novel pharmacological and nonpharmacological strategies are needed to
           improve pain management and promote informed decision making regarding possible opioid
           dose reduction.

        -  This project will evaluate two nonpharmacologic approaches to pain management and opioid
           reduction in primary care and specialty pain clinics.

        -  The approaches are designed to educate medical care providers and patients currently
           being treated for CNCP, help patients address pain and pain coping skills, and enhance
           patient motivation to reduce or discontinue opioid use

        -  This study will determine the feasibility, effectiveness and potential scalability of
           these interventions in reducing opioid use in patients who are using ≥ 20 morphine
           equivalent doses [MED]).

        -  The study will also assess patient acceptability of the interventions including
           involvement in their implementation and willingness to incur out-of-pocket costs
           associated with the visits.

      Objectives:

      To conduct a multisite pragmatic trial of two active interventions: shared decision making
      (SDM) as compared with cognitive behavioral therapy for chronic pain with motivational
      interviewing (MI+CBT-CP).

      Primary Objective

      • To assess if the interventions result in opioid dose reduction and compare their
      effectiveness.

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To examine the impact of the interventions on physical function.

        -  To examine the impact of the interventions on pain interference.

      Timeline:

      The project commenced in February 2018. Study recruitment began in June 2019.

      Recruitment, Screening, Enrollment, and Randomization:

      The proposed study will enroll 530 participants in each arm, from primary care and pain
      clinics at three medical centers. Participants must be receiving high-dose COT for chronic
      non-cancer pain (CNCP) as evidenced by current or most recent prescription of an average
      daily morphine-equivalent dose (MED) of 20 mg or greater for CNCP.

      Patient recruitment will occur on a rolling basis beginning in June 2019 and will last for up
      to 26 months. Delivery of the intervention will also occur on a rolling basis with the
      recruitment process. Patients who are potentially eligible will be identified through
      electronic health records (EHRs) and contacted with an invitation to participate. Interested
      patients will be met at their next clinic visit by a Research Coordinator to complete
      screening, enrollment, and randomization.

      The study will use real-time randomization to limit participant loss prior to treatment.
      Eligible patients will be randomized using a stratified, permuted-block design, as this
      constrained randomization approach ensures balance between treatment groups within each of
      the 3 clinical institutions (our only stratification factor) at the completion of each block.
      Patients will be provided study information based on their treatment assignment.

      Interventions:

      In Arm 1, patients and clinicians will engage in Shared Decision Making (SDM). In Arm 2,
      patients will participate in cognitive behavioral therapy for chronic pain (CBT-CP) and
      motivational interviewing (MI).

      Patients in both study arms will receive guideline-concordant pharmacotherapy treatment,
      based on clinical guidelines for opioid therapy for CNCP.

      Data Collection We will employ a comprehensive, multi-mode data collection method that
      includes the collection of patient-reported outcomes through Web-based and phone-based
      surveys, and that leverages existing harmonized EHR data. We will use validated measures to
      measure the impact of the interventions.

      We will assess our primary outcomes using EHR data from 4 timepoints: baseline, 6 months, 12
      months, and 18 months. Reduction of opioid use will be measured as prescribed milligrams of
      daily morphine equivalent.

      We will measure our secondary outcomes using patient-reported outcomes. Patient-reported
      outcomes, including physical functioning and level of pain, will be measured via patient
      survey at 3 timepoints: baseline, 6 months, and 12 months.

      Data Analysis and Reporting:

      In a large pragmatic trial such as the one planned, the probability is small that the groups
      will have imbalance by age, sex, health behaviors, or other measured or unmeasured possible
      confounding factors. Nevertheless, researchers will assess whether randomization has
      successfully created comparable groups by descriptively comparing their baseline demographic
      characteristics and potential confounders, including baseline pain score, comorbidities,
      opioid dosage, and number and type of CNCP conditions.

      Researchers will evaluate clinical outcomes and patient-reported outcomes using longitudinal
      analyses. Analyses will use longitudinal (mixed effects) models to compare opioid dose over
      18 months between the two study arms. Researchers also will explore differences in the
      intervention effect according to participant characteristics, such as age, sex, baseline pain
      level, baseline opioid dose, and the presence of physical comorbidities, mental health
      comorbidities, or a history of substance abuse.
    
  