
    
      OUTLINE: This is a phase II study. Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously
      (IV), vinblastine sulfate IV, and dacarbazine IV on days 1 and 15. Patients also receive
      brentuximab vedotin IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for
      up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      • To establish an estimate of the two-year progression-free survival (PFS) for patients with
      HIV-associated stage III-IV Hodgkin lymphoma when treated using brentuximab vedotin plus the
      AVD chemotherapy regimen.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

        -  To evaluate the toxicity of AVD and brentuximab vedotin with highly active
           antiretroviral therapy (HAART).

        -  To estimate the partial response (PR) rate, complete response (CR) rate, overall
           survival (OS), and event free survival (EFS) at 2 and 5 years.

        -  To evaluate the effect of AVD and brentuximab vedotin on CD4 and CD8 counts after cycle
           1, 4, at the end of therapy, and every 3 months after treatment completion for one year.

        -  To investigate the prognostic value of FDG-PET/CT scans at baseline, after cycle 2, and
           at treatment completion, with respect to 2-year progression free survival.

        -  To evaluate HAART status at baseline and to correlate this with tumor response to
           therapy and OS and PFS.

        -  To characterize the histologic subtypes in HIV-HL in the HAART era.

        -  To assess the neurotoxicity of HAART in combination with AVD and brentuximab vedotin.

        -  To evaluate effect of AVD and brentuximab vedotin on viral load after cycle 1, 4, at the
           completion of therapy, and every 3 months after treatment completion for one year.
    
  