
    
      The LDL cholesterol-raising effect of saturated fat is complex, and highly variable between
      individuals because of differences in the metabolism of dietary fat and cholesterol between
      people. While these differences in metabolism make it difficult to study how dietary
      saturated fat influences LDL-cholesterol in large numbers of people, they can be measured in
      the laboratory and used as biological markers to distinguish between people who respond well
      from those who will respond less well to moderate-fat diets which are lower in saturated fat.

      The main aim of this study is to measure the amount of variation in blood LDL-cholesterol in
      150 healthy volunteers (75 at the University of Surrey and 75 at the University of Reading)
      in response to lowering the amount of saturated fat in their diet to the level recommended by
      the United Kingdom government for the prevention of coronary heart disease.

      The specific objectives of the study are as follows:

        1. Undertake a dietary intervention study to examine the effects of two, 4 week diets that
           differ in their composition of fatty acids. The first diet ('Diet 1') will contain ~18%
           of its total energy as saturated fatty acids (SFA), while the second diet ('Diet 2')
           will contain ~10% of its total energy as SFA. Blood, urine and stool samples taken at
           the beginning (week 0) and end of Diet 1 (week 4), and end of Diet 2 (week 8), will be
           analysed to measure blood LDL-cholesterol and other relevant blood, urine and faecal
           metabolites. The white blood cell buffy coat will also be isolated from the blood
           samples collected at the baseline visit to enable genotyping of relevant genes involved
           in the absorption and metabolism of dietary fat.

        2. To examine the data for evidence of associations between the changes in blood LDL-
           cholesterol, and the physical and biochemical characteristics of the participants as
           possible determinants of the variation in serum cholesterol response across the whole
           cohort (n=150). This will include measurement of a common genetic polymorphism in
           APOLIPOPROTEIN E, as an established determinant of variation in blood cholesterol in
           response to dietary SFA.

        3. To identify two subgroups of individuals whose blood LDL-cholesterol either responds
           ('Responders') or show little or no response ('Non-responders') on changing from Diet 1
           to Diet 2, for participation in the follow-up study (RISSCI-2), which will be conducted
           at the Universities of Surrey (n=18), Reading (n=18) and Imperial College London. In
           this follow-up study, the participants will be asked to repeat a similar study protocol
           as for RISSCI-1, and undergo more detailed measurements to determine how saturated fat
           is metabolised in the body.

      Hypothesis:

      In accordance with the variation in blood LDL-cholesterol response, that many studies have
      reported previously following substitution of dietary saturated with unsaturated fats, the
      investigators hypothesise that consuming Diet 1 (a high saturated fat diet) for 4 weeks
      followed by diet 2 (a low saturated fat/high unsaturated fat diet) for a further 4 weeks,
      will: 1) produce a variable distribution of responses in LDL-cholesterol that will enable the
      study of associations between the participants' baseline characteristics as possible
      determinants of the observed variation in blood LDL-cholesterol response, and 2) identify two
      distinct subgroups of individuals who either respond or show little or no response in their
      blood LDL- cholesterol. These distinct groups will be defined by the top and bottom 10% of
      change in the concentration of blood LDL-cholesterol in the cohort of 150.
    
  