
    
      Adults with spinal cord injury (SCI) report lower levels of quality of life (e.g., low life
      satisfaction; high depression) than the general population and have low rates of community
      participation. One health behavior that can improve these psychosocial outcomes is physical
      activity (PA). Unfortunately, PA rates are very low among adults with SCI. Novel
      interventions to increase PA are needed. One approach that has gained traction is video-based
      tele-rehabilitation, which has the benefit of reducing costs, increasing accessibility to
      services and delivering and adapting the intervention to the person's home environment.

      Experts have strongly recommended that PA interventions be based in psychological theory to
      enhance their effectiveness. The intervention will be grounded in a strong
      psychological/motivational theory called self-determination theory (SDT). According to SDT,
      humans strive for growth and well-being by aiming to satisfy their three basic psychological
      needs of autonomy (sense of volition), competence (sense of capability) and relatedness
      (sense of connectedness). The investigators intervention will therefore be designed to foster
      these psychological needs in order to increase intrinsic/autonomous motivation for PA,
      promote higher PA levels and improve quality of life and participation.

      To date, no study has either conducted a video-based tele-rehabilitation intervention to
      promote PA or has tested SDT among adults with SCI; thus providing the need for a pilot
      intervention. The purpose of this study is to pilot test an innovative, theory-informed,
      video-based tele-rehabilitation intervention aimed to enhance SDT-variables, PA and quality
      of life-related variables among adults with SCI. Effect sizes derived from this pilot
      intervention will be used to inform the sample size calculation of a subsequent larger
      randomized controlled trial. Given previous video-based PA tele-rehabilitation interventions
      do not exist, the hypotheses are derived from PA and general telephone-based counselling
      studies. Specifically, it is hypothesized that the video-based intervention will have
      moderate effects on SDT variables, PA, participation, life satisfaction and depression.
    
  