
    
      This is a randomised controlled trial to study the effect of the use of a mindfulness
      meditation app on pregnancy outcomes. This study will measure how often the app is used, as
      well as indicators of maternal health such as sleep, stress, depression, anxiety and other
      perinatal outcomes (premature delivery, diabetes during pregnancy (gestational diabetes),
      high blood pressure in pregnancy (hypertensive disorders of pregnancy), inadequate growth of
      the baby inside the womb (fetal growth restriction), bleeding in later pregnancy, mode of
      delivery, pain relief during delivery, length of stay for mother and baby in the hospital,
      admission of baby in ICU, pain relief medication requirement after delivery, and
      breastfeeding).

      Participants will be randomly assigned to either group A (the experimental group) or group B
      (the control group). All participants will be given a an actigraph to measure sleep.

      Participants in Group A will be given a free subscription to a mindfulness meditation app for
      six months. They will also be given a general pregnancy sleep leaflet. Participants assigned
      to Group B will be given the general pregnancy sleep leaflet only.

      There will be 3 visits associated with this study. At each of the 3 visits, participants will
      be given four questionnaires to complete - the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, Perceived
      Stress Questionnaire, Beck's Anxiety Inventory, and the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale.
      Participants in Group A will also be asked to complete a fifth survey at their post-partum
      visit. This survey will collect information on how easy it was to use the mindfulness
      meditation app.

      Information on delivery outcomes will also be collected. This information will include things
      such as any complications that occur during delivery, baby's birth weight and Apgar score,
      any complications with baby's health, method of delivery, and pain medications used during
      delivery.
    
  