
    
      Approximately 30-40% of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) experience induction
      failures. In these patients who do not achieve remission with two cycles of standard
      induction therapies, the probability of achieving remission with subsequent inductions is
      limited. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is the only curative option for these
      patients, but high relapse rate and transplant-related mortality often preclude them to
      proceed to transplant. Thus, AML not in remission at time of HSCT remains a huge unmet need
      in current HSCT practice, particularly if the patient does not have a Human Leukocyte Antigen
      (HLA)-matched donor identified by the time of two induction failures.

      Salvage chemotherapy with clofarabine appears to be another promising option in relapsed and
      refractory AML. Clofarabine is a second-generation purine nucleoside analog with substantial
      single-agent activity in adult patients with AML. It is an effective immunosuppressive agent
      and several trials have shown the feasibility of conditioning with clofarabine-based regimen.

      In the past, a conditioning regimen of clofarabine with busulfan (4 doses) has been
      successfully used prior to allogeneic stem cell transplantation for non-remission AML with
      day +30 complete remission rates were 90-100%. However, these patients were transplanted with
      HLA matched donors. This study will examine those patients undergoing haploidentical
      transplantation.

      Achieving a long-term remission is clearly the goal of AML treatment. For this clinical
      trial, the Investigators propose to examine the use of clofarabine pre- haploidentical
      (related) stem cell transplantation for patients who have experienced two induction failures.
      Even in previous Clofarabine/Busulfan4 studies, the Investigators observed a relapse rate of
      about 45% after achieving the first complete remission. With further development of
      molecularly targeted maintenance therapies, reliable protocols to bring these patients into
      the early complete remission will be essential.
    
  