
    
      A study was conducted in 2016 to determine the effect of MWM in Impingement syndrome on sub
      acromial space, pain and disability. In this study,15 patients diagnosed with sub acromial
      impingement were selected and treated for six sessions. MWM posterolateral glide was the
      intervention selected. The results showed the p value of <0.00001 for pre and post treatment
      sessions of MWM in patients with Impingement syndrome. According to the results it was
      concluded that in terms of decreasing the pain and disability as well as increasing the
      acromiohumeral distance MWM is effective treatment for impingement syndrome.

      An RCT was conducted in 2016 to find out the effect of posterolateral glide MWM on pain,
      strength of shoulder muscles and upward rotation of scapula. 31 patients were allocated to a
      group performing exercises actively and other group who received posterolateral glides MWM.
      The results suggested that MWM was effective intervention in decreasing pain on VAS and
      improving strength of external rotators.

      A study was conducted in 2013 to compare the effects of supervised exercise with and without
      manual therapy for impingement syndrome.The results showed marked differences in reducing
      pain and increasing ROM and strength of rotator muscles in group that received supervised
      exercise with manual therapy. So it was concluded that manual therapy with exercise program
      is effective in decreasing pain and improving ROM than exercises alone in impingement
      syndrome.

      A study was conducted to compare the effects of mobilization with movement and mobilization
      with therapeutic exercises in patients of subacromial impingement. The results are suggestive
      that shoulder mobilization and MWM with exercises result in more reduction of pain and
      improved AROM.

      A RCT was conducted to compare the effectiveness of joint and soft tissue mobilization
      techniques and self-training program. The results of this study showed that patient who
      received manual therapy showed significant differences. So it was concluded that joint
      mobilization is effective intervention for patients with impingement syndrome.

      Studies have been conducted in the past on effect of mobilization and mobilization with
      movement on shoulder impingement but they did not report their effect on sub acromial space
      in impingement syndrome using musculoskeletal ultrasound and the comparison of both
      techniques.

      The purpose of this study is to find out the effects of mobilization and mobilization with
      movement on sub acromial space using musculoskeletal ultrasound in impingement syndrome and
      compare their outcomes.
    
  