
    
      Panic disorder is a serious condition that may cause significant psychological and physical
      distress. Many patients with panic disorder remain symptomatic despite initial intervention.
      Unfortunately, little data is available to guide health care providers in "next-step"
      treatment approaches. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of treatments for
      individuals with panic disorder that is resistant to initial treatment with selective
      serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).

      This study will last 24 weeks and will comprise three phases. In Phase 1, participants will
      receive the SSRI sertraline for 6 weeks. Phase 1 will be used to determine participants'
      resistance to treatment. During Phase 1, participants will begin a medication schedule and
      symptom diary and will have weekly study visits to assess regimen adherence and any side
      effects they may be experiencing. In Phase 2, participants will be randomly assigned to 6
      weeks of one of two treatments: sertraline at an elevated dose from that given in Phase 1 or
      a sertraline and placebo regimen. During Phase 2, participants will have 3 study visits.
      Self-report scales and diary entries will be used to assess panic disorder symptoms and
      medication side effects. In Phase 3, participants will be randomly assigned to receive either
      cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) or sertraline and clonazepam for 12 weeks. All
      participants will have weekly study visits during Phase 3. Questionnaires and self-report
      scales will be used to assess participants at the end of Phase 3.

      Study hypothesis: Combined selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and benzodiazepine
      treatment, increasing the dose of SSRI, and the addition of cognitive behavioral therapy
      (CBT) each may have benefits for patients with panic disorder who remain symptomatic after
      initial treatment with SSRIs.
    
  