
    
      This is a phase II, randomized, double-masked study to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability
      of topical ocular delivery of fixed-dose combinations of trabodenoson and latanoprost in
      subjects with OHT or POAG.

      The Primary Objective of this Trial is to evaluate the efficacy of different topical ocular
      doses of trabodenoson (3.0% and 6.0%) when added to latanoprost (0.005% or 0.0025%), one drop
      daily to both eyes over two consecutive 4 week periods. The Secondary Objective is to
      evaluate the tolerability and safety of different doses of trabodenoson (3.0% and 6.0%) when
      added to latanoprost (0.005% or 0.0025%), one drop daily to both eyes over two consecutive 4
      week periods. the Hypotheses is that topical ocular co-administration of 3.0% or 6.0%
      trabodenoson plus latanoprost 0.0025% or 0.005% ophthalmic formulation will reduce IOP and be
      well-tolerated.

      All subjects who meet the study's enrollment criteria following Screening will undergo
      washout of all prohibited medications, including their routine glaucoma medications. During
      the Placebo Run-In Period, placebo (vehicle control matched to trabodenoson) is applied twice
      daily to both eyes in all subjects. During the Treatment Period, study drug is applied to
      both eyes for a total of 8 weeks. Each subject will be assigned 4 weeks of AM and 4 weeks of
      PM dosing in a manner that is masked to the patient. The Treatment Period will be followed by
      an Observation Period of approximately 7 days wherein no study eye drops are instilled.

      To mimic what is generally seen in clinical trials, the number of subjects with ocular
      hypertension as their diagnosis will be limited to approximately 30% of the total subjects
      enrolled. Additionally, so the trial mirrors the general population demographics (so as to
      improve generalizability of the results) the proportion of African American subjects will be
      approximately 25% or less but not less than 12% of the total subjects enrolled.

      The purpose of the study is to assess the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of binocular
      topical application of different doses of trabodenoson (3.0% and 6.0%) when added to
      latanoprost (0.005% or 0.0025%) one drop daily over two consecutive 4 week periods in
      subjects with POAG or OHT. Data collection will include efficacy (masked-IOPs), local
      (ophthalmic) and systemic tolerability and safety assessments
    
  