
    
      Morbid or severe obesity is a chronic pathology of multifactorial etiology that affects 4.3%
      of the French population. In these patients, eating disorders are frequent and must be
      managed as they are considered risk factors with poorer weight prognosis and lower quality of
      life.

      Some authors have proposed that the concept of food addiction (i.e., the existence of an
      addiction to certain foods rich in sugar, fat and/or salt) may make it possible to identify,
      among obese patients, a subgroup of patients that is more homogeneous in terms of diagnosis
      and prognosis.

      Food addiction is common in obese patients and is associated with higher levels of
      depression, anxiety, impulsivity, emotional eating and poorer quality of life. Nevertheless,
      we do not know the impact of managing this addiction on the future of these patients (food
      addiction, weight, comorbidities, quality of life). Telephone-based cognitive behavioral
      therapy intervention (Tele-CBT) is a treatment of choice for addictions, but there are
      inequalities in access to this treatment (distance between home and hospital, limited local
      resources of caregivers, constraints in patient availability) which require the therapeutic
      framework to be adapted to these constraints. A short Tele-CBT program has demonstrated its
      effectiveness in reducing bulimic hyperphagia in these patients (Cassin et al. 2016), but its
      effectiveness on food addiction, Body Mass Index and the evolution of metabolic complications
      related to obesity is still unknown. The evaluation of this program was limited to 6 weeks
      (American study), and we do not know if these results can also be extrapolated to France.

      The main hypothesis of this study is that in patients suffering from severe or morbid obesity
      and with food addiction, the performance of tele-CBT (intervention group: 12 sessions for 18
      weeks) will be accompanied by a significant medium-term decrease in the prevalence of food
      addiction compared to usual management (control group).
    
  