
    
      To identify the nature of the mechanisms involved in social decisions, Mennella and coll.
      have developed a computerized task (waiting room task) in which the participant is asked to
      avoid or to approach individuals expressing negative emotional expressions, in this case:
      anger or fear. In practice, participants have to choose between two chairs to sit in a
      waiting room in which subjects expressing a neutral face or negative emotions are present. To
      make this choice they must press a specific keyboard button. In addition to that, in order to
      evaluate motivation, some of the trials are reversed, meaning that the choice made by the
      participant will result in the opposite result.

      Using this task they have shown that: (1) anger is associated with more avoidance behavior
      than fear, (2) this behavior is goal- directed and, (3) the higher the level of impulsivity
      of the subjects, the less able they are to adapt their responses.

      The proposed study will use this neuropsychological assessment, the waiting room task, to
      evaluate if depressed patients would avoid or approach individuals expressing negative facial
      emotions. The main objective is to compare behavioral adaptation to anger vs neutral cues
      among depressed patients with and without history of suicide attempt.

      The study also aims to :

        1. compare behavioral response to fear vs. neutral and anger vs. fear in depressed patients
           according to suicidal history ;

        2. assess the modulation of behavioral adaptation by history of childhood maltreatment,
           level of impulsivity, anxiodepression and anhedonia;

        3. correlate behavioral adaptation to negative cues (anger and fear) with decision-making
           performances using the Iowa Gambling Task.

      The hypothesis is that depressed patients with a history of suicide attempt will exhibit
      anger specific hyper-responsiveness resulting in an increased avoidance behavior compared to
      subjects without suicidal history. It is expected that depressed suicide attempters will not
      have a different emotional reactivity compared to patients without suicidal history for
      another negative emotion, namely fear.

      To that purpose, 82 depressed patients will be recruited in the study. Half of them will have
      a history of suicide attempt (suicide attempters) while the other half will have none
      (affective controls). Their participation will consist of an unique visit.
    
  