
    
      The investigators aim to answers to these questions

      Questions

        -  How large a proportion of recent hepato-biliary RCTs does report an adequate sample size
           estimation?

        -  Primary outcome is clearly defined ? and clinical meaningful ?

        -  Is the sample size calculation based on the primary outcome ?

        -  Does the predicted control event rate coincide with the actual one?

        -  What is the predicted intervention effect?

        -  Are confidence intervals of primary outcome results reported? Is there evidence of
           difference between the two arms?

        -  Is the effect size so large (> 50%) to suggest post hoc definition ?

        -  What is the accepted error alpha and beta?

        -  How many study do not comply with the usual rule of alpha = 5% beta = 20%?

        -  Do trials with planned sample size do better than those without ? Is the overlap between
           CI results less frequent ? Are their results more frequently "statistical" significant ?

        -  Do trials with planned sample more frequently agree with pooled results in meta-analysis
           ?

        -  Has the protocol been published in a public register before inclusion of participant?

        -  How often is intention-to-treat analyses employed as primary analysis?

        -  How often is the trial results resting upon subgroup analysis?

      Methods:

      All the randomized clinical trials included in a systematic review of the Cochrane
      Hepato-biliary group (according to my search 272) were detected and retrieved. Only two arm,
      parallel group superiority randomised controlled trials with a single primary outcome.

      The investigators excluded reports for which the study design was factorial, cluster, or
      crossover For all selected articles, the investigators systematically retrieved and assessed
      the full published report of the trial, any extra material or appendices available online,
      the study design article, if cited, and the details of online registration of the trial, if
      mentioned. A standardised data collection form was generated on the basis of a review of the
      literature and a priori discussion and tested by the research team.
    
  