
    
      Study aim:

      The principal objective of the study is to find biomarkers and clinical criteria that
      correlate with the disease progression.

      Methods:

      Clinical information will be obtained according to a pre-defined protocol including six
      visits: screening visit, visit at baseline, visits at 6 months, 12 months, 18 months and 24
      months.

      At visits following tests will be performed:

      Respiratory assessment (including clinical assessment using the Borg scale, identification of
      clinical signs of alveolar hypoventilation, documentation of the daily duration on and off
      mechanical ventilation, spirometry, determination of lung volumes and slow vital capacity,
      peak cough flow, blood gazes, measurement of maximal inspiratory and expiratory pressures
      during the Müller maneuver, sniff nasal inspiratory pressure, mouth inspiratory pressure,
      twitch mouth pressure, esophageal and transdiaphragmatic pressures during voluntary
      respiration and following magnetic stimulation of diaphragmatic nerves, optoelectronic
      measurement of abdominal contribution to vital capacity, inspiratory capacity and tidal
      volume, measure of diaphragm mobility using ultrasound, sleep studies using polysomnography
      for non-ventilated patients and oximetry for patients using non-invasive mechanical
      ventilation, coupled with ECG recording).

      Motor assessment (including the MFM motor function measure scale, timed 10 meters run/walk
      test, timed test for standing up from sitting positions, timed test for standing up from
      supine position, time taken to climb 4 stairs, 6-minute walk test, three-dimensional analysis
      of walk, quadriceps muscle strength assessed following magnetic stimulation of femoral nerve,
      EMG).

      Assessment of body composition (including determination of lean mass, body mass index and
      bone mineral density by dual X-ray absorptiometry).

      Assessment of skeletal muscle structure using whole body magnetic resonance imaging.

      Assessment of heart function using heart echography and ECG. Assessment of live quality
      (including "Rotterdam handicap scale", "Rasch-built Pompe-specific Activity (R-Pact) scale "
      and EQ5D-5L questionnaires).

      Biomaterial collection of biomarker analysis (including dosing serum CPK, GPT and GOT, GAA
      mutational analysis of both alleles, biobanking of serum, DNA and urine, muscle biopsy for
      histological analysis, quantification of exon 2 alternative splicing and residual GAA enzyme
      activity, myoblast culture for quantification of alternative splicing and residual GAA enzyme
      activity, muscle biopsy and myoblast culture biobanking, skin biopsy for quantification of
      alternative splicing and residual GAA enzyme activity, fibroblast cultures for quantification
      of alternative splicing and residual GAA enzyme activity, biobanking of fibroblasts).

      In vitro treatment of myoblasts and fibroblasts with antisense oligonucleotide chemistries
      and quantification of restoration of normal splicing, GAA protein and GAA enzyme activity.

      All data collect will be introduced in a database and afterwards statistically analyzed.

      Expected results:

      To determine exact natural history of Pompe disease, to identify biomarkers useful to
      follow-up the progression of Pompe disease and for quantifying therapy effects of future
      therapies that aim at restoring a normal splicing in patients with c.-32-13T>G mutations.

      Funding:

      This project is funded by the French Agence National de la Recherche, the French Direction
      Générale de l'Offre de Soins and the Acid Maltase Deficiency Association.
    
  