
    
      The primary aim of this project is to study more closely the role played by post-release
      aftercare in the outcomes of criminal offenders who received in-prison substance abuse
      treatment. Prison-based therapeutic communities (TC) (Pelissier et al., 2001; Wexler, 1995)
      have demonstrated efficacy, especially when combined with post-release TC aftercare (Melnick
      et al., 2001). For example, Inciardi et al. (2003) showed that TC aftercare substantially
      reduced criminal behavior and significantly decreased illicit drug use when compared to
      outcomes for inmates who dropped out of prison TC care or graduated prison TC, but who did
      not enter or remain long in TC aftercare. Moreover, some released TC participants may prefer
      and feel that they are ready for a less-structured environment than TC aftercare.

      Several important questions relevant to public health issues remain unclear in the scientific
      literature regarding prison TC aftercare. The answers might help establish more enlightened
      post-release aftercare policy affecting prison inmates. For example, it is unclear whether
      the main therapeutic effect of TC aftercare is TC substance abuse treatment or the supportive
      residential setting. Typically, TC aftercare outcomes for prison TC graduates are compared to
      aftercare-as-usual, which can range across a wide variety of interventions. Few if any
      comparison groups have included a residential setting that emphasizes socialization and
      abstinence from drugs and alcohol - a hallmark of TC aftercare settings. This study proposes
      to compare the relative effectiveness of TC aftercare to an aftercare alternative that
      provides a supportive living environment without the professional treatment of TC aftercare.
      Oxford Houses (OH) provide, like TCs, a residential post-release setting that emphasizes
      socialization and abstinence from drugs and alcohol, but they do not include the formal
      therapeutic change interventions common to TCs, nor do they include any on-site access to
      drug abuse or health care professionals. Such a comparison will possibly clarify the value
      added of TC aftercare intervention processes not present in OHs.

      The aims of this project are important from a public health perspective as there may be
      treatment matching, case management, and financing factors that could be manipulated to
      enhance the cost-effectiveness of community-based substance abuse treatment for offenders
      leaving prison. It is possible that both TC and OH aftercare modalities increase abstinence
      social support, self-efficacy, and employment, which mediate reductions in drug use,
      reincarceration, and health problems, but overall benefits are likely to be greater for TCs
      because they employ professional services and empirically based behavioral strategies.
      However, OHs might have advantages compared to more traditional post-incarceration modalities
      (e.g., low costs). Bringing scientific methods to the examination of TCs and the OH
      community-based recovery models for addiction might help to identify the "active ingredients"
      of these recovery settings. The proposed study will utilize ex-offenders randomly assigned to
      either TCs, OHs, or usual care post-release settings, and examine program effects (i.e.,
      substance use, criminal and health outcomes), and economic factors associated with these
      models. A research finding from a study that contrasts these different approaches has the
      potential to influence practice and inform policy.

      Several theoretically based hypotheses include:

      TCs and OHs in comparison to usual aftercare will have less substance use, less criminal
      recidivism, and better health outcomes. TCs are expected to have better outcomes than OHs on
      these measures, due to the professionally structured and inpatient nature of TC.

      Factors related to the programs (i.e., abstinence social support, self-efficacy, employment)
      will mediate the differential outcomes. For example, due to the inpatient nature of TCs and
      the requirement for employment to remain in OH, OH residents are expected to have more
      employment and earnings during the first year. However, these differences are expected to
      converge at 18 and 24 months. Usual aftercare should reflect the lowest employment and
      earning relative to TC and OH for all time periods.

      The long term post release outcomes will be moderated by gender, ethnicity, substance abuse
      (i.e., severity and typology), and in-prison treatment (i.e., in prison TC fidelity, days in
      prison TC).

      Although outcomes overall are expected to be best for TC, followed by OH and usual aftercare,
      we expect the cost-benefit ratios to be most favorable for OH, followed by TC, with the
      lowest cost benefit ratio for usual aftercare.
    
  