
    
      The primary purpose of this pilot study is to demonstrate feasibility/acceptability of the
      BRIDGE device as applied after cesarean delivery. Once the feasibility/acceptability is
      confirmed, the cesarean delivery model will be included in an NIH application related to the
      use of devices to reduce opioid use. In this pilot period, no changes will be made in the
      other routine analgesia/postpartum care. Following the same previously published approaches
      from our group, potential subjects will be recruited in the Magee-Womens Hospital obstetrical
      unit when they arrive for cesarean delivery. Patients will be asked if they are interested in
      using the BRIDGE system as a way to control pain after the cesarean delivery. They will be
      offered the option to review a video explaining the mechanism of action if the BRIDGE system.
      They will also be provided with information about the acceptability of the BRIDGE device in
      other clinical settings. Subjects will be informed of the purpose of this pilot evaluation
      and signed written informed consent to participate in the study.

      Once the subject has given and signed informed consent to participate in the study,
      demographic information and medical history will be collected from each participant on the
      day of the cesarean delivery. Data will be de-identified and kept in a locked cabinet and
      secured servers. The NSS-2 BRIDGE device will be applied to one ear by trained research staff
      in the immediate post-operative setting. The patient will be informed at the time of consent
      and after the implantation of the device that they can have the device removed anytime after
      its application.

      Per current standard of care, pain will be assessed in the postpartum period. At 24, 48, 72,
      96 and 120 hours post-operatively the investigators will collected pain scores at rest and
      movement, pain unpleasantness, total opioid consumption (from the medical record), as well as
      the devise tolerability.

      The investigators will also collect common medical information including time to bowel
      movement, postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV), time to oral intake (liquid and regular
      diet), time to hospital discharge, overall patient satisfaction, and patient satisfaction
      related to pain management. When the patient is discharged from the hospital, they will be
      asked to complete a patient satisfaction survey. For patients discharged with the device
      attached, removal instructions will be given to patient to remove and dispose of the device
      at 120 hours.

      Standard opioid conversion table will be used to convert the oral and IV narcotic utilized by
      the patients to IV morphine equivalent doses (MED) for analysis purposes.

      Overall patient satisfaction and satisfaction of pain management during hospitalization will
      be measured by a numerical rating scale with 0 being worst satisfaction and 10 being the best
      satisfaction. The patient satisfaction test will be administered by a member of the research
      team.

      No statistical analysis will be performed. The primary end point for this pilot phase will be
      the descriptive feasibility and acceptability of the use of this device un cesarean delivery
      population. We will assess the experience of device tolerability along with pain intensity.
      Pain intensity scores and opioid consumption will be compared to data obtained from
      historical data of women undergoing cesarean delivery.
    
  