
    
      Nursing education is an education system structured in order to provide the student with a
      professional nursing identity and to prepare the student for professional life, where
      theoretical and practical education is offered as a whole. In this system, nursing students
      are expected to acquire cognitive, affective and psychomotor skills at a very good level.
      Teaching process of psychomotor skill; It enables students to practice, analyze and develop
      skills by analyzing the theoretical information they have learned, to establish a
      relationship between theory and practice, to develop critical thinking and problem solving
      skills, to make regular observations and to gain a sense of trust . Today, with the
      development of technology and changing needs, there are also changes in the methods of
      education and training commonly used. One of the educational methods developed with
      technology is the video model method. Videos are among the important technologies that add
      value to the learning content. The use of video helps students learn new skills and improve
      their learning processes in the same way they have experience during practical training .
      Using videos while teaching nursing skills is as effective as demonstration as it provides
      visuality. Using a properly formatted video to teach a particular nursing skill allows a
      student to learn physical action that complements the theory behind skill and action. The use
      of training based on the video model method is useful for applications of nursing skills
      based on flexibility and capacity for students to review, reflect and repeat recordings .
      When the studies using video method in nursing education are examined; Lee et al. (2016)
      first shot a urinary catheterization skill video to teach nursing second grade students about
      urinary catheterization skills. Later, the experimental group (n = 36) was trained by
      mobile-based video learning and the control group students (n = 35) by the demonstration
      method. All students attended a 90-minute course on urinary catheterization and all students
      watched the urinary catheterization skill video. Students in the control group only watched
      the one-time video, students in the experimental group had the opportunity to watch the video
      for seven days on their mobile devices. A week later, students in the experimental and
      control groups performed urinary catheterization skill in the skill laboratory. At the end of
      the application, students' learning motivation, skill performance score, application
      confidence and skill laboratory satisfaction were evaluated. It was found that students in
      the experimental group had higher motivation to learn, skill laboratory satisfaction,
      knowledge and skill performance score and application confidence compared to the control
      group . Gowri, Minolin and Thenmozhi (2013) conducted a semi-experimental study in order to
      teach obstetric palpation skills to nursing second year students in antenatal period.
    
  