
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the survival of patients with small cell lung cancer treated with etoposide
           phosphate in combination with cisplatin or carboplatin as first-line chemotherapy with
           vs without pravastatin.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the progression-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the local progression-free survival (local control) of these patients.

        -  Compare the response rate in these patients.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to disease stage (limited stage vs extensive stage), ECOG
      performance status (0 or 1 vs 2 or 3), and participating site. Patients are randomized to 1
      of 2 treatment arms.

      All patients receive chemotherapy comprising cisplatin IV or carboplatin IV on day 1 and
      etoposide phosphate IV on days 1-3 or orally twice daily on days 2 and 3. Treatment repeats
      every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral pravastatin daily beginning on day 1 of chemotherapy and
           continuing for up to 24 months.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo daily beginning on day 1 of chemotherapy and
           continuing for up to 24 months.

      Some patients may undergo blood and urine sample collection at baseline and periodically
      during and after study treatment. Samples are examined by genetic analysis, metabonomics and
      proteomics (to detect expression of RAS proteins, phospho-Erk, and other signals downstream
      of RAS), and cholesterol measurements.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 2 months for 1 year and
      every 3 months thereafter.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 842 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  