
    
      Voice is the carrier wave for speech signal. It can also be defined as an audible sound
      produced by phonation . It is a primary mean of expression and oral communication and has
      life-long importance to social well-being.

      Through life, voice development follows and represents organic, psychological, and social
      changes in the person .

      Any disruption of the function of voice is called dysphonia . defination of dysphonia is
      perceptual audible change of a patient's habitual voice as self-judged or judged by his or
      her listeners.

      The incidence of the pediatric voice disorders ranges from 6%-23%, while, stated that voice
      disorders affect approximately 6-9% of pediatric population. Boys were statistically more
      likely to have dysphonia (7.5%) over girls (4.6%) , abnormal vocal presentations
      (symptomatology) include: phonasthenia ,dysphonia, aphonia and dysodia. Dysphonia may
      adversely impact a child's general health, communicative effectiveness, social and
      educational development, self-esteem, and participation in school group activities. Hence,
      dysphonia has a substantial negative effect on children's lives.Although voice disorders are
      common in the pediatric population; there is still a lack of information available to
      clinicians regarding evaluation and treatment of pediatric voice disorders.

      Etiology of Voice disorders can be subdivided into 3 main groups: There are the organic voice
      disorders (There are detectable morphological changes in the vocal apparatus), Non-organic
      (functional) voice disorders (There is no detectable organic pathology in the structure of
      the larynx) and Minimal Associated Pathological Lesions (MAPLs) (Long-standing, non-organic
      (functional) voice disorders leading to the creation of detectable organic changes.

      The protocol of evaluation of voice disorders is constructed /built in escalating stepwise
      stages from the simple subjective bed-side diagnostic procedures to the more sophisticated
      objective quantitative instrumental measures. Thus the protocol encompasses the following 3
      levels which are 1- Elementary diagnostic procedures, 2-Clinical diagnostic aids 3-Additional
      instrumental measures .

      Several instruments have been designed specifically to evaluate quality of life outcomes in
      dysphonic populations. The best validated and most utilized surveys are the Voice Handicap
      Index (VHI) , the Voice Outcome Survey (VOS) and the Voice-Related Quality of Life (V-RQoL) .
      These instruments were designed to be used in the assessment of dysphonic patients and were
      validated in adult populations. Since their dissemination, each of these instruments have
      produced a pediatric analogue, namely a pediatric VOS (PVOS) , a pediatric V-RQoL and a
      pediatric VHI (PVHI).

      Questionnaire may help to increase the patient's awareness of the impact of dysphonia and his
      motivation for change. The Questionnaires have also been proven sensitive to post-changes and
      are an additional and valuable tool in the determination of therapy efficiency.

      At Minia University, a study was carried out to develop an Arabic version of PVRQoL and test
      its validity and reliability .The results suggested that the APVRQoL is a valid and reliable
      assessment tool that can be used by the parents of Arabic-speaking children or by the
      children themselves (when they are older) with voice disorders to assess the impact of
      dysphonia on the quality of their lives.

      The (PV-RQOL) has 10 questions that are divided among 4 subdomains: The social (questions no:
      8 and 10), emotional (questions no: 4 and 5) , The physical (questions no: 2 and 3) and the
      functional (questions no: 1, 6,7 and 9), each question is rated from 1to5 (1=no problem and
      is given"10 points",2=a small amount and is given"7.5points",3=a moderate amount and is
      given"5 points",4=a lot and is given"2.5 points", and 5=problem is as bad as it can be, and
      is given"0 points". Thus the raw scores can range from 0 to 100 points with higher scores
      indicating a better quality of life.
    
  