
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is considered "a progressive but potentially
      treatable and preventable disease". The clinical view of COPD is moved from a lung-centered
      model to a novel one that considers COPD as an "umbrella" term encompassing different
      pulmonary and extra-pulmonary manifestations.

      Prior researches suggest the presence of impaired lung function may be linked to cognitive
      impairment (CI). Among these studies, one prospective found that a diagnosis of COPD is
      associated with an increased risk of mild cognitive impairment (MCI), mainly nonamnestic MCI
      (NA-MCI), in a dose-response relationship between COPD duration and risk of MCI. Moreover, CI
      associated with severe COPD stage increases mortality. Among these studies only one shows
      that CI decreases adherence to pharmacological and non-pharmacological therapies. However,
      while it is well known that an MMSE score of 23-24 points or less is predictive of poor
      inhaler technique no studies report the impact of CI on PR outcomes. It has been reported
      that patients with MMSE < 24 walk lesser, at the basal level, than patients with a MMSE score
      > 24 (146 ±134 versus 242 ± 152 m) in the six minutes walking tests (6MWT) but no data are
      reported after rehabilitation. On the other hand, some papers report an association between
      participation in exercise rehabilitation programs and enhanced performance on cognitive
      tests.

      The aim of this study is to compare cognitive functioning in patients with COPD referred for
      pulmonary rehabilitation to the response of the programme itself. More specific objectives of
      the present study are to:

        -  Study whether and to what extent CI in patients with COPD impacts outcomes of pulmonary
           rehabilitation such as 6MW distance (6MWD), Barthel and Borg scales for assessing
           dyspnea, Maugeri Foundation Respiratory Failure Questionnaire and the disease-specific
           respiratory quality of life (QoL) [St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) and the
           Medical Research Council (MRC)].

        -  Investigate clinical and demographic characteristics of patients with COPD with
           cognitive impairment.

      The hypothesize is that COPD patients with CI have worse response to PR compared with
      patients with no CI.

      These results are important on the light of a personalized approach according to the so
      called "P4 medicine", for predictive, preventive, personalized and participatory Recently,
      the so-called "Rehabilomics" research framework, initially introduced r in traumatic brain
      injury rehabilitation, was applied on COPD rehabilitation. The "Rehabilomics" represents an
      exclusive and distinctive model in the path of the personalized-medicine approaches to
      rehabilitation. Thus, in previousstudy the Rehabilomics-like approach was used to afford the
      complexity of COPD rehabilitation, incorporating social/demographic data (i.e. gender,
      education, presence of a caregiver) clinical, psychological/emotional traits, genetics (i.e.
      DNA variants) and biological factors (i.e. DNA damage, levels of interleukins, et cet.) in a
      real life setting.
    
  