
    
      Choice of design: The study is a single arm mechanistic intervention study.

      Study population: Twin participants will be recruited from the TwinsUK database and non-twins
      will be recruited via social media platforms and advertising campaigns.

      Screening Assessment: Prospective participants will be selected based on the defined
      inclusion and exclusion criteria by the study management team. Recruitment will be done over
      the phone and via the Internet and emails and prospective participants will be booked in for
      their initial appointment to acquire baseline measurements.

      Study duration: Each participant will take part in the study for a period of up to 3 weeks.

      The PREDICT study will be divided into 3 protocol cohorts, where all participants (n=2,500)
      complete a baseline clinical visit as described below. Of this total, Cohort 1 (n=1,150) will
      complete a home-based dietary intervention lasting up to 2 weeks (June 2018 - May 2019).
      Within this group, 100 participants will complete an additional home-based dietary
      intervention lasting up to 3 weeks (February 2019 - May 2019).

      Following completion of this first cohort, Cohort 2 (n=900) will complete a similar
      home-based dietary intervention lasting up to 2 weeks (June 2019 - May 2023). Within this
      cohort, 50 participants will also complete deep cardiometabolic phenotyping at their clinical
      visit (September 2019 - February 2020).

      Finally, Cohort 3 (n=450) will only complete the baseline clinical visit (June 2019 - May
      2023).

      Dietary intervention:

      On day one (baseline visit) participants will be given standardised meals for breakfast and
      lunch. Participants continuing onto the home-based intervention (n=2,050) will receive a
      dietary intervention lasting up to 12 days following their clinical visit. Each participant
      will be instructed to eat standardised meals for breakfast, which must be their first meal of
      the day. On some of these days the participants will also be asked to eat a standardised
      lunch meal. Participants are free to eat whatever they wish at all other times, although we
      may provide a list of recommended foods. The standardised meals will be provided to all
      participants by the study team on the day of the visit. The foods included as part of these
      meals will be foods that are commonly consumed and can be made from products sold in UK
      supermarkets. Participants will be reassured that the amount of food will be designed to
      ensure a stable body weight over the course of the study. Participants will be asked to
      consume the entire amount of food indicated for the standardised meals and to record any
      left-over food via a digital app for which training will be provided at the start of the
      study. For the remaining 2 days post the 12 day dietary intervention period, participants are
      free to eat and drink whatever they wish or choose from the list of recommended foods
      provided to them. They will be asked to track all meals, snacks and drinks on their digital
      app. Participants will also be advised not to change their physical activity patterns during
      the course of the study.

      After the baseline visit, regular contact will be made with the participants via phone, their
      app and text messages for the period of the intervention to encourage compliance and answer
      any queries.

      Anthropometry: Weight, height, waist and hip circumference, blood pressure, body fat will be
      taken using standard procedures, in duplicates by a trained researcher at all face to face
      appointments. DXA scans using a Hologic machine will be used to assess body composition in
      all participants.

      Dietary and Lifestyle: Participants will be asked to complete a simple online baseline
      questionnaire plus record daily dietary and activity information using digital apps.
      Lifestyle information (such as sleep, exercise and heart rate) will be monitored using
      digital wearable devices. Dietary information and psychological data (eg hunger) will be
      recorded in a digital mobile phone app. Training in all apps and equipment will be given at
      the baseline visit.

      Digital devices: Participants will be asked to record daily dietary and activity information
      using digital apps and lifestyle information will be monitored using digital wearable
      devices. The continuous glucose monitor (Freestyle Libre, CGM) provides continuous glucose
      profiles for up to 14 days. The CGM will be inserted on the back of the upper arm at the
      baseline visit by a nurse. Subcutaneous interstitial fluid glucose concentrations are
      measured every 15 minutes by the CGM, and can be displayed on a remote device when necessary.
      The readings will be blinded so that the participant's behaviour is not affected by the
      glucose readings. The CGM will be removed at the end of the intervention period. Removal of
      the glucose monitor can be performed by the participants at home and detailed instructions on
      the removal procedure will be provided to them on day 1 of their visit. A 24-h contact number
      will be made available to participants for any inquiries or if any problems arose. Data from
      the CGM will be downloaded, and glucose profiles will be evaluated on the basis of data
      collected on days 1-14.

      Blood samples: Postprandial blood will be collected on day one in the clinic and on
      additional days at home using finger-prick blood sampling.

      Digital app: Participants will be asked to download an app designed specifically for this
      study, which provides diet & activity logging functionality similar to widely used existing
      apps such as MyFitnessPal.

      Participants will be asked to record and monitor the following information via the digital
      app and wearable devices:

        -  Daily record of foods eaten throughout the day with serving sizes and photographs

        -  Continuous sleep and physical activity patterns

        -  Periodical hunger, satiety and appetite ratings

        -  Psychological feeling of energy and mood

        -  Daily medication consumption

      During their baseline visit day, participants will be assisted with installation and setup
      and provided with instructions on how to use the app. The app will be available in versions
      for both iOS and Android operating systems, and will support a wide range of mobile phone
      models as expected across the participant population. The app will synchronise remotely with
      backend database servers, over an encrypted and authenticated API, and will support offline
      operation for when patients wish to record an entry without network coverage. This continuous
      background synchronization means that it will not be necessary to explicitly download data
      from the phone at the end of the study.

      A subgroup of participants from Cohort 2 (n=50) who continue onto the home-phase will be
      recruited to provide additional cardiometabolic measures, based on previously collected
      metabolomic and phenotyping data. This subgroup will undergo an abdominal XMR scan and
      cardiovascular tests at their baseline visit, before continuing onto the home-based
      intervention.
    
  