
    
      The non-invasive intervention procedure in each of the groups is as follows:

        1. Control group (CG): Subjects will remain at rest in supine position for one minute.

        2. Thoracic manipulation group (GMT): A semi-direct vertebral manipulation will be
           performed, type Dog Technique in extension, above level D8.

        3. Liver manipulation group (HMG): A supine hepatic pumping technique will be performed,
           performing simultaneous compression in the right hypochondrium and epigastrium, in the
           opposite direction, during the inspiratory phase, stopping during the expiratory phase
           and repeating the maneuver for five respiratory cycles.

        4. Abdominal breathing group (GRA): Subjects will be asked to perform five cycles of
           diaphragmatic breathing in the supine position.

        5. Psoas exercise group (GPS): In the supine position with a high density foam cushion
           under the feet of the subject, it will be asked to make a push in the caudal direction,
           against the cushion, alternating between both feet with the knees stretched, for one
           minute.

      After informed consent and recording of personal data, participants will be placed in a
      constant and regulated temperature room where they will be placed in supine position for 5
      minutes for cardiocirculatory normalization, at least 2 hours after the last meal. The room
      where the explorations will be carried out is conditioned to keep the ambient temperature
      constant.

      The study will be carried out with independent recruitment and triple blinding: the patient
      will not know the intervention group, the sonographer will not know the technique applied to
      the patients, the researcher responsible for recording the flows and diameters and the
      temperature will also be masked and the data analyst will be masked during the statistical
      analysis process.

      For statistical analysis, a descriptive analysis using means and standard deviations will be
      performed, as well as ranges and quartiles for quantitative measurements. Qualitative
      variables shall be summarised by counts and frequencies. The assumption of normality
      (Shapiro-Wilks test) and equality of variances (Levene's test) prior to the analysis of
      variance (ANOVA) will be checked for repeated measurements in which the intra-unit factors
      (three time measurements) will be the dependent variables (velocity, diameter and
      temperature) and the inter-subject factor, the study group. If it is not possible to assume
      the application assumptions, the corresponding non-parametric tests will be chosen. Pair
      comparisons were made with the Dunn-Bonferroni correction for type I erro and the age and BMI
      variables were entered into the model as covariates to estimate their possible effect on the
      dependent variables. The percentages of change from the baseline values in the intra-group
      comparison and from the control group in the intergroup comparison shall be calculated. The
      effect size will be estimated with the Hedges g statistic.

      The significance level will be set to p<0.05 and calculations will be performed with SPSS
      19.0
    
  