
    
      WalkMORE is a single-center randomized controlled trial. The investigators will enroll up to
      300 ambulatory patients admitted to the Internal Medicine unit (located on the 4th floor of
      University Hospital) who are >18 years of age and are anticipated to require a >48 hour
      hospital admission. A maximum of 6 patients will be assigned to each treatment arm at any
      given time. The investigators will recruit patients into the WalkMORE program over a 3-month
      period. The research coordinator (RC) will screen patients admitted to the Internal Medicine
      unit in the preceding 24-hour period to identify patients who fulfill the eligibility
      criteria. Patients will be randomized via REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture), a
      secure, centralized web-based randomization module to:

        1. Standard of care; or

        2. WalkMORE Ambulation program + Standard of care. Patients will ambulate with a trained
           WalkMORE Volunteer Coach two times per day; once in the morning (0900-1200hrs) and once
           in the afternoon (1300-1700hrs), Monday- Friday, until hospital discharge. Patients
           randomized to the WalkMORE intervention will be assessed daily by the RC to ensure
           patients remain fit for independent ambulation. The duration of each walking session
           will be determined daily by the RC and the medical team.

      After obtaining written informed consent from eligible patients the RC will randomize
      patients, collect demographics, hospital admission details and perform a quality of life
      survey (EQ-5D) with all patients. All patients will be assigned a scientific pedometer on the
      day of randomization. The modus Health StepWatch™ is an activity monitor worn on the ankle
      via a velcro strap. It is a small, lightweight device that will count and record patients'
      steps throughout their hospital stay. The device is smaller than a deck of cards (7.5 x 5.0 x
      2.0 cm) and weighs 38 grams and will be installed by the RC. The total number of steps
      recorded on the pedometer will be collected for each patient every day until hospital
      discharge. For patients randomized to the WalkMORE intervention arm, the total number of
      minutes walked with a volunteer coach will also be recorded for each session until discharge.
      Functional ability will be measured on the third day post-randomization and every three days
      thereafter until hospital discharge, using the Timed Up and Go test (patients will be asked
      to stand up from a chair, walk three metres, turn around, walk back to the chair, and sit).
      After hospital discharge the RC will follow up with patients for 2 brief telephone
      interviews. On day 3 after discharge, Patient Satisfaction surveys will be conducted by the
      RC to assess patient satisfaction with their experience with the WalkMORE program. These
      telephone surveys will be reviewed and approved by Lisa Hawthorne of the Patient Experience
      Office. On day 30 after discharge the RC will contact patients to conduct a brief quality of
      life survey and to collect data regarding clinical outcomes (ER visits, re-hospitalizations,
      and falls). Each telephone interview is expected to last approximately 10-15 minutes.
    
  