
    
      Background:

      While malignancies of diverse histologies express a variety of cancer-testis antigens (CTAs),
      immune responses to these proteins appear uncommon in cancer patients due to low-level,
      heterogeneous antigen expression, as well as local and systemic immunosuppression.

      CTAs such as NY-ESO-1 and MAGE-A3 can be up-regulated in tumor cells of various histologies,
      but not in normal cells, by DNA demethylating agents such as decitabine (DAC) and azacytidine
      (AZA). Up-regulation of these CTAs facilitates CTL-mediated lysis of tumor cells.

      Clinical trials have demonstrated impressive regressions of tumors expressing NY-ESO-1
      following adoptive immunotherapy targeting this CTA.

      In addition to shared CTAs, unique neoantigens are major targets for immune eradication of
      cancer cells.

      DNA demethylating agents not only up-regulate cancer-testis (CT) genes but also induce
      expression of endogenous retroviruses (ERV) which further augments immunogenicity of cancer
      cells.

      Additionally, DNA demethylating agents enhance antigen processing and presentation by cancer
      cells, and inhibit activity of myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC), thereby increasing
      the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors in murine tumor models.

      Despite these provocative preclinical results, epigenetic priming for immune checkpoint
      blockade has yet to be translated to humans due to systemic toxicities and
      pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic limitations that prevent optimal dosing of DNA demethylating
      agents.

      One potential strategy to enhance delivery of DNA demethylating agents to pulmonary
      malignancies while minimizing systemic toxicities is to administer these drugs by inhalation
      techniques.

      Preclinical studies have demonstrated that aerosolized AZA mediates epigenetic activation of
      gene expression in orthotopic lung cancers, and significantly prolongs survival of mice
      bearing these tumors without systemic toxicities.

      Conceivably, inhaled AZA may help to prime pulmonary malignancies for immune checkpoint
      blockade.

      In this study, the optimal dose of inhaled AZA will be established in patients with
      unresectable pulmonary metastases who are receiving the dual immune checkpoint
      inhibitor-TGF-Beta trap, Bintrafusp alfa (M7824).

      This trial is intended to establish the rationale for further evaluation of inhalational
      epigenetic priming regimens in combination with immune checkpoint inhibitors or adoptive cell
      transfer regimens in patients with locally advanced pulmonary malignancies.

      Objectives:

      Phase I component: To determine pharmacokinetics, toxicities, maximum tolerated dose (MTD)
      and recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of aerosolized AZA in patients receiving Bintrafusp alfa
      for unresectable pulmonary metastases

      Phase II component: To determine frequency of intrathoracic clinical responses in these
      patients following administration of aerosolized AZA at the RP2D and Bintrafusp alfa.

      Both components: To determine safety of aerosolized AZA and Bintrafusp alfa in patients with
      unresectable pulmonary metastases.

      Eligibility Criteria:

      Patients with histologically or cytologically proven, unresectable pulmonary metastases from
      sarcomas, melanomas, germ cell tumors, or epithelial malignancies (except lung or kidney
      cancers) who have received first line standard of care treatment for their metastatic
      disease.

      Measurable disease by RECIST

      Patients are eligible irrespective of intratumoral PD-L1 expression.

      Patients with prior treatment with an immune checkpoint inhibitor and DNA demethylating
      agents may be eligible for study provided they did not experience serious immune adverse
      events that required discontinuation of the drug, and more than three weeks have elapsed
      since treatment

      Patients greater than or equal to 18 years; ECOG performance status of 0-1 without evidence
      of unstable or decompensated myocardial disease; adequate pulmonary reserve evidenced by FEV1
      greater than or equal to 60% predicted, FEV1/FVC ratio greater than or equal to 60%, and
      adjusted DLCO greater than or equal to 60% predicted; pCO2 less than or equal to 45 mm Hg and
      pO2 greater than or equal to 60 mm Hg on room air ABG

      Adequate renal, hepatic and hematopoietic function

      Design:

      Subjects will receive aerosolized AZA on three consecutive days (i.e.; Days 1, 2, and 3, or
      Days 3, 4, 5) of a 21-day cycle. Three cycles constitute one course of treatment.

      Bintrafusp alfa will be administered at a fixed dose of 2400 mg. During Phase I, Bintrafusp
      alfa will be administered on Day 13 (i.e., once every 3 weeks, one week after AZA) of each
      cycle starting from Cycle 2 of Course 1 (i.e., no Bintrafusp alfa in the first cycle of
      Course 1). During Phase II, Bintrafusp alfa will be administered the day after the last AZA
      treatment, during Week 1 of each treatment cycle.

      The dose of AZA will be escalated during Phase I using a 3+3 design with no intrapatient dose
      escalation.

      The dose of AZA will be sequentially increased to maximize intra-tumoral DNMT1 depletion
      while avoiding Grade 3 or greater pulmonary or systemic toxicities attributable to this agent
      during the first cycle of therapy.

      Treatment evaluation will be three weeks +/- one week following completion of each course of
      therapy.

      Once the RP2D of aerosolized AZA has been defined, that dose level will be expanded to a
      total of 9 patients to determine response rates at the RP2D using a Simon two stage design
      for Phase II trials.

      Approximately 42 patients will be accrued to this trial.
    
  