
    
      There will be a randomized clinical trial with patients from the outpatient clinic of
      Endocrinology - Prediabetes and outpatient dental clinic of the Faculty of Dentistry, UFRGS
      who have a diagnosis of metabolic syndrome and diagnosis of periodontitis. The clinical trial
      will consist of an arm where it will be immediately periodontal treatment (test group) and
      another arm which will be held later periodontal treatment (control group). The study will
      last for six months , and after this period, the control group will receive the same
      treatment to the test group .

      A socio-demographic questionnaire will be applied by a trained interviewer , so that data on
      income, education , behavioral habits , medical and dental history. A questionnaire with some
      key questions will be repeated in 10 % of the sample within seven days after the first
      application in order to check the reproducibility of the instrument.

      Complete periodontal examination will be conducted at 6 sites per tooth for all teeth present
      at baseline and 3 and 6 months after periodontal treatment. The examination will be conducted
      by two examiners trained and calibrated. There will be measured Probing Depth , Bleeding On
      Probing, Periodontal Attachment Loss , Gingival Bleeding Index , Visible Plaque Index and the
      retentive factors of plaque.

      In addition to the tests required for the diagnosis of metabolic syndrome , will be did the
      same blood tests at 3 and 6 months after periodontal treatment (total cholesterol , LDL and
      HDL , fasting glucose , triglycerides , C-reactive protein) . Aliquots of plasma from blood
      collected in each experimental point are stored at -80 ° C for analysis of interleukin- 6,
      TNF- α , GLP-1 and adiponectin .

      At each clinical examination will be collected gingival crevicular fluid , and subgingival
      biofilm above 4 sites randomized among those with higher probing depth at baseline. The sites
      of fluid collection will be properly insulated with cotton rolls and / or gauze and dried
      with air jets . From the introduction of rectangles of absorbent paper (Periopaper ) for 30
      seconds will be held in the gingival sulcus fluid collection . Periopaper strips are analyzed
      for volume (Periotron 8000) and stored in sterile plastic tube at -80 ° C until analysis. The
      presence of Il- 1β , IL-6 and TNF- α in the gingival fluid will be identified by flow
      cytometry .

      The supragingival plaque will be collected with sterile spoon dentin and subgingival plaque
      will be collected with a sterile paper cone inserted in selected sites for 30 seconds , after
      drying the surface and careful removal of supragingival plaque . The cones are stored in
      sterile plastic tube at -80 ° C until analysis. The identification of total bacterial load
      and microbial periodontal ( Porphyromonas gingivalis , Fusobacterium nucleatum , Prevotella
      intermedia and Streptpcoccus mitis ) will be performed using the technique of real -time PCR
      and T - RFLP .

      Dental treatment will be performed by two periodontists who either ignore the data for
      examination of patients . The test group will receive nonsurgical periodontal treatment in 4
      weeks. The treatment will include caries removal and sealing of cavities or caries
      restoration , removal of restorations maladaptive , extraction of residual roots , removal of
      supragingival calculus and subgingival scaling and root planing under local anesthesia .
      Instruction, training and motivation for oral hygiene will be addressed throughout treatment.
      Completed treatment , patients return to fortnightly visits to the 3 month and monthly until
      month 6 , where it will be professional removal of supra and subgingival biofilm , and oral
      hygiene instruction . In 3 and 6 months will also be repeated full mouth examination for both
      test and control groups .

      The control group will receive information about periodontal disease, as well as an oral
      hygiene kit consisting of multicerdas toothbrush , toothpaste and interdental brush . The
      same treatment given to the test group will be held in the control group immediately after
      the 6-month assessment . The period of six months waiting for dental treatment for
      individuals in the control group is supported in the literature
    
  