
    
      The conditioned expectation or fear of pain often results in disability produced by stimuli
      related to a painful injury on the job, although the neuroscience of this expectation is
      unclear. Conditioned expectation in humans can be produced by a protocol that consists of a
      train of two visual conditioning stimuli, one of which is paired (CS+) with a painful laser
      pulse unconditioned stimulus (US), while the other is not. This protocol will be used to
      study the expectation of pain in this study. The results of this study may lead to testable
      hypotheses regarding the neural basis of the fear of pain and its treatment by anatomically
      based surgical or stimulation therapies.

      The long-term research goal of this study is to determine the networks related to the
      Expectation of pain. A neural network consists of neural elements, their connections, and
      connectional weights which are often equated with components in the brain, axons, and
      synapses, respectively. Functional connectivity within such a network can be conceived of as
      the network properties that enable its components jointly to process inputs or outputs, or
      both.

      The expectation of pain will be studied by recording local field potentials (LFP) directly
      from parts of the brain involved in that expectation. These recordings are carried out by
      exploiting the opportunity afforded by implantation of electrodes in and on the brain for the
      treatment of epilepsy, a platform with unrivaled clarity and resolution. Parts of the brain
      related to the expectation of pain will be characterized by activation and interactions.
      Activations are measured by the proportion of electrodes in a part of the brain with a
      significant ratio of electrical power following an event over baseline (event related
      spectral perturbation, ERSP).

      Interactions will be measured by causal interactions following an event over baseline. The
      approach of this protocol is that causal interactions are based upon causal influences by an
      approach based upon the concept of linear predictability. Briefly, a signal Y is said to
      exert grc upon signal X when the predication error of the X is reduced by adding the past
      information of Y (causal interaction). The signals from any two components will be analyzed
      by ERC for causal interactions to determine the magnitude and direction of causal
      interactions between the two to determine pain related directed interactions related to
      aversive conditioning. The ERC (event related causality) is the ratio of interactions
      following event over interactions in a baseline period.

      Investigators' Preliminary Data shows LFP activations in model networks for the expectation
      of pain are consistent with the evidence of studies of anatomic projections and Functional
      MRI (fMRI) signals. These models include nuclei of the Amygdala, Anterior and Mid-Cingulate,
      as well as the Hippocampal formation, Insula, and Lateral Prefrontal Cortex. The premise of
      this study is that components in models for expectation will be involved in both pain and
      conditioning processes, and show the activations and interactions of parts of the brain that
      define distributed networks for the expectation of pain.
    
  