
    
      In most of the low middle income countries, carer gender plays an important role in decisions
      to seek care. Although in majority of households, the primary caregivers of children under
      five are the mothers of those children, decisions with respect to care are often made by
      fathers or mothers in law which is a problem as they do not cater to the child in a timely
      manner either by not being there or being ignorant of basic management of the illness.
      Another contributing factor could be lack of time to take the child for healthcare as the
      mothers are usually occupied in their household chores and the fathers are busy working. And
      in rare cases where either the mother of a child dies at childbirth (500 per 100,000 live
      births) and when fathers are working away from home, it is the secondary caregiver who is
      responsible for care seeking of that child. Additionally, due to poverty, most caregivers
      cannot afford the cost of travel and secondary care for the child delaying care seeking until
      the child is severely ill. The inaccessibility of adequate healthcare within close proximity
      may delay care seeking. However a major contributing factor to this delay is impaired carer
      perception of the seriousness of the condition. The importance of caregivers' ability to
      recognize and seek appropriate care for their children is also one of the recommended key
      activities in the World Health Organization's (WHO)and UNICEF's Global Action Plan for the
      Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhea [11]. WHO and UNICEF have, therefore, emphasized the
      development of innovative, sustainable and cost-effective strategies/interventions to improve
      child health. It is important to devise a strategy whereby patients' symptoms are identified
      timely and immediate care given at their doorstep. Experimental studies provide the strongest
      evidence that illness perceptions can modify behaviors and care-seeking, and several studies
      have shown that interventions designed to change illness perceptions can improve health
      outcomes.

      The inaccessibility of adequate healthcare within close proximity may delay care seeking.
      However a major contributing factor to this delay is impaired carer perception of the
      seriousness of the condition. Although well-proven life-saving tools are available to stop
      mortality due to preventable illnesses like pneumonia and recurrent wheeze, the existing
      health systems in Pakistan are passive. One of the most impact strategies can be timely
      healthcare seeking through community health workers who have been a powerful force to promote
      healthy behaviors and extend the reach to the health system by acting as a bridge between the
      community and the system. Community-based packaged interventions delivered through CHWs have
      been shown to improve care seeking for childhood illnesses. In Pakistan, these CHWs are
      referred to as Lady Health Workers (LHWs) enrolled under the National Program for Family
      Planning and Primary Healthcare. On average each LHW covers 100-150 households by making
      monthly visits and providing basic health services and education. These LHWs could,
      therefore, be a useful mode as evidence has shown that health interventions integrating
      (CHWs) can lead to positive behavior changes and lower morbidity and mortality rates, while
      moving services and information closer to the communities where they are actually needed.

      Thus, our study will explore care-seeking for childhood pneumonia among caregivers of
      children under five through a qualitative approach and devise a Care Model to actively find
      cases through LHWs and promote appropriate care seeking behavior.

      Primary Objective

      • To determine the feasibility of using an android based mobile application by LHWs to
      educate caregivers of children under five on prevention of pneumonia in rural Islamabad.
    
  