
    
      Anemia in newborn babies is defined as the mean of hemoglobin values according to postnatal
      age is below 2 standard deviations. Disruption in tissue perfusion and oxygenation,
      hyperdynamic cardiac failure, increase in need of oxygen, increase in respiratory effort,
      inability to be separated from mechanical ventilation, failure to thrive, paleness, increase
      in frequency of morbidities of prematurity (necrotizing enterocolitis, retinopathy of
      prematurity, intraventricular hemorrhage, etc.) may be seen as a result of progressive
      anemia. When critical hemoglobin values are reached in premature newborn babies with
      concomitant disruption of tissue oxygenation, transfusion is performed with erythrocyte
      suspensions. The main goal here is to correct impaired tissue oxygenation, provide perfusion
      in sufficient quantity, and prevent anemia-related morbidities. Although frequently applied,
      there is no consensus in our country and in the world regarding threshold hemoglobin values
      and supporting parameters for transfusions. As a result, there are no guidelines prepared for
      newborns based on evidence with clearly defined borders and accepted by everyone. Many
      countries and centers implement different transfusion protocols based on their experience.
      Given the risk of oxygen radical damage and associated diseases as a result of erythrocyte
      transfusions (infections, bone marrow suppression, necrotizing enterocolitis, retinopathy of
      prematurity, etc.), there is a need to develop new methods for taking and supporting
      transfusion decision, and to prepare more objective and more accepted guidelines. The origin
      of our study is the subsequent protective compensation mechanisms after deterioration in
      brain oxygenation due to symptomatic anemia in premature newborn babies. For these reasons,
      it is aimed to examine the changes in brain blood supply and oxygenation in neonatal
      premature babies who have anemia and who underwent erythrocyte suspension transfusion in the
      light of original guidelines by means of obtaining measurements with the help of cranial
      doppler ultrasonography and near-infrared spectroscopy.
    
  