
    
      Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection remains a global health care problem with more than one
      third of world's population having serological evidence of been exposed to the virus and
      about 5% of global population ( 350-400 million) being chronically infected. About 15-40% of
      Patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) infection develop complications of liver cirrhosis,
      liver failure and hepatocellular carcinoma(HCC) in their life time , resulting in an
      estimated of 500,000 to 1.2 million deaths each year. In Saudi Arabia, chronic hepatitis B
      remains a serious medical problem, despite the implementation of mandatory HBV vaccination of
      children since 1989. According to a recent study conducted in Saudi hospital, HBV accounts
      for 49% of the hepatitis cases . Persistent viral replication is associated with disease
      progression to liver fibrosis, cirrhosis and development of HCC. Currently two classes of
      drugs are available for treatment of CHB namely immunomodulatory therapy (conventional &
      pegylated interferon (Pegasys) PEG-IFN) and nucleoside/nucleotide analogues(NA).
      Interferon(IFN)-α with its dual immunomodulatory and antiviral effects was the first drug
      (recombinant standard IFN- α) licensed for Chronic hepatitis B treatment in the 1990's
      followed by introduction of nucleos(t)ide analogues(NA) in 1998 that directly inhibit HBV
      polymerase and provide an effective on treatment maintained viral suppression . With the
      introduction of pegylated interferon- α (PEG-IFN) in 2005 that allows a convenient once a
      week dosing interval and of equal or superior treatment efficacy than conventional (IFN), the
      interferon based therapy has markedly improved its utility. Due to its predominant
      immunomodulatory effect peginterferon (PEG-IFN) offers the advantage of higher sustained off
      treatment response rate compared to NA thus allowing a finite duration of treatment. The NA
      act by directly inhibiting HBV polymerase resulting in effective on treatment maintained
      viral suppression (HBV DNA PCR <200 for last 3-6 month)). However, long term NA therapy has
      the problems of emergence of viral resistance, long -term safety, cost and patient
      compliance.
    
  