
    
      Until now, glucocorticoids always play a leading role in the lupus treatment, and the lupus's
      prognosis has been greatly improved by the treatment of serious flare-ups with a combination
      of high-dose corticosteroids and immunosuppressants, notably mycophenolate mofetil (MMF)
      together with hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil), survival at 10 years being 70 to 90%. However,
      corticosteroid treatment is also a major cause of morbidity and mortality, and with 60 years
      of experience, consensus about "appropriate" dosages, route of administration and tapering
      regimes has not been reached. In addition, there is a large variability in clinical response
      to corticosteroid therapy which may be attributed to heterogeneity of SLE, drugs interaction
      or to environmental and genetic factors, especially to polymorphism of the MDR (multi-drug
      resistance) -1 and NR3C1 (glucocorticoid nuclear receptor subfamily 3, group C, member 1).
      There are no previous studies investigating the role of MDR-1 and NR3C1 genes polymorphisms
      in the response to corticosteroids in lupus patients Drug monitoring of immunosuppressive
      drugs has been largely explored in renal transplantation and in a lesser extend in SLE
      (especially for mycophenolic acid). Relationship between prednisolone PK and clinical
      efficacy/toxicity have been also shown previously especially in renal transplant population.
      In patients with SLE, only two small series (8 children, 25 adults) have explored this
      relationship, and suggested that SLE activity and corticosteroid toxicity might be related to
      prednisolone AUC. Thus, limited data suggest that prednisone monitoring may optimize
      treatment efficacy and minimize adverse events.

      The DECOR study will aim :

        1. to search for relationship between prednisolone PK and SLE disease activity in a large
           series of patients in order to improve the rational of prednisone doses in lupus
           patients

        2. to identify pharmacogenetic factors influencing the response to steroid in order to
           identify patients sharing a high probability of being responders or resistant to
           corticosteroids.

      This approach could be applied to all inflammatory diseases requiring prolonged
      corticosteroid treatment, and thus, be a major progress in the use of this old treatment.
    
  