
    
      Premenstrual syndrome is defined as recurrent moderate physical, psychological, behavior
      symptoms that occur during the luteal phase of menses and resolve with menstruation. It
      affects 20 to 32 percent of premenopausal women.

      A diagnosis of PMS consists of determining the timing of the symptoms in relation to menses,
      meaningful change between post- and premenstrual symptom severity, and a clinically
      significant severity of the symptoms. The ICD-10 requires only one distressing symptom for a
      diagnosis of PMS. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) diagnosis is
      that it occurs 5 days before menses and remit within 4 days of onset of menses no recurrence
      at least until day 13 of the cycle. A differential diagnosis to distinguish PMS from other
      medical and psychiatric conditions is important for appropriate treatment. No hormone or
      laboratory test indicates a PMS diagnosis. The current diagnostic standard requires
      confirmation of subjective symptom reports by prospective daily diaries. The Menstrual
      Distress Questionnaire (MDQ) is a method for measuring perimenstrual symptoms. It is a
      46-item self-report inventory for use in the assessment of physical or psychological symptoms
      that occur in the premenstrual, menstrual, or intermenstrual phases. There are two forms of
      the MDQ: form C (Cycle) and form T (Today). Form C of the MDQ is designed for screening.
      Women use this form to describe their symptoms and reactions during each of the three phases
      of their most recent menstrual cycle. It may be administered at any time during the cycle.
      Form T is designed for treatment evaluation, and research application.

      This study attempted to do the two-stage design of the translation of the MDQ (Form C-Cycle).
      Previous studies have translated only 14 items of the MDQ (Form C - Cycle) and only done the
      internal reliability test. This study is expected to do a two-stage translation of the MDQ
      (Form C - Cycle) Chinese version, and to do the reliability and validity test.
    
  