
    
      The specific aims of this study are as follows:

      Test hypotheses regarding the influence of cigarette tax on the consumption of cigarette and
      other addictive goods:

      To test the hypothesis that the imposition of earmarked tax of cigarettes will cause decrease
      of cigarette consumption.

      To test the hypothesis that the imposition of earmarked tax of alcohol will cause the
      substitution of consumption of domestic and imported cigarettes.

      To test the hypothesis that the imposition of earmarked tax of cigarettes will cause the
      substitution of consumption of high-priced and low-priced cigarettes.

      To test the hypothesis that the imposition of earmarked tax of cigarettes will cause decrease
      of the consumption of other addictive goods.

      To test the hypothesis that the imposition of earmarked tax of alcohol will cause decrease of
      alcohol consumption.

      To test the hypothesis that the imposition of earmarked tax of alcohol will cause decrease of
      the consumption of other addictive goods.

      To test the hypothesis that price effect of earmarked cigarette tax on addicted smokers is
      less than on non-addicted smokers.

      To test the hypothesis that price effect earmarked cigarette tax on heavy smokers is less
      than on light and moderate smokers.

      To test the hypothesis that earmarked cigarette tax and alcohol tax are regressive.

      Test hypotheses regarding the influence of information, knowledge attitude on cigarette
      smoking and smoking cessation.

      To test the hypothesis that exposure to anti-smoking information is negatively related to
      cigarette smoking and positively related to smoking cessation.

      To test the hypothesis that exposure to information on cigarette promotion is positively
      related to cigarette smoking and negatively related to smoking cessation.

      To test the hypothesis that people perceiving high risk of cigarette smoking are less likely
      to smoke.

      To test the hypothesis that highly risk averse people are less likely to smoke.
    
  