
    
      In head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), the presence of lymph node metastases in
      addition to free resection margins following surgical resection of the primary tumor is an
      important prognostic factor, and may impact planning of surgery as well as of radiotherapy.
      Neck dissection and histopathology are regarded as diagnostic standard procedures to define
      the lymph node status in patients with HNSCC. Occult lymph node metastases after imaging have
      been described in up to 46% of patients, e.g. in patients with cancer of the tongue.

      Although neck dissection generally has a low rate of intra- and postoperative complications,
      a small but statistically significant group of patients suffers from surgery-related side
      effects such as lymphedema, chronic pain syndromes and injury of cranial nerves with
      paralysis (shoulder lift and mouth angle). Therefore it would be desirable to spare
      diagnostic neck dissection in patients without macroscopic lymph node metastasis. However,
      the sensitivity and/or specificity of the non-invasive imaging techniques available up to
      now, including positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), did
      not allow to exclude lymph node metastases, which is especially true for small metastases.
      Therefore, imaging is not able to replace the histological examination of the cervical lymph
      nodes and have limited impact on the therapeutic concept, the surgical planning and the
      planning and dose prescription of radiotherapy.

      Acquisition techniques and image quality of PET (with the glucose analog
      F-18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)) and the combined examination with computed tomography (PET/CT)
      were considerably improved with last generation PET/CT machines. New generation PET/CT
      machines provide significantly improved image quality and image resolution image, and
      probably higher sensitivity to detect smaller lesions. However, in the face of an expected
      increase of detected metabolically active cervical lymph nodes by high-resolution (HR)
      PET/CT, a diagnostic problem in terms of a potentially increased number of false-positive
      lymph nodes arises, e. g. due to an inflammatory lymphadenopathy.

      Until now there are no evidence-based criteria to classify small metabolically active lymph
      nodes detected by HR PET/CT. Hence, a correlation of PET/CT findings and histopathology of
      cervical lymph metastases and inflammatory lymph nodes in patients with HNSCC is required to
      develop diagnostic criteria for HR PET/CT and to exploit the diagnostic potential of HR
      PET/CT.

      Modern concepts of radiotherapy planning for neck lymph node metastases increasingly take
      into consideration the metabolic and morphological information of PET/CT for target volume
      definition. Detailed information on the diagnostic performance of HR PET / CT are of
      importance for the dose prescription of intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT). In
      radiotherapy side effects depend significantly on the dose and the irradiation volume. Modern
      radiation techniques, especially IMRT, allow for highly-conformal radiation therapy with
      steep dose gradients to protect organs such as the salivary glands, and to reduce side
      effects of radiotherapy. On the other hand modern radiotherapy concepts carry the risk to
      fail due to non-inclusion of subclinical lymph node metastases in the target volume. HR
      PET/CT may allow to minimize out-of-field recurrences caused by incorrect target volume
      contouring or dose prescription. Evidence-based data on the diagnostic accuracy of HR PET/CT
      with special regard to small lymph node metastases are needed to clarify the potential role
      of HR PET/CT for radiation treatment planning.

      Objective:

        -  To determine the sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, PPV and NPV of lymph node staging
           with HR PET/CT in patients with HNSCC

        -  To determine the sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, PPV and NPV of HR PET/CT for lymph
           node metastases of different size in patients with HNSCC

        -  To determine the detection rate of distant metastases by PET/CT in patients with HNSCC

        -  To develop diagnostic criteria for the multi-modal lymph node staging with HR PET/CT in
           patients with HNSCC

        -  To evaluate the potential impact of HR PET/CT on radiation treatment planning

      Methods:

      Patients with HNSCC are managed according to clinical recommendations of the
      interdisciplinary tumor board. Elective patients receive selective, modified radical or
      radical neck dissection of the relevant lymph node region according to clinical routine
      standards at the Inselspital Bern. The neck dissection must be carried out within a maximum
      of 6 weeks after the PET / CT examination.

      As part of the neck dissection the lymph nodes will be sent to the Institute of Pathology
      separated by level and side by topographic markers (cranial / caudal, medial / lateral). The
      histological examination of the removed lymph nodes serves as reference standard for the
      analysis of PET/CT image data, and calculation of the diagnostic accuracy of HR PET/CT.

      Theoretical radiation treatment plans are generated based on conventional imaging, whole-body
      PET/CT and HR PET/CT protocols to determine the impact of PET/CT.
    
  