
    
      Alzheimer's disease is a common condition affecting memory and thinking. Genes can sometimes
      be used to provide risk estimates for the eventual development of certain common diseases.
      Apolipoprotein E (APOE) is one gene which can provide information about a person's chances of
      developing Alzheimer's disease.

      Some people with a diagnosis of Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) are curious to learn more
      about the chance of developing Alzheimer's disease. In the REVEAL IV Study, we are examining
      the psychological and behavioral impact of learning genetic risk information pertaining to
      the chance for an individual with MCI to progress to dementia of the Alzheimer's type within
      three years.

      Participation in this study requires an initial phone call which will elicit some demographic
      information about the participant and his or her study partner. A first in-person visit to
      the research clinic will consist of an education session, the administration of knowledge and
      attitudinal surveys and some tests to assess memory and thinking skills. This visit will take
      approximately 2-3 hours. Participants with MCI will have their blood drawn for genetic
      testing. Participants will then be randomized to one of two groups. Those in the intervention
      arm will receive a three-year risk estimate for the chance of progressing to dementia of the
      Alzheimer's type based on age, the diagnosis of MCI and their own APOE gene test result.
      Those in the comparison arm will receive a three-year risk estimate for the chance of
      progressing to dementia of the Alzheimer's type based on age and the diagnosis of MCI,
      without the APOE gene test result. Participants randomized to the comparison arm will have
      the opportunity to learn their own APOE gene test result at the end of the study.
      Participants and their study partners will be followed for 6 months following disclosure of
      results with 1 additional clinic visit and 1 additional phone interviews.
    
  