
    
      Purpose and Specific Aims This is a pilot to test the Stroke Home health Aide Recovery
      Program (SHARP) study design elements and procedures in preparation for a larger-scale study
      that would assess the effectiveness of the model to improve patient outcomes. The overall
      purpose of SHARP and of this research pilot is to improve patients' function following a
      stroke. SHARP is designed to improve mobility and reduce falls in post-acute homebound stroke
      patients by expanding the rehabilitation team to include SHARP Home Health Aides (HHAs)
      specially trained as stroke "peer coaches." The coaches will provide mentorship and support
      to direct care generalist HHAs. The direct care HHAs will already be working with patients
      and families on the exercise regimen prescribed by physicians and rehabilitation therapists.

      Main aims are to:

        1. Test recruitment and randomization procedures

        2. Examine program acceptability

        3. Assess intervention protocol implementation fidelity

        4. Examine patient burden, and obtain preliminary estimates of
           variability/reliability/correlation over time of selected outcomes

      Population and Intervention Potential candidates for the SHARP coach positions are drawn from
      recommendations of HHA field supervisors and from additional HHA volunteers. All must have
      already completed the Partners in Care health coach introductory program or the equivalent.
      Nominated candidates will be interviewed by Research and Partners in Care staff to select up
      to 10 HHA's to engage in SHARP coach training. After coach preparation, rehabilitation
      therapists are to help identify post-stroke patients who meet the initial pilot study
      eligibility criteria. A VNSNY Research Assistant reaches out to patients referred by the
      therapists to assess their interest and eligibility, to explain the intervention and terms of
      participation and, once patients agree to participate, to obtain their formal consent. After
      consent, patients are randomized to an intervention or control arm. SHARP coaches are
      deployed to help with post-stroke rehabilitation care for those randomized to the
      intervention arm. A total of 60 patients will be recruited - 30 for the intervention arm and
      30 for the usual care arm.

      Potential Significance The SHARP program that is being developed through this study has the
      potential to be a high impact approach to enhance home-based post-stroke rehabilitation and
      improve functional mobility and related outcomes among homebound post-stroke patients. This
      project represents foundational work for the development of a novel community based approach
      to enhance stroke recovery. By leveraging an existing infrastructure of paraprofessional care
      providers (the HHAs), this program may offer a practical and sustainable method for enhancing
      post-acute care of stroke patients during the critical transition phase from hospital/rehab
      center to home, and provide a framework for a new cadre of advanced, specialty HHAs.
      Qualitative and quantitative data derived from this pilot will inform feasibility, study
      procedures and effect sizes for a larger randomized trial assessing the impact of the SHARP
      coaching on patient outcomes.
    
  