
    
      Agonist maintenance is the most efficacious treatment for opioid dependence. Unfortunately,
      demand for treatment far exceeds available capacity. An alarming number of clinics have
      extensive waitlists for treatment slots (Gryczynski et al., 2009; Peles et al., 2012;
      Peterson et al., 2010). Patients can remain on these waitlists for years, placing them at
      elevated risk for illicit drug use, criminal activity, infectious disease, overdose and
      mortality during this period (Peles et al., 2013; Warner-Smith et al., 2001; Wenger &
      Rosenbaum, 1994). These delays in treatment access represent a significant barrier to the
      widespread delivery of effective opioid treatment, particularly in rural areas where there
      are fewer providers and substantial unmet treatment need. One important effort to increase
      access has been to extend interim methadone treatment (IMT; i.e., daily methadone + emergency
      counseling only) to individuals awaiting enrollment into a methadone program. IMT
      significantly reduces illicit opioid use and criminality and increases likelihood of
      treatment entry (Schwartz et al., 2006, 2007, 2009a,b, 2011). However, methadone treatment in
      the U.S. is limited to licensed specialty clinics, it requires frequent clinic visits, and
      the medication itself has risks of diversion, abuse and overdose. Hence, methadone's
      regulatory and pharmacological features substantially constrain the ability of IMT to expand
      access to opioid treatment.

      Our overarching goal in this application is to develop a novel Interim Buprenorphine
      Treatment (IBT) that can bridge delays in treatment access. Our integrative treatment package
      includes five key components, each strategically chosen to maximize patient access to
      pharmacotherapy for opioid dependence while minimizing nonadherence, abuse and diversion: (1)
      Buprenorphine (BUP): Due to its pharmacological profile, BUP has less risk of abuse and
      overdose and is available without the rigid dosing regulations required for methadone. Thus,
      we will use BUP in this interim-treatment model. (2) Computerized adherence monitoring (CAM):
      We will use CAM to promote medication adherence and reduce diversion risk. BUP doses will be
      dispensed via a state-of-the-art portable device that makes each day's dose available only at
      a predetermined time, after which all medication is inaccessible. (3) Mobile health clinical
      support: mHealth platforms use information and communication technology to deliver patient
      monitoring, education and support beyond the confines of the medical office. Interactive
      Voice Response (IVR) systems are especially promising in that they provide customized support
      via phone with low cost, consistent delivery, 24-hour availability, privacy and convenience.
      We will develop an IVR system to deliver clinical support with branching logic in a seamless
      fashion as well as immediate connection with staff or crisis service if needed. (4)
      Urinalysis and adherence monitoring: We will develop an automated call-back procedure to
      contact participants via IVR at randomly-determined intervals and notify them to return to
      the clinic to provide a urine specimen and present the CAM device for inspection. This
      component will provide a rigorous but efficient method for supporting abstinence and
      adherence over an extended period of lower-frequency visits. (5) HIV+Hepatitis Education: We
      have developed an intervention that produces significant improvements in HIV and hepatitis
      knowledge. However its resource-intensive in-person format may limit its utility in IBT. We
      will adapt our intervention for delivery via iPad, a state-of-the-art platform with
      portability, sophisticated functionality and widespread appeal.

      The primary aim of this Stage I Behavioral and Integrative Treatment Development application
      is to develop a novel, manual-based IBT platform to increase access to opioid treatment.
      During Months 1-6 we will refine treatment components using feedback from stakeholders.
      During the remaining study period, we will evaluate the feasibility, acceptability and
      initial efficacy of IBT in a 12-week proof-of-concept trial in which 70 opioid-dependent
      adults wait-listed for agonist maintenance are randomized to receive IBT (n=35) or continue
      in a Waitlist Control condition (WLC; n=35). IBT participants will visit the clinic every 2
      weeks while receiving the IBT package described above. WLC participants will remain on the
      waitlist for their treatment of choice but complete the same scheduled follow-up assessments
      as IBT participants. WLC participants who have not entered treatment by Week 12 will be
      offered the opportunity to cross over to IBT at that time, contributing additional
      within-subject data with which to evaluate the efficacy of the IBT intervention.

      By facilitating the eradication of waitlists, the proposed research represents a significant
      departure from the status quo and stands to produce a fundamental shift in how treatment of
      opioid dependence is conceptualized and delivered. The IBT components are highly novel, both
      individually and as an integrative treatment package for opioid dependence. This study will
      also be the first to investigate the utility of IBT in the patients and settings that stand
      to benefit most from it and includes a multi-pronged dissemination plan to ensure that our
      findings are readily transported into real-world clinical practice. Taken together, the
      proposed project will produce a highly innovative technology-assisted pharmacotherapy
      protocol that can be widely disseminated to increase access to life-saving opioid treatment.
      These aims are directly relevant to NIDA's mission of improving the accessibility,
      implementation and effectiveness of drug abuse treatment.
    
  