
    
      This is a double blind Phase III study where eligible subjects are randomized into two
      treatment arms following the SOC primary treatment with chemoradiation: Arm 1 will receive
      ICT-107 in combination with the standard of care, temozolomide (TMZ), Arm 2 will receive TMZ
      with a blinded control. A 1:1 randomization will be employed, where ARM 1 will receive
      ICT-107 and Arm 2 will receive placebo control. All subjects must be HLA-A2+. All subjects
      must have glioblastoma tissue that has tumor assessment for MGMT methylation status prior to
      randomization (for stratification). Subjects will have had tumor resection and magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) prior to enrollment into the study. After signing of written informed
      consent and any required privacy compliance forms and screening, enrolled subjects will
      undergo large volume apheresis at the study site for collection of PBMCs. Apheresis product
      will be sent to the manufacturing site where both active therapy (ICT-107) and control will
      be prepared for each subject prior to randomization The study period consists of 4 time
      periods; a 6-week Post-Surgery Standard of Care Treatment Phase where subjects receive
      radiotherapy and TMZ; TMZ and radiation to be initiated no more than 8 weeks after surgical
      resection of glioblastoma; a Rest Period of no more than 14 days where subjects are
      reassessed for eligibility, and then randomized; a 4 week Induction Phase where study therapy
      (ICT-107 or Control) is given weekly; followed by a Maintenance Phase where study therapy is
      given monthly for 11 months, and then every 6 months until either progression, withdrawal
      from the study, death, or the supply of autologous study therapy is exhausted. Randomized
      subjects will receive 4 weekly administrations of subject-specific study therapy (ICT-107 or
      Control) during the Induction Phase. No TMZ will be given during the 4 week Induction Phase.
      Each study therapy injection will be delivered intradermally (axilla).

      The Maintenance Phase will consist of administration of subject-specific study therapy
      monthly for 11 months after the Induction Phase (for a total of 15 injections over 12 months
      during the Induction and Maintenance Phases), and then every 6 mos. thereafter until
      depletion or confirmation of progressive disease (PD). During the Maintenance Phase (where
      ICT-107 or control are given monthly), the administration of TMZ and subject specific study
      therapy or control will be separated in time by approximately 2 weeks (see Section 9.1.4).
      Pre-treatment, treatment and assessment schedules will be the same for all subjects.
    
  