
    
      This is a comparative cohort study of two anastomosis techniques for laparoscopic right
      hemicolectomy.

      Between 2011 and 2019, all unselected consecutive patients who underwent a laparoscopic
      resection of the right colon were considered to be included in the study. The inclusion and
      exclusion criteria are detailed in the section below. Data were extracted from a
      prospectively maintained colorectal surgery database of a university-affiliated hospital in
      Barcelona.

      All included patients signed a standard consent form after being informed about the
      characteristics of the procedure. Institutional board approval was obtained before the review
      of the patients' data.

      Patients were divided into two groups, depending on the anastomotic technique performed:
      intracorporeal (IA) or extracorporeal.

      The primary endpoint of the study was to determine the surgical-site infection (SSI) rate and
      its potential impact on the length of hospital stay. Anastomotic leak was defined as a "leak
      of luminal contents from a surgical join between two hollow viscera" according to the
      Surgical Infection Study Group [1]. The evaluation of SSI, intraabdominal abscess and wound
      infection (both superficial and deep), was based on the Centers for Disease and Prevention
      definitions [2].

      Secondary endpoints included other short-term postoperative complications (30 days), besides
      the SSI: hemorrhage (intraabdominal and anastomotic), ileus (intolerance to oral feeding
      beyond the fourth postoperative day or the need for insertion of a nasogastric tube),
      evisceration, medical complications, reoperations, and mortality. The severity of the
      complications was reported using the Clavien-Dindo classification [3].

      The following variables were also collected: operating time (from the start of the incision
      to skin closure), concomitant surgery performed, assistance incision site (for anastomosis or
      specimen retrieval), conversion rate to open surgery (need for a laparotomy wider than 10
      cm.), and oncological parameters as the size of the tumor, the depth of wall invasion (T) and
      the lymph node harvest.

      Patient demographics characteristics analyzed were age, sex, body mass index (BMI), and
      associated comorbidities. The anesthetic risk was measured according to the American Society
      of Anesthesiologists (ASA) classification system [4].
    
  