
    
      This investigation will be the first placebo controlled trial of delirium
      prevention/treatment, in or out of the ICU. As mentioned above, clinical practice guidelines
      for medical management of pain, anxiety, and delirium (major determinants of patient comfort)
      are endorsed by the major critical care societies. These guidelines will form the template
      for this investigation. Pain management is prioritized as a clinicians' first concern. The
      assessment and treatment algorithm in the guidelines then places anxiety and delirium,
      respectively, as sequential tiers of priority. While delirium monitoring is now available,
      recent data indicate that less than 5% of practicing ICU healthcare professionals use a
      specific delirium monitoring instrument. Thus, as outlined here, most delirium is not
      recognized or treated, which serves as the rationale for this placebo-controlled
      investigation. Anxiety is currently treated with drugs such as benzodiazepines. Such anxiety,
      however, may be due to delirium, in which case treatment with anxiolytics such as
      benzodiazepines might exacerbate this form of brain dysfunction. On the other hand, it is
      possible that treatment with antipsychotics will reduce the duration and severity of
      delirium, result in less breakthrough sedatives (due to the sedating effects of the
      antipsychotics), and improve clinical outcomes. Alternatively, treatment with antipsychotics
      may not alter or worsen clinical outcomes.

      The specific aims of this study are as follows:

      Aim 1: To determine whether antipsychotics reduce the incidence and duration of delirium in
      high risk mechanically ventilated patients.

      Aim 2: To determine whether antipsychotics reduce the severity of neuropsychological
      dysfunction at hospital discharge in high risk mechanically ventilated patients.

      Hypothesis 1: Our primary hypothesis is that in mechanically ventilated patients, the
      duration of delirium and the days alive and free of delirium - as measured using the
      Confusion Assessment Method for the ICU (CAM-ICU)- will be significantly improved by early
      treatment with antipsychotics (haloperidol or ziprasidone) as compared to placebo.
      Furthermore, we hypothesize that delirium duration will be comparable between the two
      intervention groups (haloperidol and ziprasidone). To test the primary hypothesis, we propose
      to perform a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of the prevention/treatment
      of delirium in ICU patients using oral liquid formulations of haloperidol versus ziprasidone
      versus placebo. This study is powered to show a 50% improvement in the duration of delirium
      (CAM-ICU positive days) and will enroll 102 patients (34 in each group) over a two-year
      period. In addition, we will compare between groups the overall incidence of delirium and the
      number of delirium free days (DFDs) - defined as days alive and free of coma and delirium to
      day 21.

      Hypothesis 2: We hypothesize that scores on a neuropsychological testing battery administered
      at the time of hospital discharge will be better in patients treated with antipsychotics
      (either haloperidol or ziprasidone) than those treated with placebo. Furthermore, we
      hypothesize that neuropsychological test scores will be comparable between the two
      intervention groups (haloperidol and ziprasidone).
    
  