
    
      Participants retrospectively investigate clinical data and anesthesia process of 15 preterm
      infant from anesthesia charts with ROP who underwent DLP between 2014 and 2016. This
      presented retrospective study was confirmed by the Institutional Clinical Research Ethics
      Board. Neonates burns under 30 weeks gestation and low birth weigh under 2000 g were admitted
      to the study. No infant were excluded from the study. Preterm infants were appreciated before
      surgery and informed consent was obtained form their parents. We recorded gestational age,
      American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status scores, post-conceptual age,
      weight at birth and surgery, duration of anesthesia and surgery, blood glucose values at
      surgery, the management of airway, total hospital stay period, analgesia management,
      complications and comorbidities. Bradycardia ( <90 beats/mean), desaturation (SpO2 <90%) and
      arrhythmia were recorded. Electrocardiography (ECG), pulse oximetric saturation (SpO2),
      end-tidal carbon dioxide pressure, heart rate (HR) and body temperature were monitored in
      operating room. Topical 0.5% proparacaine eye drops were administered to all infants
      routinely. Anesthesia was induced with thiopental 6 mg kg-1 and fentanyl 1 µg kg-1 and it was
      maintained with 50% oxygen 50% air 1%-3% sevoflurane in all cases. Inhaled anesthetic agent
      was not preferred for induction of anesthesia because of causing hypotension. The premature
      infants were intubated by same experienced anesthesiologist. In all infants, were intubated
      the patients without muscle relaxant under spontaneous ventilation. Perioperative
      complications, blood glucose value, devices in airway management and extubation value were
      recorded. After surgery, extubation was performed when spontanea ventilation was enough and
      extubation was recorded. All infants were taken to newborn intensive care unit (NICU). Data
      are reported as mean ± standard deviation and percentage(%).
    
  