
    
      Chlamydophila pneumoniae has been evaluated as one potential underlying cause of CHD. The
      strongest evidence supporting this hypothesis comes from multiple investigators who enrolled
      over 19,217 subjects in 'Anti-Chlamydia trials'. However, these studies can be questioned on
      the basis of the type and duration of therapy. The recent change of the genus no longer
      permits treatment of C. pneumoniae as if it were Chlamydia trachomatis - which can generally
      be cured with a short course of macrolides [azithromycin, roxithromycin or clarithromycin]
      used in the majority of subjects analysed in this meta-analysis. C. pneumoniae is largely
      intra-cellular and its preferred locations (arterial muscle cells and macrophages) may
      contribute to its persistence in the body. C. pneumoniae can be refractory to antibiotic
      treatment in spite of in vitro susceptibility to various macrolides and ansamycins likely due
      to the use of sub-optimal dosages, which has been shown to encourage or induce persistence of
      C. pneumoniae in vitro. Rupp et al (2009) reported C. pneumoniae to infiltrated poptotic
      neutrophils that are subsequently taken up by monocyte-derived macrophages, thereby
      preventing clearance by the body's immune system and preventing susceptibility in the
      presence of antibiotics.

      The previously reported trials have used short-term or recurrent treatment. The rationale for
      combined antibiotic long-term therapy stems from experience with other intracellular bacteria
      e.g. Mycobacterium tuberculosis, characterized by its dormant forms and affinity for
      developing resistance. The presence of infection in arterial cells with associated fibrosis
      and calcification for a considerable time may warrant prolonged treatment to enable
      antibiotic penetration into infected spaces. The occurrence of dormant forms also requires
      long-term treatment to anticipate the 'awakening' of dormant bacterial cells so that
      antibiotics can be effective during their division phase. The use of a combination therapy
      rather than a single agent to address dormant forms is concurrent with experience with other
      chronic and multiple resistant strain infections such as H. pylori, M. tuberculosis, and
      Mycobacterium avium paratuberculosis which are treated with combination antibiotics to
      minimise the development of resistant strains. Indeed, in the C. pneumoniae/CHD trials, the
      only trial that showed marked improvement in primary end points was the trial that used
      multiple antibiotics albeit for 7 days22. Hence, it would be reasonable to trial an
      appropriate multiple-antibiotic regimen in CHD

      In this trial, antibiotics against C. pneumoniae known to be active within cells will be
      used. The three drugs will be administered simultaneously to minimise resistance development,
      and these will be used for a minimum of 3 months. At this stage ideal duration of treatment
      is not known.

      In preliminary clinical experience of 5 subjects, with 3-6 month treatment using
      clarithromycin, rifabutin and doxycycline, subjects noted reduced shortness of breath, angina
      episodes, and marked improvement in claudication. The dosage schedule for this trial will be
      initiated as half doses in the first week followed by full dosages from week two onwards.
      This is designed as to minimize the onset of potential adverse effects in subjects. The
      dose-escalating schedule allows introduction of the medications into the body and maximizing
      bioavailability yet minimizing the potential adverse events.

      The experience with long term use of a combination of three antibiotics in Mycobacterium
      avium paratuberculosis and Crohn's disease has been largely in younger subjects who did not
      receive anti-platelet agents as concomitant therapies, and thus, macrolide anti-platelet
      agent interactions have not been observed. In the proposed group of subjects with CHD
      disease, clarithromycin has a known interaction with anti-platelet agents and therefore in
      this group, clarithromycin will be substituted by azithromycin, a similar macrolide that
      demonstrates the same intracellular activity against C. pneumoniae but does not exhibit such
      interaction with anti-platelet agents. The azithromycin dose will be reduced due to its
      longer half-life, resulting in longer bioavailability duration in the body. Due to reported
      occasional QT-prolongation at high doses of azithromycin, ECG monitoring of the QT-interval
      will be carried out.
    
  