
    
      The aim of this research is to evaluate the immediate and long term outcome of the XIENCE
      PRIME EverolimusEluting Coronary Stent System in a prospective investigation for the
      treatment of patients with critical limb ischemia due to the presence of lesions between 3cm
      and 10cm in length at the level of the below the knee arteries.

      The research question is "Dose the use of an Everolimus coated stent in long tibial artery
      occlusions, between 3 and 10cm offer superior patency at 12 months compared to a historical
      cohort of bare metal stents in similar lesions?" Our hypothesis is that the use of everolimus
      coated stents in tibial artery occlusions between 3 and 10cm will result in lower binary
      restenosis than was historically found in equivalent but non-drugcoated bare metal stents.

      Currently, there is evidence that angioplasty and drug eluting stents can be used as a
      therapy for patients with critical limb ischemia due to occlusive infrapopliteal disease. The
      XIENCE PRIME™ Everolimus Eluting Coronary Stent System (XIENCE PRIME EECSS or XIENCE PRIME
      stent system) is manufactured by Abbott. It is a device/drug combination product consisting
      of the CobaltChromium MULTILINK VISION 8 Coronary Stent System coated with a formulation
      containing everolimus, the active ingredient, embedded in a nonerodible polymer. The XIENCE
      PRIME Everolimus Eluting Coronary Stent is coated with everolimus (active ingredient),
      embedded in a nonerodible polymer (inactive ingredient). Everolimus is the active
      pharmaceutical ingredient in the XIENCE PRIME stent. It is a novel semisynthetic macrolide
      immunosuppressant, synthesized by chemical modification of rapamycin (sirolimus). The
      everolimus chemical name is 40O(2hydroxyethyl) rapamycin.

      The XIENCE PRIME stent contains inactive ingredients including poly n-butyl methacrylate
      (PBMA), a polymer that adheres to the stent and drug coating, and PVDFHFP, which is comprised
      of vinylidene fluoride and hexafluoropropylene monomers as the drug matrix layer containing
      everolimus. PBMA is a homopolymer with a molecular weight (Mw) of 264,000 to 376,000 dalton.
      PVDFHFP is a nonerodible semicrystalline random copolymer with a molecular weight (Mw) of
      254,000 to 293,000 dalton. The drug matrix copolymer is mixed with everolimus (83%/17% w/w
      polymer/everolimus ratio) and applied to the entire PBMA coated stent surface. The drug load
      is 100 μg/cm2 for all product sizes. No top-coat layer is used.
    
  