
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The role of endogenous gonadal hormones in the etiology of atherosclerotic disease needs
      clarification. Previous studies of women have been small, rarely prospective, and had other
      methodological problems. Results have been inconsistent. Observational and clinical trial
      data on exogenous hormones, also inconsistent, are probably irrelevant to endogenous hormonal
      effects.

      On the other hand, despite hormonal differences being evoked as the reason for women having
      less atherosclerotic disease than men, it is not apparent from existing data that
      between-person variability in endogenous hormones is likely to be a strong risk factor for
      atherosclerotic disease in women. Furthermore, the atherosclerotic process begins early in
      life, and postmenopausal hormone differences are only one aspect of possible hormonal effects
      on disease. Nevertheless, this study has the potential to provide important new information
      on the role of endogenous hormones on atherosclerotic disease in postmenopausal women.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study used a nested-case control design to measure baseline sex steroid hormone levels
      (serum total and free estradiol, estrone sulfate, total and free testosterone,
      dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate) and sex hormone binding globulin to determine whether these
      predicted subsequent risk of coronary heart disease (CHD). A total of 350 case subjects and
      350 control subjects were selected from women who were free from cardiovascular disease and
      cancer at study entry and were not using hormone replacement therapy at baseline. Cases were
      those women who subsequently developed a documented myocardial infarction or underwent
      coronary artery revascularization (N=350), while control subjects were selected from study
      participants who remained free from CHD during follow-up. Controls were matched 1:1 for age,
      ethnicity, smoking and follow-up time. The study also examined correlations between sex
      steroid hormone levels and other previously funded analyses of biomarkers, including
      thrombotic and inflammatory markers, lipoproteins, fasting glucose and insulin. Detailed
      baseline data including anthropometrics and behavioral factors allowed control for
      confounding.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  