
    
      Background:

      Important advances in cardiac surgery, intensive care, and diagnostic modalities over the
      last decades have led to a steady growth in the number of adults with congenital heart
      defects (Grown-up congenital heart disease GUCH). Among adults with congenital heart disease,
      patients with a Fontan circulation typically show the lowest values of peak oxygen
      consumption with peak VO2 values between 15 and 29 ml/kg/min, corresponding to 43-64 % of the
      predicted values in healthy controls. For these patients, strict exclusion from activities at
      high altitude may have an impact on quality of life. Unfortunately, the most recent
      recommendations for physical activity, recreation sport, and exercise training in paediatric
      patients with congenital heart disease do not provide specific recommendations. The
      investigators study therefore aims to elucidate the short term effects of a stay at high
      altitude on hemodynamic adaptation, exercise capacity and clinical well being in adult Fontan
      patients. These results are necessary to counsel GUCH patients with respect to their leasure
      activities in Switzerland.

      Objective:

      The aims of the study are to measure a)the hemodynamic adaptation (pulmonary blood flow) at
      rest and during exercise; b)the response of cardiopulmonary parameters to exercise
      (ventilation, O2 uptake) and c) heart rate variability and occurrence of arrhythmias during
      the journey and while performing study measures in patients with a Fontan circulation. The
      measurements will be performed at high altitude and at lowland and compared with an age- and
      gender-matched control group of healthy subjects. The objective is to test the clinical
      tolerance of high altitude exposure after a rapid ascent with public transport in patients
      with a Fontan circulation. The investigators hypothesize that patients with a Fontan
      circulation in NYHA functional class I-II are able to increase their cardiac output during
      exercise at high altitude in order to meet the required metabolic demands despite hypoxia
      induced pulmonary vasoconstriction and therefore tolerate the journey to the Jungfraujoch
      well.

      Methods:

      The investigators aim to include 30 patients with a Fontan circulation and 30 age and
      gender-matched healthy adults. Baseline testing in Bern (540m over sea level)includes: a
      symptom limited cardiopulmonary exercise stress test on a cycle ergometer with a ramp
      protocol (CPX); a pulmonary function test (spirometry); a symptom limited, stepwise
      increasing workload test with non-invasive inert gas rebreathing method for pulmonary blood
      flow measurement during exercise (Innocor®); analysis of heart rate variability (HRV);
      Holter-ECG monitoring for detection of arrhythmias.

      Within a time period of 12 weeks, the baseline tests will be repeated on the Jungfraujoch
      (3454m).

      The primary endpoint of this study is the increase of pulmonary blood flow during exercise in
      response to high altitude exposure.
    
  