
    
      This is a master protocol to evaluate the safety and efficacy of investigational agents aimed
      at improving outcomes for patients with acute respiratory failure related to COVID-19.

      Trials within this protocol will be adaptive, randomized, blinded and initially
      placebo-controlled. Participants will receive standard of care (SOC) treatment as part of the
      protocol. If an investigational agent shows superiority over placebo, SOC for the study of
      future investigational agents may be modified accordingly.

      The international trials within this protocol will be conducted in up to several hundred
      clinical sites. Participating sites are affiliated with networks funded by the United States
      National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the US Department of Veterans Affairs.

      The protocol is for a phase III platform study that allows investigational drugs to be added
      and dropped during the course of the study. This allows for efficient testing of new drugs
      against control within the same trial infrastructure. When more than one agent is being
      tested concurrently, participants may be randomly allocated across agents (as well as between
      the agent and its placebo) so the same control group can be shared, when feasible. In some
      situations, a factorial design may be used to study multiple agents.

      Participants will be followed for 90 days following randomization for the primary endpoint
      and most secondary endpoints. Selected secondary endpoints will be measured at 180 days.

      This study is planned to provide 80% power to detect an odds ratio of 1.5 for improvement in
      recovery status at Day 90 for an investigational agent versus placebo with use of the ordinal
      outcome. The planned sample size is 640 participants (320 per group) for each investigational
      agent/placebo. Sample size may be re-estimated before enrollment is complete based on an
      assessment of whether the pooled proportions of the outcome are still consistent with
      adequate power for the hypothesized difference measured by the odds ratio.

      Randomization will be stratified by study site pharmacy and by receipt of invasive mechanical
      ventilation, or ECMO at enrollment. Other agent-specific stratification factors may be
      considered.

      Investigational agents suitable for testing in the inpatient setting will be prioritized
      based on in vitro data, preclinical data, phase I pharmacokinetic and safety data, and
      clinical data from completed and ongoing trials. In some cases, a vanguard cohort/initial
      pilot phase may be incorporated into the trial.

      An independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will review interim safety and
      efficacy data at least monthly. Pre-specified guidelines will be established to recommend
      early stopping of the trial for evidence of harm or substantial efficacy. The DSMB may
      recommend discontinuation of an investigational agent if the risks are judged to outweigh the
      benefits.
    
  