
    
      Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) as a result of ruptured intracranial cerebral aneurysms is a
      life threatening condition; with an estimated incidence of 6-10 cases per 100,000 persons per
      year. Endovascular coil emobolization of the aneurysm is performed to isolate the aneurysm
      and reduce the risk of re-bleeding. Unfortunately, despite timely and successful intervention
      approximate 25% of post-coiling patients suffer immediate and/or long-term injury including
      death as a result of intracranial bleeding. This is mainly a consequence of subarachnoid
      hemorrhage-related complications , especially cerebral vasospasm. Angiographic vasospasm and
      symptomatic vasospasm occur in 30-70% and 20-30% of SAH patients respectively. Goal-directed
      therapy (GDT) provides a means to assess and manage circulating volume and cardiac output. In
      this study, the investigators would investigate the use of GDT during aneurysm coiling
      procedures can improve the clinical course of these patients.

      This will be a blinded, randomized pilot study to compare clinical outcomes for endovascular
      coiling patients allocated to one of two treatments: GDT or non-GDT. Randomization consented
      patients will be randomized into GDT or non-GDT groups in 1:1 ratio. The attending
      anesthesiologists will not be blinded because of the nature of the intervention. However,
      surgeons, patients, outcomes assessors will be blinded as to the treatment intervention.

      In all patients, an arterial catheter (routinely used in these patients) will be inserted and
      connected to the Flotrac (Edward Lifesciences). After transferring the patients into the
      angiogram suite, routine monitoring such as pulse oximetry, electrocardiography, non-invasive
      blood pressure monitoring, end-tidal CO2 and temperature probe will be attached to the
      patients. Anesthesia will be conducted in the standard fashion. Patients will be randomized
      into two groups in 1:1 ratio: GDT or non-GDT therapy.

        -  GDT group: the attending anesthesiologist will use the data obtained from the Flotrac to
           manage fluid and hemodynamics during the procedure following the prescribed treatment
           algorithm. The treatment interventions will start on induction of anesthesia and
           continue until the patients are extubated or transferred back to intensive care unit
           with mechanical ventilation.

        -  Non-GDT group: Flotrac will be connected but the machine values will be blinded to the
           anesthesiologist and interventionist. The screens of the Flotrac will be covered by
           opaque plastic bag and the alarms will be turned off. The attending anesthesiologist
           will make clinical decisions regarding the management of fluids and hemodynamics based
           on current individual routine practices.
    
  