
    
      The primary goal of the proposed study is to develop and test SMS-based text messages for
      improving medication adherence among HIV-positive youths in a resource-limited setting. The
      study will be conducted in three phases: Phase 1 will consist of qualitative interviews with
      patients, clinic providers and directors, and community leaders and will elicit information
      on barriers to treatment and adherence patterns and cognitive obstacles to adherence that may
      be addressed by RATA. A second focus of this phase will be to investigate the familiarity
      with and attitude towards SMS messages among adolescents, and their attitudes towards
      different aspects of these messages. Parameters of the messages that will be probed include
      their frequency, content, and form using Figure 1 as a guiding principle for this exploratory
      phase. Phase 2 will use the findings from Phase 1 to develop and implement RATA in a
      randomized controlled trial (RCT). A sample of 330 clients aged 15-24 who are in HIV care and
      show signs of problems with adherence will be recruited and randomized into one of three
      equal-sized intervention arms: a control group that will receive usual care, or one of two
      treatment groups in which participants will receive usual care and additionally will receive
      either two-way SMS messages or one-way SMS messages. All RATA participants will be followed
      for two years. Assessments will be conducted at baseline and every 6 months over the course
      of 24 months. Medication event monitoring system (MEMS)-caps measured medication adherence
      will be the primary outcome measure, while viral load (for a subset of clients) CD4 count,
      self-reported adherence and pharmacy refill data as well as retention in care constitute
      secondary outcomes. Phase 3 will be used to analyze the collected data, conduct qualitative
      interviews with providers, clinic administrators, and study participants to learn about
      implementation difficulties and areas of improvement, and to share preliminary results and
      project implementation insights with these key players. This stage allows evaluating the
      feasibility and sustainability of the intervention for potential scale-up, for which we will
      also conduct a relative cost-effectiveness analysis of two- versus one-way messages. RATA
      will be extended to the control group in Year 5 if findings from phase 2 suggest its success
      at improving outcomes.
    
  