
    
      The BHOMA study includes systematic program implementation designed to contribute to
      generalizable knowledge and evaluation of this program. The program aims to improve primary
      health care through an integrated package of interventions, at both health facility and
      community level, centered on improving the patient -provider interface which is considered to
      be key to improving health outcomes. The primary objective of this research is to assess the
      impact of the BHOMA intervention on health in three rural districts of Zambia.

      Objectives include: to understand the causal pathways of the BHOMA interventions by analyzing
      inputs, processes, outputs, and outcomes; to measure the cost of the BHOMA interventions; and
      to measure whether the health system has been strengthened by the BHOMA interventions. The
      endpoints of the study will be measured by a combination of facility surveys, facility health
      worker and community health worker interviews, quality assessments, qualitative studies and
      community surveys.

      The study involves 7 stepped introduction of the programme in 48 facilities. A step typically
      involves initiation of a set of selected health facilities and the communities they serve. On
      average, 6 randomly selected sites are involved in a step. Facility workers are trained;
      community health workers, clinic support worker and traditional birth attendants are
      identified and trained through a month-long Ministry of Health (MOH) approved course.
      Equipment for data collection and electronic capture are set up, filing systems established
      and the study begins when the tools get implemented. Close supervision is provided for at
      least a month following initiation; there after regular supervisory visits are done by six
      quality improvement teams.

      Clinic Intervention, implemented by the Centre for Infectious Disease Research in Zambia
      (CIDRZ) BHOMA program:

      The clinic intervention consists of the following 5 components: 1) the implementation of
      clinical care forms and accompanying job aids, 2) resources, to includes equipment, supplies,
      staffing and infrastructure, 3) clinic implementation, which involves a quality improvement
      team working at the clinic to introduce the new patient flow system and to improve the skills
      of clinic staff, 4) the use of electronic information for performance assessment, which
      involves implementing an electronic data entry system within the clinics and 5) supportive
      mentoring, which will involve the Quality Improvement (QI) team reviewing patient charts for
      appropriate screening, diagnostics, treatment or follow-up, attending patient visits,
      identifying equipment or infrastructure issues, and reviewing clinic performance reports and
      updating the clinic's quality improvement strategy.

      Community Intervention, implemented by the CIDRZ BHOMA program:

      The community intervention aims to expand the availability of community-based health services
      and improve the quality of these services with the use of three groups:

      Community Health Workers:

      The investigators will engage one community health worker (CHW) per Neighborhood Health
      Committee to conduct patient follow-up and household assessments. The CHWs will use two forms
      - patient follow-up form and a household assessment form, and will be trained to assess which
      patients need referral to the clinic or hospital.

      Traditional Birth Attendants:

      The investigators will offer training for traditional birth attendants (TBAs) working near
      the implementation clinics. The training will review the goals of facility delivery and
      introduce a pregnancy referral form for TBAs. The investigators will encourage the TBA to
      help the patient arrive at the clinic, and provide incentives for the TBAs for clinic
      referrals. The investigators will also train the TBAs to follow up all pregnancies in the
      first month to assess the infant and teach the mother about when it is appropriate to bring
      the infant to the clinic. TBAs will complete infant follow-up forms.

      Neighborhood Heath Committees (NHC):

      These committees will complete a community health event register, during which they will
      capture information about serious sicknesses and deaths that are not recorded at the clinics.
      Each NHC will visit households and return their register to the clinic.

      These activities will continue throughout the duration of the funded project.
    
  