
    
      Image-guided ablation therapies are increasingly being used in renal and other cancers as an
      alternative to major surgery, particularly in the context of small localised masses or when
      patients have significant co-morbidities. Published analyses now also support the
      effectiveness of such treatments in terms of outcomes. Tumour ablation has been reported to
      generate immune and inflammatory responses following tumour destruction, essentially through
      release of tumour antigens in effect acting as a tumour "vaccine", resulting in systemic
      anti-tumour responses. Such studies are still limited but indicate possibilities in terms of
      combination therapies with immunotherapies and synergistic effects.

      In order to take this forward in renal cancer it is now critical that studies are undertaken
      to explore further the immunobiological and inflammatory changes associated with ablation
      therapies. We propose to do this using a relatively new multiplex and highly sensitive
      proteomic biomarker array technology which allows the profiling of circulating proteins using
      arrays targeted at specific disease areas or processes. We have used this platform to
      generate some pilot data on RCC patients undergoing ablation to show feasibility and now
      propose to extend this further. The main benefits to patients will be in terms of
      understanding how the immune and inflammatory responses are affected by ablation which
      ultimately may lead to the design of new more effective therapeutic strategies combining
      ablation with immunotherapies. Ultimately more effective combination therapies would have
      health economic benefits and improved quality of life with potentially lower toxicity if the
      doses of the biological therapies could be reduced. Some of the protein changes may also act
      as surrogate markers of response and guide optimal treatment administration.
    
  