
    
      Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D3] is a well-established marker for vitamin D status of the
      human body. In addition to the general importance of vitamin D for bone health, low serum
      25(OH)D3 concentrations have been associated with increased risk of several health outcomes,
      such as autoimmune diseases, type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular complications. However, there
      is significant inter-individual variation in the average serum 25(OH)D3 concentrations and
      also in the response to supplementation with vitamin D. Genetic and epigenetic factors have
      been suggested to be responsible for a large part of the variation, but currently there is
      little information about the health effects of the variation.

      In our previous study (VitDmet, Clinicaltrials.gov NCT01479933) we showed that only half of
      the participants responded to the 5-month vitamin D3 supplementation of 40 µg/day or 80
      µg/day as expected and that certain vitamin D receptor (VDR) target genes were suitable
      biomarkers for displaying the transcriptomic response of human tissues to vitamin D3
      supplementation.

      The purpose of the current study is to investigate whether a high-dose vitamin D3 oral bolus
      produces marked VDR target gene expression response and whether there is large
      inter-individual variation, as what was suggested with the 5-month lower-dose
      supplementation.

      In the Trial 1, the subjects are randomized to receive either 2,000 micrograms (80 000 IU) of
      vitamin D3 (n=20) or placebo (n=10) in one day. Blood samples are collected for peripheral
      blood mononuclear cell isolation and serum 25(OH)D3 measurements at baseline and 24 h and 48
      h and 30 days after the first dose. Blood samples are also collected for immunomarker
      analyses. In the Trial 2, the procedures of the Trial 1 are repeated in two subjects with
      known low and high serum 25(OH)D3 concentrations in order to investigate more specifically
      the impact of different starting levels of serum 25(OH)D3.

      In February 2015, new subjects were recruited to enter the Trial 1 in order to increase the
      size of the study. All the new subjects received the 2,000 microgram bolus of vitamin D3,
      there were no new subjects in the placebo arm.

      June 30, 2016. Change to protocol: There will be no Trial 2, but instead the blood samples
      obtained in the Trial 1 from up to six subjects will be used for the additional analyses. The
      subjects are selected based on the response to vitamin D supplementation in the Trial 1.
    
  