
    
      This survey was anticipated to enroll 800 patients who underwent elective operations with
      general anaesthesia from 24 hospitals in Peking. After obtaining approval from the Ethical
      Committee related to research involving human subjects,the investigators will enroll the
      patients according to the inclusion and exclusion criterion. The tympanic
      temperature(measured by Braun PRO4000 Thermometer) will be monitored at the following time
      points respectively: arrived at waiting area, enter the OR room, 5 min before and after
      anesthesia induction, every 15 min during the operation, operation ended,arrived at PACU.
      Other information will also be collected, the investigators will record the type and dosage
      of anesthesia drug,duration of surgery and anesthesia, the patient warming method or if it is
      used.operation room temperature,the amount of the infusion of intravenous fluids and
      blood,etc. during the whole operation procedure. The other information will be followed up
      and recorded after the operation(within 30 days postoperation) which incudes ICU stays,
      hospital stays, incision infection, new cardiology events.etc.

      The contract research organization will be delegated to do the site monitor once a week for
      each hospital participate the survey during the recruitment and perform the source data
      validation at the same time to review the related medical records,source data and the case
      report forms, etc.to ensure the data accuracy and completeness

      Data management will be conduct through the whole survey procedure. EPIDATA3.1 software was
      used for compile the inputting procedure for data inputting and management. In order to
      guarantee the correctness of the data, two data managing staffs should input and verify the
      data independently.

      SAS9.2 statistical analysis software was used for the calculation of all the statistical
      analyses. The number of cases, mean, standard deviation, median value, maximal value and
      minimal value should be calculated for the descriptions of the qualitative parameters. Number
      of cases and percentages are used for the descriptions on the classification parameters.Two
      side test is used for all the statistical tests, P<0.05 indicates that the difference is
      statistically significant (unless indicated otherwise), and 95% confidence is used as the
      confidence interval.
    
  