
    
      Our hypothesis is that bright light can help improve behavior and sleep in patients with
      Alzheimer's disease with agitation type of behavior disorders. This hypothesis has been built
      on the notion that morning exposure to bright light can reduce the synchronization of
      circadian rhythms observed in patients with this disease, and the preliminary study data on
      low numbers and supporting this hypothesis.

      OBJECTIVES Primary objectives: To study the effect of treatment with bright light to improve
      patient behavior disorders Alzheimer's disease, including its effect on agitation /
      aggression (score obtained in item agitation / aggression of NPI scale-nurse).

      Secondary objective: (1) To study the effect of treatment with bright light to improve
      patient behavior disorders Alzheimer's disease, including its effect on sleep disorders
      (score obtained in item nocturnal sleep-behavior NPI -nurse, scale score of Cohen-Mansfield)
      ; (2) To study the effect of treatment with bright light treatment on cognitive function in
      patients with Alzheimer's disease (MMSE score of the scale). (3)To examine the interest of
      the wrist actigraphy to assess motor behavior and sleep in Alzheimer's disease.

      RESEARCH DESIGN The primary endpoint is the change over time of the score obtained in item
      agitation / aggression of the NPI-nurse level.

      The secondary endpoints are:

        -  Change over time the score for item-night sleep behavior NPI-nurse

        -  Change over time in the Cohen-Mansfield scale

        -  Evolution over time of total sleep time determined by wrist actigraphy

        -  Changes over time in the number of episodes of nocturnal restlessness determined by
           wrist actigraphy

        -  Analysis of data from the wrist actigraphy in the group without interference

        -  Change over time the scale score MMSE

      METHODS Non-pharmacological intervention, randomized, open, multicenter, parallel group
      (intervention group and control group).

      The total duration of the research is 24 months. The study will be conducted among hospital
      geriatric participants. Each center will equip a room to make light therapy: installing a
      ceiling, provision of furniture to complete the procedure.

      The participation of the subjects included in the search includes a visit inclusion and 5
      visits spaced one week to assess the behavior, sleep and vis-à-vis tolerance of exposure to
      bright light.

      Variables recorded: Some variables concerning the inclusion criteria and description of
      patients and will be measured at baseline demographics, Alzheimer criteria NINCDS ADRDA,
      severity of dementia, scale Observation-based nocturnal Sleep Inventory (ONSI) Negative to
      screen for sleep apnea, MMSE.

      The assessment of behavioral disorders by the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI-nurse) and the
      Cohen-Mansfield scale will be performed before the initiation of treatment (end of S0) at the
      end of S2 and at the end of S4).

      Sleep duration and amplitude of motor activity will be assessed by wrist actigraphy. Tthe
      wrist actigraphy has experienced a significant development for the assessment of sleep.

      Periods of wakefulness / sleep, will be studied using an actimeter the Vivago device (STI
      International) which is in the form of a wristwatch worn on the wrist of the non-dominant
      person and contains an accelerometer. The activity meter measures and records the full range
      of motion achieved for 60 consecutive seconds and transmits the measured value every minute
      radio frequency to a base connected to a computer that records real-time values. A computer
      application to detect with good reliability sleep periods based on the analysis of movements
      and their amplitude and has been validated by laboratory studies in healthy people of all
      ages. This same device was also used to study the circadian rhythms in patients with dementia
      and non-dementia in nursing homes, so it seems quite usable in demented patients. This system
      collects the total sleep time, and periods of revival / night activity. For cons, the use of
      this device to record and quantify motor agitation is a new approach that has never been
      developed known. This exploratory approach will require several experimental treatments of
      data to identify the most relevant parameters in the context of the analysis of the range of
      motion. Schematically, the study will focus on the amplitude schedule of movements, but also
      on the frequency of movement exceeding a certain threshold amplitude. Finally, the variation
      in the test more than inter-individual differences will be studied in particular.

      Treatment compliance by bright light will be assessed by the presence of the occupational
      therapy sessions and the actual duration of patient's presence during exposure to bright
      light recorded at each session.

      This study will not require laboratory test or imaging study.

      Randomization will be centralized and organized by the Pitie-Salpetriere URC-Charles Foix.
      Randomization will be stratified by center. For each center, each patient is assigned a
      randomization number by randoweb® and therefore a treatment, when it will be considered
      eligible in the study. The randomization will be balanced by blocks within each center.

      Detailed description of how to use the device Intervention group In the intervention group,
      will be organized a occupational therapy sessions program group of 6 during which the bright
      light will be administered. These sessions will take place 5 times a week for 4 consecutive
      weeks. They will be organized in the late morning (10h30 - 12h) for a duration of 1:30, and
      led by a teacher specially recruited for the project.

      Each session lasts 1h30 and will be conducted in a room prepared for this purpose. It will
      include three ceiling light therapy Elecolight® QUEBEC (including 10,000 lux lamps) placed
      above the center of a rectangular table with 6 seats, about 50/60 cm (central device) or 80
      cm (on both side of the central device) above the table plane. So patients sat around the
      table to make occupational therapy activities while receiving bright light. The arrangement
      will ensure that the lamp will be at a distance of 60-80 cm from the face of patients. The
      light output power in areas where patients will sit will be measured with a light meter to
      check the adequacy of the provision. This arrangement will allow patients to receive the
      illumination in "green" requirements while achieving a group activity. The occupational
      therapy activities will be chosen to be performed on the table: drawing, dominos, cards, etc
      ... Given the particularities of the patients studied (patients with Alzheimer's disease with
      behavioral problems), this mode of administration seems preferable to the conventional method
      (patient to sit still in front of the light box), which would likely be encumbered with a
      high failure rate with these patients.

      Control group Patients in the control group will benefit from occupational therapy sessions
      program in same group as those in the intervention group, except the lighting conditions to
      be normal conditions, that is to say an intensity of about 50 lux. They will be conducted by
      specially recruited for the project educator in a comparable local, early afternoon and
      during the same weeks as the intervention group. Indeed, the control group's program will
      begin at the same time as the intervention group. The nature of occupational therapy sessions
      offered to patients in this group are similar to those made during the sessions in the
      intervention group. This point seems important because it allows a certain degree of
      adjustment of the environment between the intervention and control, while minimizing the
      management of differences, patients do not benefit all group sessions in usual care .

      Expected duration of participation of people, and description of the timing and duration of
      all periods of research The duration of a patient's participation in the research will be 5
      weeks: S0, S1, S2, S3 and S4.

      The tours are designated as follows: V0: evaluation at the end of the first week without
      treatment (S0); V1: at the end of the first week of treatment (Week 1); V2, V3, V4, at the
      end of the corresponding weeks of treatment (Week 2 to Week 4).

      Each patient will be 6 visits. Their timing and contents are:

      The first phase of screening include seeking eligibility criteria and patient information and
      relatives by presenting the information note.

      The first visit Vi is the inclusion visit: obtaining the consent; The doctor will sign the
      consent.

      The other 5 visits are:

        -  V0: Initial evaluation with behavior assessment,

        -  Then 4 visits (V1 to V4) weekly during treatment (performed at the end of each treatment
           week): V1, V2, V3, V4: search for adverse events; V2, V4: behavioral assessment by a
           psychologist; V4: collection of end of study information.

      The behavioral assessment by a psychologist will be made initially (V0) and then at V2 and V4
      visits (VF or when stopping before the end of the study), employing specific rating scales
      including NPI -nurse and scale Cohen-Mansfield, who are not practiced in the context of the
      assumption usual care. The patient's cognitive functions controlled while checking the
      inclusion criteria, will also be re-evaluated using the MMSE scale during this visit.

      The doctor will perform recruited on a first time screening of patients, with an assessment
      of their behavior disorders and sleep, within the framework defined by the criteria of
      inclusion and non-inclusion of the study.

      Criteria for inclusion of persons participating in research;

        -  Age over 60 years

        -  Patient hospitalized in geriatric care immediately or long-term care,

        -  Patients with probable Alzheimer's disease according to NINCDS-ADRDA

        -  Stage of moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease (defined as MMSE between 2 and 21).

        -  Patients with agitation rated 4 or more per item agitation / aggression of the behavior
           rating scale Neuropsychiatric Inventory-nurse,

        -  Patient free from acute disease.

        -  Patient with sleep apnea evaluation scale ONSI (Observation-based nocturnal Sleep
           Inventory) negative

        -  Affiliation to a social security scheme

        -  Signature of consent by the patient himself or the trusted person or legal
           representative for patients under guardianship

      Criteria for non-inclusion of persons participating in research;

        -  Patients may leave the ward within 4 weeks

        -  Patient refusing to participate in the study

        -  Patient with a trusted person and / or legal representative which refuses participation
           in the study.

        -  Patients suffering from retinopathy (DMLA, proliferative diabetic retinopathy) or
           blindness for whatever reason, lack of crystalline (or aphakia).

      These conditions will be systematically sought by an ophthalmologic consultation if the
      patient has not had in the year before inclusion.

        -  Patient receiving photosensitizing drug imipramine, lithium, tetracycline,
           hydrochlorothiazide, phenothiazine.

        -  Patients suffering from porphyria.

        -  Patient with known sleep apnea syndrome. A specific test for the detection of sleep
           apnea will be checked prior to the inclusion of patients. This is the test ONSI,
           validated in elderly demented persons, and allowing screened for sleep apnea in patients
           with a sensitivity of 91%. ONSI positive test will be an exclusion criteria of the
           study.

        -  Patient with known REM sleep behavior disorder

        -  Patients with clinical criteria of mental confusion as diagnosing clinician.

        -  Patient with obvious pathology may itself cause behavior disorders: psychosis,
           manic-depressive illness, a condition with acute or chronic pain.

      In these cases, the inclusion of the patient may be reviewed after returning to a stable
      clinical condition for at least 3 weeks.

      - Unbalanced psychotropic treatment subject to dose modifications in the previous 4 weeks
      (patients receiving one or more psychotropic stable dose for at least 3 weeks may be
      included).
    
  