
    
      Total hip arthroplasty (THA) is a successful treatment of osteoarthritis and other
      destructive diseases of the hip joint, relieving pain and restoring the function of the
      joint. In Norway more than 7000 patients undergo primary hip replacement every year, and the
      incidence is increasing.

      The femoral component of a hip prosthesis is traditionally anchored to the femoral bone with
      a stem introduced into the femoral canal and fixated with cement, or through bony ingrowth.
      Over the recent years, short femoral stems have been introduced, among other reasons to meet
      the increasing popularity of mini-invasive surgical procedures. The short stems are meant to
      be easier to introduce through a small incision like used in muscle conserving anterior and
      posterior approaches. Secondly, and biomechanically relevant, an important design related
      benefit of the short femoral stems is thought to prevent periprosthetic bone resorption. Bone
      remodels as a response to mechanical loading. When a stiff implant is inserted into the
      femoral canal, the load will "bypass" the proximal femur through the implant, and is
      transferred to bone distally. This results in a negative bone remodelling in the proximal
      femur, which leads to bone resorption, often termed as "stress shielding". Stress shielding
      is observed around most uncemented implants, and mainly occurs within the first 6 - 24 months
      postoperatively. The extent of implant coating, the material stiffness, design and the size
      of the stem are found to influence the degree of stress shielding. The short stems are thus
      designed based on the theory that proximal load transfer preserves metaphyseal bone.

      Loss of proximal bone stock due to stress shielding is a controversial subject, but has
      several possible consequences. The exact clinical implications are not entirely determined,
      but periprosthetic fractures and more challenging revision surgery are recognized problems.
      In a revision setting it is favourable to have good proximal bone stock to achieve primary
      stability of the implant. Peroperative fracture and compromised stability of the implant may
      be a potential problem in stress-shielded bone. Furthermore, already stress-shielded bone in
      the proximal femur may give wear debris easier access to the interface between implant and
      bone, resulting in further osteolysis. Short-term results for short-stemmed implants are
      encouraging in some clinical papers, but most of the available implants lack long-time
      clinical documentation. Most papers on stress shielding are not randomized trials between
      long and short stems. There are a few reports of increased revision rate and challenging
      surgical procedures.

      Uncemented prosthetic hip implants are dependent on excellent primary stability to achieve
      osseointegration and long-term stability. It is recognized that excessive micromotion at the
      bone-implant interface is associated with formation of a soft tissue and loosening of
      implants. Micromotion above 40μm leads to partial bone ingrowth, while values above 150μm
      completely inhibit bone ingrowth. The main concern in short femoral stems is that stability
      might be compromised. This might be due to the relatively less contact surface. There are no
      long term results on stability of short femoral stems available, but in vitro studies shows
      no significant reduction in stability of prostheses with comparable stem length to the
      Furlong Evolution.

      Malpositioning may result in a discrepancy between the reconstructed and the native
      biomechanical anatomy of the hip. Altered biomechanical properties may influence the clinical
      outcome and survival of implants. It has been shown that horizontal femoral offset, increases
      significantly more using a short femoral stem compared to conventional femoral stems.
      Compared to the contralateral hip, horizontal femoral offset was significantly increased only
      when using short stems. Increased femoral offset increases the torsion forces along the stem,
      which in turn raises the need for primary stability to avoid micromotion. It is also shown
      that a short stem has a wider range of varus-valgus in the stem-shaft axis, On the other
      there were found no significant differences in biomechanical reconstruction of the hip when
      using a "broach only" short stem, or a "ream and broach" standard stem.

      If there are significant differences in the biomechanical hip reconstruction, will this
      affect patient reported outcome?
    
  