
    
      This study will assess the effect of intraoperative measurement of the urethral length with
      the Foley catheter in optimization of sling placement in the mid female urethra. Of note, the
      Foley catheter is well-tolerated, placed routinely during surgery to drain the bladder and
      has no complications associated with it. Women who have chosen to undergo trans-vaginal tape
      sling (TVT) for stress urinary incontinence will be asked to enroll in this randomized trial
      by the study team during their clinic visit. Randomization will be performed by the FPMRS
      study nurse coordinator after a woman has given her informed consent and meets the study
      criteria. Twenty women will be randomized to undergo measurement of the urethral length by
      marking the Foley catheter at the urethral meatus when it is placed at the start of the
      surgical case. When the catheter is removed, the length from the end of the Foley balloon to
      the marking at the urethra will be measured as urethral length, the mid urethral point will
      then be determined by dividing the urethral length be two where the incision of sling
      placement will be made and twenty women will have our usual pre-operative assessment (which
      does not include intraoperative measurement of the urethral length with the Foley catheter)
      for the treatment of symptomatic stress urinary incontinence All women participating in the
      study will receive an intra-operative 3-D trans-vaginal ultrasound (BK Flex Focus ultrasound
      with the 8838 transvaginal probe). The image will be stored and reviewed for; urethral
      length, urethral sphincter complex length and width. All women in the study will have an
      ultrasound at the end of their surgical procedure and a follow-up ultrasound at 2 weeks post
      operatively to assess for sling migration. Of note, transvaginal ultrasound is well-tolerated
      and has no complications associated with it. All ultrasound measurements will be done by a
      four qualified surgeons, Dr. Elizabeth Mueller Dr. Ahmed Akl, Dr. Tanaka Dune, and Dr.
      Susanne Taege who have been trained on ultrasound measurements. In addition, women will
      complete questionnaires assessing their pelvic floor symptoms pre-operatively and at 2 week
      following surgery. Instruments used will be the Pelvic Floor Disorders Inventory (PFDI),
      Medical Epidemiologic and Social Aging (MESA) and the Patient Global Impression of
      Improvement (PGII) [11, 12].
    
  