
    
      All subjects will be asked to come to the Center for the Study of Movement, Cognition and
      Mobility (CMCM), where they will undergo baseline testing. This initial evaluation is
      designed 1) to assess each subject's mobility, fall risk and related functions, and 2) to
      obtain more specific information that will be used to inform and update the model of falls
      and missteps detection.

      The study is divided into 3 sections:

        1. First session in Gait Lab (CMCM) for an overall assessment of subject health (see
           below).

        2. Using the system ("monitoring ADL period") in daily life for 4 months (system: Owlytics
           Healthcare's app+wearable wristband & insoles).

        3. A concluding session where the mobility tests performed at the beginning of the study
           are repeated to assess the changes that occurred during the a period in which the
           monitoring system is used.

      During the first session medical data will be recorded, such as demographics (age, gender,
      years of education, etc.), habits (physical activity, leisure activities, dietary habits),
      daily life activities, health-related behaviors (e.g., alcohol consumption and smoking
      history) and so.

      Medical examination will include standardized walking tests (usual-walking and dual-task
      walking), eye examination, hearing test, balance tests, etc. In addition, to assess cognitive
      abilities standard Neuropsychological Battery will be used.

      At the end of the session, the participant will be asked to place a small accelerometer (AX6
      - 6-Axis Logging Accelerometer) to measure daily activity for 7 days. The device will be
      attached to the lower back using a medical patch. The sensor is lightweight, non-invasive and
      does not endanger subject's health in any way.

      The second part of the study (or "monitoring ADL period") - after the initial assessment, the
      research coordinator will instruct the subject to use the system. As mentioned, the system is
      given for 4 months.

      The participant will be requested to complete a "fall log" for tracking (via mail, e-mail,
      phone call or fax).

      If the system detects a fall or tripping event, one of the research team will contact the
      participant to verify the incident and get information about its circumstances (e.g., what
      the subject did at that time) and the consequences (e.g., does this require medical
      attention). Any health changes will also be documented during the follow-up period.

      Part Three - repeats the tests to assess the changes that occurred during the monitoring
      period.
    
  