
    
      This is a prospective non-randomized study which includes 40 eyelids of 24 patients with
      acquired lower punctal stenosis grade 1 or grade 2 according to Kashkouli scale attending at
      Menoufia University hospitals and Kafr Elsheikh ophthalmic eye center in the period from
      January 2019 to June 2020. Ethics approval from the institutional review board was obtained,
      and a written informed consent was taken from every patient according to the Declaration of
      Helsinki.

      A full history and examination were done for patients for evaluation of proximal lacrimal
      drainage system and exclusion of other causes of epiphora rather than punctal stenosis,
      Inspection of face and periorbital region for position of the eyelids and puncta, Gross nasal
      deformity, Facial symmetry, presence of any swelling or fistula in the lacrimal sac area ,
      palpation of lacrimal sac for regurge test , slitlamp examination of lid margin for
      coaptation with the globe , blepharitis or rubbing lashes , skin for laceration or eczema ,
      conjunctiva for papillae , follicles, hyperemia or discharge , cornea for punctate keratitis,
      filaments or abrasions , lower Tear meniscus height (TMH) using a 1 mm slit beam , punctal
      orifices position, shape , grading of stenosis according to Kashkouli et al.

      Fluorescein dye disappearance test (FDDT) where the fluorescence of the tear meniscus was
      observed with the help of cobalt-blue filter. FDDT was graded according to Ozgur et al.,
      scale according the time of dye clearance.

      Diagnostic probing and syringing were done to ensure anatomically patent nasolacrimal system
      and to detect any obstruction distal to the punctum.

      Patients were examined for results in visits at one week, 1month, 3 months and 6 months.

      Satisfactory surgical outcome was defined as postoperative patent lower eyelid punctum and
      improved Epiphora and FDDT grade at 6 months after surgery.

      Surgical procedure

      Surgery was performed using an operating microscope under local anaesthesia. We
      transconjunctivally infiltrate 2% (w/v) lidocaine (with epinephrine in a 1:100,000 weight
      ratio) from the posterior aspect of the eyelid into the region of the lacrimal canaliculus
      and punctum.A Nettelship dilator is used to enlarge the stenotic lacrimal punctum. A single
      blade of a small Westcott spring scissor or Vannus scissor is placed within the ampulla of
      the lacrimal canaliculus, with the remaining blade placed on the conjunctival surface of the
      posterior aspect of the eyelid. The first vertical snip is made at the vertical canaliculus.
      The second vertical snip is made from the edge of the first snip to create a flap. The final
      horizontal snip was made at the base. The triangular flap is removed and three sutures are
      placed, in an interrupted manner, at the posterior wall of the ampulla using 10-0 nylon. The
      sutures are removed 1 week after the surgery. Topical moxifloxacin 0.5% eye drops and
      fluorometholone 0.1% eye drops were used four times daily for one week.Patients were then
      followed up in 1 week , 1 month , 3 months , 6 months period.
    
  