
    
      This project consists of two phases: (1) Collecting of stories and creating a stories DVD;
      and (2) delivering the DVD in a randomized control trial (RCT). Both phases are described
      below.

      The investigators will make two DVDs of African-American Veterans who will tell their success
      stories with controlling hypertension (HTN). The investigators want to help African-American
      Veterans control their hypertension by showing them stories that are interesting and that
      they can identify with, as well as giving them information about ways they can manage
      hypertension in their everyday lives. This is important because a disproportionate number of
      minority patients, including Veterans, have poorly controlled blood pressure. By showing them
      stories, rather than using more traditional methods of health education, the investigators
      hope to overcome some typical barriers to HTN control among the African-American population,
      including: lower levels of health literacy and numeracy, less trust in the medical system,
      and different (non-medical) models to explain their illness.

      The Veteran storytellers will come from three VA sites (Charleston, Chicago, and
      Philadelphia) and their stories will be chosen based on (1) the proven effectiveness of the
      strategies they suggest for controlling BP and (2) how authentic they are, or how much they
      will "ring true" with the experiences of other Veterans, including their struggles and
      lessons learned.

      After the DVD is complete, the investigators will conduct a randomized control trial to
      evaluate how effective it is in helping vets control their hypertension: 780 African-American
      vets with uncontrolled hypertension, from the same three VA sites, will participate. Half of
      them will watch the "Stories" DVD the investigators created; and the other half will watch a
      control, a DVD with the same medical information but without the narrative component. The
      investigators will measure their blood pressure (BP) just before they watch the DVD and again
      six months later. The investigators hypothesize that, six months after enrollment, the
      Veterans who watched the "Stories" DVD will have greater reduction in BP, as compared with
      those who watch the control. The investigators will also test the "Stories" DVD's impact on
      medication adherence and HTN management behaviors.
    
  