
    
      A prospective randomized double-blinded controlled clinical trial. Setting: Bat-Yamon
      physical therapy clinic of Clalit health services in Bat Yam.

      Ethical considerations: The research proposal will be submitted for the approval of the
      Helsinki Committee at Meir Hospital in Kefar Saba. All patients will sign informed consent
      form according to the laws of medical ethics.

      Subjects will be recruited from all the population of patients who are referred to physical
      therapy for the treatment of PF with diagnosis of plantar fasciitis or calcaneal spur.

      Randomization will be carried out using envelopes that will be prepared in advance. Each
      patient will receive at the end of the baseline examination envelope with the type of
      treatment for which will be delivered only to the therapist so that the examiner and the
      patient will be blind to the treatment group.

      Baseline and final evaluations will be performed by the examiner-therapist and treatments
      performed by three physical therapists at the Bat-Yamon clinic with experience of at least 3
      years which will receive proper instruction and training.

      Baseline examination will be performed after completing informed consent form and will
      include demographic information to be filled by patient, clinical interview and examination
      by the examiner. Demographic information includes age, gender, weight, BMI (calculated by the
      examiner), history of the problem, habits related to physical activity and occupation and
      general health.

      The interview will refer to etiology and nature of symptoms. The clinical examination will
      include observation of foot structure and gait pattern, the presence of hit or swelling.
      Palpation for pain location and for ruling out fat pad Syndrome, clunk test and neurodynamic
      of tibial nerve will be performed to rule out tarsal tunnel syndrome (TTS). Patients with
      suspicion for one of these diagnoses will not be recruited. Dorsi flexion range of motion in
      both legs will be measured and compared to the range at the end of treatment. Measurement
      will be taken in two ways, once weight bearing with inclinometer - the patient stands in
      lounge position while tested leg in front and asked to bend the knee of this leg as possible
      without lifting the heel off the floor. The angle measured is the angle between the tibia and
      a vertical line to the floor.Second time without weight bearing with Goniometer- the patient
      lies on his back with a pillow under the tested knee , the therapist performs maximum dorsi
      flexion passively and asks the patient to add an active movement in the same direction. The
      angle measured is between fibula and fifth metatarsus
    
  