
    
      The acronym of the project "PreMiO" means "Prevalence of Malnutrition in Oncology".

      The project arises from the observation that the negative consequences of cancer-related
      malnutrition and cachexia are still largely underestimated in most oncology units , both in
      Europe and the USA. Indeed, the prevention and treatment of the nutritional and metabolic
      sequelae of cancer and its treatment, are not perceived as a priority by most oncologists.
      This is quite surprising, considering the body of evidence demonstrating that the
      deterioration of the nutritional status adversely affects treatment response, morbidity,
      quality of life and survival of cancer patients. In other words, malnourished or cachectic
      cancer patients lose chances to be adequately treated for their underlying disease.
      Approximately one quarter of all deaths in western society are due to cancer. Half of all
      patients with cancer lose body weight; one third lose more than 5% of their original body
      weight and up to 20% of all cancer deaths are caused directly by cachexia. The greatest
      prevalence of weight loss is seen among patients with solid tumours: gastric, pancreatic,
      lung, colorectal, and head and neck. The overall prevalence of weight loss in cancer patients
      may rise as high as 86% in the last 1-2 weeks of life.The pathogenesis of weight loss,
      malnutrition and cachexia in cancer is multifactorial and represent the result of the complex
      interplay between the tumor, host's metabolism, tumor-derived and host-derived humoral
      factors, and the negative consequences of anticancer treatments on the patient's ability to
      assume, absorb and metabolize nutrients.

      Objectives The objective of the PreMiO project is to obtain data on the prevalence of
      malnutrition in Italian cancer patients undergoing the first medical oncology visit. The
      project is innovative since an oncologist, not a nutrition specialist, will perform the
      nutritional evaluation of the patients.

      The data obtained will contribute to increase the awareness of metabolic and nutritional
      problems in oncology, favoring the inclusion of the initial assessment and
      nutritional-metabolic monitoring in oncological protocols.

      Patients and Methods "PreMIO" will be a prospective, multicentre observational study,
      designed to assess the nutritional status in cancer patients presenting for the first visit
      to an oncological center. Enrollment will be conducted at Italian ESMO-accredited centers and
      in other medical oncological centers in Italy. Six-thousand patients have been considered an
      adequate sample for a suitable estimation of the prevalence of malnutrition in Italian cancer
      patients at first medical oncology visit. Patient recruitment will be ensured through
      enrollment by 60 centers throughout the Italian national territory (North, Center, South).
      The instruments used for patients' evaluation will be the Mini Nutritional Assessment ® (MNA
      ®) and the criteria for the diagnosis of pre-cachexia elaborated by ESPEN. Pre-cachexia is a
      clinical condition characterized , in the context of a chronic disease (i.e. cancer), by
      unintentional weigh loss ≤ 5% during last 6 months, chronic systemic inflammation and
      anorexia or anorexia-related symptoms. Although other nutritional tools are available for
      nutritional status evaluation (Nutritional Risk Screening 2002, NRS 2002; Malnutrition
      Universal Screening Tool, MUST), even in oncological setting (Subjective Global Assessment,
      SGA; Patient-Generated Subjective Global Assessment, PG-SGA), we choose MNA® for its
      diagnostic sensitivity and its rapidity of administration. The MNA ® consists of a first
      screening part and of a second part as global assessment, which allows to obtain a score
      reflecting the patient nutritional status. Moreover, this instrument was recently considered
      the best screening method of nutrition status in patients with metastatic lung cancer. The
      data generated in each participating center will be collected by the Coordinator Centre
      (IDI-IRCCS). Patients will be stratified according to cancer type and localization, disease
      stage, age, sex, general condition. It is expected that the prevalence of malnutrition and
      pre- cachexia will vary widely, depending on tumor type, localization, stage and previous
      surgical treatment. Multivariate analysis will allow to discriminate among the factors
      contributing to the occurrence and prevalence of malnutrition in the study population.
    
  