
    
      Advanced melanoma is one of the most chemo-resistant types of human cancers. The incidence
      increases by about 2.5% on an annual basis, with may partially be related to aging and growth
      of the population, as well as other environmental risk factors. Virtually no recent progress
      has been made in the treatment of patients with this disease. In the past 30 years, the FDA
      has approved only 2 agents, dacarbazine and interleukin-2, on the basis of overall response
      and response duration, respectively. However, these outcomes were not accompanied by a
      survival benefit. The most recent randomized study of Dacarbazine (DTIC) yielded an overall
      response rate of 7%, and to date, no other treatments, including combination therapies, have
      shown to improve survival when compared to DTIC alone. Hence, the mainstay of treatment for
      patients with advanced melanoma is DTIC-based therapy.

      APO866 is a novel drug that induces cell death by specifically inhibiting the biosynthesis of
      Niacinamide Adenine Dinucleotide (NAD+) from niacinamide, which is essential for the cellular
      metabolism, protein modification and messenger synthesis. APO866 is not subject to the
      commonly known mechanisms of multi drug resistance (MDR). Its activity is cell cycle
      independent. APO866 exerted high anti-tumor activity on a broad range of different tumor
      cells derived from both human solid cancers and leukemias in vitro and on a large number of
      human xenografts in nude mice, including melanoma, and rats in vivo. Hematologic cancer cells
      were highly sensitive to APO866. Lymphocytes are the most sensitive normal cells to APO866
      resulting in lymphocytopenia and reticulocytopenia in rats, monkeys. Furthermore, APO866 may
      have anti-angiogenic properties as shown in vivo.

      APO866 was investigated in 24 patients with advanced cancers in a phase I study aiming to
      determine the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximum tolerated dose (MTD). Treatment was
      well tolerated and safe. The unique DLT was thrombocytopenia. At dose levels higher than
      0.036 mg/m2/hr CTC grade III lymphocytopenia, not thought to be clinically relevant, preceded
      all other toxicities. The recommended dose for phase II studies of APO866 is 0.126 mg/m2/hr
      administered by civ infusion for 4 consecutive days evry 4 weeks. This dose was selected
      because of its safety profile, and the translational observation that Css of APO866 at MTD
      was similar or higher as compared to the concentrations at which efficacy was established in
      vitro and in vivo. In addition, a transient decrease of serum vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF) levels, a surrogate marker of angiogenesis, was observed within 96 hrs after
      the start of treatment in 9 out of 11 patients treated at MTD and the 0.144 mg/m2/hr dose
      level of APO866.

      No objective tumor response was observed. However, 4 patients had stable disease for at least
      3 months: prostate cancer (4 months), melanoma (5 months), sarcomatoid mesothelioma (3
      months) and oropharyngeal cancer (5 months). In addition, lesion size reductions were
      observed in the melanoma patient (80% size reduction and stable size of other lesions) at an
      APO866 dose level of 0.072 mg/m2/hr, and in the mesothelioma patient (moderate size
      reductions of pleural lesions) at 0.108 mg/m2/hr.

      Treatment with APO866 was safe and well tolerated. The anti-tumor effect of APO866, in
      particular on melanoma cells in vitro and in vivo, and its anti-angiogenic propriety support
      the rationale to conduct a open phase II study of APO866 in patients with advanced melanoma.
    
  