
    
      Objectives:

      To explore a neurophysiological difference between patients with essential tremor (ET) and
      dystonic tremor (DT).

      Sample Size and Population:

      We plan to recruit 26 healthy volunteers (HVs), 26 patients with ET, 26 patients with
      dystonic tremor from the Movement Disorders and Botulinum Toxin (BoNT) clinics of HMCS. The
      dystonic tremor group will be divided into 2 subgroups: pure dystonic tremor (pDT), patients
      who have dystonia and tremor in the same limb, tremor associated with dystonia (TAWD),
      patients who have isolated tremor with dystonia elsewhere. We plan to enroll 13 patients with
      pDT and 13 with TAWD. We plan to recruit a total of 20 participants including patients with
      ET, DT and HVs if the use of data from protocol 10-N-0009 is permitted. All neurophysiologic
      results will be compared between patients and HVs.

      Design:

      Subjects will come to NIH for at least one study visit. All subjects will undergo a screening
      visit including taking a medical history and physical examination. Then the patients will be
      scored clinically for tremor in both ET and DT and dystonia only for DT. All subjects will
      have a series of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) studies. TMS-induced
      electromyographic (EMG) activity of hand and forearm muscles will be recorded as motor evoked
      potentials (MEPs). Pyramidal threshold will be determined by inion stimulation. Then,
      paired-pulse stimulation at the cerebellum followed by the motor cortex will be performed at
      rest and at tonic activation of the hand muscle. Only patients will have recordings of tremor
      at rest, postural holding, and with action and specific tasks such as writing by using
      accelerometry and EMG. Additionally, a single TMS will be delivered to the motor cortex or
      cerebellum while the patients elicit their tremor in order to explore the effect of TMS on
      tremor. All subjects (both HVs and ET, DT) will be tested for their threshold to discriminate
      somatosensory stimulation and for their performance of quick ballistic movements. All
      subjects will also undergo a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study which includes structural
      MRI, resting state functional MRI (rsfMRI), diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), MR spectroscopy.
      The subjects can either undergo the MRI study on the same visit as the other parts of
      experiment or do it separately.

      Outcome measurements:

      The various neurophysiological results include the data from the TMS experiment, tremor
      analysis, threshold of temporal discrimination, ballistic movement and MRI experiment. These
      results will be compared between HVs and patients group.
    
  