
    
      Background

      Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP) is a commonly observed and severe complication in
      patients with cirrhosis and ascites, with a reported prevalence ranging from 10% to 25% in
      hospitalized cirrhotic patients1.

      Given the high mortality rate and the risk of developing hepato-renal syndrome (HRS),
      prophylaxis of SBP is indicated particularly in three high-risk populations: patients with
      acute gastrointestinal hemorrhage, patients with low total protein content in ascitic fluid,
      and patients with a previous history of SBP (secondary prophylaxis)2.

      The ideal prophylactic agent should be safe, affordable, and effective particularly against
      anaerobic bacteria translocating from the gut as most episodes of SBP are thought to result
      from the translocation of enteric Gram-negative bacilli (GNB)3.

      Selective intestinal decontamination with norfloxacin, a quinolone with relatively poor
      gastrointestinal absorption and with antibacterial activity against GNB, is the most commonly
      used regimen4, but several concerns have been recently raised in this regard. In fact, the
      epidemiology of bacterial infections in cirrhosis is evolving with an increasing incidence of
      infections caused by quinolone-resistant bacteria5; moreover, primary prophylaxis in
      low-protein ascitic patients requires long-term antibiotic regimens (whose exact duration is
      still matter of debate), hence less expensive and better tolerated agents such as rifaximin
      have been tested with conflicting results6.

      A recent network meta-analysis published by the investigators showed that rifaximin
      determines interesting results in this setting but needs to be tested in further trials7.

      Given its favorable safety profile and the relatively low cost, rifaximin could represent the
      antibiotic of choice in long-term prophylaxis.

      Study Objective To establish the prophylactic efficacy, of rifaximin as compared to
      norfloxacin in cirrhotic patients with low protein content in the ascitic fluid.

      Protocol design Phase III, two-arms, open-label, multi-center, randomized controlled trial.

      Trial population Patients with cirrhosis and ascites and with low protein content in the
      ascitic fluid (≤1.5 g/dL) and with deteriorated liver function (Child-Pugh score ≥B9, serum
      bilirubin level ≥3 mg/dL) or impaired renal function (creatinine ≥1.2 mg/dL blood urea
      nitrogen level ≥25 mg/dL or hyponatremia ≤130 mEq/L)

      Protocol Treatments

        -  The Treatment arm will undergo rifaximin 1200 mg/day in 3 doses.

        -  The Control arm will undergo norfloxacin 400 mg 1/die for 6 months

      Protocol

      Baseline evaluation will include history and physical examination, liver and renal tests,
      ascitic fluid analysis and culture, fresh urine sediment, and abdominal ultrasonography.
      Treatment will start immediately after randomization. Follow-up visits will be performed
      every 4 weeks. Treatment compliance will be assessed by interviewing the patient and by
      tablet count at each visit. A patient will be considered noncompliant when the study
      medication will not be taken for 7 days or more, or will fail to take more than 20 % of their
      pills or miss two or more visits.

      Medications will be interrupted when patients develop an episode of SBP (ascitic fluid
      neutrophil count[ 250 cell/ml with or without clinical evidence), or have upper
      gastrointestinal (GIT) bleeding or receive a liver transplant.

      Diagnostic paracentesis will be performed when clinically indicated. Diagnosis of spontaneous
      bacteremia, SBP, urinary infection, and other infections will be made by biological fluid
      cultures and analysis; type-1 and type-2 HRS will be diagnosed according to the criteria of
      the International Ascites Club. Spontaneous bacteremia and SBP will be treated with
      ceftriaxone.

      Primary Endpoint Prevention of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis episodes.

      Secondary Endpoints

        -  Prevention of mortality (both all-cause and liver-related mortality)

        -  Preventions of hepatorenal syndrome

        -  Prevention of other infections

        -  Adverse events

      Sample size and study duration It will be planned to enroll 322 patients (161 per arms)
      within 18 months. A minimum follow up of 6 months from the last patient recruited will be
      required.

      Treatment strategy Patients complying with the eligibility criteria will be randomized in a
      1:1 fashion to receive rifaximin 1200 mg/day or norfloxacin 400 mg/day. No cross-over will be
      allowed.
    
  