
    
      As the transporter responsible for basal levels of glucose flux, Glucose transporter 1
      (GLUT1) is expressed at low levels in most tissues. In contrast, GLUT1 is very highly
      expressed on human erythrocytes. Human erythrocytes possess up to 5x105 copies of GLUT1 in
      their membranes representing almost 5% of total membrane protein. This allows erythrocytes to
      catalyze glucose transfer at rates three orders of magnitude greater than their capacity to
      utilize it. It has been proposed that human erythrocytes function in glucose storage,
      especially when the serum carrying capacity for glucose becomes limiting. If this hypothesis
      could be validated experimentally, it would be of fundamental importance to the understanding
      of human physiology.

      This proposal also has the potential to uncover a novel therapeutic option for patients with
      Glucose Transporter Type 1 Deficiency (G1D). Currently, the only treatment for G1D is the
      ketogenic diet. While the ketogenic diet improves seizures in a fraction of patients, its
      effects on neurodevelopment and long-term health are poor, so better treatment options for
      G1D are needed. Because of the hypoglycorrachia (i.e. low cerebrospinal fluid glucose) of G1D
      patients, the endothelial cells of the blood-brain barrier microvessels have long been
      assumed to be the primary site of disease pathogenesis. However, most G1D patients also have
      deficits in GLUT1 levels and glucose uptake in their erythrocytes and a potential
      contribution of this compartment to disease pathogenesis is likely. GLUT1 deficient mice are
      not amenable to test the hypothesis because they do not fully recapitulate the clinical
      presentation of G1D patients and because they exhibit metabolic adaption to G1D. Red blood
      cell exchange (RBCx) is a safe and cost effective treatment to prevent strokes and vascular
      abnormalities in patients with sickle cell anemia. RBCx has the potential to dramatically
      alter the treatment of G1D patients.
    
  