
    
      DESIGN: Prospective cohort study of individuals (> or = 16 yrs) who are: (a) close contacts
      of TB cases or (b) new entrants from high incidence countries (>40/100000). SETTING: London
      TB clinics. NE London TB Network Primary Care Practices. All study sites will be coordinated
      from the HPA Centre for Infections.

      HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES (LTBI MEASURES):Participants will be tested by Mantoux TST and two IGRA
      tests(Quantiferon-Gold In Tube ELISA) and ELISpot assay (same as Tspot.TB). A 25ml blood
      specimen will be collected with the residuum, after IGRA testing, full blood count and
      repetition of indeterminate assays, being stored for future research.

      All tests will be conducted using standardised protocols.(6) ACTION AFTER TESTING: This will
      follow existing NICE guidance. (1;2) A) If negative by TST and IGRA, follow up only. B) If
      positive by either TST or IGRA tests, active TB will be excluded. Those without active TB
      will be followed up. C) If positive by IGRA & TST test and > 35 yrs, follow up only and for
      those 16-34 yrs, chemoprophylaxis will be offered with balanced advice about potential
      benefits/risks.

      PRIMARY OUTCOME: Development of active TB. Prognostic values of tests quantified as incidence
      rate ratios (RR) among contacts and new entrants. SECONDARY OUTCOME: Side effects from
      chemoprophylaxis.

      FOLLOW UP: average of 24 months from the date of IGRA/TST testing. a) phone call to GP and or
      patients at 24 months. b) national enhanced TB surveillance. c) national database of culture
      proven TB. d) Clinic records. ADDITIONAL DATA:

      collected on all potential source cases and contacts using a questionnaire and medical
      records review (see below). HIV status will be determined at the end of the follow-up period
      through anonymised record linkage with the national HIV surveillance system, which is
      reliable.(4) DNA finger printing data, from the national strain typing database, will be
      utilised to ascertain transmission between index cases and subsequent diagnoses among
      contacts.

      ANALYSIS PLAN: The predictive performance of each test (TST, ELISpot and ELISA) will be
      summarised as the RR of test positives in those developing active TB compared to not
      (analogous to positive likelihood ratio: TPR/FPR). GEE Poisson regression will compare
      disease RRs between tests accounting for length of follow-up and exploiting within patient
      comparisons of tests. Absolute risk of disease in different groups will be described in those
      with no evidence of LTBI and those with LTBI who have / have not received chemoprophylaxis.
      Other analyses: HIV infected and risk factors for LTBI.

      SAMPLE SIZE: Assuming a LTBI rate of 30%, 5% progressing to active TB in 2 years if untreated
      and 20% loss to follow-up, simulations indicate a cohort of 5,000 would have 80% power of
      detecting clinically important differences in predictive performance (P<0.05) that would
      arise from differences in sensitivity and specificity of 10% between tests for detecting
      LTBI. 50% of TB contacts and new entrants are aged >35yrs, so a cohort of 10,000 identifies
      5,000 for the primary analysis of progression without treatment. Testing and follow-up of
      10,000 would allow appropriately powered secondary analyses a) comparing contacts and
      immigrants, b) estimating progression on treatment using regression models to adjust for test
      dependent treatment decisions.

      ECONOMIC ANALYSIS: The cost-effectiveness of alternative screening strategies for patients
      with suspected LTBI will be assessed. A decision model will be developed to estimate the
      costs (£) and health effects (QALYs) of the following strategies: a) no screening, b) TST
      alone, c) different IGRA tests (ELISA or ELISpot), and d) TST followed by IGRA if positive.
      These strategies will be compared for: contacts and new entrants stratified by age and
      baseline risk. The model will use data from the cohort study and the published literature,
      and will follow the NICE reference case (5). Probabilistic sensitivity analysis will be used
      to assess uncertainty. Benefits due to prevention of transmission will be estimated.
    
  