
    
      Several aspects of the incidence will be assessed (number of zolpidem consumers, change in
      consumption profile, and consumption of other sedative drugs) before and after the regulatory
      framework change.

      The epidemiological study will enable us to respond to all these aspects and it will be
      completed by the observational study with practitioners and patients that have been affected
      by the regulatory framework change.

      General practitioners will be interviewed by phone about their perception of the regulatory
      framework change, their attitudes towards their patients with zolpidem prescription and the
      drugs they used if they had changed the patients prescription.

      All consumers included in the study will have to fulfill a self-questionnaire about their
      perception of the regulatory framework change, their attitudes towards their consumption of
      zolpidem (stop, diminution, replacement) and their favorite replacement drug.

      The impact of regulatory prescription change of zolpidem will have a pleiotropic impact which
      can't be evaluated on a single criterion. It must be considered in a global, multifocal
      manner. This is why several criteria will be used to assess several incidence and several
      populations.

      These different approaches will enable us to respond to three questions

        -  What is the impact on the number of consumers? Prevalence and incidence of zolpidem
           consumers over several periods (before and after the regulatory prescription change)
           will be evaluated from French National Health Insurance Fund for Employees database.

        -  What is the impact on consumption patterns of zolpidem? The investigators will assess
           different patterns of zolpidem consumption (i) occasional use versus chronic use will be
           assessed from French National Health Insurance Fund for Employees database and from
           consumers of general medicine and specialized centers for drug addict patients (ii)
           problematic use (consumption not in accordance with summary of product characteristics
           according to at least one of these parameters: duration of consumption, dosage, manner
           in which zolpidem is obtained, route of administration, or seeking psychoactive effects
           different from hypnotic effect) versus no problematic use will be assessed from French
           National Health Insurance Fund for Employees database and from consumers of general
           medicine and specialized centers for drug addict patients.

        -  What is the impact on consumption of other sedatives drugs? The investigators will look
           for reports of zolpidem prescriptions on other drugs and if reports are maintained from
           French National Health Insurance Fund for Employees database, general practitioners will
           be interviewed about change in their prescriptions and their preferred drug for
           replacement, and consumers of general medicine and specialized centers for drug addict
           patients will be asked about their attitudes towards their consumption of zolpidem
           (stop, diminution, replacement) and their favorite replacement drug.
    
  