
    
      Older adults use the emergency department (ED) as an important source of acute care, making
      20 million ED visits annually. Most older adults who visit the ED do not have conditions of
      sufficient severity to warrant hospital admission; thus, they are treated and discharged
      home. Unfortunately, older adults do poorly after being discharged home from the ED, with 20%
      having repeat ED visits within 30 days. The ED-to-home transition has been identified as a
      cause for these avoidable poor outcomes, but ED-focused interventions to improve this
      transition have had inconclusive outcomes and have suffered from feasibility, sustainability
      and scalability problems.

      Coleman's Care Transition Intervention (CTI) has been validated to improve the
      hospital-to-home transition, decreasing both hospital readmissions and costs. The CTI uses
      coaches, usually nurses or social workers, to support patients being discharged home by
      transferring skills to activate patients. Applying the CTI to the ED-to-home transition is a
      natural extension, but it has not been evaluated in this unique and demanding setting.

      In this study, the investigators will test the hypothesis that the community-based,
      paramedic-coordinated ED-to-home CTI will improve community-dwelling older adults' post-ED
      health outcomes and reduce costs. The investigators will evaluate CTI process outcomes by
      testing if participants randomized to the CTI demonstrate better understanding of red flags
      that indicate a worsening of their condition, implement medication changes more frequently,
      and follow up with their primary care physicians more rapidly after ED discharge, as compared
      to the control group. The investigators will also evaluate the effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness of the CTI by testing if participants randomized to the CTI have improved
      Patient Activation Measure scores 30 days after discharge, have decreased frequency of ED
      use, and decreased health care costs within 30 days of ED discharge. Additionally, the
      investigators recognize that the CTI will not eliminate all repeat ED visits. Thus, they will
      identify factors independently associated with repeat ED visits among CTI recipients such
      that future programs can ensure their needs are adequately addressed.

      This research will provide critical empiric evidence regarding the significant problem of
      poor ED-to-home transitions. By leveraging the CTI, a widely available and efficient
      intervention and paramedics, a highly-skilled and respected health care provider present in
      all communities, the investigators will apply an innovative approach to improve older adults'
      health following an ED visit. Through rigorous research, they will test the effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness of this approach, with a specific focus on ultimate sustainability and
      dissemination.
    
  