
    
      In the last few years, a new clinical entity has emerged which includes patients who consider
      themselves to be suffering from problems caused by wheat and/or gluten ingestion, even though
      they do not have celiac disease (CD) or wheat allergy. This clinical condition has been named
      non-celiac gluten sensitivity (NCGS), although in a recent article, the investigators
      suggested the term "non-celiac wheat sensitivity" (NCWS), because it is not known to date
      what component of wheat actually causes the symptoms. Other areas of doubt in NCWS regard its
      pathogenesis, while some papers reported intestinal immunologic activation, others linked
      NCWS to the dietary short chain carbohydrate (fermentable oligo-di-monosaccharides and
      polyols, FODMAPs) load. The investigators recently demonstrated that higher proportions of
      patients with NCWS develop autoimmune disorders, are antinuclear antibodies (ANA) positive,
      and show DQ2/DQ8 haplotypes compared with patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS),
      supporting an immunologic involvement in NCWS. Furthermore, some papers reported also a high
      frequency, ranging from 22% and 35%, of coexistent atopic diseases in NCWS patients, and the
      investigators suggested that a percentage of NCWS patients could really suffer from
      non-IgE-mediated wheat allergy.

      Nickel is the fourth most used metal and the most frequent cause of contact allergy in the
      industrialized world. As a natural element of the earth's crust small amounts are found in
      water, soil, and natural foods, especially plant ones. Nickel allergy not only affects the
      skin but also results in systemic manifestations. Systemic nickel allergy syndrome can have
      cutaneous (urticaria/angioedema, flares, itching), and/or gastrointestinal (meteorism, colic,
      diarrhoea) signs and symptoms.

      Volta et al. reported that 15% of NCWS patients suffered from allergy to nickel, but they did
      not further characterize this subgroup of patients, neither posed the NCWS diagnosis by means
      the double-blind placebo controlled challenge (DBPCC), as recommended. In this study, the
      investigators evaluated 1) the frequency of Nickel allergy and Systemic Nickel allergy
      syndrome in NCWS patients, and 2) the clinical, serological, and histological characteristics
      of NCWS patients with contact dermatitis Nickel positive in comparison to NCWS patients
      without contact dermatitis.
    
  