
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess whether proton radiation therapy (RT) is associated with lower acute
      gastrointestinal toxicities at the end of treatment compared to intensity modulated radiation
      therapy (IMRT) as measured with the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) bowel
      domain.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the association of bowel and bladder dose-volume histogram (DVH) with bowel and
      bladder toxicities, respectively.

      II. To assess whether urinary toxicity rate is improved with proton RT compared to IMRT as
      measured with the EPIC urinary domain.

      III. To determine if well-being is improved with proton RT compared to IMRT as measured by
      the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT) cervix domain.

      IV. To determine if proton RT reduces grade 2+ hematologic toxicities (Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events [CTCAE] version [v] 4.0) compared to IMRT.

      V. Evaluate progression-free and overall survival between patients receiving proton RT and
      IMRT.

      VI. To determine if proton RT improves overall patient quality of life compared to IMRT using
      the European Quality of Life Five Dimension (EQ-5D) questionnaire.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate ability to tolerate chemotherapy concurrent or after RT. II. Correlate bone
      marrow DVH with blood marrow function, and ability to tolerate chemotherapy concurrently or
      after RT.

      III. Correlate bowel and skin DVH with acute toxicity. IV. To evaluate patient-reported
      gastrointestinal (GI) toxicities as a predictor of assigned treatment regimen, as well as
      physician-reported GI toxicities as a predictor of assigned treatment regimen.

      V. Confirm the validity of the EPIC bowel and urinary domains when referencing the last 7
      days.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo standard of care proton or intensity modulated radiation therapy. Patients
      also complete quality of life questionnaires and adverse event assessments over 10-15 minutes
      each at baseline, at the end of radiation therapy, and at 1 month, 1 year, and 3 years
      post-radiation therapy.
    
  