
    
      In Phase I, the investigators modified FOCUS-EC for CDM families with young children, and
      developed a platform for the web-based educational materials. The intervention manual,
      training materials and assessments were also finalized. The research team already has
      well-developed manuals for FOCUS-EC, including an intervention manual, technical assistance
      manual, and training curriculum that have been used for various settings. Existing materials
      have been customized for CDM families and will be housed online. Materials will include
      information about child development and common reactions to early separations, as well as
      deployment and family stress. The team also has extensive experience developing online
      education for military families (for example, see www.focusproject.org). Online educational
      information is a common governmental strategy to serve CDM families; the proposed design
      enables a rigorous comparison of a facilitator-led interactive intervention (FOCUS-EC) to the
      provision of standardized online resources. Finally in Phase 1, to ensure that FOCUS-EC would
      meet the unique needs of CDM families, intervention sessions were modified and conducted with
      CDM families. The investigators believe that this customization with a small group of CMD
      families has been sufficient to identify the emerging needs of CDM families (e.g., challenges
      associated with the transition to civilian life, renegotiating family roles more permanently,
      shifting control or power between parents, reestablishing family routines and rituals, and
      redefining family relationships), incorporate culturally sensitive language that is common to
      this population, and tailor the FOCUS-EC for a home visit delivery model. Themes, current
      concerns, and language identified were incorporated into the FOCUS-EC for CDM families
      protocol. A similar approach was used to ensure that language used in FOCUS-EC was
      appropriate for various branches of the service in the preliminary work. The finalized
      intervention manual and training includes protocols and back-up procedures for clinical
      emergencies and ethical issues, as documented in the current technical assistance manual.

      Phase 2:

      All families will complete a baseline assessment, consisting of questionnaires, brief
      interviews, and family observational tasks.

      After the baseline assessment, the family will be randomized into either the FOCUS-EC
      condition or a web-based education condition. Simple block randomization will be done.
      Families will be assigned to either the intervention or web-based resources control condition
      using a computer-generated randomization list with block sizes of 2, 4, and 6. The code for
      this randomization process can be found at:
      http://biostat.mc.vanderbilt.edu/wiki/Main/BlockRandomizationwithRandomBlockSizes. No
      stratification will be done for gender, age, site, etc.

      Participants who are randomized to the web-based education condition will be provided with an
      account and password to a study-developed/supported website that will provide online
      resources with content comparable to and consistent with FOCUS-EC intervention sessions. That
      is, web-based materials will provide information on parent-child communication, emotion
      regulation, problem-solving, stress management, and family resilience. Participants will not
      be required to utilize these resources; they may access this website as often as they choose
      and implement the information and strategies as they wish.

      These families will also complete the exact same assessments as those families in the
      intervention condition. In addition, they will answer a questionnaire assessing various
      aspects of the web-based resources (e.g., usefulness, ease of use/navigation, frequency of
      use, etc.).

      Participants who are randomized to the FOCUS-EC condition will participate in six
      intervention sessions.

      The FOCUS-EC protocols and measures have been finalized, programmed, and tested, and informed
      consent protocols were developed. FOCUS-EC will be delivered using a tele-health 6 session
      manualized protocol. Sessions will be led by trained, Master's level facilitators leading
      virtual home visiting sessions. FOCUS-EC is framed within a skill-building and
      relationship-strengthening psycho-educational model that integrates research on traumatic
      stress, child development, and the military-developed combat operational stress continuum
      model for prevention. FOCUS-EC provides developmental guidance, parent education, and key
      resilience skills that promote positive individual and family coping, including emotional
      regulation, problem solving, goal setting, communication, and management of deployment and
      combat stress reminders, which foster parent-child and family cohesion. The intervention is
      delivered in six 45-90-minute sessions in the family's home via a computer, internet
      connection, and webcam . Each session is structured with a check-in, review of the previous
      week's "home activity," primary activity and discussion, selection of a new "home activity"
      for the week, and a closing check-out. The family learns and practices the skills during the
      sessions, commits to practicing the skills during the week, and reports on their experiences
      the following session so that skills can be reinforced and any necessary adjustments can be
      made. FOCUS-EC promotes parenting skills and more cohesive family relationships in two key
      phases: 1) creating a family deployment timeline and 2) enhancing parent-child interactions
      (see figure 3). In the first phase, parents develop a family deployment narrative which
      fosters understanding, communication, mutual support, and positive co-parenting across the
      parenting dyad (session 1 and 2). This stage begins with a web-based family psychological
      health "check-in" utilizing innovative programming already established by this team, and
      utilized by families in service settings. This check-in serves to assist the facilitator and
      the family in identifying strengths and areas of concern in the initial session through use
      of standardized psychological health screening instruments (see Appendix). Parents set goals
      for what they are motivated to achieve during program participation. Parents also recount a
      narrative timeline for their deployment/separation and reintegration history. Through
      perspective taking and active listening, parents bridge estrangements and enhance their
      understanding of their child's reactions to deployments and separations, co-parenting, and
      family leadership. In the second phase, parents work on enhancing parent-child interactions
      in a series of parent-only education and parent-child practice sessions. In these alternating
      sessions, parents model and help their children with emotional identification and
      communication; learn and practice basic play, attunement, and relationship-enhancement
      strategies; increase awareness of trauma, loss, and separation reminders that impact
      effective parenting; practice behavior management techniques; elicit a developmentally
      appropriate narrative of their child's experiences; and plan for the future.

      The study team has experience with a number of innovative technologies designed to deliver
      in-home preventive interventions utilizing a virtual delivery platform, including a secure
      in-home "teleprevention" platform. This platform has been implemented through a service
      delivery model pilot and has demonstrated the feasibility of remote/virtual home visits,
      including a video-teleconferencing platform which enables participants to access sessions
      using secure software (e.g., "Go To Meeting"). In home access to computers and internet in
      this population is high; thus, it anticipated that this will not be a barrier to enrollment
      and participation. All core intervention components and activities have been adapted for
      remote delivery platform modifications, intervention training, delivery and technical support
      manuals.
    
  