
    
      In chronic hemiplegic individuals, gait loss due to biomechanical disorders of the talocrural
      joint (TCJ) and subtalar joint (STJ) affects 50% of the population. Although foot posture is
      seen at the same rate in pronation and supination, approximately 30% of individuals have
      abnormal and asymmetric foot posture. In particular, foot posture in the direction of plantar
      flexion and inversion leads to limited ankle mobility. Loss of mobility can be caused by
      non-neural factors as well as neural factors such as spasticity and increased myostatic
      reflex. Due to long-term immobilization, negative changes are seen in the tissues such as
      bone, muscle, tendon and ligament and especially ankle dorsiflexion is limited. Limited ankle
      dorsiflexion adversely affects the weight bearing capacity, increases the knee extensor
      moment and causes insufficient maneuvers to change the center of gravity of the body in
      patients with hemiplegia. The main problem is the timing of the posterior foot plantar
      flexion after the first contact at the beginning of the posture phase; in the late phase,
      defective heel and forefoot rocker roll mechanism due to the failure of forward weight
      transfer. For these reasons, foot posture, ankle joint range of motion and balance are
      adversely affected in hemiplegic individuals. Biomechanical problems related to foot
      deformities in chronic hemiplegic individuals have been frequently associated with TCJ and
      STJ anomalies. However, in biomechanical studies, it is emphasized that proximal tibiofibular
      joint (PTFJ) and distal tibiofibular joint (DTFJ) have important roles in optimal ankle
      dorsiflexion. Although PTFJ is anatomically belonging to the knee, it is evaluated within the
      foot-ankle complex as a function. PTFJ makes slip movements during movement in TCJ.
      Limitations in PTFJ movement result in limitation of the endpoints of normal ankle joint
      movement and anterior pain in the ankle during weight bearing. Increased tension in the
      lateral ligaments due to plantar flexion and inversion anomalies and traumas of the ankle
      applies inferior directional traction force to the distal fibula.This leads to fibular
      rotation in the parasagittal plane. Anterior and inferior movement of the distal fibula
      causes inferior and posterior shifting of the PTFJ and the PTFJ locks. This locking restricts
      the movement of the entire fibula during ankle movements and leads to a limitation of
      dorsiflexion of TCJ. It is emphasized that ankle posture significantly affects DTFJ in
      addition to PTFJ. The anterior ligament of DTFJ is closely related to the anterior
      talofibular ligament (ATFL). Plantar flexion and inversion of the trauma or supination of the
      foot posture, etc. conditions increase the tension in the lateral ligaments and cause
      pathologies in ATFL. This situation adversely affects the anterior ligament of DTFJ, leading
      to instability risk in this joint and loss of dorsiflexion in TCJ. While biomechanical
      studies emphasized the importance of proximal tibiofibular joint and distal tibiofibular
      joint manipulations for ankle dorsiflexion, no studies examining the effect of corrective
      manipulation techniques applied to these two joints on foot posture, range of motion and
      balance were observed. It is thought that PTFJ and DTFJ also have an effect on the above
      mentioned biomechanical chain in functional deficiencies caused by foot posture in the
      direction of plantar flexion and inversion. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the effects of
      PTFJ and DTFJ manipulation techniques on foot posture, range of motion and balance parameters
      in chronic hemiplegic subjects.
    
  