
    
      The 2NN study has been completed, the first large randomised trial comparing the efficacy and
      safety of ART containing two nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors (nRTI:
      d4T+3TC) and either NVP-od, NVP-bd, EFV or the combination of NVP+EFV in the treatment of
      chronically HIV-1 infected ART naive patients. Data from this randomized study show no
      significant differences in response to treatment, and virologic and immunologic efficacy in
      the single NNRTI arms NVP-od, NVP-bd and EFV. This contrasts with previous cohort studies,
      which showed a relative hazard in virologic or treatment failure of more than two for those
      starting with NVP compared to those starting with EFV.

      Despite the results of the 2NN study, question remains whether the comparability of NVP and
      EFV is maintained over a longer period of follow-up. Therefore, this study is designed to
      assess the durability of the efficacy of the regimens used in the 2NN study.

      In the initial CHARM study, the effect of adding nevirapine and/or hydrea to a triple NRTI
      regimen (trizivir i.e. abacavir, lamivudine and zidovudine) in terms of efficacy and
      tolerability was investigated in anti retroviral naïve patients. The primary endpoint was
      treatment failure and follow up was 72 weeks. A total of 229 patients were included. The use
      of hydrea was prematurely stopped because adding hydrea significantly contributed to
      treatment failure through enhancement of the toxicities associated with its use. Subjects in
      the nevirapine group reached a plasma HIV-1 RNA level < 50 copies/ml quicker (log rank test p
      = 0.011). In addition, in an as treated analysis only 16.2% of subjects adding nevirapine
      versus 39.5% adding no nevirapine reached the primary endpoint (p=0.027). These results
      resemble the findings in the ACTG A5059 study. The trizivir arm of this ACTG study was
      stopped, because anti-retroviral naïve subjects randomized to receive trizivir experienced
      virological failure earlier and more frequent than subjects who were randomized to receive
      either of the two other treatment regimens being evaluated in that study. The two other
      treatment regimens were:

        1. a combination of zidovudine plus lamivudine plus efavirenz and

        2. trizivir plus efavirenz.

      It is desirable to obtain extended follow up data on subjects who participated in the CHARM
      study in order to see if the beneficial effect of adding nevirapine to trizivir continues or
      even increases after 72 weeks of treatment.

      In addition to this main objective, another important issue regards the known association
      between the use of nevirapine and the occurrence of certain untoward effects, including the
      development of rash, clinical hepatitis and a hypersensitivity syndrome which usually
      presents with rash, elevated alanine aminotransferase and/or aspartate aminotransferase,
      eosinophilia and a host of other constitutional symptoms. The possibility that a metabolite
      of nevirapine might be responsible for one or the other of these events has been evaluated
      but could not be confirmed. Data is equivocal on whether nevirapine levels themselves are
      associated with these events, probably because of "noise" in the retrospective analyses that
      was used. Animal models would suggest, though, that supratherapeutic nevirapine levels are
      associated with these events. It seems reasonable to assume that there is a sub-population of
      people at risk for all of these events (especially hypersensitivity) based on their genetic
      make-up in that it is known that many patients easily tolerate significantly elevated levels
      of nevirapine while others may get these side effects with relatively normal levels.

      To facilitate the safe administration of nevirapine to patients, this study also aims to
      identify a gene or genes closely associated with these events, and from that a phenotype
      associated with that genotype which is at increased risk.
    
  