
    
      Cigarette smoking, which causes serious damage to health resulting in many chronic problems
      including cancer, heart disease, stroke and lung disease, is the single most important,
      preventable cause of death and diseases. It is therefore crucial that healthcare
      professionals should promote smoking cessation and help patients quit. The Hong Kong
      government and community have put enormous efforts on raising tobacco tax, smoke-free
      legislation, law enforcement, health promotion campaigns and smoking cessation services. The
      prevalence of daily cigarette smokers has been decreasing from 23.3% in 1982 to 10.7 % in
      2012, which is one of the lowest around the world. Nevertheless, about half of the smokers
      remain reluctant to even try giving up smoking.

      Medical attention at Accident and Emergency Departments (AEDs) of smokers who are in physical
      discomfort can be developed as an excellent "teachable model" as it provides an invaluable
      opportunity to initiate smoking cessation. Smokers consulting doctors as an emergency are
      more liable to change their habits to improve their health. According to the Hospital
      Authority, about 2 million people attend AEDs in Hong Kong each year, of whom 68% are triaged
      as semi-urgent (level 4) and non-urgent (level 5). The average waiting time for a medical
      consultation varies among AEDs, but is generally longer than 30 min for triage level 4 and
      1-2 h for level 5 - presenting healthcare professionals with a golden opportunity to advise
      smokers to quit and on the available smoking cessation programmes while they are waiting.
      However, most of the cessation programmes, including stage-matched interventions, generally
      take several to more than 30 minutes to implement and hence are not practicable or feasible
      in busy clinical settings. Indeed, the most common reason cited by healthcare professionals
      for being unable to help patients to quit smoking is the lack of time, because they are very
      busy and cannot spare even a few extra minutes to do so. Other barriers include a lack of
      training and experience, a lack of confidence in the effectiveness of the interventions, and
      the absence of incentives and deficiencies in support or requirements by hospital management
      that these programmes should be implemented. Moreover, our previous smoking cessation
      projects in outpatient clinics have revealed that many patients are too impatient to undergo
      a long intervention and some are reluctant to participate for fear that they might miss or
      experience delays in their medical consultation or other medical procedures. To address such
      problems, further studies are warranted to develop brief and effective interventions with
      simple, direct, strong, evidence-based warnings for patients who smoke.

      Smoking is addictive and quitting is very difficult, with a high rate of relapse,
      particularly among those with high nicotine dependency. Our previous smoking cessation
      projects in outpatient clinics and the community have revealed that many smokers who are
      reluctant to quit are interested in reducing the number of cigarettes smoked per day.
      Therefore, another potential option would be to help smokers to reduce the number of
      cigarettes smoked gradually, with the ultimate goal of complete cessation. Several randomised
      controlled trials in the West have supported that smoking reduction interventions can help
      smokers first reduce and eventually quit smoking.

      What investigators have achieved to date:

      Investigators conducted a 'proof-of-principle' pilot randomised controlled trial on a very
      brief (<30 s) smoking cessation intervention with a 'one in two smokers will be killed by
      smoking' warning in medical outpatient clinics in Guangzhou. The results showed that more of
      the smokers who received this brief advice quit or reduced their smoking than did not. This
      pilot study suggested that even a very brief intervention on smoking cessation is better than
      no advice in the 'real world' practice for outpatient clinics. Moreover, the study
      demonstrated the feasibility and acceptability of the implementation of a very brief smoking
      cessation programme by healthcare professionals in busy clinical settings. In addition, the
      findings support the need for large randomised controlled trials of brief or minimal
      interventions with the 'one in two' warning.

      In light of the above purpose, investigators designed a study with an experimental
      intervention for smoking cessation and a placebo comparator to act as control. Smokers
      randomly assigned to the intervention group were given a very brief (<30 s) smoking cessation
      intervention during telephone follow-ups with a 'one in two smokers will be killed by
      smoking' warning, and a self-help quitting leaflet published by the Hong Kong Council on
      Smoking and Health plus a series of brief interventions using the AWARD model. Whereas
      smokers randomly assigned to the placebo control group were given a 'placebo' intervention
      with a 'placebo booster' during telephone follow-ups (that had the same duration as the
      intervention), except that the content was about increasing physical activity and fruit and
      vegetable intake.
    
  