
    
      Objectives and hypotheses: The purpose of this study is to examine whether pain reporting
      accuracy (as examined in the FAST test) predicts the intensity of acute post-operative pain
      and the consumption of pain-relieving drugs. The investigators hypothesize that the more
      accurate a person is in his pain reports, the more likely he will be to correlate
      postoperative pain and Analgesic drugs consumption.

      The study population: The sample will include 40 subjects (men and women) who are about to
      undergo elective head & neck surgery in the Department of Otolaryngology.

      Study design:

      The institutional ethics committee of Carmel Medical Center approved the study protocol in
      accordance with the Helsinki Declaration, and written consent will be obtained from each
      subject before the beginning of the experiment. Participants will be enrolled into the study
      after meeting the inclusion criteria. The experiment will consist of one session, which will
      last about 45 minutes, during which the subject will undergo brief familiarization with the
      device, the stimulation and the scale in the study. Thereafter, all subjects will undergo the
      FAST procedure. Between the familiarization and the FAST, the subject will fill out
      pain-related personality questionnaires. From the moment of returning to the department after
      the surgery, the clinical follow-up will begin following pain reports and the consumption of
      pain-relieving drugs until the patient is released.

      Psychophysical assessment: The contact-heat Q-sense system (Medoc, Ramat-Yishai, Israel) will
      be used to deliver the tonic heat stimulations applied by a 30 x 30 mm Peltier surface
      stimulator, which will be attached by Velcro straps to the volar surface of the forearm of
      the subject hand.

      Familiarization: At the beginning of the experimental session, all subjects will undergo a
      short training in order to familiarize them with the device and with the sensations evoked by
      the painful stimulation, and to train them to report their perceived pain intensity using the
      numerical pain scale. The training will include exposure to three short contact-heat stimuli
      (44, 46.5, and 48°C), each lasting for 7 seconds from the time that the stimulation intensity
      reach the destination temperature. Subjects will be asked to report their pain on numerical
      pain scale (NPS) ranging from 0, denoting no pain, to 100, denoting the worst pain
      imaginable, induced by each stimulus.

      Pain reporting accuracy assessment: Will be assessed by the FAST procedure. During the
      procedure, the thermode will be attached to the ventral surface of the subject's non-dominant
      arm and the temperature will be raised from a baseline of 32°C, peaks for 3 seconds at 1 of 7
      designated temperatures (44°C, 45°C, 46°C, 47°C, 48°C, 49°C, and 50°C), and then decreased
      down to the baseline. Stimulus rate of rise and fall will be kept constant. Subjects will be
      asked to rate the peak pain intensity of each stimulus verbally using the NPS. Each
      temperature will be presented 7 times in a random block-ordered design (49 stimuli in total),
      with Inter-stimulus intervals of 20 seconds. The location of the thermode will be adjusted
      every 10 stimuli to minimize sensitization and/or habituation effects.

      Evaluation of clinical variables: The clinical follow-up of patients begins from the moment
      the operation ends and continues until discharge (24-48 hours post-operation), and includes
      two measures:

        1. Pain reports (NPS) - pain assessment at the time of analgesic medication consumption and
           an hour after administration of the drug, in addition to regular monitoring of every 6
           hours during hospitalization. The reports will be documented by the nursing staff.

        2. Follow-up after use of analgesic medications (according to the standard protocol + SOS
           medications including: Paracetamol IV, Optalgin PO, Oxycodone PO and Trimal IV).

      Pain-related psychological questionnaires:

      Pain sensitivity will be assessed by the Pain Sensitivity Questionnaire (PSQ). Dispositional
      optimism will be assessed by the Life Orientation Test-Revised (LOT-R).

      Data analysis:

      Data will be processed and analyzed using Excel , and SPSS® software version 23.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to present demographic and baseline characteristics. Pain
      scores captured during the FAST procedure will be used to calculate 3 FAST outcomes as
      follows: 1) R2 will be calculated by using a power model regression. Disparity between the
      predicted function and actual scores could be a result of inaccuracy or unreliability. Close
      concordance between actual and predicted scores (higher R2) suggests greater accuracy and
      reliability. 2) Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) will be computed using a 2-way mixed
      model for the 7 presentations of each of the 7 intensity levels. An ICC score approaching 1.0
      denotes a high degree of reliability or the agreement in responses to the same stimulus over
      several presentations. 3) The coefficient of variation (CoV) is the ratio of the standard
      deviation to the mean. The average CoV will be calculated as the mean of 7 CoVs, 1 at each
      stimulus level. Spearman's correlation between FAST outcome measures, NPS, analgesic
      consumption, PSQ and LOT-R will be calculated in order to assess relationships between pain
      reporting accuracy, clinical post-operative pain and pain-relates psychological measures.
      Exploring whether being identified as more painful patient in the acute post-operative phase
      (pro-nociceptive) could be predicted by pain reporting accuracy (as measures by FAST), and
      pain sensitivity (as assessed by PSQ) and optimism (as assessed by LOT-R) will be made by
      multivariate regression analyses.Statistical significance was defined as P≤0.05.
    
  