
    
      Breast cancer is the most common malignancy and second most common cause of cancer-specific
      death among women in the United States. Despite advances in the diagnosis and treatment of
      breast cancer, one third of the women who develop the disease will die of the disease,
      accounting for approximately 46,300 deaths/year. While good primary therapies are available
      to treat early stage breast cancer, there is a substantial failure rate to these therapies in
      more advanced disease.

      Advances in the understanding of the immune response to cancer have led to the genesis of
      immunotherapeutic approaches. Specifically, the development of anti-cancer vaccines holds
      promise as an adjuvant and preventive therapy for patients after primary surgical and medical
      treatment for breast cancer, but who are at a high risk for recurrence. While patients with
      hormone receptor positive tumors have the option to undergo hormonal therapy, recurrence is
      especially high among estrogen receptor/progesterone receptor (ER/PR) negative patients. For
      these patients, currently there is no good treatment option after completion of primary
      therapy; close surveillance and watchful waiting is the standard. It is this population of
      patients that we have targeted with a vaccine strategy to induce cellular immunity.

      In our first vaccine study, (WU # 00-2005: Phase Ib Trial of HER2/neu Peptide (E75) Vaccine
      in Breast Cancer Patients at High Risk for Recurrence after Surgical and Medical Therapies)
      we have vaccinated node-positive, HER2/neu-positive breast cancer patients with an
      immunogenic peptide from the HER2/neu protein mixed with a FDA-approved immunoadjuvant,
      GM-CSF. The study is still enrolling patients, but to date the vaccine has been safe with
      very limited toxicity and has been very effective at inducing an immune response to the
      vaccinated peptide. However, it is too early to determine if this immunity will be protective
      against disease recurrence.

      However, with the early immunologic success of the trial, we now intend to more thoroughly
      study the optimal dose and schedule of vaccinations necessary to efficiently raise immunity
      against the peptide. In order to study these permeations, we will need to vaccinate
      significantly more patients; therefore, we propose to vaccinate node-negative breast patients
      since 75-80% of patients present with early stage breast cancer. Furthermore, we intend to
      vaccinate patients regardless of their HER2/neu status in order to determine the impact of
      prior exposure to this antigen on our ability to raise immunity against HER2/neu. Are
      patients with prior exposure to HER2/neu sensitized or tolerized to this antigen? This
      question must be answered in order to determine the usefulness of this vaccine as truly
      preventive in a cancer-naïve population.
    
  