
    
      QUESTION: Compare the accuracy of multi-slice CT angiography (CTA) with invasive
      catheterization (Cath) in detecting and grading coronary lesions.

      EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A prospective cohort analysis comparing the quantification of coronary
      atherosclerosis by Computed Tomographic angiography to that of invasive Catheterization.
      Subjects will be patients who are scheduled for non-urgent cardiac cath based on a clinical
      need to evaluate the coronary anatomy. Cath may be scheduled after a positive stress test or
      on the basis of concerning symptoms. If a patient consents to participation they will be
      scheduled for CTA no less than 3 and no more than 30 days prior to Cath. Comparison of
      lesions detected by the two imaging modalities in the proximal, mid and distal coronary
      arteries will be made. Grades of disease used will be the following 1). less than 50% 2).
      50-75% 3). greater than 75% 4) Uninterpretable. Sensitivity and specificity will be
      calculated for CTA; in addition PPV and NPV will also be calculated. The 2 readers of the CTA
      will be blinded to the invasive angiography results. The 2 readers of the invasive
      angiography, who are blinded to the CTA results will be the standard of comparison. Analysis
      of data will be performed on a segmental, vessel, and patient basis.

      POTENTIAL RISK: Risks associated with contrast exposure include the risk of allergic reaction
      and renal injury. There is a small risk of excessive bradycardia and hypotension with
      administration of metoprolol and nitroglycerine. CTA is associated with radiation exposure
      similar to the lower range of diagnostic catheterization.

      POTENTIAL BENEFITS: No direct benefits are expected for the subjects of this study as the
      information will not be used to alter clinical decisions. Benefits to future patients may
      include the development of an non-invasive alternative to cardiac catheterization.
    
  