
    
      Symptoms of major depressive disorder (MDD) include persistent sad mood, feelings of
      hopelessness or guilt, decreased energy, irritability, and more. If untreated, MDD can
      interfere with the ability to work, study, sleep, eat, and enjoy once pleasurable activities.
      MDD occurs most commonly in females between the ages of 25 and 44. This puts women of
      childbearing age at a particularly high risk for developing the disorder. However, very
      little research has been done to determine the safety of antidepressant use during pregnancy
      and how the medication may affect the baby. This study will determine the safety of
      antidepressant use during pregnancy for both the mother and the child.

      Participants in this observational study will not receive medication or treatment of any
      kind. Pregnant woman who are already taking medication for depression will be recruited, in
      addition to pregnant women who are not taking any medication. The participants will first
      undergo interviews to establish their psychiatric diagnoses. Subsequent interviews will be
      held to monitor levels of depressive symptoms, exposure to other substances that could
      potentially harm the fetus, levels of antidepressants in the blood, and dietary intake during
      pregnancy. Participants will report to the study site for these evaluations at Weeks 20, 30,
      and 36 of pregnancy. From Week 36 to Week 40, interviews will be conducted over the phone.

      At birth, cord blood will be collected and the infant's cries will be recorded. The infant's
      development will be assessed at 2 weeks and 3, 6 ½, 12, 18, and 24 months postpartum. Mothers
      who take selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and are breastfeeding their children
      will report to the study site with their children at 1 month postpartum to measure the level
      of SSRIs in the infant's blood. In addition, digital photographs of the infant's face,
      profile, hands, and torso will be taken at 2 weeks and 3, 12, and 24 months postpartum.
      Additional face-only photographs of the infant will be taken at these times and at birth for
      further in-depth analyses of facial characteristics. Mother-child interactions will be
      videotaped at all postpartum assessments.
    
  