
    
      Intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) consists of about a quarter of stroke subtype. For elderly,
      cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a common etiology of ICH. In patients with CAA, abnormal
      beta amyloid protein diffusely deposits at cerebral vasculatures, which disrupts the normal
      vessel structure and increases the risk of bleeding. The standard diagnosis for CAA requires
      pathological evidences of amyloid deposition at cerebral arteries. Clinically, a diagnosis of
      CAA-related ICH is usually only made in an elderly developing cortical or subcortical lobar
      ICH without undergoing biopsy. Brain images using the SWI sequence of MRI study may show
      several lobar microbleeds in patients with CAA. However, there is still no direct and precise
      non-invasive diagnostic tool for CAA until now.

      Amyloid PET, using 11C-PiB to image amyloid burden, has been used for detecting the cerebral
      amyloid protein deposition in patients with Alzheimer's dementia (AD) for years. Recently,
      amyloid PET has also been applied in diagnosis of CAA. CAA patients showed diffusely
      increased global PiB retention as compared to control subjects and the distribution of PiB
      retention is also different from that seen in patients with AD in general. Nevertheless, the
      applications of amyloid PET in CAA diagnosis are still not well established and many
      important issues still need to be extensively addressed. For example, amyloid PET sometimes
      is not able to exactly distinguish CAA patients from control and AD subjects. The roles of
      CAA in patients with drug-related ICH are still unclear. The accuracy of CAA diagnosis using
      clinical criteria still needs further validation. In addition, the characteristics for
      long-term progression of amyloid deposition are still unknown in CAA patients.

      In this project, we will try to enhance the diagnostic potentials of amyloid PET in CAA by
      combination of dynamic amyloid PET with MRI SWI and MR perfusion images. We will also try to
      investigate the roles of CAA in patients with drug-related ICH and validate the accuracy of
      clinical CAA diagnostic criteria. In addition, we will try to study the characteristics of
      long-term progression of amyloid deposition in CAA patients. This project will enroll 100
      patients with ICH, 30 patients with AD, and 30 control subjects. Each patient will receive
      the above image studies, followed by data analysis and comparison.
    
  