
    
      Although the functional or structural disease can be identified by physicians and sometimes
      cured by medical technology, non-structural or functional symptoms, those without an
      identified organic cause and associated with a high rate of response to placebo are yet
      enigmatic and less susceptible to explanation or effective treatment.

      Often considered as non-pathological, there are physiological and sociocultural factors,
      nociceptive, psychic that expand the perception of these symptoms which are experienced as
      serious, problematic and threatening with the consequent impact on daily activities. Although
      it represents the most frequent cause of consultation in the specialty of Pediatric
      Gastroenterology there is currently no drug therapy that has demonstrated its effectiveness.

      In these cases, unnecessary diagnostic studies can be performed to find an organic cause,
      resulting in increased health care costs and possibly in an inappropriate patient care. These
      types of beliefs and behaviors can delegitimize the DFG and the suffering of these patients.

      There are studies that say that 35% of patients suffering from irritable bowel syndrome (no
      organic cause but if organic effect) use complementary therapies, but in the absence of
      clinical trials, it is emphasized the need for more controlled studies to advise and / or
      direct the patient from the medical community to which of these therapies could be more
      adequate.

      According to the General Osteopathic Council (UK) and the Osteopathic International Alliance
      (OIA), Osteopathy is a health profession that is dedicated to the diagnosis, treatment and
      prevention of problems of the musculoskeletal and its effects on the nervous system and
      global health. It is based on the theory that well-being depends on a good relationship
      between the skeleton, muscles, ligaments and connective tissue. The lack of this good
      relationship can lead to symptoms and musculoskeletal problems but also visceral. Health is
      seen as a complex process involving all parts and systems of the body. Palpatory techniques
      are used to diagnose dysfunction and physical manipulation is used to improve the functioning
      of joints, relax muscle tension, promote the innervation and blood supply to tissues and help
      the healing mechanisms of the body.

      There are studies in the field of Osteopathy evaluating the efficacy of this approach in
      different intestinal dysfunctions and diseases. Da Silva et al demonstrated the usefulness of
      increasing the pressure of the lower esophageal sphincter in the osteopathic approach in
      patients with gastroesophageal reflux. Attali et al suggested that visceral osteopathy
      improves short and long term bloating and rectal sensitivity in patients with irritable bowel
      syndrome. Florance et al reported improvements in quality of life and symptomatic improvement
      in patients with irritable colon with a pilot study and Piche et al showed reduced severity
      of symptoms associated with irritable bowel in patients with Crohn's disease in remission.
      The positive effect of osteopathic treatment in the management of symptoms caused by
      irritable bowel syndrome was confirmed in a couple of systematic reviews recently published.

      However, all these studies were performed with adult patients. On a pediatric level, most of
      the literature focuses on infant colic. The most notable reference is the Cochrane review in
      2012 in which several manipulative therapies are evaluated in the. One of the weaknesses
      identified in this review is that parents entrusted to objectify the improvements were not
      blinded. This defect is corrected in a subsequent study in the chiropractor field. The
      effectiveness of osteopathic treatment for infantile colic has also been studied but always
      with small samples or methodological flaws. An example is the study by Hayden et al. Silva et
      al which shows that the use of physical therapy (muscle exercises, breathing and abdominal
      massage) is effective in pediatric chronic constipation with defecation increasing frequency.

      The scientific evidence regarding the effectiveness of osteopathic treatment on digestive
      disorders in both adults and pediatric patients is limited and constrained. At the same time,
      there are no studies in the pediatric setting on approach through manual therapy in abdominal
      painful functional disorders.

      OBJECTIVES

        -  Primary Objective: To evaluate the efficacy of osteopathic treatment as an adjunct to
           standard medical treatment in reducing child functional abdominal pain.

        -  Secondary Objectives: To evaluate the influence of osteopathic treatment in children and
           adolescents with functional abdominal pain related to absenteeism, the number of
           emergency room visits, quality of life and the need for rescue medication. The potential
           adverse effects were recorded.

      METHODS

        1. Design: Controlled clinical trial single-blind

        2. Site where the study is conducted:

           Participants will be recruited in the following pediatric services where medical
           intervention is carried out:

           Hospital del Mar de Barcelona Hospital Sant Joan de Déu de Barcelona Participants in the
           experimental group (standard medical treatment + osteopathic treatment) will be referred
           to d'Osteopathy Clinic of Barcelona for the realization of osteopathic treatment.

        3. Sample:

           A convenience sample that includes no more than 30 patients per study group (n = 60) are
           being recruited. As an exploratory study the investigators did not proceed to make any
           sample size calculation.

        4. Eligibility Criteria:

           Inclusion criteria: The sample consists in patients of school age (6-16 years old)
           diagnosed with functional abdominal pain (Functional Abdominal Pain-Related Disorders)
           according to the diagnostic criteria for functional gastrointestinal disorders ROME
           guide III.

           Exclusion criteria: Patients diagnosed with digestive disease, patients who have or are
           receiving medical aids and patients who are not studying physical treatments.

        5. Randomization:

      This is a comparative study of two quasi-experimental interventions (standard treatment vs.
      standard treatment + Osteopathy). The allocation of the patients in each group will be held
      (after obtaining informed consent) through a system of randomization plus a matching system.
      Patients who meet the eligibility criteria will be randomized to receive one or other
      intervention in the first instance.

      This allocation to the study groups will be marked and induce the pairing ("matching") to a
      new subject of study that meets the same characteristics as the previously randomized. To do
      this, during random award, 3 specific characteristics of the subjects will be recorded:

        1. age (from 6 years to 10 years and 11 to 16 years)

        2. sex

        3. type of functional abdominal pain and severity (ROME III). When a new patient with the
           same characteristics previously patients randomized to a study group, it will be
           assigned paired to form another study group without going through a randomization
           process again.

      With this design the investigators intend to balance study groups given that the
      investigators will have a small sample and with a pragmatic inclusion.

      f) Masking: This will be a single-blind trial where only the evaluator will be blinded. The
      characteristics of the studied intervention is not possible to mask nor the therapist or the
      patient.

      g) Interventions:

        -  Standard medical treatment: organic cause has to be discarded through complementary
           examinations, depending on the symptoms of each patient. Subsequently, the appropriate
           standard pharmacological treatment for each type of functional abdominal pain will be
           applied:

        -  Functional dyspepsia: proton-pump inhibitor omeprazole 1 mg / kg / day vo

        -  Abdominal migraine -Treatment: sumatriptan 50 mg PO

        -  Functional abdominal pain: antispasmodics

        -  Irritable colon: methylcellulose + antispasmodics

           * There are few studies to define the precise standard treatment of functional abdominal
           pain

        -  Osteopathic treatment (BMT) description collecting the items of the interventions guide
           report tidier. The TMO is a 100% manual intervention applied individually with direct
           contact between therapist and patient. For this study 5 sessions are set with a
           fortnightly interval between sessions and lasts between 45 and 60 'each (total 2 months
           of treatment).

      Both on the first visit and other physical examination prior to treatment consisting will be
      held:

      i. Quadrant abdominal palpation ii. Rating excursion tone and respiratory and pelvic
      diaphragm iii. Palpation and mobility tests of the spine (especially high thoracic and lumbar
      segments) iv. Test listening in skull base and cranial sacral following the model of William
      G. Sutherland.

      Scanning is performed to detect the presence of somatic dysfunction (DS). The term DS is part
      of osteopathic terminology and is defined as "alterations in the function of the components
      related to the somatic system: skeletal structures, joint and myofascial and vascular
      elements, neural and lymphatic related".

      The scan results will determine the treatment that will be adapted to each particular case
      but within the framework and following techniques:

        -  See the complete description of the techniques Glossary of Osteopathic Terminology,
           2011.

           1. Indirect Techniques for working the abdominal and pelvic diaphragm Objective: To work
           on the influence on the pressure distribution in the (especially abdominal) body
           cavities and consequently on the viscera contained therein, proper arterial supply and
           venous drainage and linfático.

        -  Osteopathic models to justify this approach and other related references. 2. Functional
           Techniques for visceral dysfunctions Objective: visceral relaxation techniques. Listen
           and treatment of visceral motility by functional techniques applied directly to the
           viscera and their supporting tissues

        -  Osteopathic models to justify this approach and other related references. 3. Direct
           Techniques (articulatory) and / or indirect spine dysfunctions 4. Treatment by cranial
           sacral approach to dysfunction and skull Objective: Work on visceral autonomic
           innervation (sympathetic and parasympathetic) to the different digestive organs in order
           to improve vascularization and function.

      Who will perform the intervention ?:

      A unique osteopath (DM) will carry out all interventions to avoid as far as possible biases
      among different therapists. DM is a Physiotherapist and Osteopath with over 10 years of
      clinical experience in both adults and pediatric patients. She is specialized in pediatric
      Osteopathy through postgraduate training.

      Strategies to ensure adherence to treatment and co-interventions such as telephone reminder
      scheduled visits for osteopathic treatment. Special care will be taken to avoid
      co-interventions. To do so participants at baseline was duly informed through a special
      paragraph in the informed consent h) Outcomes:

        -  Principal outcome: Pain Measured by a visual analog scale. A version with more
           appropriate pictograms for pediatric patients is used. Measurements will be taken at
           baseline (baseline measurements) at 4, 8 weeks (the duration of interventions) and 6
           months post-study

        -  Secondary outcomes:

             -  Truancy: a record of truancy during the 6 months follow-up study

             -  Number of visits to the emergency: a registry of emergency room visits during the 6
                months follow-up study

             -  Quality of life: Patients will fill out the form Kidscreen quality of life in its
                translation into Spanish (at the beginning and end of the study)

             -  Calendar symptoms: Patients have to fill out a schedule of symptoms 6 months
                follow-up study with the following variables: days of onset of pain, pain
                intensity, pain location, triggers, associated symptoms and need taking rescue
                medication.

             -  Adverse effects: a record of the adverse effects that might occur during the study
    
  