
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
      talimogene laherparepvec in combination with capecitabine and radiation in rectal cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish safety and feasibility of the combination including complications from
      surgical resection II. To determine the neoadjuvant rectal (NAR) score of talimogene
      laherparepvec with chemotherapy and radiation.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate genomic information including RAS, RAF mutation status with response, disease
      free survival (DFS) and/or overall survival (OS).

      II. To determine immunomodulatory changes following talimogene laherparepvec, chemotherapy
      and radiation treatment including proportions of immune cell infiltrates in serially
      collected peripheral blood and/or frozen tumor samples (pre-, on treatment, and at post
      progression).

      III. To identify magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-based features including MRI
      circumferential margin (mrCRM) at baseline or post-therapy mrCRM, MRI tumor regression grade
      (mrTRG) to define determinants of response, DFS and OS.

      IV. To determine the disease free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) of talimogene
      laherparepvec with chemotherapy and radiation in patients undergoing curative resection.

      V. To determine the pathological complete response (pCR) rate of talimogene laherparepvec
      with chemotherapy and radiation.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of talimogene laherparepvec.

      Patients receive talimogene laherparepvec intralesionally via endoscopy on weeks 1, 4, 6, and
      8. Patients receive 5-fluorouracil intravenously (IV) by bolus and over 46 hours, leucovorin
      IV bolus, and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on weeks 2 and 4. Patients also receive
      capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) followed by radiation therapy for 28 fractions on
      days 1-5 of weeks 8-13. Patients undergo resection surgery on weeks 21-25.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and up to 5 years
      thereafter.
    
  