
    
      A notice of temporary accrual suspension for Alliance A051201 was issued on 1/28/14. The
      study was suspended to new patient accrual until a protocol amendment was finalized, which
      provided revised treatment instructions. The study was reactivated on 4/22/14 including the
      removal of the rituximab treatment arm.

      Outline: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

      The phase I treatment plan includes the following:

        1. Lenalidomide will be tested at sequential dose levels in a standard 3+3 design.

             1. Dose Level 0 = 15mg/day for days 1-21 every 28 days

             2. Dose Level 1 = 20mg/day for days 1-21 every 28 days and

             3. Dose Level 2 = 25mg/day for days 1-21 every 28 days.

           Patients can continue lenalidomide for up to 48 weeks (12 cycles) of treatment.

        2. Idelalisib will be orally administered starting at 150 mg twice daily for continuous
           28-day cycles until progression, intolerance, or patient/physician discretion. The dose
           is the same in dose levels 0, 1, and 2.

      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms in the Phase II treatment plan. The primary
      and secondary objectives for this study are:

        1. Phase I Primary Objective: To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination
           of lenalidomide with idelalisib in sequential dose cohorts.

        2. Phase II Primary Objective: To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) of the
           combination of lenalidomide with or without idelalisib in a randomized phase II design.

        3. Phase II Secondary Objectives:

             1. To determine the overall response rate (ORR), complete response rate (CR), and
                overall survival (OS) of the combination of lenalidomide with or without idelalisib
                in a randomized phase II design.

             2. To determine the prognostic and/or predictive significance of proliferation markers
                and cell cycle components in patients with relapsed/refractory mantle cell lymphoma
                (MCL) treated with idelalisib and lenalidomide.

             3. To determine whether phosphorylated protein kinase B (pAKT) expression levels are
                correlated with response to idelalisib plus lenalidomide.

             4. To determine whether Notch activation as assessed by notch homolog 1,
                translocation- association (NOTCH1) intracellular domain (ICD) immunohistochemistry
                (IHC) correlates with NOTCH1 mutational status and outcome in MCL patients treated
                with idelalisib and lenalidomide.

             5. To determine whether sex determining region Y-box 11 (SOX11) expression correlates
                with response in patients with relapsed/refractory MCL treated with idelalisib and
                lenalidomide.

             6. To correlate cereblon (CRBN) expression with response in patients with
                relapsed/refractory MCL treated with idelalisib and lenalidomide.

             7. To evaluate several plasma cytokines and correlate observed changes to objective
                response rates.
    
  