
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the sensitivity of multiphase contrast-enhanced CT scan to that of multiphase
           contrast-enhanced MRI using non-specific contrast agents for diagnosing hepatocellular
           carcinoma (HCC) in patients with chronic liver disease.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the positive predictive value (PPV) of CT scan to that of MRI for diagnosing
           HCC.

        -  To compare the lesion-level sensitivity and PPV of CT scan and MRI as interpreted by
           radiologists at the respective transplant centers.

        -  To compare the sensitivity and specificity of multiphase contrast-enhanced CT scan vs
           MRI for diagnosing residual or recurrent HCC after local ablative therapy in patients
           listed for liver transplant.

        -  To determine the accuracy of imaging-based diagnosis and staging of HCC in clinical
           practice using the new Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN)
           liver-imaging criteria compared with the reference standard of pathologic diagnosis and
           staging at the time of explantation.

        -  To explore whether the comparisons of sensitivity and PPV are affected by stratifying
           patients by AFP level (elevated vs normal). (Exploratory)

      Tertiary

        -  To assess the sensitivity and PPV of MRI and CT interpreted at the participating sites
           on the basis of all available information and sequences and compare the sensitivity and
           PPV of the two modalities interpreted using the main study criterion. (Exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to AFP level
      (elevated vs normal).

      Patients undergo CT scan with iodinated contrast agent and MRI with extracellular gadolinium
      contrast agent (both standard-of-care and study-related) at baseline and at 90-day intervals
      while on the liver transplant wait list.

      After transplantation, the explanted liver will be analyzed for biomarkers and other studies.
    
  