
    
      Substance abuse research indicates that: (1) addressing medical and psychosocial problems
      associated with substance abuse and dependence leads to better outcomes; (2) treatments are
      now shorter due in part to rising healthcare costs, and it is difficult to address these
      issues effectively during treatment, making medical and psychosocial ("wraparound") services
      following treatment essential; (3) counselors may lack the knowledge to effectively integrate
      these services; and (4) referrals to these services have been underutilized and clients may
      lack the motivation, knowledge, or skills to follow up with the referrals when they are made.
      To address these deficits, we are proposing the development of ASI-MV Solutions, which will
      provide tailored motivational feedback and skill-building lessons to clients to address
      specific psychosocial and medical problem areas. We expect that ASI-MV Solutions will have
      seven modules (Alcohol, Drugs, Medical, Psychiatric, Legal, Employment, and Family)
      corresponding to domains of the ASI-MV, a Web-enabled interactive version of the ASI
      administered in treatment settings. Substance abusers who have high severity scores on ASI-MV
      subscales will be directed to corresponding interactive lessons and local resources on ASI-MV
      Solutions. To demonstrate the feasibility of the program concept, the Phase I study focused
      on the Employment domain. All feasibility criteria were met and findings indicated: (1)
      Proposed content was based on highly positive findings from concept mapping, as well as
      usability and acceptance testing with clients and experts. Ratings of potential effectiveness
      and appeal were high. (2) Usability testing indicated that the program was usable by the
      target audience, the skills and outcomes were relevant to the target audience, and the
      program was regarded as potentially very helpful to the treatment process. We surpassed
      feasibility benchmarks for both clients and experts. (3) Our technical/design team produced a
      demonstration program that was perceived by key stakeholders as highly usable and engaging
      multimedia program, as well as determining the necessary technologies to produce the complete
      program in Phase II. In Phase II we will develop ASI-MV Solutions content, complete the
      ASI-MV Solutions program, field test the program, and conduct satisfaction and acceptance
      testing of the program with clients and counselors.
    
  