
    
      Roflumilast is a product which has been approved for the treatment of severe chronic
      obstructive lung disease (COPD) and its approved dose is 500μg once daily. This study is
      primarily designed to see whether alternation in this dose can improve tolerability of
      Roflumilast in COPD patients. Therefore one in three patients will start roflumilast therapy
      at a lower dose of 250μg once daily, another one in three will only take the 500μg tablet
      every other day (and one placebo every other day). Rest of them will start the regular dose
      of 500μg once daily right away and see whether starting with a lower dose of Roflumilast will
      lead to better tolerability. Furthermore, the study will see if patients who do not tolerate
      roflumilast should be given a lower dose of 250μg once daily.

      Lastly, the study will investigate what the body does to roflumilast. Patients with a history
      of COPD for at least last 12 months and a former smoker or current smoker with history of at
      least 10 pack years will be invited to participate.

      The main study period lasts for a maximum of 15 weeks and patients will have to visit the
      study site up to 6 times. If patients are not tolerating roflumilast, the investigators may
      switch them to the down titration period where they may be on a lower dose for rest of the
      study. Then patients will remain in the down titration period for additional 8 weeks and will
      have to visit the study site 4 times. Most of the visits will take approximately 1 to 2
      hours. However, one visit in the main period and 1 or 2 visits in the down titration period
      will take approximately 6 to 7 hours. These visits are longer to allow time to conduct blood
      taking.

      The Randomization visit is considered the Baseline visit and for participants that
      discontinue the Main Period and continue into the Down-Titration Period Day 1 of Down
      Titration is considered BaselineDT.
    
  