
    
      Heart failure (HF) is an important public health problem that affects approximately 6.6
      million Americans. Despite improvements in cardiac care, it remains the leading cause for
      hospitalization among Medicare patients and the only major cardiovascular disease whose
      mortality rate has remained essentially unchanged over the past decade. This failure to
      improve HF outcomes may be due, in part, to unrecognized and/or inadequately treated
      depression that is highly prevalent in HF patients. Yet while new HF treatment guidelines
      advocate routine screening for depression, this recommendation is unlikely to be widely
      adopted without trial evidence that depression care improves outcomes and efficient methods
      to provide it.

      "Collaborative care" strategies are being increasingly utilized to improve care for HF and
      other chronic medical conditions, and we recently demonstrated its clinical and
      cost-effectiveness at treating depression following coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Yet
      it may be impractical for health care delivery systems to support separate treatment programs
      for HF and depression. Thus we are encouraged by emerging evidence indicating "blended"
      collaborative care strategies that target both psychiatric and physical conditions produce
      greater improvements in mood symptoms and control of cardiovascular risk factors than
      programs focused solely on depression to propose testing a novel adaptation that could be
      provided in routine care.

      The Specific Aims of this Project are to: (1) evaluate the effectiveness of a
      telephone-delivered "blended" collaborative care intervention for treating HF and depression
      that could be adopted into routine clinical practice if proven effective; and (2) advance our
      understanding of the moderators and mediators of depression treatment on clinical outcomes.
      We will screen hospitalized patients with systolic HF for depression, and then randomize 625
      who screen positive and have at least a moderately elevated level of depressive symptoms at
      two-weeks following hospital discharge to either: (1) collaborative care for treating both HF
      and depression ("blended"); (2) collaborative care for treating HF alone (enhanced usual care
      (eUC)); or (3) their doctors' "usual care" (UC). Additionally, we will enroll 125
      non-depressed HF patients to better evaluate the benefits derived from treating depression
      (total N=750). Our co-primary hypotheses will test whether "blended" collaborative care can
      produce at 12-months follow-up a: (A) 0.50 effect size (ES) or greater improvement in
      health-related quality of life (HRQoL) vs. UC; and (B) 0.30 ES or greater improvement in
      HRQoL vs. eUC. Secondary hypotheses will evaluate the effects of our "blended" intervention
      on mood, functional status, adherence with guideline-consistent care, incidence of
      cardiovascular events, health care utilization, and costs.

      Improving chronic illness care for medically complex patients is one of the major challenges
      facing medicine today. We propose to test the effectiveness of an innovative, efficient,
      scalable, and sustainable intervention that could transform the way HF and other
      cardiovascular disorders are treated in routine practice.
    
  