
    
      This is a Pilot Study, intended as a safety assessment prior to a full comparator study. In
      this Pilot Study, cells administered via the Biosense Webster MyoStar NOGA injection catheter
      system will be tested in 36 patients in two groups:

      Group 1 (18 patients) Eighteen (18) patients will be treated with Auto-hMSCs: 20 million
      cells/ml delivered in a dose of 0.5 ml per injection x 10 injections for a total of 1 X 108
      (100 million) Auto-hMSCs.

      Group 2 (18 patients) Eighteen (18) patients will be treated with Allo-hMSCs: 20 million
      cells/ml delivered in a dose of 0.5 ml per injection x 10 injections for a total of 1 X 108
      (100 million) Auto-hMSCs.

      The first three (3) patients in each group (Group 1 and Group 2) will not be treated less
      than 5 days apart and will each undergo full evaluation for 5 days to demonstrate there is no
      evidence of a procedure induced myocardial infarction or myocardial perforation prior to
      proceeding with the treatment of further patients.

      Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of the two groups.

      Treatment Strategies: Autologous hMSCs vs. Allogeneic hMSCs. The Study Team will record and
      maintain a detailed record of injection locations.

      If a patient is randomized to Groups 1 (Auto-hMSCs) and the Auto-hMSCs do not expand to the
      required dose of 1 X 108 cells, each injection will contain the maximum number of cells
      available.

      The injections will be administered transendocardially during cardiac catheterization using
      the Biosense Webster MyoStar NOGA Catheter System.

      For patients randomized to Group 1(Auto-hMSCs); the cells will be derived from a sample of
      the patient's bone marrow (obtained by iliac crest aspiration) approximately 4-6 weeks prior
      to cardiac catheterization. For patients randomized to Group 2 (Allo- hMSCs), the cells will
      be supplied from an allogeneic human mesenchymal stem cell source manufactured by the
      University of Miami. The Allo-hMSCs for patients in group 2 will be administered after all
      baseline assessments are completed with an expected range of 2 - 4 weeks post-randomization.

      Following cardiac catheterization and cell injections, patients will be hospitalized for a
      minimum of 2 days then followed at 2 weeks post-catheterization, and at month 2, 3, 6, and 12
      to complete all safety and efficacy assessments.
    
  