
    
      Expression of Interferon lambda receptor 1 (IFNLR1)/interleukin 28 Receptor Alpha (IL28RA) in
      human neutrophils.

      Neutrophils will be isolated from freshly drawn human blood with subsequent removal of red
      blood cells with dextran and/or magnetic-activated cell sorting (MACS). The investigators'
      preliminary results show that neutrophils isolated from the blood of a healthy donor express
      higher level of IL28RA messenger Ribonucleic Acid (mRNA) compared to Cluster of
      Differentiation-14 (CD14) negative or CD14 positive lymphocytes. To better understand the
      relative spread of IL28RA mRNA levels due to human heterogeneity, the investigators will
      compare the levels of IL28RA expression in neutrophils isolated from blood of 20 healthy
      donors. The investigators will examine whether treatment of human neutrophils ex vivo with
      recombinant human IL29 (Bristol- Meyers Squibb, BMS) induces Signal Transducer and Activators
      of Transcription 1 (STAT1) signalling. The investigators will also test newly generated
      antibodies to human IL28RA which have shown some specificity in IL28RA detection in cell
      lines, on neutrophil isolated from blood.

      Expression of IFNLR1/IL28RA in neutrophils isolated from blood of rheumatic patients.

      The investigators will then compare the levels of IL28RA expression on neutrophils isolated
      from blood of (1) 15 patients in the early phases of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and while
      naïve to biologic therapeutic intervention; (2) 15 vasculitis patients with giant cell
      arteritis (GCA) (within one week of commencing high dose glucocorticoid) and (3) 15
      vasculitis patients with granulomatosis with polyangitis (GPA; Wegener's) at presentation or
      during a relapse, prior to initiation of immunosuppressive therapy with either
      cyclophosphamide or rituximab. All patients will undergo standardised assessment of disease
      activity and damage, i.e. the Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score version 3.0 (BVAS 3.0) and
      the Vasculitis Damage Index version 1.0 (VDI) for vasculitis or the disease activity score
      for 28 joints (DAS-28) for RA. This will allow the investigators to predict whether rheumatic
      patients are likely to respond to IL29 treatment.

      Functional characterisation of human neutrophils treated with IL29.

      The investigators will conduct a selective evaluation of the expression of adhesion
      molecules, the migratory responses and functional properties of human neutrophils treated
      with IL29 ex vivo. These selected activities will be examined in the IL29 treated neutrophils
      from blood of healthy donors, with or without stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS),
      phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) or serum from RA and vasculitis patients. The investigators
      will assess the impact of IL29 treatment on neutrophils isolated from the blood of patients
      with RA and vasculitis.
    
  