
    
      Epidemiological research shows that over half of Europe's population suffers from headache.
      Approximately 11% of the population suffers from migraine, over half of the population have
      tension-type headache, and 4% have chronic daily headaches. There is clear evidence that
      headaches, and especially migraines, are under- or misdiagnosed. Headache is a frequent cause
      of visits to the GPs office, and we have previously shown that this group accounts for about
      20 % of patients referred to a general neurologic outpatient clinic.

      To our knowledge, no previous studies have investigated whether headache consultations
      through telemedicine provides equal health care outcomes compared to regular visits to the
      neurologist. If that's the case, a modern interactive health care system may give simpler and
      cheaper services for patients, saving traveling costs and community expenses. It may possibly
      also lead to reduced waiting lists, earlier diagnosis and treatment.

      This is an open-label randomized non-inferiority study of headache patients referred to our
      neurologic outpatient clinic. The aim of this study is to determine if video consultations
      are non-inferior to regular consultations in diagnosing and treating primary headaches. The
      null hypothesis is that there is no difference in patient satisfaction between the two
      groups. The outcome is assessed 3 and 12 months after the neurologic consultation. We will
      allocate participants to either a telemedicine consultation or a regular consultation at the
      neurologic outpatient clinic in the University Hospital of North-Norway, Tromsø. Both groups
      will undergo a structured and detailed interview to clarify the diagnosis and establish
      appropriate treatment. All diagnoses are given by the most up to date version of The
      International Classification of Headache Disorders (ICHD). We will strive continuously to
      include all patients who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria. To ensure the best
      possible representation in the population, our goal is to include at least 70% of all the
      referred patients that meet the criteria for participation in this study. The randomizations
      are made through a centralized 8-16 phone line to the research-department in Tromsø, at the
      University Hospital of North-Norway.

      We will gather the primary and secondary endpoints from the recruited participants by
      questionnaires sent three and 12 months after the consultation. In addition, we are going to
      investigate the quality of the physicians' referrals, peoples' use of medications,
      alternative therapies as well as calculations of cost savings by using telemedicine.

      The patients' informed consent will always be obtained before data collection. Patients are
      able to withdraw from the study at any time. Withdrawal will not affect the treatment or
      follow up. Local research ethics committee (REC) has approved the study.
    
  