
    
      Everolimus is an oral inhibitor of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), a key signal
      transduction molecule of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt pathway. This pathway, which
      regulates cellular growth, proliferation, metabolism, survival and angiogenesis, is
      frequently dysregulated in human cancers and thus is a rational target for anticancer
      therapy. Everolimus is currently approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and U.S.
      Food and Drug administration (FDA) for the treatment of different solid malignancies.

      Metastatic (Hormone-Receptor [HR]-positive, HER2-negative) breast cancer (BC), advanced or
      unresectable neuroendocrine tumours of pancreatic (pNET), gastrointestinal or lung origin and
      metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) are diseases with poor outcome. Everolimus is part of
      palliative treatment and increases patients' median progression-free survival (PFS) with 4.6
      months in metastatic BC (mBC), 7 months in pNET and 3 months in mRCC. However, serious
      adverse events (AEs) occur frequently; stomatitis up to 67%, non-infectious pneumonitis (NIP)
      up to 15%. This reduces effectiveness of everolimus, because AEs are managed with dose
      reductions, treatment interruptions or even complete discontinuation of everolimus.

      Everolimus shows a large inter-individual pharmacokinetic variation in whole blood
      concentrations, due to variability in oral drug availability, patient non-compliance (e.g.
      due to drug-related toxicity, forgetting and/or overuse), drug-drug interactions with
      co-medication and many other factors. Furthermore, variation in the population
      pharmacokinetics of everolimus is caused by everolimus' hematocrit effect. This effect is
      present at high everolimus concentrations in combination with low hematocrit values, which is
      likely to be the case in the oncologic population. High incidences of anemia in oncologic
      patients treated with everolimus have been described, respectively being 32.1%
      (CI=17.5-51.3%) for all-grade (grades 1-4) toxicities and 6.9% (95% CI=4.1-11.3%) for
      high-grade (grades 3-4) toxicities. Therefore, studies have recommended to correct the
      everolimus whole blood concentrations for hematocrit determination.

      The very different whole blood concentrations between individuals can result in
      supratherapeutic or subtherapeutic exposure levels and consequently in over- or
      undertreatment, respectively. Despite the inter-patient variability in systemic exposure,
      everolimus is currently prescribed at a fixed dose. Given the narrow therapeutic index and a
      positive exposure-efficacy relationship, there is a rationale for pharmacokinetically guided
      dosing also known as therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of everolimus. Such an approach could
      theoretically contribute to a tailor-made everolimus treatment with improved therapeutic
      efficacy and decreased risk for toxicity. Since daily everolimus dosing demonstrates dose
      proportionality and linear pharmacokinetics, this seems to be easily applicable. Furthermore,
      requirements for dose reduction at physicians discretion can be supported when it is known at
      what everolimus trough level a dose reduction is recommended.

      Therapeutic-drug-monitoring (TDM) (i.e. measurement of everolimus whole blood levels after
      venipuncture) is used to adjust the prescribed daily dose, to maintain effective everolimus
      whole blood concentrations, with the lowest possible risk of AEs. In addition, TDM is a
      useful tool for early detection of non-adherence, and might also be used to monitor the
      effects of drug-drug interactions and food effects. While TDM, according to international
      consensus, has been common in transplantation medicine for 10 years, it has not been
      implemented in oncology. The importance of TDM in oncology is, however, supported by previous
      research that showed a 2-fold increased trough concentration (Cmin) of everolimus whole blood
      with a short-term risk of grade ≥ 3 pulmonary events (relative risk [RR] 1.9; 95% CI
      1.1-3.3], stomatitis events (RR 1.5; 95% CI 1.1-2.1) and metabolic events (RR 1.3 95%
      1.0-1.7). Moreover, an exposure-toxicity relationship of everolimus in patients with thyroid
      cancer was observed, since initial everolimus concentrations could be associated with early
      toxicity (< 12 weeks), i.e. stomatitis. However, the association between initial everolimus
      measurements and long-term AEs (≥ 12 weeks, e.g. pneumonitis, anorexia and anemia) of any
      grade and the need for everolimus dose reductions could not be made. Since a trough
      concentration of approximately 18 µg/L was associated with toxicity, the investigators assume
      that the upper therapeutic window of everolimus in the oncologic setting will be ±18 µg/L.
      Therefore, an upper threshold of >18 µg/L was considered for this study.Similarly, a tendency
      to improved PFS and overall survival (OS) was noted when CminSS was above 14.1 μg/L. This
      might be the lower limit of the therapeutic window.

      However, the following knowledge gaps exist: 1. It is unknown whether everolimus trough whole
      blood levels (over time) predict for long-term AEs (≥12 weeks, e.g. pneumonitis, anorexia and
      anemia). 2. The optimal concentration range for everolimus, for the treatment of mBC, mRCC,
      or (p)NET is unknown, especially the upper limit associated with toxicity. 3. It is unknown
      what everolimus concentration level is associated with the need for everolimus dose
      reductions.

      In order to quantitate the outcome toxicity, the number of dose reductions can be
      investigated as this is the sum of all different toxicities experienced by patients and these
      are also the toxicities that lead to clinical action by the treating physician. Furthermore,
      especially all NCI-CTCAE v4.0 grade ≥2 are important, and special attention should be focused
      on AEs that are highly prevalent, objectively measurable, clinically relevant and/or
      untreatable. These AEs will be leading to dose reductions or discontinuation of therapy.

      Dose individualization based on the measured drug concentration could theoretically result in
      less toxicity and more efficacy. Further studies are required to determine the clinical
      utility of TDM for everolimus in oncology settings. Determination of everolimus
      concentrations at the onset of severe AEs (dose interruptions or reductions) and disease
      progression may enable better understanding of pathophysiology, permitting dose reduction at
      the right moment rather than drug withdrawal in patients with high everolimus concentrations.
      The clinical impact of this approach can be large, since everolimus treatment optimization is
      better than unnecessary switching to the next line of palliative treatment in these oncologic
      patients. This is supported by the study by Generali et al., finding the combination of
      everolimus plus exemestaan as first- or second-line therapy for mBC patients more efficacious
      than several chemotherapy regimens that were reported in the literature. Furthermore, it is
      important to realise that the initial concentration (< 12 weeks) does not reflect a change in
      steady-state trough concentration over time (≥12 weeks) due to various reasons. Some of them
      being drug-drug interactions, high-fat food effects, a change in haematocrit, non-adherence,
      dose-reductions and interruptions of the everolimus treatment.

      Follow up of the everolimus concentration over time implies frequent pharmacokinetic sampling
      (blood draws). Nowadays everolimus exposure is determined by everolimus concentration
      measurement in whole blood. Therefore, a venipuncture is always necessary. This is invasive
      and requires patients to come to the hospital. It would be convenient for patients to have
      their everolimus concentration determined by dried blood spot (DBS) analysis. With DBS only a
      single drop of blood from the finger is necessary, which can be done at home and send by
      regular mail for analysis. Previous studies have showed the feasibility of the DBS approach
      in the oncologic setting. The physician may benefit from the ease of the DBS sampling method
      providing results timely before the patient visits the clinic for their (routine) check-up.

      Previous methods for the measurement of everolimus by means of DBS have been developed. In
      the past, emphasis has been put on the development and analytical validation of the assay
      while the clinical validation was of minor importance. Some information has been gathered in
      transplantation medicine. However, in patients with cancer, the correlation between
      everolimus DBS concentrations and whole blood concentration is unknown. Furthermore,
      information regarding the important everolimus hematocrit effect in DBS at high concentration
      levels common in the oncology population is lacking. Therefore, the secondary objective is to
      determine the everolimus concentration collected with DBS from a finger prick and DBS paper
      spiked with a drop of venipunctured whole blood containing everolimus.
    
  