
    
      This is a Canadian multicenter randomized controlled trial to assess remote patient
      management. Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion, stratified by pacemaker dependence
      and by center to either remote patient management of standard of care.

      Remote patient management (intervention group):

        -  Patients will be followed by remote monitoring only. Transmissions will occur at six
           monthly intervals, with no in-clinic visits. If there is an actionable event on the
           remote transmission, patients will be seen at their closest community device clinic. The
           proposed intervention would eliminate any routine visits.

        -  Newly implanted pacemaker patients will be seen after the initial implant at the hub
           site, within 48 hours and then within 3 months to optimize programming for subsequent RM
           visits. Thereafter, all follow-up will occur through remote monitoring every six months.
           Unscheduled remote transmissions may also occur. Using a combination of remote
           monitoring, and novel technology, VIRTUES, patients will be managed outside of the
           clinic.

        -  Patients will be provided with real-time knowledge of success of their remote
           transmission and the status of the remote through a web-based portal called VIRTUES.

        -  Virtual patient record - all patient information in the intervention arm will be
           contained within an information cloud that will be accessible by patients; access to
           their own data may be granted by the patient themselves to permit delivery of care
           remotely, and to permit after hours follow up to be performed by the on call personnel.

      Standard of care (comparison group):

      The standard arm will be required to have in-clinic visits at yearly intervals. These
      patients would not have access to the virtual patient cloud or to remote monitoring.

      Pacemaker programming: All patients in both arms will undergo programming as per the ASSERT
      II protocol (previously published) to optimize pacemaker parameters and detection of atrial
      and ventricular high rate episodes.
    
  