
    
      The study will evaluate the airway epithelial effects of EC (electronic cigarettes) vapor
      containing nicotine when used as a tobacco replacement tool. By using active cigarette
      smokers as a comparator group, the study will increase our knowledge of whether the use of
      ECs is more or less harmful than continuation of tobacco smoking. This study will examine the
      in vivo effects of EC vapors in nasal ion transport and TGF-β levels as well as in serum
      inflammatory biomarkers.

      As the primary endpoint, nasal ion transport will be assessed by nasal potential difference
      (NPD), which measures the voltage potential resulting from epithelial ion fluxes at the
      mucosal surface in vivo. Ion transport across nasal epithelia is representative for findings
      in distal airways. Since NPD directly measures the changes in ion transport expected to
      influence mucociliary clearance (MCC) and therefore overall outcome and since changes of NPD
      measurements are indirectly linked to lung function changes and MCC in trials with cystic
      fibrosis patients, we believe that NPD lends itself as a reasonable surrogate for MCC for
      this clinical trial.

      As secondary endpoints, we will also measure TGF-ß levels in nasal secretions and expression
      in nasal cells to correlate these with the level of CFTR and CaCC-mediated Cl- conductance
      (CFTR is known to show decreased function with elevated TGF-β). In addition plasma samples
      will be collected to study systemic markers of inflammation as well as toxic substances that
      may result from vaping and smoking.

      The design is a smoking replacement trial, in which we will compare changes in upper airway
      ion transport and inflammation in smokers who switch to EC vaping versus subjects that
      continue to smoke tobacco cigarettes. In addition, we will use the trial design to evaluate
      the feasibility of using the EC as a means to quit tobacco use.

      The study will last up to16 weeks with weekly visits. Subjects must replace completely
      cigarettes with EC within the first 4 visits (week 4) and maintain exclusive use for the
      following 12 visits. Adherence is asses with exhaled carbon monoxide and/or carboxyhemoglobin
      when needed. The study involves scheduled blood draws for research samples.

      There will be total of 16 visits to the study clinic. Besides blood draws and NPD, the study
      will include questionnaires, lung function testing and adverse event recording.
    
  