
    
      The proposed study is a randomized placebo-controlled trial of treatment duration for male
      urinary tract infection (UTI). Specifically, 319 men with a UTI will be randomized to 7 vs.
      14 days of antimicrobial treatment. The primary outcome is resolution of UTI symptoms,
      assessed 14 days after completing active antimicrobial treatment. Secondary outcomes include
      recurrent UTI in the 4 weeks after treatment, adverse drug events, and intestinal carriage of
      antimicrobial resistant Gram-negative bacilli. Subjects will be enrolled from the Primary
      Care Clinic and Emergency Department at the Minneapolis VA Medical Center (MVAMC).

      Currently, the optimal treatment duration for male UTI is unknown. A clinical trial of 14 vs.
      28 days of treatment showed no difference in outcomes, whereas another trial of 3 vs.14 days
      showed an increase in recurrence with 3 days of treatment. However, current treatment
      recommendations are to treat men with UTI for 7 to 14 days, and no data exist to favor the
      shorter or longer duration. Most men with UTI in the VA are treated for more than 7 days,
      which is associated with a small but significant increase in Clostridium difficile infection.
      Additionally, other studies of non-UTI infectious diseases have shown that longer-duration
      treatment leads to increased antimicrobial resistance. Longer-duration treatment is also more
      costly and inconvenient to patients. Thus, since longer-duration treatment is associated with
      some adverse outcomes, in order to justify longer-duration treatment thee must be some
      clinically significant benefit to the extended treatment.

      Accordingly, the proposed randomized placebo-controlled trial of 319 men with UTI will test
      the hypothesis that 7 days of antimicrobial treatment is non-inferior for the resolution of
      UTI symptoms when compared to 14 days of treatment. This study will provide valuable
      information to VA patients and clinicians regarding a common and understudied clinical
      decision.
    
  