
    
      Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (FASD) describes a wide range of adverse physical, behavioral
      and cognitive effects resulting from prenatal alcohol exposure (PAE) during embryonic and
      fetal development. Currently individuals afflicted by FASD are treated symptomatically for
      ADHD and different forms of disruptive behavior. However, these approaches have not succeeded
      in improving the long-term clinical outcome [1].

      A number of clinical studies have presented evidence regarding the physiological effects of
      hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) on metabolically dysfunctional brain regions that might be
      related to FASD [2-5]. Case studies conducted using HBOT suggested a potential safe and
      efficient treatment for FESD [6-7]. The aim of the study is to compare the effect of HBOT vs.
      neurocognitive training on neurobehavioral function in FASD.

      The study is designed as a prospective randomized, two active arm trial. After enrolment,
      eligible participants will be randomized with equal probability into one of two arms: HBOT or
      cognitive training arm. The evaluation procedure will be performed twice, at baseline and 1-3
      weeks after the last treatment session, and includes cognitive tests, FASD relegated
      questionnaires, and anatomical and functional brain imaging (MRI and SPECT). The study is
      designed as an intention to treat trial, and thus, patients will be included in the analysis
      if they completed at least one HBOT/cognitive training session, and attained post treatment
      study analysis.

      The HBOT protocol will be administrated in a multi-place chamber. The protocol comprised of
      60 daily sessions, 5 sessions per week within a three month period. Each session includes
      breathing 100% oxygen by mask at 2ATA for 90 minutes with 5-minute air breaks every 20
      minutes.

      The cognitive training protocol contains a neuropsychologist guided BrainHQ training program.
      This is a 3 months program that includes 30 minutes sessions at least 3 times per week.
    
  