
    
      Rationale: Conduct of clinical research in the intensive care unit (ICU) presents challenges
      including the necessity to obtain consent for patients lacking decision-making capacity,
      operationalize research protocols under emergency conditions and investigate conditions with
      high mortality. Most critically ill patients are unable to comprehend or communicate and
      Substitute Decision Makers (SDMs) typically provide consent for their research participation.
      SDMs of critically ill patients may be overwhelmed by the patient's circumstances and the
      amount of medical information presented to them. Preliminary data suggest that SDMs prefer
      physician involvement in the consent process.

      Primary Objective: To demonstrate the ability to implement a randomized controlled trial
      (RCT) evaluating two different approaches for introducing research coordinators (RC) to SDMs
      (physician introduction vs. non physician introduction) for participating in ICU research
      studies.

      Secondary Objectives: To describe, among SDMs approached for consent to participate in an ICU
      research study by either physician or non-physician introduction (e.g., nurse, social
      worker)]: (a) the proportion of SDMs providing and declining consent, (b) the time between
      meeting eligibility criteria and sentinel events (being approached for consent, and either
      providing or declining consent), (c) reasons for SDMs providing or declining consent, and (d)
      agreement between questionnaires completed by SDMs and RCs and physicians regarding their
      acceptance of and comfort and satisfaction with the approach utilized.

      Study Overview: We will conduct a multicentre pilot RCT of different methods (physician vs.
      non-physician introduction of research personnel) for approaching SDMs for consent for a
      loved one to participate in critical care research at 3 ICUs in Ontario.

      Study Population: This study will focus on the approach to SDMs (n=99) of critically ill
      adults who are eligible (meet all inclusion criteria and have no exclusion criteria) to
      participate in a critical care research study in progress during the data collection period,
      and which requires SDM consent.

      Interventions: In the intervention arm physicians will introduce RCs and study participation
      to SDMs using a standardized script. In the control arm RCs will either introduce themselves
      or be introduced by a non-physician member of the health care teams. RCs will complete an
      "Event Form" each time a critically ill adult is eligible to participate in a study. "Site
      Forms" and "Study Forms" will capture ICU-related information and studies in operation over
      the study period, respectively. We will administer 3 to 8 item questionnaires to SDMs, RCs
      and physicians involved in consent encounters to describe their acceptance of and comfort and
      satisfaction with the approach utilized.

      Study Outcomes: To demonstrate the feasibility of an RCT evaluating 2 methods of approaching
      SDMs for consent for research participation. Feasibility will be defined as (i) ≤ 15% of
      physician introductions will be missed due to lack of physician availability (physician
      introduction arm) and (ii) cross-overs (from either arm to the other) will occur in ≤ 15% of
      encounters. We will demonstrate that ≤ 20% of introductions (following randomization) will be
      missed due to inability of the research team to contact an identified SDM and at least 70%
      and 50% of initial and subsequent SDM questionnaires will be returned.

      Relevance: The Approach Study will provide valuable information for stakeholders committed to
      ensuring the ethical basis of critical care research; and will guide the design of a larger
      RCT examining how to best approach SDMs of critically ill patients. Moreover it will provide
      insight on how to best approach SDMs to make encounters more comfortable, credible, informed
      and less burdensome for them. The Approach Study will provide the framework for a larger
      phase 3 study examining how to best approach SDMs.
    
  