
    
      Periodontal disease is an infectious-inflammatory disease that accommodates the supporting
      and supporting tissues of the teeth, with the formation of periodontal pockets, and this
      destruction can generate anatomical defects in the region of bifurcation. Treatment of these
      lesions is a challenge for the clinician, as this area has limited access to bacterial
      biofilm and calculus. The surgical regenerative therapy using bone grafts and membrane may be
      a viable option in cases of class II furcation defects. In this context, the objective of
      this case series is to evaluate tomographically and clinically the treatment of class II
      furcation defects using an absorbable collagen membrane (Bio-Gide® Perio) associated or not
      with inorganic bovine bone associated with collagen matrix (Bio-Oss® Collagen). In a parallel
      design, 22 patients with mandibular class II furcation defects were recruited. Each defect
      was randomly assigned to the control group (CG - Bio-Gide® Perio, n=11) or test group (TG -
      Bio-Oss® Collagen + Bio-Gide® Perio, n=11). Tomographic and clinical evaluations were
      conducted at baseline and 12 months post-surgery. Clinical measurements of clinical
      attachment level (CAL) and probing depth (PD). Tomographical measurements of horizontal
      defect dimension (HDD) and vertical defect dimension (VDD) were recorded. In sequence, guided
      tissue regeneration surgeries were conducted: Then, bone defect were debrided, , the collagen
      membranes (BioGide Perio®) were trimmed to cover the osseous defects and extended 3 mm
      apically and laterally to the adjacent bone and sutured with absorbable suture. In the Test
      Group, the defects were completely filled with bovine bone + porcine collagen (BioOss
      Collagen®). The flaps were then coronally positioned until completely covering the membranes
      and sutured. Shapiro-Wilk test was used to evaluate normality of the data, and showed a
      normal distribution. Then, t-Test was selected for inter-group and intragroup comparisons.
      Trans-surgical measurements were evaluated at Baseline. The other clinical and tomographic
      parameters were evaluated at Baseline and 12 months. For all analyzes, p <0.05 was
      considered.
    
  