
    
      This will be a prospective case series in 100 patients presenting to Cedars Sinai Medical
      Center who undergo Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP).

      The investigators will place the AGIS sensor on each patient enrolled in the study, 30
      minutes prior to procedure. The investigators will continuously record AGIS acoustic signals
      from T-30 minutes to the time that they leave the hospital, either on discharge from the
      Post-Anesthesia Care Unit or discharge from hospitalization, with the option to discontinue
      if clinically required or requested by the provider or patient. Acoustic signal will be
      evaluated, and intestinal motility events will be calculated; however, this data will not be
      used to make decisions regarding clinical care. Physicians and nurses will not be made aware
      of the AbStats readings.These measurements are solely observational. Patients will be managed
      according to standard-of-care practice.

      Routinely, patients are kept in the post-operative unit after their procedure, for one hour.
      Those with pain are examined by a physician and the decision is made to admit for observation
      to monitor for complications of ERCP, or to discharge home. The patients who are discharged
      home from procedure will be followed by telephone surveys every day for 2 days post procedure
      to determine if they have developed symptoms suggestive of PEP. If so, they will be asked to
      go to the closest urgent care or emergency department for further evaluation. Those who are
      admitted for observations post procedure will be followed for signs or symptoms of PEP which
      includes meeting 2 of 3 criteria: Abdominal pain, amylase/lipase >3 times the upper limit of
      normal 24 hours after procedure, and/or imaging consistent with pancreatitis.

      The AGIS multi-sensor wireless abdominal monitoring system includes low profile acoustic
      sensors that are applied to the anterior abdominal wall with Tegaderm and monitors sounds
      emanating from the GI tract. The acoustic sensors continuously and non-invasively monitor and
      capture audio signals representing GI and abdominal wall function. The captured data is
      recorded in a synchronized manner from two sensors, each placed 3cm on either side of the
      umbilicus.

      After a patient's participation in the study is complete, the investigators will analyze the
      AbStats readings and the their clinical outcomes to observe if correlations exist between
      patients with lower intestinal rates and those who develop PEP.
    
  