
    
      Latinos/Hispanics are the fastest growing population group in rural areas and their childhood
      obesity rate is 60% higher than their non-Hispanic neighbors. Family-based childhood obesity
      (FBCO) interventions targeting parents have shown promising results for reducing weight among
      children. However, these interventions are developed and evaluated with culturally
      homogeneous samples of patients and have been poorly accessed by L/H families living in rural
      communities. The majority of FBCO programs have been based in large urban areas and do not
      address geographically underserved audiences or settings and might not be optimal for
      patients who are culturally diverse. There are a number of barriers to accessing these
      interventions in rural communities. Health departments in rural Nebraska have reported
      increasing health disparities and limited available resources, shortage of available health
      professionals, and the existence of demographically and geographically segregated communities
      as barriers to offer these programs. Community members have reported that family and work
      responsibilities, lack of public transportation, language and cultural relevance have kept
      them from engaging in these programs. Interactive technologies may provide a possible
      solution to these challenges in that they offer an avenue for the delivery of FBCO
      interventions at times and places convenient to participants. Our team has found that a
      technology-assisted FBCO intervention can lead to significant weight loss among children and
      that over 82% of L/Hs in our studies have mobile devices and use it regularly for telephone
      usage and access information. Given the growing usage of mobile technologies by all
      populations, including L/Hs, and the potential promise of technology-assisted interventions,
      it is surprising that to date there have been no reports of FBCO interventions using mobile
      technology targeting L/H families living in rural areas. Thus, telephone systems that provide
      automated (i.e., interactive voice response (IVR) system) FBCO messages may be practical
      methods for delivering culturally appropriate health information and engaging L/Hs families
      in rural communities. Family Connections (FC) is a scalable intervention that uses IVR to
      deliver FBCO content; however, it was not specifically developed for rural L/H families. The
      goal of this application is to culturally adapt and determine the feasibility of delivering
      FBCO content using IVR technology to L/H families in rural Nebraska. This study is
      significant by addressing risk factors with a high burden among L/H children, where knowledge
      regarding efficacious interventions and adaptations is substantial; yet have not demonstrated
      the ability to attract a large representative sample of L/H families and be sustained in
      rural communities. It builds on our team's extensive experience in (1) the use of interactive
      technologies to deliver FBCO content and promote healthy behaviors and weight control; (2)
      culturally adapting interventions; (3) working collaboratively with stakeholders in a variety
      of settings. Building on this experience and guided by implementation science models (RE-AIM
      and i-PARIHS) we will use a mixed-method collaborative process to culturally adapt and test
      FC. This proposal is innovative by using cultural adaptation and implementation science
      models to evaluate the feasibility of delivering FBCO content via an IVR system to L/H
      parents of obese children in rural Nebraska. This application allow us to address existing
      participation and setting barriers while capitalizing on the preferences of our target
      population. Our primary specific aims are:

      Aim 1: To culturally adapt and determine the relevance, acceptability, and usability of a
      culturally adapted technology-delivered FBCO intervention for L/H families in rural Nebraska.
      Applying an iterative collaborative process, we will use a mixed-methods approach to
      culturally adapt FC to better fit the rural L/H community profile. A Community Workgroup
      facilitated by our rural partner organizations in Nebraska with a high population of L/H
      residents and theory-and data-driven approach using structured community input adaptation
      process will be conducted to develop and evaluate the relevance (ecological validity and
      equivalence), acceptability, and usability of all the adaptations made. We hypothesize that
      this process will lead to a program that is relevant, acceptable, and usable by L/H families
      in rural communities.

      Aim 2: To evaluate the feasibility and preliminary effectiveness of a technology-delivered
      FBCO intervention for L/H families in rural Nebraska using RE-AIM and i-PARIHS. We will
      randomly assign participants to either FC (n=29) or a waitlist standard-care (SC) group
      (n=29) and determine overall study reach, preliminary effectiveness in reducing child BMI
      z-scores, potential for program adoption, implementation, and sustainability through local
      health departments (RE-AIM outcomes). SC participants will receive a workbook. FC
      participants will receive a workbook, 2 in person group sessions followed by 10 IVR calls
      over a period of 6 months. We hypothesize that a culturally adapted FC program will lead to a
      higher engagement (reach, retention and completion), significant higher proportion of L/H
      children reducing their BMIz scores at 6 months when compared to SC group, align (social
      validity) with health department perceptions of i-PARIHS constructs (Innovation, context,
      recipient characteristics), and that FC participants will view the intervention positively
      (i.e. relative advantage, observability, trialability, complexity, compatibility).

      This project will generate locally and globally relevant evidence on culturally appropriate
      technology- delivered FBCO intervention for L/H families in rural communities. Given the
      rapidly growing population of L/Hs in the USA, it is also immediately relevant to the health
      of the US population.
    
  