
    
      Latino youth are a population at risk for chronic diseases because of their growing
      overweight and obesity rates, lack of adherence to nutrition and physical activity
      recommendations, and greater rates of tobacco, alcohol and other drugs use than youth of
      other ethnic groups. Parents are an important agent of change for youth due to their ability
      to create a home environment that promotes healthful behaviors (including substance use
      prevention and healthy nutrition), and parents' role as providers of resources to the family
      (including food). Parenting interventions are efficacious in preventing substance use among
      Latino youth, but few studies have used a family approach to promote healthy nutrition. Thus,
      the overall objective of the proposed project is to extend the scope of Families Preparing
      the New Generation (FPNG), an existing parenting program proven to help reduce substance use
      among Latino youth, to also promote healthy nutrition. The eco-developmental perspective will
      provide the theoretical foundation for the project for investigating risk and resiliency in
      Latino youth's drug use and nutrition behaviors. The main aims of the study are to (1) test
      the effects of a nutrition-enhanced parenting program (FPNG+) on substance use and nutrition
      among Latino youth, (2) explore how enhancing parenting skills impact the effects of the
      enhanced intervention, and (3) understand how social and cultural factors impact how the
      enhanced program works. The research team will first seek input from community members to
      create a nutrition-enhanced program that is acceptable to Latino parents of middle school
      students. The investigators will then collaborate with the American Dream Academy (ADA), an
      organization delivering an academic success program to families within middle schools
      throughout the Phoenix Area, to recruit 1,494 families who have a student in 7th grade to
      participate in the study. Parents from different schools will be offered one of three 10-week
      programs (assigned to each individual school): FPNG+ (substance use prevention and healthy
      nutrition), FPNG (substance use prevention only), and the ADA comparison program (focusing on
      academic success). Data will be collected from the 7th grade student and his/her
      participating parent before the start of the program, immediately after it ends, and 16 weeks
      later, to compare how the programs affect nutrition, substance use, and parenting. In a
      subgroup of 126 families (42 from each program), investigators will explore how the FPNG+
      program affects diabetes and cardiovascular risk factors and whether the program induces
      changes in the types of foods available at participants' homes. For this, investigators will
      collect capillary blood samples from participants to measure glycosylated hemoglobin (a
      marker of diabetes risk) and cholesterol (a marker of cardiovascular risk), and blood
      pressure, as well as a list of foods that participants have at home. The long-term goal is to
      design and disseminate programs that contribute to helping parents assist their adolescent
      children develop and maintain long-lasting positive lifestyle behaviors in order to prevent
      substance use and chronic diseases.
    
  