
    
      Cerebral Palsy (CP) defined as a group of permanent impairments that is originating from
      non-progressive disorders that develop in the immature brain. CP leads activity limitations
      of movement and posture development.The first 20 years of life is characterized by rapid
      growth and specific changes in physical, social, and psychological development. Social
      participation and independence of children and youth are related to the changes in this
      period. Participation can be identified as being involved in life situations and it reflects
      the social aspect of functionality. The problems which can be come across in life situations
      are identified as participation limitation. In the past, the impairment seen in child was
      concentrated and child was the passive receptor of treatment. Today, this view is changed and
      child is the active participant of the treatment of disability. The aim of treatment is
      identified as increasing the quality of life by supporting the activity and participation
      according to the priorities of the child and the parent.

      In literature, no adequate study has investigated the functional inadequacy, activity and
      participation of children with CP; this project has been planned in order to specify the
      importance in rehabilitation interventions more detailed. This project aims to specify
      whether the functional levels correspond to the activity and participation limitations of
      children with CP living in Ankara city center and determine the effects of their functional
      status on activity, participation and quality of life. This investigation will be pioneer in
      indicating the activity and participation limitations of children with CP. According to the
      results, these limitations will be overcome and the quality of life of children with CP will
      be increased. The CP follow-up database in Ankara will be specified so their physical
      activity and participation levels will be followed periodically and CP profile will be
      determined in Ankara. Moreover, the results of this study will be shared with the Ministry of
      National Education, the Ministry of Family and Social Policies, and the Ministry of Health
      and this will bring a different viewpoint to the community-based rehabilitation services in
      Turkey. Furthermore, this study will be expected to motivate countrywide investigations.

      In the project, Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) for the severity of the
      disability of people with CP, The Measure of Processes of Care (MPOC) for their care process,
      the Pediatric Outcomes Date Collection (PODCI) Instrument and Pediatric Quality of Life
      Questionnaire and The Child Health Quality (CHQ PF-50) for their health-related quality of
      life, the Manual Ability Classification System (MACS) for the manual abilities and the
      Communication Function Classification System (CFCS) for the communication skill and the Life
      Habits Questionnaire (LIFE-H) for the participation level and Impact on Family Scale (IPFAM)
      for family impact will be used and the outcomes will be analyzed by adequate statistical
      methods. It is intended to be discussed the findings of the project in national and
      international platforms.
    
  