
    
      Basic science in animal models of genetic obesity have demonstrated that obese, insulin
      resistant animals have fatty hearts with reduced functional ability. More importantly,
      insulin sensitizing treatment of prediabetic rats delayed development of diabetes and
      improved heart function. A primary aim of our laboratory is to translate basic animal
      research, suggesting that excessive lipid accumulation in the myocardium is toxic, into the
      clinical setting using cardiac magnetic resonance imaging/spectroscopy technology. The
      results of this research may identify new biomarkers and drug targets to prevent cardiac
      disease in obese humans.

      We used our novel in vivo magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy technique that enables
      quantification of triglyceride in human myocardium non-invasively, to demonstrate that obese
      humans like obese animals are characterized by elevated fat in myocardium. We hypothesize
      that in obese humans with elevated myocardial TG, blockade of the renin-angiotensin system
      will reduce myocardial fat with improvement of insulin sensitivity and heart function.

      The aims of this study are to test if in obese people with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT):

      Aim 1) Valsartan treatment will reduce myocardial fat and will improve heart geometry and
      function,

      Aim 2) therapy with thiazide diuretic hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) treatment will elevate
      myocardial fat.

      We are planning to test the action of Valsartan versus HCTZ as we expect that these drugs
      cause opposite metabolic effects. The landmark trial ALLHAT (Antihypertensive and
      Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial) has refocused attention to the
      thiazide-type diuretics as the first-line therapy for most patients with hypertension.
      Despite proven reduction in cardiovascular outcomes and low costs, there is on-going concern
      that one of the major side effect of the thiazides-glucose intolerance-may fuel the current
      U.S. epidemic of type 2 diabetes. Despite of efficacy and low cost thiazide diuretics are
      long known to cause insulin resistance, impaired glucose tolerance, and precipitation of
      overt diabetes.
    
  