
    
      Increase treatment adherence by 50%: 1- by identifying the reasons of non-adherence with
      MOBI, the first bilingual quality of life (QL) measurement questionnaire dedicated to braces,
      2- using for the first time a Multidisciplinary Support Team (MST) for the patient / family.

      The BrAIST study showed an inverse correlation between the duration of brace wear and the
      probability of progression, a wearing time of 0 to 6 hrs / day with a proportion at 59%
      progression ≥50 ° vs 7% for a brace wear> 17 hours. Knowing that the average daily brace wear
      duration measured is much lower than that prescribed, there is a problem of compliance whose
      in which the causes are unknown. Unsuitable questionnaires assessed the QoL of AIS patients
      on TLSO and have reflected the impact of the disease on psychological health, perceptions of
      self-image and daily activities, but do not isolate the factors associated with
      non-compliance to TLSO. In addition, there is no biopsychosocial intervention strategy in
      care settings to improve compliance.

      The investigators have expertise in this field since the investigator have carried out
      cross-cultural adaptation and validation of 2 QL instruments in the AIS. In addition, the
      investigator and his team developed a body diagram to evaluate the comfort of patients under
      brace treatment and correlated with pressure measurements at the skin-brace interface. The
      investigator's also used in a previous RCT thermal sensors to measure the wearing time of the
      braces.

      The investigator's team propose to develop and validate MOBI (My Orthopedic Brace Inventory),
      the first bilingual multidimensional QL questionnaire dedicated to the wearing of the brace
      to measure the physical and functional well-being, emotional and social wellness. We will use
      MOBI to identify the elements associated with non-compliance to TLSO and for the first time
      in the world MST, a multi-disciplinary team (nurse, orthotist, psychologist, social worker)
      to intervene on the 4 identified dimensions, with the assumption that this intervention will
      improve by 50% the wearing time of the brace.
    
  