
    
      Since "ED crowding" is an unplanned condition, a randomized controlled trial is not possible
      to assess its impact on adverse patients' outcome. Therefore, a large prospective cohort
      study, with careful matching and correcting for risk factors is the second best design.

      The ED occupancy rate, defined as the ratio of the total number of ED patients to the number
      of licensed treatment bays per hour, will be used as a measure of ED crowding. The numerator
      includes all patients in the ED at any point during each study hour, regardless of ED
      location (including in the waiting room, boarding, hallway location). The denominator,
      constant per study hour, includes the total number of licensed treatment bays as defined
      according to the ED's original blueprint but excludes hallway locations. For each hour of the
      day, the ED occupancy rate will be derived from the ED information system. 104 weeks are
      divided into 13-week seasonal blocks and nursing shifts starting 23:00, 07:00 and 15:00. The
      mean ED occupancy rate is calculated for each shift as the sum of the occupancy rates within
      that shift divided by 8. The top quartile of all mean ED occupancy rates during the cohort
      period is considered as crowded. In order to match both 'crowded 'and 'not crowded' cohorts,
      the following data elements are extracted from the hospital information system for each
      registered patient: demographic data (age, sex, co-morbidities); referral source, surgical or
      medical admission; time of arrival (including season, month of year, day of week, time of
      day); triage category; ED and total hospital length of stay; and final admission diagnosis.

      Medical records of patients who presented to the ED will be reviewed for the occurrence of
      six adverse events and mortality up to ten days of their ED stay. The six adverse events are
      searched through explicit clinical criteria. The reviewer first rates on a scale of 1 to 6
      the confidence that medical management caused an adverse event. If the rating is 5 or 6,
      indicating that the injury is probably or definitely caused by management, the event is
      considered an adverse event. The same rating score is used to assess the degree of
      preventability. Hospital mortality will be searched for all patients who presented to the ED
      at some point in time and died during that hospital stay.

      In order to identify an adverse event occurrence hazard ratio of 1.2 with a power of 0.9
      during ED crowding, a cohort of 104,000 patients is needed. Therefore, data will be retrieved
      during a 2 year period during which the reviewer is blinded to the degree of ED crowding in
      relation to the findings on adverse events. The occurrence of adverse events and mortality
      will be compared to not crowded shifts, corrected for baseline risk factors. A carefully
      standardized admission form for registration of relevant information as well as a
      computerized search tool for screening for adverse events will allow finalizing this study
      within the foreseen time frame.
    
  