
    
      Refugee children and youth are at high risk for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and
      related psychological distress potentially interfering with optimal adjustment and
      development in the host country. Following extensive efforts and a workshop by the
      Partnership for Health System Improvement Initiative, comprised of researchers, decision
      makers, practitioners, immigrant service agencies and related community groups in Ontario, it
      was determined that research addressing this at-risk population is a priority area. The
      current study addresses this urgent need by aiming to enhance the health system's capacity in
      relation to the needs of one of Canada's most vulnerable population. As local refugee
      settlement continue to rise and reported rates for PTSD in refugee children and youth remain
      startling; often intensified by historical traumatic factors such as the intensity of
      exposure to war and other atrocities prior to migration, it is essential to research this
      highly vulnerable population. In particular, a need exists for research, such as the current
      study, that specifically documents, assesses and treats PTSD in refugee children and youth,
      thereby increasing knowledge in the community and preventing further negative outcomes by
      improving education and health care systems. Although treatment interventions exist for PTSD,
      the many unique challenges faced by refugee populations are often overlooked. Narrative
      Exposure Therapy (NET or KIDNET), designed to restore agency and provide symptom relief, is
      one intervention for PTSD treatment that can indicate positive outcomes for refugee
      populations. The current proposal describes a research study to address the needs of this
      at-risk population through pilot testing of the feasibility of providing PTSD intervention
      within two school-based primary health care programs and an inner city youth shelter in
      Toronto. The results will contribute to our understanding of the feasibility of a model of
      intervention, which can be made available for use in other jurisdictions of Ontario and
      across Canada to improve adjustment and prevent mental health problems.

      This is research project will utilize a randomized clinical trial of treatment for PTSD. It
      includes refugee children and youth, between the ages of 7 and 15, from two established MHSPI
      clinics, which currently serve approximately 40 schools, with a total school-aged population
      of more than 20,000 as well as youth between the ages of 16 and 19 from Covenant House. This
      study will draw on established measures for PTSD mental health and trauma histories through
      the use of standardized rating scales and interview methods. Interpreters will be made
      available and sensitivity adjustments for language and culture will be made. Research
      assistants will be trained to administer the UCLA screening instruments for PTSD to identify
      potential contributing or mediating factors of outcome . In addition, paediatricians will be
      trained in the UCLA diagnostic process to provide case identification, and graduate/medical
      students will be trained in NET/KIDNET, to facilitate implementation and evaluation of the
      treatment procedures. All children and youth enrolled at the two MSPHI and Covenant House
      clinics will placed into one of 3 groups: 'refugee', 'other immigrant' and 'native-born', and
      be screened for PTSD. All study participants, with a score of 15 or higher, as recommended by
      the UCLA group, will then be included in the next phase which consists of in depth clinical
      assessment. Of these participants who are identified as PTSD diagnostic cases are then
      included in the treatment evaluation phase: randomized into the control- treatment groups and
      placed into gender-paired therapeutic dyads, i.e. female therapists will be paired with
      female children and adolescents with PTSD and males with males. Ten male and 10 female
      therapists will take part in the project and each will be assigned to treat 20 people with
      PTSD, resulting in a total estimated treated study sample of 400. The control group
      participants will proceed to the exact same treatment procedures following a three-month
      wait. All participants included in the treatment groups, either immediate or waiting list
      control, will receive 3, 6 and 12 month follow-up assessments to evaluate PTSD symptoms using
      the same UCLA measurements to screen initially. All data will be collected, coded and
      analyzed using standard statistical analyses appropriate to the research design.
    
  