
    
      The plan is enroll 44 subjects (22 in the standard surgery group and 22 in the experimental
      surgical group) into this randomized clinical trial. All subjects will have the standard of
      care indications for THA and will give informed consent for both the surgery and
      participation in this study. Enrollment will occur as part of the routine office evaluation
      and will be obtained by the treating surgeon or by the research assistant. Four surgeons
      (Wael Barsoum, Trevor Murray, Carlos Higuera, and Michael Bloomfield) with surgical
      experience in total hip arthroplasty will perform the procedures in this study. All subjects
      within each surgeon's practice who qualify for participation in this study will be
      approached. Subjects will be enrolled at least 10 days prior to the date of surgery. Ten days
      is the minimum time necessary to obtain a pre-operative CT scan for surgical planning and to
      manufacture the surrogate bone model. Patients who are not approached during regular office
      visits will be contacted by phone and if they are interested, they will be scheduled to
      arrive to the radiology department to sign the informed consent and receive the preoperative
      CT scan. Subjects will be randomized into either the experimental or control group at the
      time of consent by the study coordinator. Subjects in the experimental group will have their
      pre-operative planning done using the 3D surgical simulator and surrogate bone model will be
      available for the surgeon during surgery. Subjects in the control group will have their
      pre-operative planning done using plain film x-ray and two-dimensional (2D) templates.

      Eligible subjects for inclusion in the study will be able to receive a pelvic CT scan at the
      Cleveland Clinic. Additionally, we will obtain standard of care pre- and post-operative
      x-rays (AP view). For subjects randomized into the experimental group, their CT scan DICOM
      images will be uploaded into the Cleveland Clinic developed surgical simulator specifically
      designed for THA at least 10 days prior to surgery. For each experimental subject, the
      Cleveland Clinic pre-operative planning software will be used to define the optimal size and
      location of the acetabular components (acetabular shell, and the ultra-high molecular weight
      polyethylene bearing - UHMWPE). The treating surgeon will virtually place the implant in the
      simulator software. The specification for shell placement will vary depending on the
      subject's individual pathology and pelvic morphology, but is expected to fall within the
      range of 10-35 degrees of anteversion and 30-50 degrees of abduction.

      In the control group, each surgeon will use their standard methods of pre-operative planning
      using the pre-operative x-rays. To prepare the acetabulum and place the implants on the day
      of surgery, surgeons will use standard surgical alignment instruments provided by the
      manufacturer of the implant. For the experimental group, the surgeon will use CT scan and a
      3D preoperative planning software to place the implants virtually. The surgeons are provided
      with a surrogate bone model with a fabricated acetabular implant placed in the same
      orientation as was planned in the surgical simulator software, and will use standard surgical
      instruments provided by the manufacturer of the implant.

      The images obtained from the post-operative CT scans will be uploaded into the simulator
      software for 3D reconstruction. The 3D image of the post-operative pelvis with the implants
      will be superimposed onto the image of the pre-operative pelvis with the virtually placed
      implants. Using measurement tools within the software we will compare the position of the
      actual acetabular component placed in the patient with the desired position specified by the
      plan. The measurements that will be made are for angular orientations in 3D space
      (anteversion and inclination). Measurements are accurate to within a fraction of a degree.
    
  