
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) remains one of the deadliest infections throughout the world, particularly
      in the setting of HIV infection. In China, TB is a frequently diagnosed complication of HIV
      infection. The immunopathogenesis of TB remains unclear, and although it is known that HIV
      infection increases the risk of developing active TB, either through infection or
      reactivation of latent disease, how it does so has yet to be determined. It is also known
      that patients co-infected with HIV and TB and na(SqrRoot) ve to antiretroviral therapy (ART)
      have a particularly high risk of developing Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome
      (IRIS) after ART therapy is initiated, but the immunopathogenesis of this reaction is also
      unclear.

      The use of genomics has significantly improved the understanding of disease pathogenesis and
      is increasingly being used to predict responses to therapy as well. Recently, blood
      transcriptional signatures capable of distinguishing active and latent TB infection have been
      identified using highly parallelized analytical platforms capable of simultaneous survey of
      transcription of known genes. These signatures have hinted at a complex role for type I
      interferons in the development of active TB infection, but this has not yet been studied in
      people with HIV and TB co-infection. Further in depth studies are needed to characterize the
      spectrum of responses to TB/HIV co-infection, and how these responses correlate with clinical
      data.

      We propose a cross-sectional cohort study, to be conducted in both the US and in China, to
      identify blood mRNA expression profiles distinguishing TB mono-infected and TB/HIV
      co-infected ART-na(SqrRoot) ve patients from treated patients with and without TB-IRIS.
      Secondary objectives will include correlating gene expression levels with clinical outcomes
      and soluble biomarkers. The study will comprise a test set (in China) of up to 140 patients
      divided among the different cohorts and a validation set (in the US) of up to 125 patients
      divided among the three groups Participation will involve a single study visit to consist of
      small volume phlebotomy (approximately 25 mL for safety labs, transcriptome analysis,
      lymphocyte counts, and serum and plasma storage) a urine sample and information gleaned from
      the clinical record entered into a coded Case Report Form (CRF). The U.S. cohort will have an
      additional 40 mLs of blood collected for mononuclear cells (total of approximately 65mLs).The
      study will exclude women who are pregnant or breast-feeding (which can be associated with
      immune compromise and changes in markers associated with inflammation), and persons with
      anemia (who may be unable to tolerate phlebotomy solely for research purposes).
    
  