
    
      The National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) funded Well-being and Health for People
      with Dementia (WHELD) programme, An Optimized Person Centred Intervention to Improve Quality
      of Life for People with Dementia Living in Care Homes. This optimized intervention is based
      on a factorial study and qualitative evaluation, to combine: training on person-centred care,
      promoting person-centred activities and interactions, and providing care home staff and
      general practitioners with updated knowledge regarding optimal use of psychotropic
      medications for persons with dementia in care homes. Using a train-the-trainer model, the
      intervention was delivered by trained therapists, who trained 2 lead care staff members
      (WHELD champions) within each care home to implement the intervention over a 9-month period.

      The primary objective of this study involving 24 care homes, with approximately 240 care
      staff, is to determine whether an online version of the optimized WHELD intervention, with or
      without supervision support, confers significant benefit in terms of improving attitudes of
      care staff caring for people with dementia and quality of care of residents with dementia
      living in care homes.

      There is considerable interest in e-learning and dementia. Significant investment has been
      made into the production of resources for care staff but to date there appears to be no, or
      very limited, evaluation of the effectiveness of e-learning in either raising awareness
      amongst care staff, or increasing outcomes of care for people with dementia. In spite of the
      lack of evidence, e-learning remains popular with care home providers and managers, as they
      are perceived to be low-cost, can be delivered to staff on-site or even at home, and with
      minimal disruption to staffing routines and schedules.

      The e-learning programme is based on the aforementioned WHELD RCT programme, which included
      over 80 care homes and 1000 participants in the study, and has already shown significant
      benefits in improvements in quality of life and agitation. This study will provide pilot
      testing to evaluate the effectiveness of an e-learning version.

      Key secondary objectives will be to determine the specific impact of the e-learning
      intervention on a range of outcomes including quality of care, quality of the interaction of
      care staff with people with dementia, person-centered practice, staff knowledge about
      dementia and staff general health, work stress and experience working with residents with
      dementia.

      The investigators hypothesize that the intervention (in particular with supervision support)
      will significantly improve several key outcomes. Specifically, the investigators hypothesize
      that, compared to enhanced usual training, the optimized e-learning intervention will:

      • Improve staff attitudes towards people with dementia

      The secondary hypotheses are that the WHELD e-learning intervention will:

        -  Improve quality of care

        -  Improve quality of interactions between staff and residents

        -  Improve person-centred practice

        -  Increase staff knowledge about dementia

        -  Improve staff general health

        -  Reduce staff work stress

        -  Improve satisfaction in caring for people with dementia

      Baseline, post intervention and 4-month follow up data will be collected on all consented
      participants who meet the inclusion criteria at each participating care home.
    
  