
    
      Background and Objective:

      Acyl-ghrelin is a 28-amino acid peptide that stimulates appetite and food intake. It is an
      endogenous ligand for the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R1a). Preclinical studies
      suggest that acyl-ghrelin increases alcohol intake (Szulc, Mikolajczak et al. 2013, Cepko et
      al. 2014) and decreases in acyl-ghrelin and GHS-R1a function suppresses alcohol consumption
      (Kaur and Ryabinin 2010, Landgren et al. 2012, Bahi et al. 2013, Suchankova et al. 2013,
      Gomez and Ryabinin 2014, Suchankova, Engel et al. 2016 Furthermore, previous human studies
      indicate a positive correlation between endogenous ghrelin levels and alcohol craving and
      drinking (Addolorato, Capristo et al.2006). In clinical studies conducted by our group with
      individuals with AUD, intravenous (IV) acyl-ghrelin administration, versus placebo 1)
      increased alcohol craving during alcohol cue-exposure and 2) increased IV alcohol
      self-administration as well as decreased latency to first infusion of alcohol and 3)
      increased brain activation in the amygdala in anticipation of alcohol reward. Together, this
      preclinical and human data suggest that manipulating the ghrelin signal may be a novel and
      potentially effective pharmacological approach to treat individuals with alcohol use
      disorder.

      After the discoveries of GHS-R1a and acyl-ghrelin, a next step was identifying ghrelin
      O-acyltransferase (GOAT) the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of des-acyl-ghrelin (DAG)
      to acyl-ghrelin via octanoylation. GOAT is thus the master switch for the ghrelin system , as
      acyl-ghrelin, not DAG, is biologically active at the GHSR-1a. GOAT s structure is highly
      conserved, is produced by endocrine cells in the stomach and is co-expressed with ghrelin.
      Therefore, GOAT is a promising target for manipulating the ghrelin system by altering the
      peripheral acyl-to-total ghrelin ratio (where total ghrelin = acyl-ghrelin + DAG). Recently,
      the ghrelin system has been investigated as a potential treatment target for AUDs. As such,
      an oral bioavailable GOAT inhibitor offers encouraging potential as a treatment for alcohol
      use disorder. GLWL-01 is an existing GOAT inhibitor for which GLWL Research Inc. has recently
      and successfully completed a first-in-human safety clinical trial. The goal of this protocol
      is to conduct a proof-of-concept human laboratory study to assess a potential early signal of
      efficacy of GLWL-01 in relation to alcohol-related outcomes.

      Study population:

      Males and females (N = 43) with alcohol use disorder.

      Study Design:

      A within-subject, counterbalanced, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Participants will
      take GLWL-01 450 mg b.i.d. or matched placebo for a minimum of 4 days (Stage I). After a
      wash-out window, Stage II will take place during which the counterbalanced study drug will be
      administered for a minimum of 4 days.

      Primary outcome measure:

      The co-primary aims will be to determine whether: 1) the number of adverse events (AEs)
      experienced differ in the GLWL-01 condition, compared to placebo; and 2) GLWL-01, compared to
      placebo, reduces alcohol cue-elicited craving using a validated alcohol cue-reactivity
      procedure.

      Secondary outcome measures:

      The main secondary aim will be the effects of GLWL-01 on food choices using a virtual buffet
      experimental procedure. We will also monitor a wide range of behavioral measures including
      e.g., pain, anxiety, depression, alcohol craving and withdrawal, and smoking.
    
  