
    
      Even moderate hypothermia (body temperature between 34-36°C) would contribute significantly
      to the increase in postoperative morbidity and mortality. Indeed, it would significantly
      increase blood loss (16%) with an increased relative risk of transfusion (22%) by altering
      platelet aggregation and coagulation cascade enzyme function. It would also be responsible
      for an increase in the risk of infection and length of hospitalization, alteration of drug
      metabolism (accumulation of serum curare and delayed awakening) and a decrease in
      postoperative tremors, which can lead to severe cardiovascular complications (myocardial
      infarction, heart rhythm disorder, etc.).

      Due to the instillation of hypothermic solution, perioperative hypothermia is frequent in
      endoscopic surgery (arthroscopy, abdominal laparoscopy, endoscopic prostate resection...), in
      the order of 48% to 64%. Several studies have evaluated the impact of pre- and intraoperative
      warming procedures. Thus, intraoperative external body heating would decrease the risk of
      hypothermia and its complications during RTUP. Similarly, the use of heated intravenous
      fluids has been shown to decrease the depth of hypothermia (+0.5°C) during endoscopic surgery
      and RTUP.

      Several authors have examined the warming of IV bags instilled during RTUP procedures, the
      reference endoscopic surgery for BPH management. Pit et al. have shown a significant increase
      in postoperative body temperature in patients who underwent RTUP with isothermal solutions
      compared to the group undergoing a standard procedure (- 0.74°C versus -1.71°C, p < 0.05).
      These results were corroborated by the study by Singh et al. but none of these studies
      evaluated the impact of these measures on postoperative morbidity nor showed a statistical
      impact on intraoperative blood loss.

      Holmium Laser Enucleation of the Prostate (HoLEP) is an endoscopic surgical technique that
      was first described by Gilling in New Zealand in 1998, and is indicated since 2013 as an
      alternative to RTUP for the management of symptomatic BPH. It requires continuous
      intravesical instillation of saline throughout the procedure. The complication rate in the 30
      days postoperatively is 19 to 25%, and this risk increases with the duration of the surgery,
      which in turn is directly correlated to the volume of prostate to be enucleated.

      Currently, only one study has studied the consequences of hypothermia during EPL procedures:
      the authors have shown that external body preheating to a temperature of 41°C, in the
      induction room, would increase the intraoperative temperature by + 0.2°C on average, and
      would therefore reduce the incidence of tremors during EPL performed under spinal anesthesia.
      On the other hand, the investigators did not find any study on the impact of warming of
      solutes during HoLEP, either on the immediate postoperative incidence in the post-operative
      monitoring room (SSPI) or on morbidity in the post-operative period.

      This study thus consists in analyzing, in a prospective manner, the effect of warming of the
      solutes instilled during HoLEP on the post-operative morbidity of patients. To the
      investigators' knowledge, this is the first study of this type in the literature.
    
  