
    
      This study involved two main objectives:

        1. Develop and design multimedia educational tools for open and laparoscopic anterior
           resection

             -  The multimedia tools were developed in collaboration with a professional multimedia
                company (Digimed). Initially 31 open and 35 laparoscopic (key-hole) procedures were
                filmed after informed, written consent was obtained from patients. Key procedural
                steps/ subtasks were identified and integrated onto navigational interactive
                interface platforms developed using Adobe® Flash® Professional CS5 10.1.

             -  Each subtask was composited into succinct video clips using Final Cut Pro®,
                supplemented with annotation, animation, text and voiceover. Content addressed
                cognitive aspects including factual and anatomical knowledge, decision-making
                points, instrumentation required, team positioning and use of assistance. The
                multimedia educational tools are available online at following the link
                http://www.colorectaltraining.co.uk. The colorectal training website has 1.24GB
                including 69 video clips in the open tool and 67 video clips in the laparoscopic
                tool.

        2. Evaluate the effectiveness of multimedia in teaching/assessment of cognitive surgical
           skills

             -  A randomised control study was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of online
                multimedia in comparison to conventional "Study day" teaching in cognitive surgical
                skills acquisition. Enrolled participants were randomly allocated into either the
                intervention (Multimedia) or control (Study Day) Group. The methodology of the
                assessments was online timed (written) assessments to test cognitive surgical
                skills. All trainees were assessed before and after the study period.

             -  Following ethics approval, permission was obtained from surgical training programme
                directors (TPDs) to recruit trainees into the study. The study was conducted
                between 6th October 2011 and 23rd December 2011. Trainees invited to participate
                were contacted by email. A study flyer attachment and hyperlink
                (http://www.colorectaltraining.co.uk) were provided for trainees to access relevant
                study information on a 'Participation Information Sheet' and an online consent
                form. After submission of the consent form, trainees were directed to separate web
                pages on the secure web-based service containing a Trainee Proforma (to obtain
                demographic participant information) and Pre-Assessment Test.

             -  Participants in the multimedia group were provided with unrestricted access for 30
                days and the study day was held at the end of this period for the "Study Day"
                group. Multimedia group participants were each emailed an individual login and
                password to access the multimedia tools on the colorectal training website:
                http://www.colorectaltraining.co.uk. The login details were requested each time the
                website was accessed.

             -  The study day involved a series of detailed interactive lectures covering all the
                steps of open and laparoscopic anterior resection surgery. The content delivered
                was identical to that in the multimedia tool. After a period of one week, all study
                participants were required to complete the online Post-Assessment test. Multimedia
                group participants emailed a separate hyperlink to complete an online Evaluation
                form. All completed forms were stored securely for analysis.

        3. Sample size

             -  Sample size was calculated on the basis of a pilot study of 50 surgical trainees
                taking part in an anterior resection study day in January 2009. Trainees were asked
                to complete a pre-study day written assessment, followed by a post-study day
                assessment immediately after the lectures had been completed. The mean (SD) pre-
                and post-assessments scores were 12.4 (4.56) and 26.8 (3.99) respectively.

             -  The sample size was calculated with the mean change under the assumption that the
                baseline (pre-assessment) score for both arms is the same. Mean change in score in
                the control is 14.4 (4.9) and an expected mean change in score of 24.4 (SD 4.9) in
                the intervention group is assumed. The sample size required to test the hypothesis
                at a type I error of 5% and power of 80% was calculated (per group) to be 10. So a
                total of 20 trainees need to be recruited. If the response rate is 20% and assuming
                a drop off rate of 20% ((20/20%)/ (1-20%)), a total of 125 trainees needed to be
                approached.

        4. Statistical analysis

             -  The baseline pre-assessment test ensured comparability of knowledge base and
                cognitive skills between study groups and helped to assess construct validity of
                the assessment tool. Basic descriptive statistics include the numbers and
                percentages for categorical data, mean and standard deviation for normally
                distributed continuous data; median and range for skewed data was also included.
                All data were analysed on an intention to treat basis.

             -  Differences in assessment scores between multimedia and control (study day) groups
                were compared using either the unpaired Students' t-test (for normally distributed
                data) or the Mann Whitney U test (for skewed data). To analyse post-scores versus
                pre-test scores within the same group, paired t-test (for normally distributed
                data) or the Mann Whitney U test (for skewed data) was used. Data was analysed
                using SPSS (statistical package for social sciences version 16.0, Chicago IL).
                Significance levels were set at P<0.05.
    
  