
    
      Title:

      A Phase I, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Study of Safety, Tolerability, and
      Bioeffects of alirocumab in Non-treatment Seeking Heavy Drinkers

      Study Description:

      The PCSK9 inhibitor alirocumab has been recently shown to attenuate alcohol-induced hepatic
      triglyceride accumulation, hepatocellular injury and hepatic inflammation in a rat model of
      chronic alcohol exposure. Given the unmet clinical need for novel treatment options for
      alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD), we are proposing to conduct a safety and tolerability
      study of alirocumab in this new target population.

      We hypothesize that alirocumab will be well tolerated and safe in this new target population
      and alirocumab will attenuate alcohol-induced liver damage and inflammatory biomarkers.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective: The primary objective is to assess the safety and tolerability of
      alirocumab in subjects who are heavy drinkers.

      Secondary/Exploratory Objectives: Secondary/exploratory objectives are to assess various
      biomarkers related to alcohol-induced liver damage and inflammation.

      Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoint: The primary endpoint in the study is to assess the incidence and severity
      of treatment-emergent adverse events in non-treatment seeking heavy drinkers treated with
      alirocumab or placebo. [Time Frame: baseline to week 8]

      Secondary/exploratory Endpoints: The secondary endpoint is to explore effects of alirocumab
      on various biomarkers using change from baseline.

      Study Population:

      Study population will consist of 30 male and female, non-treatment seeking heavy drinkers
      above the age of 21-65 from the United States of America.

      Phase:

      Phase 1

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants:

      National Institutes of Health (NIH), Bethesda, MD.

      Description of Study Intervention:

      Alirocumab 150mg s.c. or placebo every 2 weeks x 4 doses

      Study Duration:

      24 months

      Participant Duration:

      8 weeks.
    
  