
    
      Acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections (ABSSSI), formally referred to as
      complicated skin and soft tissue infections, include infections such as
      cellulitis/erysipelas, wound infection, and major cutaneous abscess and have a minimum lesion
      surface area of approximately 75 cm2. The regulatory definitions of major abscess,
      cellulitis, and wound infection may not align with practice-based criteria. Common bacterial
      pathogens causing ABSSSI are Streptococcus pyogenes and Staphylococcus aureus including
      Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus (MRSA). Less common causes include other
      Streptococcus species, Enterococcus faecalis, or Gram-negative bacteria.

      Increasing dramatically in incidence, a challenging medical problem associated with high
      direct and indirect costs has been highlighted for both the medical system and society.

      Over the last decade, there was a witnessed a dramatic increase in the incidence of community
      acquired skin infections, an increasing proportion of which are a consequence of MRSA,
      reinforcing the need for new and effective antibacterial therapies in this disease.

      In this context, research has been promoted to develop new antibiotics capable to fight MRSA,
      the most common multi-drug-resistant Gram+ bacterium in Europe, and to overcome the
      limitations of the most widely used antibiotics, such as vancomycin, teicoplanin, and β-
      lactams. These new antibiotics (lipoglycopeptides and new oxazolidinones) have innovative
      characteristics that make them interesting for the specific treatment of ABSSSIs. Dalbavancin
      is one of these new antibiotics. Dalbavancin is a lipoglycopeptide with activity against
      Grampositive organisms, including MRSA, through interference with bacterial cell wall
      formation by preventing cross-linking of peptidoglycans. Dalbavancin has a distinctive
      pharmacokinetic profile, with a terminal half-life of 14.4 days, which allows for infrequent
      or even single intravenous dosing.

      This new long-acting antibiotic represents a potential opportunity for early discharge. This
      approach could profoundly modify the management of these infections by reducing or in some
      cases eliminating hospitalization costs and risks.
    
  