
    
      Data on the progression of liver fibrosis in patients co-infected with HIV taking effective
      suppressive antiretroviral therapy with no fibrosis or mild-to-moderate fibrosis at baseline
      are scarce. This uncertainty is reflected in lack of clear guidance on the need for earlier
      (than F3-F4) treatment in co-infected patients.

      Within our hepatitis C/HIV co-infection project in Cambodia, the investigators have the
      opportunity to monitor for short-term fibrosis progression in a cohort of co-infected
      patients with initial no-to-moderate fibrosis being identified during another ongoing study
      (HCV-Epi) and contribute relevant data to aid the risk/benefit analysis of postponing HCV
      treatment in HIV/HCV co-infected patients with initial fibrosis stage F0-F2.

      The HCV-Monitoring study is a mono-centric prospective cohort study proposing a standardized
      follow-up (clinical, biological and imaging) to monitor for progression of hepatitis C
      disease in all patients with HIV infection (on anti-retroviral treatment or not) of Sihanouk
      Hospital Center of Hope (Phnom Penh, Cambodia) who have chronic HCV infection with GT-1, -2,
      -3 or -6 but are not considered in immediate need of HCV treatment.

      The study will be conducted in Sihanouk Hospital Center of Hope (SHCH) in Phnom Penh
      (Cambodia), more particularly within the ambulatory HIV clinic setting. SHCH is a
      non-governmental hospital providing comprehensive HIV care free of charge since March 2003,
      as part of the national antiretroviral (ARV) program. They dispose of an experienced HIV
      clinician, counselor and social worker team and several operational research studies were
      conducted within this setting.

      All adult HIV-infected patients of the cohort (on ART or not yet on ART) of Sihanouk hospital
      Center of Hope who are identified during the HCV-Epi study having chronic HCV infection (all
      genotypes) and considered not in immediate need of HCV treatment (= Fibrosis stages F0-F2 and
      no clinical signs of extra-hepatic disease) will be considered for inclusion and invited to
      participate.

      Approximately 70 HCV/HIV co-infected patients with no-to-moderate hepatic fibrosis will be
      enrolled in this study. No formal sample size is being calculated. The final sample will
      comprise all patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria.

      The data collected from the HCV-Epi study will be considered as the baseline visit for the
      HCV-Monitoring study. Thereafter, visits are planned at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months follow-up.
      These patient visits will, beyond the habitual HIV follow-up, integrate a history taking and
      physical examination focused on hepatic disease and blood sampling for basic hematologic and
      hepatic function parameters. Additionally, patients will be referred every year for
      ultrasound and transient elastography measurements and sampling for some additional liver
      function tests and measurement of HCV-RNA viral load.
    
  