
    
      Mental disorders, including anxiety and depression, contribute more than either
      cardiovascular disease or cancer to the burden of disease worldwide. Individuals with chronic
      diseases and major depression use more health resources, have higher degrees of functional
      disability, and experience higher productivity losses, compared to their counterparts without
      major depression. Within Canada, 6.7M people live with a mental illness and when family and
      caregivers are included almost everyone is affected.

      A Cochrane Review examined the effectiveness of exercise in treating depression and the
      results of 39 trials and over 2,300 subjects confirmed a moderate effect for exercise when
      compared to no treatment or a control group. A smaller number of studies found no differences
      in efficacy between exercise and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) and/or antidepressant
      therapies, the current "gold standards" for depression care. A systematic review (2014)
      concluded that physical activity has a significant potential for reducing depressive symptoms
      in people with a mental health challenge.

      Globally, physical inactivity is "pandemic". Current guidelines recommend a minimum of only
      150 minutes a week of moderately vigorous exercise but 85% of Canadians do not meet the
      national recommendations. There is no question that physical activity can be an effective
      treatment; how then can people dealing with depression be motivated to become physically more
      active?

      The majority of psychiatric care for mood disorders is delivered through one-to-one
      consultations between a patient and psychiatrist or family physician. Treatment plans rarely
      include physical activity despite evidence for its effectiveness. In fact, efforts to promote
      physical activity within traditional clinical settings are fraught with challenges such as a
      lack of practitioner resources, reimbursement, time, and confidence, and poor patient
      retention. Instead, people are commonly prescribed powerful pharmaceuticals despite mounting
      evidence that these drugs should be reserved for the most serious cases of anxiety and
      depression. While drugs have their place, this place is firmly behind interventions such as
      psychotherapy and physical activity in the majority of cases of depression.

      Novel strategies are needed for promoting physical activity and self-management that are also
      physically, financially, and psychologically accessible. Group Medical Visits (GMVs) are a
      promising approach to mental health care. Group Medical Visits are organized around a group
      of people living with a specific condition. The structure and formats of GMVs vary.
      Typically, in lieu of a short individual visit, a patient will participate in a longer
      (60-120 minutes) group visit with six to 14 other patients, led by a physician and/or other
      healthcare practitioner.

      GMVs have been scientifically tested in an array of primary care settings over the last 10 to
      15 years, including mental health[6-8]; no studies to date, though, have focused exclusively
      on physical activity promotion. Briefly, the theoretical rationale for this approach is a
      multifactorial "interdisciplinary model", including medication/treatment monitoring, patient
      education, social support, goal setting, and motivation for improving person's
      self-perception to uptake physical activity.

      Within British Columbia, the Mood Disorders Association of BC has taken a leadership role in
      integrating Group Medical Visits into psychiatric care. Based on the success of MDABC's adult
      Group Medical Visits, UBC researchers collaborated with MDABC to design and prototype
      "Step-by-Step (SBS)." SBS was a series of 14 weekly Group Appointments designed to help
      patients with anxiety and/or depression incorporate physical activity as part of their
      treatment plan.

      Co-led by a psychiatrist and an exercise therapist, each two-hour GMV combined specific
      participants' self-management and activation. A physical activity section in each Group
      Appointment provided participants instruction in techniques/exercises that they could employ
      in their everyday lives to become more physically active without having to attend special
      classes, set aside time, or make concerted efforts to "exercise".

      After three months post-SBS intervention, median depression scales (PHQ-9) decreased 38% from
      16 to 10 (p<0.01; IQR: 8/12); and, median anxiety scales (GAD-7) decreased 50% from 13 to 6.5
      (p<0.05; IQR: 8.5/9). Median daily "steps" increased 71% from 3,366 to 5,746 (IQR:
      2,610/6,237), though this was not significant (p>0.10). These data compare favourably with
      other interventions such as psychotherapy and medications. Fourteen of 15 participants
      (93.3%) completed the 14-week program and loved it!

      In the design and realization of Step-by-Step the investigators intentionally 'meet
      participants where they were at." The intervention was not static but a dynamic constantly
      evolving process whereby the investigators continuously refined the program based on weekly
      feedback. As a result, the investigators were able to better able to meet the needs of
      participants though it did mean what the investigators were testing changed over the course
      of the intervention.

      Equally, the investigators intended the program to address participants holistically, which
      therefore demanded a multifactorial approach. Instead of testing a single variable the
      investigators were examining the impact of a collection of elements as a whole. Exit
      interviews with participants suggested a number of factors might have led to program
      retention and the improvements in physical activity, depression, and anxiety. The
      investigators cannot say definitely which components of the program had impact, only that as
      a whole the investigators did see improvements.

      In light of the above evidence regarding physical activity's impact on well being, one could
      reasonably offer that as a society we have a moral and ethical obligation to promote physical
      activity as a first-line treatment for depression. The question remains 'how can individuals,
      dealing with depression, be better motivated to become more physically active?' The promotion
      of physical activity through GMVs and the inclusion of a physical activity component within
      group patient visits are worthy of further investigation.

      STUDY PROPOSAL: Through a mixed methods approach the investigators will evaluate the success
      of Jump Step, a series of 14 Group Medical Visits in motivating adults (≥18yrs), dealing with
      depression to become more physically active.

      HYPOTHESIS: The investigators propose that adults dealing with Major Depressive Disorder
      (MDD) and/or Bi Polar II, depression, who participate in a weekly series of 14 Group Medical
      Visits (Jump Step) will have lower depression and anxiety ratings, higher rates of physical
      activity/step counts, and higher levels of "patient activation" post-intervention as compared
      to pre-intervention. Participants will also report deeper engagement and confidence in
      physical activity; increased levels of self-care and treatment as well as greater well being
      in qualitative interviews.

      The investigators will recruit volunteers via the following approaches:

        1. Posters located in A) the Mood Disorders Association of BC (MDABC); B) the psychiatric
           services area of major hospitals; C) areas visible to potential volunteers within
           related services organizations; D) coffee shops, community centres, YMCAs, and such
           venues. The investigators will obtain permission from the appropriate authorities to
           display advertisements;

        2. Postings on the websites/list-serves of related service organizations such as the MDABC,
           the BC Psychiatric Association, BC Mental Health & Addiction Services, and Health
           Authority Mental Health Services. The investigators will obtain permission from the
           appropriate authorities to display advertisements;

        3. Through word-of-mouth at MDABC and other service agencies and any resulting 'snowball
           sampling'.

        4. Through social media such as Facebook and Twitter.

        5. If needed the investigators will advertise in Lower Mainland papers.

      MDABC psychiatrists and staff will also verbally inform clients of the opportunity to
      participate with the understanding that participation or non-participation will not affect a
      client's access to or quality of psychiatric care and/or MDABC services.

      Previous participants in the Jump Step Needs Assessment (Part 1) (UBC Ethics: H14-00973) who
      meet the eligibility criteria and have signed consent will be given first preference.

      Volunteers will either be emailed a blank consent form and a Physical Activity Readiness
      Questionnaire (2014 PAR-Q+) or obtain them through the MDABC office. Potential participants
      will scan and email their signed consent form and the PARQ+ form and Participant Declaration
      back to the Research Assistant; or they will mail signed paper copies of the forms back to
      the office of the investigators at the CHHM. Self Addressed Stamped Envelopes (SASEs) will be
      available at the MDABC office for this purposed. If needed the investigators will mail
      consent forms to potential participant along with a SASE.

      Participants will have up to one-week prior to the baseline assessment or a minimum of 48
      hours to review the consent form, ask questions, and/or discuss the consent with family
      members, friends, etc. The investigators believe 48 hours provides sufficient time for
      reflection and/or conversation and provides their Research Assistant with sufficient time to
      adequate schedule interviews.

      Potential participants will contact their Research Assistant who will answer questions,
      confirm their eligibility, and schedule them for interviews. Each potential participant will
      have filled out, signed, and submitted the Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire (2014
      PAR-Q+). Research staff and/or the psychiatrist will follow up as appropriate, regarding
      their responses in the PARQ+.

      Each assessment (baseline/post-intervention) will take approximately 90 minutes. The
      investigators will reimburse each participant $5 for each assessment they attend as well
      their parking/public transit up to $5.50 per assessment.

      Professional transcription services will transcribe the interviews. Jump Step investigators
      will then analyze the data for common themes.

      Intervention participants who have signed consent will be divided into cohorts of 20
      participants each. Cohorts will participate in a weekly series of 14 Group Medical Visits
      (GMVs) co-led by a MDABC psychiatrist and an exercise therapist. GMVs will take place at the
      centrally located Robert Lee YMCA (downtown Vancouver), which will provide access to both
      meeting space for the group discussions as well as exercise facilities for the physical
      activity component of each Visit.

      The curriculum will include (i) life skills development; (ii) disease specific education,
      relating to physical activity promotion, uptake, and adherence. The investigators will
      present also this education within a broader holistic context that acknowledges and supports
      a participant's social, emotional, spiritual, financial, physical, and nutritional well
      being; and (iii) GMVs will integrate medical care/medication management into their delivery.

      During the physical activity component, participants will take part in regular group walks,
      emphasizing that 150 minutes weekly of moderate activity (e.g. brisk walking) is all that is
      necessary to obtain the medical benefits offered by regular physical activity. On other weeks
      participants will stay in the YMCA and be taught techniques and exercises that they can
      employ in their everyday lives to become more physically active without having to attend
      special classes, set aside time, or make concerted efforts to "exercise".

      Group exercises might include aerobic training of cardio respiratory functioning, circuit
      training with simple tasks, e.g. ergometer bicycling, resistance bands, light weightlifting,
      etc. A trainer will supervise all interventions. Each subject will be given a physical
      activity sensor (Fit Bit) and participants will receive instruction from a researcher as to
      logging the wear time daily.
    
  