
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the time to treatment failure (TTF) in patients who initiated the protocol
      regimen of androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) with stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT)
      and radium Ra 223 dichloride and received at least one dose with radium Ra 223 dichloride.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety of adding radium Ra 223 dichloride to SBRT and ADT in patients with
      oligometastatic castration sensitive prostate cancer.

      II. To assess the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and overall response rate (ORR) after 6
      cycles of radium Ra 223 dichloride (cycle 8 day 1).

      III. To assess the progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with oligometastatic
      castration sensitive prostate cancer who initiated the protocol regimen of ADT with SBRT and
      radium Ra 223 dichloride and received at least one dose of radium Ra 223 dichloride.

      IV. To assess time to bone specific PFS in patients with oligometastatic castration sensitive
      prostate cancer who initiated the protocol regimen of ADT with SBRT and radium Ra 223
      dichloride and received at least one dose of radium Ra 223 dichloride.

      V. To assess overall survival, complete response rate, duration of response, and duration of
      overall complete response and duration of stable disease in patients with oligometastatic
      castration sensitive prostate cancer who initiated the protocol regimen of ADT with SBRT and
      radium Ra 223 dichloride.

      VI. To assess long-term toxicities during 5-year follow-up in patients with oligometastatic
      castration sensitive prostate cancer who initiated the protocol regimen of ADT with SBRT and
      radium Ra 223 dichloride and received at least one dose of radium Ra 223 dichloride.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To perform exploratory analysis of primary or metastatic tumor mutation patterns in this
      study population at baseline.

      II. To identify immune system factors in the blood that change during the course of
      ADT-radiotherapy for metastatic prostate cancer.

      III. To describe the rate of normalization of the total alkaline phosphatase level (defined
      as a return to a value within the normal range) at the end of protocol therapy in patients
      oligometastatic castration sensitive prostate cancer with total alkaline phosphatase values
      above the upper limit of the normal range at baseline.

      OUTLINE:

      Beginning 4 weeks (28 days) prior to radiation therapy, patients receive leuprolide acetate
      or goserelin acetate, or degarelix for up to 32 weeks. Patients also undergo 3-5 fractions of
      SBRT every 40 hours over 7-21 days beginning on day 1 of course 1, and receive radium Ra 223
      dichloride intravenously (IV) over 1 minute on day 1 of courses 2-7. Treatment repeats every
      28 days for up to 7 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 5 years.
    
  