
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hypertension, an exceedingly common trait in most developed countries, imparts an increased
      risk of cardiovascular, cerebrovascular and renal diseases. Nevertheless, the primary
      determinants of elevated blood pressure in most patients are unknown. Recognizing that a
      sizable portion of variation in blood pressure is genetically determined, one line of
      research has focused on identifying genetic variants that contribute to the pathogenesis of
      hypertension. However, standard genetic linkage analysis using "hypertension" as a phenotype
      may lack power due to the multifactorial nature of the disorder. A way to overcome this
      challenge is to subdivide hypertensive subjects into more homogenous subgroups.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The overall goal, which is to define the underlying genetics of hypertension in an Asian
      population by studying intermediate phenotypes, can be divided into three parts. First, the
      rural Chinese population will be characterized by the collection of intermediate phenotype
      data on 600 unrelated individuals with high diastolic blood pressure and on 100 normotensive
      controls. Intermediate phenotypes include: 1) non-modulation of adrenal and renal vascular
      responses to angiotensin II with changes in sodium intake; 2) altered urinary kallikrein
      excretion; 3) low plasma renin activity response to volume depletion; 4) increased free
      cortisol excretion; and 5) insulin resistance. Second, candidate genes will be chosen
      according to the underlying physiology of the intermediate phenotypes, and variations in the
      coding sequences of these potentially relevant genes will be identified. Finally,
      polymorphisms identified in the candidate genes will be tested through case-control analyses
      defined by the intermediate phenotypes.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  