
    
      POI is a loss of normal function before age 40, leading to infertility and hypergonadotropic
      hypoestrogenism. Currently, no optimal regimen exists to ameliorate ovarian function. The
      options to conceive genetically related offspring, are limited. Typically, affected patients
      end up with egg donation or adoption as an alternative .

      A-PRP is plasma with a concentration of platelets above the blood baseline. A-PRP is
      developed from autologous blood. Within A-PRP, the concentration of platelets delivers an
      increased number of growth factors. PRP is becoming widely used in a variety of medical
      procedures seeking tissue remodeling and/or healing as an intervention. To date, applications
      in orthopedics, wound healing, dermatology and plastic surgery have gained general
      acceptance, primarily as the role of platelets and their activation in tissue repair and
      recovery has become better understood at a cellular and molecular level. This knowledge base
      provides a foundation for the present study because of the ready availability of FDA-approved
      kits for autologous PRP preparations and the recognition that the aging ovary acquires tissue
      pathologies in the form of wound healing and fibrosis as a result of repeat ovulations over
      the reproductive lifespan of women. Since PRP is an autologous blood product and is widely
      used via injection into various organs and tissues, safety concerns are minimal.

      This study will involve adult women with a diagnosis of Premature ovarian insufficiency (POI)
      willing to perform an IVF/ICSI treatment. A-PRP will be prepared using Eclipse PRP Kit which
      is approved by US FDA for preparation of PRP. Consenting participants will receive injections
      of autologous Platelet Rich Plasma (A-PRP) in one randomly selected ovary under ultrasound
      guidance performed under IV sedation. As it is suggested that only mechanical stimulation by
      biopsy/scratch could be a potentially effective method for follicle activation, the other
      ovary will be injected with the same amount of Saline Solution (SS) as control, to replicate
      the same mechanical effect. Randomization will determine whether the right or left ovary will
      be treated. Follow up of the participants will be performed with transvaginal ultrasound and
      hormonal tests including AMH, FSH, LH, estradiol and progesterone, every 10 days for the next
      3 months after the injection. If ovarian activity is detected, the participant will undergo
      an IVF treatment.
    
  