
    
      This study was conducted to permit determination of appropriate dose level(s) for pediatric
      use based on the safety observations and results of glucagon and glucose assays.

      Each participant 12 to less than 17 years of age underwent two visits in random order and
      received glucagon nasal powder once and commercially available glucagon (GlucaGen, Novo
      Nordisk) by intramuscular (IM) injection once. Participants 4 to less than 12 years were
      randomly assigned to have either 1 visit with commercially available glucagon (GlucaGen, Novo
      Nordisk) by IM injection OR to have 2 visits with a 2.0 milligram (mg) dose of glucagon nasal
      powder administered during one visit and a 3.0 mg dose of glucagon nasal powder administered
      during the other visit. For those randomized to complete two research dosing visits, the dose
      of glucagon nasal powder given during each visit was masked to the participant and study
      personnel.

      Glucagon was administered after glucose was lowered to <80 mg/dL using insulin if necessary
      on the dosing day. Participants were treated with either glucagon given nasally (either 2.0
      mg or 3.0 mg for participants 4 to less than 12 years of age or 3.0 mg for those 12 to less
      than 17 years of age) or by intramuscular (IM) injection (1 mg for those 55 pounds [lbs] or
      more and 0.5 mg for those weighing less than 55 lbs) in the quadriceps muscle of the leg.

      Blood glucose levels and adverse events were carefully monitored for 90 minutes post-dosing.
      After a wash-out period of 7 days or more, participants 12 to less than 17 years of age
      returned to the clinic and the procedure was repeated with each participant crossed over to
      the other treatment. Participants 4 to less than 12 years assigned to have 2 dosing visits
      returned to clinic for repeated procedures and received alternate dose of nasal glucagon
      (NG). Participants 4 to less than 12 years assigned to a single dosing visit did not return
      for a second dosing visit.
    
  