
    
      People with ID have a substantially higher prevalence of mental health conditions when
      compared to the general population and are at greater risk of exposure to adverse life
      events. In a survey of 177 people with mild to moderate ID, 75% had experienced at least one
      traumatic event. It is therefore not surprising that, when compared to the general
      population, people with ID are more vulnerable to the development of post-traumatic stress
      disorder (PTSD).

      Whilst the research suggests that people with ID have an increased risk of developing PTSD,
      there is a lack of research into trauma-focused interventions for this population. This is
      despite evidence that people with an ID within the mild range have been found to have the
      necessary skills to engage in the cognitive component of cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT)
      and the existence of a manual of CBT for people with mild ID and mood disorders.

      The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) recommends individual
      trauma-focused cognitive behavioural therapy (TFCBT) as a first line treatment for PTSD in
      adults and specifies Narrative Exposure Therapy (NET) as an example treatment. There appears
      to be no evidence to date of attempts to adapt NET for adults with ID and establish whether
      the therapeutic benefits described in the general population, in terms of reducing symptoms
      of trauma, are transferable to this population. This study would therefore be a first attempt
      in doing so.

      The potential clinical benefit of the research is that a NICE recommended treatment for PTSD
      would be adapted for adults with mild ID and, if found to be effective, would increase the
      evidence base for trauma specific interventions for adults with ID. This would mean a better
      understanding of which therapies could help to reduce symptoms of traumatic stress in this
      population. At a service level, research into the effectiveness of different types of
      therapies guides best practice meaning resources are directed at therapies most likely to
      yield positive outcomes for service users.

      The first phase of the research requires the lead investigator (Katie Marlow) to work with a
      speech and language therapist (SALT) to make general adaptations to the therapy and research
      materials for delivery with adults with mild ID. It is expected that the investigator and
      SALT will meet on multiple occasions. During these meetings, it is anticipated that:

        -  Feedback will be provided on the accessibility of the participant information sheets and
           consent forms for adults with mild ID.

        -  Adaptations will be made to the psychoeducation materials used within NET.

        -  Adaptations will be made to The Change Interview protocol.

        -  Advice will be offered on how NET sessions should be structured and delivered for adults
           with mild ID.

      This work will be triangulated by a service user focus group (adults with ID) as patient
      public involvement (PPI) in the study design. Service users will be asked to provide feedback
      on the adaptations listed above in terms of accessibility for adults with mild ID. Changes
      will be made in line with this feedback and sent out again if necessary to gain further
      feedback. The investigators will ensure that adaptations do not lose fidelity with NET by
      using a fidelity framework informed by the NET manual. At this point it is likely that a
      substantial amendment will be submitted to the Research Ethics Committee to approve the
      adapted materials before use in the study.

      The second phase of the research consists of a Sequential Measurement Single Case Study
      Series to explore the effectiveness of NET in reducing symptoms of traumatic stress in adults
      with ID. Participants will be recruited primarily from ID services in Nottinghamshire
      Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust. Recruitment will be extended to Derbyshire Healthcare NHS
      Foundation Trust and Lincolnshire Partnership NHS Foundation Trust if necessary. The initial
      approach will be from the Clinical Psychologist within the person's usual care team. Clinical
      Psychologists will be asked to explain and distribute the information sheet to potential
      participants on their caseload who meet the inclusion criteria. The information sheet will
      inform the potential participant of all aspects pertaining to taking part in the research. If
      the potential participant informs their Clinical Psychologist that they are interested in
      taking part, or would like to hear further information, the lead investigator will then
      contact the participant directly. If they subsequently agree to take part, they will be
      invited to attend an appointment with the investigator to complete a consent form. This will
      be at least one week after being given the information sheet. At this appointment, potential
      participants will be given opportunity to ask questions and invited to sign and date a
      written consent form prior to taking part in the study. The investigator will ask basic
      questions about the information sheet to check understanding and it will be recommended that
      a carer be present when they sign the consent form.

      Participants must have capacity and capability to provide consent themselves due to the
      potentially distressing nature of trauma work, such as NET. Capacity to consent to the
      research will be assessed by the investigators following guidelines outlined in the Mental
      Capacity Act.

      Once participants have consented to the research, the SALT and lead investigator will meet
      again to make specific adaptations to NET for the individual participant. This will involve
      accessing reports within participants' files, if given permission, such as the Wechsler Adult
      Intelligence Scale report and previous SALT reports. Following this, the lead investigator
      will deliver weekly sessions of NET, which have been adapted during the first phase of the
      research. This will be the equivalent of 12 sessions of NET and the investigators do not
      foresee each session lasting longer than one hour. NET is specified in NICE guidance for the
      treatment of PTSD in adults and therefore the participant is not receiving anything above
      usual treatment. Participants will be excluded from the research if they are already engaging
      in trauma-focused therapy with their Clinical Psychologist and no usual care will be withheld
      for the purposes of this study.

      NET sessions will take place at clinic rooms within Nottinghamshire Healthcare NHS Foundation
      Trust; Horizon outpatients at Highbury Hospital and the Therapy and Treatment Centre in
      Mansfield (depending on the participant's preference). If participants are from within
      Derbyshire or Lincolnshire Trusts, more appropriate clinic space will be sought. All therapy
      sessions will be video recorded. This serves several purposes; to aid the investigator in the
      narration aspect of NET; to allow narratives of traumatic experiences to be compared before
      and after NET; to allow the investigators to complete observational measures of the
      participant; and to allow sessions to be quality assured by the Chief Investigator using a
      fidelity framework informed by the NET manual.

      Participants will be asked to complete self-report measures prior to therapy (baseline),
      during therapy (at the start of each appointment) and after therapy (six weeks later). During
      therapy sessions, participants will be asked to wear an unobtrusive device (on two
      fingertips) to measure electrodermal activity as an indicator of their physiological arousal.
      The product works in conjunction with an apple/android device with the manufacturer's app
      installed; this device will be University of Nottingham owned.

      Six weeks after completing NET, participants will be asked to take part in a change interview
      to gain their qualitative accounts of the therapy. The investigators will ask the Assistant
      Psychologist working within the ID service in Nottinghamshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust
      to conduct the interview given their experience working with adults with ID. If this is not
      possible, it will be conducted by an independent investigator from the Doctorate in Clinical
      Psychology programme; the interviewer will adhere to the same confidentiality procedures as
      the rest of the research team. The interview will take place at the same location where
      therapy was completed and will be audio recorded and subsequently transcribed by the lead
      investigator.

      If the participant brings a carer to sessions, the participant will be encouraged to invite
      them into the initial psychoeducation session of NET to allow the carer to gain a greater
      understanding of the participant's trauma reactions and the potential utility of NET. The
      investigators will also encourage participants to invite their carer into the final part of
      therapy sessions for a debrief so that they are aware of the content covered and support
      which may be required following sessions.

      Carers will also be asked for their participation in the research. If consenting, they will
      be asked to complete measures prior to therapy (baseline), at the end of therapy (final NET
      session) and at the change interview six weeks later. Within the participant consent form,
      participants are asked for their agreement for carers to complete questionnaires regarding
      their presentation. Carer participants will also have access to the information sheet for
      participants with ID so they are informed of all aspects of the research.
    
  