
    
      Neuro-oncology faces two challenges: establishing an accurate, rapid diagnosis and having
      early therapeutic response. This applies particularly to glioblastoma (GBM) since the
      positive diagnosis is evoked on MRI imaging and the diagnosis of certainty provided by
      anatomopathology. There are no perfect techniques and there are problems of differential
      diagnosis in imaging. Sometimes the context does not allow biopsy or excision.

      This study is a prospective multi-center observational study designed to be conducted in
      patients with malignant CNS tumours: primary glioblastoma (60 GBM), primary CNS lymphomas (20
      PCNSL), brain metastases (40 BM), in an attempt to establish plasma microRNA signatures
      characteristic of a tumour process. Patients with cerebral stroke (20 CS) and healthy
      volunteers (20 HV) will also participate in the study. For each patient, a panel of 762
      microRNAs will be screened in plasma.

      First, the investigators will focus on the potentially diagnostic nature of the signature,
      which may prove useful when there are problems of differential diagnosis in imaging or when
      the context does not permit biopsy or excision. The main objective of the study is to
      establish a plasma microRNA signature specific to GBM, capable of distinguishing them from
      malignant non-glial brain tumours (PCNSL and BM). Within the main objective, discrimination
      will be established between GBM and malignant non-glial brain tumours.

      Secondly, the quantitative approach of plasma miRNoma with 752 microRNAs studied in the
      different patient groups will allow for other objectives:1/ Establish plasma microRNA
      signatures characteristic of other types of brain tumours; 2/ Identify a plasma microRNA
      signature characteristic of the cerebral injury component independently of the tumor
      component with the CS and HV groups; 3/ Identify plasma microRNA signatures characteristic of
      GBM subtypes in relation to their genomic alterations; 4/ Establish correlations between
      plasma microRNA expression levels and data collected through multi-modality MRI imaging and
      anatomopathology.
    
  