
    
      This is a multi-center (conducted in more than one center), randomized (study medication
      assigned by chance), double-blind (neither the physician nor the participant know about the
      study medication), placebo-controlled (an inactive substance that is compared with a drug to
      test whether the drug has a real effect in a clinical trial), parallel-group (a medical
      research study comparing the response in 2 or more groups of participants receiving different
      interventions) study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of golimumab in participants with
      moderately to severely active UC. There are 2 parts in this study. Part 1 is "Phase 2
      dose-ranging" portion of study. Participants enrolled in Part 1, will receive subcutaneous
      (under the skin by way of a needle) injections of placebo, golimumab 100 milligram (mg), 200
      mg, or 400 mg at Week 0, followed by subcutaneous injections of placebo, golimumab 50 mg, 100
      mg, or 200 mg respectively at Week 2. Part 2 is "Phase 3 dose-confirming" portion of study
      and newly enrolled participants will receive same doses studied in Part 1, until the doses
      for Part 2 are selected. At the time that the final doses are selected, all newly enrolled
      participants will receive 1 of the selected doses or matching placebo. At Week 6,
      participants will be asked to participate in an additional 1-year maintenance study.
      Participants not entering the 1-year golimumab maintenance study will be evaluated for safety
      16 weeks after last administration of study agent. The duration of study will be 6 weeks for
      participants who enter the 1-year golimumab maintenance study and 16 weeks after last
      administration of study agent for participants who do not enter the 1-year golimumab
      maintenance study. Efficacy of the participants will primarily be evaluated by clinical
      response at Week 6. Participants' safety will be monitored throughout the study.
    
  