
    
      From the last three decades, the diabetes mellitus progress quadrupled.The International
      Diabetes Federation (IDF) approximate that 1 in 11 adults with age between 20 to 79 years
      have diabetes mellitus. Almost 90 percent of patients diagnosed with Diabetes Mellitus are
      type 2 diabetes mellitus patients. According to the World Health Organization, Diabetes
      mellitus could be 7th leading cause of death. Type II Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) increase
      progressively that affect around 25 million people in Europe and major public health issue
      for middle income countries. It is proposed that the prevalence of diabetes mellitus will
      increase up to 67% in middle-income countries from 2010 to 2030. In Pakistan, the Type II
      Diabetes Mellitus prevalence in 2018 is 11.77%. The prevalence is more in male as compared to
      females and urban area have 14.81 percent as compared to rural area.

      The genetic architecture might partially determine an individual's response to environmental
      changes.The risk factors of Type II Diabetes Mellitus include obesity, ageing, behavioral and
      environment factors, diet and lifestyle. School-age children had also warned of a rise in
      childhood obesity in Pakistan, which is considered a strong risk factor in diabetic patients.
      The major cause of Type II Diabetes Mellitus is deficiency or loss of insulin. Brain utilize
      glucose as source of energy and when brain is unable to maintain integrity, Many
      physiological mechanism initiates to reduce and limit the effect of hypoglycemia.The response
      of human body in reaction to reduce glucose level causes lowering the secretion of insulin
      and release counter-regulatory hormone.Diabetes mellitus have strong correlation for
      reduction in muscular strength and functional status.

      A recent study on global burden of diseases, Diabetes mellitus considered as ninth major
      cause of reduced life expectancy. A study conducted decades ago concluded that 3.96 million
      deaths occur due to diabetes mellitus with aged between 20-79 years. According to the
      International Diabetes Federation, the number and complications of diabetes mellitus increase
      rapidly up to 5.0 million deaths due to metabolic disorder.The prevalence of disability
      occurrence due to diabetes mellitus increase significantly since 3 decades ago. According to
      the global burden of Disease, Injuries and Risk factor statement, the 10th most common factor
      of disability was fasting level of glucose in 1990, 4th common cause till 2005 and 3rd common
      cause in 2015.45.8 percent of diabetes mellitus patients were approximately not diagnosed.
      Those patient who are not diagnosed have more risk of complication as compared to those who
      are diagnosed and start intervention. Medical expenditure of diabetes mellitus patients
      increases three times more than general population.The cases of people living suffering from
      Type II Diabetes Mellitus increase quadrupled between 1980 and 2014 globally. Adults who have
      diagnosed diabetes mellitus enhance to 20 percent from 2010 to 2030 and predicted to increase
      rapidly up to 69 percent. In Asia, the epidemic of Type II Diabetes Mellitus progress very
      rapidly and characterized by onset at a lower BMI and younger age than in Western
      populations. An average cost for the treatment of Diabetes Mellitus in Pakistan ranges from
      650 to 20000 PKR.
    
  