
    
      BACKGROUND:

      When the study began in 1995, more females were initiating cigarette smoking, and a growing
      proportion cited fear of gaining weight as a major reason for refusing to even attempt
      quitting smoking. It had not yet been possible, however, to prevent post- cessation weight
      gain through dieting or behavioral treatment without undermining abstinence from smoking. The
      investigators proposed that prior interventions had been unsuccessful because: (a) their
      weight management interventions were too complex; (b) the programs thwarted a need of the
      patient in nicotine withdrawal to eat hedonically appealing, high-carbohydrate snacks; and
      (c) the programs heightened patients' emphasis on weight control at the expense of their
      emphasis on smoking cessation by asking them to initiate weight control before or
      simultaneously with quitting smoking.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The investigators collected pilot data on a promising 16-week intervention that they called
      the LATE WEIGHT PLAN because it emphasized smoking cessation for the first half of treatment
      and integrated weight management for the last half. The weight management module included a
      pre-packaged meal plan; high-carbohydrate, low-fat snacks; and low-intensity aerobic
      exercise. All patients continued in the weight management phase of treatment, regardless of
      whether they had succeeded in quitting smoking or were preparing to make new quit attempts.
      Based on pilot findings, the investigators estimated the point prevalence of smoking
      cessation for the LATE WEIGHT PLAN group to be 74% at the end of treatment, with weight gain
      less than 5 lb. An EARLY WEIGHT PLAN group controlled for the timing of the intervention,
      using the same target quit smoking date and 16 week program but integrating the weight
      management module into the first 8 weeks of treatment. Like others, they found that EARLY
      weight management efforts, while they may have prevented weight gain, apparently did so at
      some cost to smoking cessation, which they estimated to be 42% at 4 months. Finally, a
      CESSATION ONLY group controlled for the presence of a weight management intervention, by
      dealing exclusively with smoking cessation for the entire 16 week program. The CESSATION ONLY
      group had attained the worst outcome in terms of weight control and an intermediate outcome
      in terms of abstinence at the end of treatment (50%). By randomizing 315 female smokers to
      the three treatments and comparing abstinence and weight gain after 4 months of treatment and
      6 month follow-up (10 months), they tested whether a behavioral intervention could indeed
      achieve the dual goals of promoting smoking cessation and minimizing weight gain.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  