
    
      Chronic illness places emotional, physical, and financial burdens upon both the patient and
      her partner and can be a significant source of stress in a relationship. The symptoms of UUI
      inherently pose greater social challenges than those faced by women other forms of pelvic
      floor disorders. For example, women with UUI may avoid social situations due to fear of
      having an accident or may be reluctant to participate in activities during which it may be
      difficult to find a bathroom. The resulting social isolation impacts both members of the dyad
      and may serve as a source of relationship discord. Changes in sexual function and perceived
      intimacy, including non-intercourse intimacy, as well as communication may be new sources of
      stress in a previously healthy relationship or may serve to amplify pre-existing relationship
      problems.

      Sexual function is another area in which UUI may cause a negative impact. Studies of coital
      incontinence among incontinent clinic populations report prevalence ranging from 10%-56% with
      a median of 22%. The prevalence of coital incontinence may be related to the type of
      incontinence as well as the severity of symptoms. Stress incontinence has been associated
      with leakage of urine during intercourse, while detrusor instability and urge incontinence
      have been correlated with leakage during orgasm. A cross-sectional study of women with UUI
      and urinary incontinence found that among women reporting low sexual desire, stress
      incontinence was common (47%), while 46% of women reporting orgasmic phase dysfunction
      reported symptoms of urge incontinence. Qualitative data corroborates the negative impact of
      UUI on dyadic and sexual relations.

      Another mechanism by which UUI may affect satisfaction with dyadic relations is through
      depressive symptomatology. Urinary incontinence is associated with a decrease in overall
      health-related quality of life and is positively correlated with depression, anxiety, and
      stress. Studies of other chronic illnesses demonstrate a correlation between the patient's
      level of depression and that of their spouse; level of depression shows an inverse
      relationship with degree of satisfaction with the relationship.

      One of the two studies in the published literature that use quantitative methods to evaluate
      the impact of urodynamic stress incontinence and detrusor overactivity on the marital
      relationship concluded that both sexual function and marital relationships are negatively
      affected by incontinence. This study, like others, is based upon the perspective of the
      female partner. A recent study of Swedish women with urinary incontinence and urgency is the
      only study which includes the perspective of the male partner to examine the impact of UUI on
      the relationship. It concludes that, "Female urinary incontinence, urgency and frequency
      significantly impair the quality of life in both younger and older women, and also have
      negative effects on the partner relationship and the partner's life".

      The perspective of intimate partners of women with UUI and other forms of PFD is largely
      missing from the literature. Any analysis of the role of UUI in intimate partner
      relationships is incomplete without this perspective.
    
  