
    
      Intermittent neurogenic claudication (INC) caused by a lumbar spinal canal stenosis (LSS) is
      the most frequent reason for spinal surgery in the elderly. Multiple, less invasive surgical
      techniques are applied without sufficient evidence for benefits for patients or society.

      The classic symptoms of INC are leg pain, which can be exacerbated with prolonged walking and
      standing and/or lumbar extension, and is associated with back pain. Severe stenosis is common
      in the elderly spine with 30.4% of the population having severe stenosis. However, only 17.5%
      have complaints of INC.

      Conservative treatment, such as physical therapy or pain medication, may give some relief of
      symptoms. However, surgical treatment is considered to be the gold standard for patients with
      INC caused by LSS. The first technique ever described to widen the lumbar spinal canal is the
      wide bony decompression (laminectomy), which is still a widely used technique. However, since
      INC is often accompanied by back pain, and this to post-operative back pain, it is
      hypothesized that a wide decompression is a ground for potential instability. Hence, less
      invasive techniques, such as interarcuair decompression, were developed and implemented.

      Recent studies claim that a limited bony decompression is the new 'golden standard' therapy
      for patients with INC. Limited bony decompression is believed to give less muscle damage and
      thus a faster postoperative recovery. Furthermore, wide bony decompression (such as a
      laminectomy) is believed to result in lumbar instability and iatrogenic scoliosis. Performing
      a procedure with potential more complications in a - generally - elderly population could at
      least be described as doubtful. The assumption is often made that after a wide decompression
      recurrence of the complaints must be scarce. However, a (cost-) effectiveness study, which
      evaluates the effectiveness of small bony decompression compared to a 'classical' extensive
      bony decompression, has not been performed yet. The opinions on this matter are diverse. A
      laminectomy involves the removal of more bone and structures at the back of the spine which
      may result in longer hospitalization and loss of productivity, but it could also lead to
      spinal instability on the long term. However, the risk of an insufficient decompression may
      be higher, potentially leading to more reoperations.

      By the means of this double-blinded, multi-center randomized controlled trial the
      investigators will determine the (cost-) effectiveness of a limited bony decompression
      compared to a wide bony decompression in patients with INC.
    
  