
    
      Pressure ulcers are defined as areas of localised damage to the skin, muscle or underlying
      tissue, caused by shear, friction or unrelieved pressure, usually over bony prominences. They
      are associated with many health conditions that cause prolonged bed rest, immobility,
      inactivity or poor sensation and can significantly contribute to morbidity and mortality,
      particularly in the aged population. International prevalence rates range widely from 4.6%-
      83.6% due to methodological differences and classification systems. In Singapore, a study on
      the prevalence of pressure ulcers in 3 hospitals revealed a prevalence of 9% to 14%.

      Pressure ulcers often fail to heal in a timely and orderly manner, resulting in a chronic
      non-healing wound. Many intrinsic and extrinsic factors have been identified that can disrupt
      the wound healing processes of haemostasis, inflammation, proliferation, angiogenesis and
      remodelling. One of the factors gaining more interest for its impact on wound healing
      processes is nutritional status.

      Arginine is a semi-essential amino acid because even though the body normally makes enough of
      it, supplementation is sometimes needed during critical illness and severe trauma. There have
      been numerous research studies focusing on using arginine to enhance wound healing and
      pressure ulcer prevention. It is required for promotion of nitrogen balance, cell
      proliferation, T lymphocyte function and collagen accumulation. It also changes into nitric
      oxide, which is known for its vasodilatory and angiogenic properties.

      Glutamine is conditionally essential amino acid because it can be manufactured in the body,
      but under extreme physical stress the demand for glutamine exceeds the body's ability to make
      it. Adequate amounts of glutamine are generally obtained through diet alone because the body
      is also able to make glutamine on its own. Certain medical conditions, including injuries,
      surgery, infections, and prolonged stress, can deplete glutamine levels. Since glutamine
      plays a key role in the immune system, a deficiency in this nutrient can significantly slow
      the healing process.

      Beta-hydroxy-Beta methylbutyrate (HMB) is a metabolite of leucine, an essential amino acid.
      HMB supplementation was associated with increased muscle mass accretion. HMB appears to
      assert its effect via inhibiting muscle proteolysis and modulating protein turnover.

      Recently, arginine has been found to accelerate wound healing in combination with HMB and
      glutamine. It was shown that healthy subjects who are supplemented orally with arginine had a
      significant rise in plasma arginine and ornithine levels that led to enhanced rate of
      collagen synthesis. In another recent study, a HMB/Arginine/Lysine mixture increased protein
      turnover in elderly patients over a year long period. However, there is no known randomised
      controlled trial done on patients with chronic hard to heal wounds in acute healthcare
      settings.

      AIM To compare pressure ulcer healing rates in patients supplemented with a commercial
      HMB/Arginine/Lysine mixture (Abound) and standard high protein, high energy iso-nitrogenous
      medical nutritional supplements versus patients supplemented with only standard high protein,
      high energy iso-nitrogenous medical nutritional supplements.

      OUTCOME INDICATORS

        -  Percentage change in wound size (length, depth, area)

        -  Percentage change in proportion of viable wound tissue (Refer to wound data collection
           for details)

      The study will take on a comparative, randomised controlled trial design.
    
  