
    
      A. Study Objectives: To determine if one day post-operative prone head positioning can be as
      good as seven days post-operative prone head positioning in patients with retinal detachments
      with inferior retinal breaks after PPV using C3F8 gas as a tamponade.

        -  Primary outcome: retina anatomical success at 3 months post-operatively

        -  Secondary outcome: retina anatomical success at 1 year post-operatively

      B. Study Type and Design: Single arm phase II study to assess its effectiveness and warrant
      interest in further development. A Simon's two-stage design will be used to test the
      following hypotheses: null hypothesis (HO): P<=0.6 versus alternative hypothesis (HI): p >=
      0.85.

      C. Sample size, statistical methods, and power calculation

      1. The sample size calculations are based on a Simon's two-stage minimax design. The
      Investigators plan to recruit 20 patients (20 eyes) with one day post-operative head
      positioning. This trial will run as a single-arm study in two stages. In the first stage, the
      Investigators will define a futility rate of 60%. Thus, 11 patients will be enrolled in this
      stage and if seven or less than seven patients are not declared a "success", the
      Investigators will terminate this trial after the first stage. If eight or more successes are
      found in the first stage, the Investigators will continue to the second stage where the
      Investigators will enroll an additional 9 patients taking the total sample size to 20
      patients. The treatment will be considered as promising for future research if the results
      find that 16 or more than 16 of the 20 patients are declared a 'success' (based on the
      literature review and a retrospective study, a success rate of 85% is chosen). This minimax
      design has an expected sample size of 14 patients and a probability of early termination
      (PET) of 70%. An analogous calculation for the Optimal Simon's design gives a total sample
      size of 28 but with the same expected sample size of 14, and so the Investigators have
      decided to adopt the minimax design.
    
  