
    
      Flossing is universally recognized in the dental profession as a primary component of oral
      hygiene. Data supports the correlation between flossing and disease prevention by ways of
      reducing gingival bleeding, gingivitis, and dental caries.(1, 2) However, a recent AP
      publication (3) questioning the validity of flossing as an efficacious preventative method
      has warranted that oral healthcare professionals address certain underlying assumptions about
      the practice. Specifically, there is a clear gap in the number of clinical effectiveness
      trials that measure the ability of flossing for the sole purpose of oral plaque biofilm
      removal. Such studies are urgently needed. At this moment we can only assume flossing's
      correlation with disease prevention also links flossing with effectively removing oral plaque
      biofilm. Due to the current research gaps, additional studies must be performed to address
      the needs highlighted by the absence of substantive research in this field.

      Our long term goal is to evaluate if flossing is an effective oral health aid in the removal
      of oral plaque biofilm. The overall objective of this application is to provide a consistent
      measurement to confirm whether flossing is an effective oral care technique in removing
      disease causing oral plaque biofilm . The rationale that underlies this proposal comes from
      the many professional associations, such as the American Dental Association, American Dental
      Hygienists' Association, and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, that endorse
      flossing as an effective home care routine in oral disease prevention. Many oral health
      professionals would argue that flossing is effective in plaque removal, as they have seen the
      results anecdotally year after year, yet it is clear that additional studies are needed to
      move what is known anecdotally to what is known scientifically.
    
  