
    
      Purpose and Rationale The diagnosis of a lung function anomaly requires the evaluation of
      pulmonary function by spirometry. However, some patients (e.g. children, elderly, or diseased
      individuals) may have difficulty performing the related forced maximal respiratory maneuver
      correctly. FOT measures lung impedance during tidal breathing, requiring minimal patient
      cooperation. The within-breath calculation of impedance allows separating the contribution of
      inspiration and expiration to the measured parameters. The purpose of this study is to
      establish the diagnostic accuracy of FOT parameters alone or in combination with lung volumes
      in detecting lung function anomalies as compared with spirometry and with the diagnosis made
      by the physician.

      Objectives Primary: To compare the diagnostic accuracy of FOT with spirometry to detect a
      lung function anomaly (i.e. an obstructive and/or restrictive respiratory disease).

      Secondary: To compare the diagnostic accuracy of FOT with the final diagnosis made by the
      physician (i.e. the diagnosis based on current guidelines) to detect a lung function anomaly
      (i.e. an obstructive and/or restrictive respiratory disease).

      Study Design This will be a multi-center prospective study of consecutive subjects attending
      the pulmonary function test laboratory for pulmonary function tests (PFT) or randomly taken
      from the clinical site's records among those with symptoms with two separate study phases, an
      Identification Phase and a Validation Phase. Subjects will undergo the same study procedures
      in both phases. After signing the Informed Consent, a medical history will be obtained, a
      physical examination performed, and PFT (FOT, spirometry and, if required by the physician to
      reach a final diagnosis, additional lung function measurements) will be performed.

      Identification Phase: Subject data will be used to identify two separate rules based on
      abnormal lung volumes and impedance (FOT) parameters that will maximize the accuracy in
      identifying a lung function anomaly. For the primary objective, the reference test for the
      determination of such lung anomaly will be spirometry. For the secondary objective, the
      reference test for the determination of the presence of a lung function anomaly will be the
      final diagnosis made by the physician.

      Validation Phase: A separate and independent dataset of subjects will be used to test the
      accuracy of the rules identified from analysis of the Identification Phase in detecting a
      lung function anomaly.

      Study Duration Subject participation will be completed in 1 day. Study duration is expected
      to be 7 months
    
  