
    
      Radiation therapy is an effective and frequently utilized modality for the treatment of
      clinically localized prostate cancer. Traditionally, external beam radiation has been
      delivered in a fractionated manner using daily doses of 1.8-2.0 Gy. This daily dose was
      derived from early animal experiments and clinical experience, supported by mathematical
      models of normal tissue and tumor response to fraction size. The most widely used of these
      models is the linear-quadratic formula, which predicts responses to different fraction sizes
      based on the alpha/beta ratio of any given tissue.

      One of the main motivations for delivering a treatment at low dose rate or with many
      fractions is that late-responding normal tissue are generally more sensitive than
      early-responding tissues (i.e. tumor) to increases in fraction size. So increasing the number
      of fractions generally spares late-responding tissues more than the tumor. This can be
      quantified in terms of the alpha/beta ratio:

        -  Small alpha/beta ratio (2-4 Gy), typical of late sequelae, means high sensitivity to
           fractionation changes.

        -  Large alpha/beta ratio (>8 Gy), typical of tumor control, means low sensitivity to
           fractionation changes.

      It is generally assumed that the mechanistic basis for the different fractionation response
      of tumors and late-responding normal tissues relates to the larger proportion of cycling
      cells in tumors. But prostate tumors contain unusually small fractions of cycling cells.
      Brenner and Hall as well as Duchesne and Peters have reasoned that prostate tumors might not
      respond to changes in fractionation in the same way as other cancers; both papers hypothesize
      that prostate tumors might respond to changes in fractionation or dose rate more like a
      late-responding normal tissue. , In mathematical terms, the suggestion is that the alpha/beta
      ratio for prostate cancer might be low, comparable to that for late-responding tissues or
      even lower. Previous estimates of alpha/beta ratios of normal tissue and tumor tissue have
      generally been 3 and 10, respectively. Recent evidence has estimated the alpha/beta ratio of
      prostate cancer to be as low as 1.5. If these hypotheses are true, then the optimal
      therapeutic ratio for prostate cancer would be achieved using daily doses higher than 2 Gy.

      Several preliminary clinical reports have found reasonable PSA control rates and no increase
      in late toxicity using doses of 2.5 to 3 Gy. Kupelian from the Mayo Clinic found PSA-free
      survival rates of 97%, 88%, and 70% in low-, intermediate-, and high-risk patients,
      respectively. The dose regimen used was 70 Gy in 2.5 Gy daily fractions. Both acute and late
      toxicity were not higher than seen with typical dose regimens. A group from Christie Hospital
      reported 82%, 56%, and 39% 5-year biochemical disease free survival rates (low, intermediate,
      and high risk, respectively) in patients treated with 50 Gy in 16 fractions (3.125 Gy per
      fraction), with acceptable bowel and bladder toxicity.

      These results, although promising, require further validation. If the hypothesis that
      prostate cancer alpha/beta ratio is lower than normal tissue is correct, then the optimal
      fractional dose is likely to be even higher than the doses tested thus far, but if incorrect,
      the result may be increased normal tissue toxicity.
    
  