
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate the rate of clinical benefit (objective response plus stable disease) for
      patients treated with 28-day cycles of vorinostat (first 5 consecutive days each week for day
      1-21) concurrent with daily aromatase inhibitor (AI) therapy (all 28 days).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the safety and tolerability of vorinostat and AI combination therapy in patients
      with metastatic breast cancer.

      II. Assess the change in estrogen receptor (ER) expression, measured as the change in F-18 16
      alpha-fluoroestradiol (FES) standardized uptake value (SUV) using FES positron emission
      tomography (PET) completed per protocol 7184 after two weeks of vorinostat and AI therapy and
      after 8 weeks of therapy.

      III. Assess tumor metabolic response, measured as the change in fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)
      SUV using FDG PET completed per protocol 7184 after two weeks of vorinostat and AI therapy
      and after 8 weeks of therapy.

      IV. Assess the change in hormone levels (estradiol, estrone, follicle-stimulating hormone
      [FSH], sex binding globulin, testosterone, and free testosterone) after 8 weeks of therapy.

      V. Assess the change in ER, progesterone receptor (PR), human epidermal growth factor
      receptor 2 (HER2), androgen receptor (AR), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF) tumor expression after two weeks of vorinostat and AI
      therapy in patients that consent to optional tissue biopsy procedure.

      VI. Assess the time to progression and the overall survival of patients treated with 28-day
      cycles of vorinostat (first 5 consecutive days each week for day 1-21) concurrent with daily
      AI therapy (all 28 days).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive vorinostat orally (PO) 5 days a week for 3 weeks. Patients also receive AI
      therapy comprising either anastrozole PO daily, letrozole PO daily, or exemestane PO daily
      for 4 weeks. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression and
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      then every 6 months until progression, and then annually thereafter.
    
  