
    
      Chronic fatigue syndrome/ myalgic encephalomyelitis presents with a significant deterioration
      of functional capacity, which seriously affects the quality of life. The peak or maximal
      incremental CPET is considered valid for the evaluation of exercise tolerance of those
      affected by CFS/ME, but its performance causes worsening of its symptomatology, decreasing
      its physical activity level after the test. It has not been verified whether the 6MWT
      (submaximal exercise test) with gases measurement is able to assess the exercise tolerance of
      those affected by SFC/EM without increasing their symptoms. So far, only the correlation
      between another submaximal test and a peak CPET in two different groups of participants have
      been analyzed and proven, which it makes necessary to check adequately whether there is a
      correlation by performing both tests on the same participants. In addition, it is necessary
      to compare the degree of worsening in physical activity level that both tests produce in
      participants, because they have not been objectively evaluated in any previous study. It
      could be useful to have a more innocuous and simple test for the assessment of exercise
      tolerance in CFS/ME in clinical practice, in order to evaluate the benefits of treatments
      like rehabilitation programs. 6MWT could respond to these characteristics because it reaches
      an identical value in peak VO2 than in the peak CPET in other pathologies and it generates
      less physical stress.

      This research will be developed with the utmost respect for individual human rights,
      according to the postulates accepted internationally by the United Nations and the European
      Commission (Helsinki Act of 1964 and the Oviedo Convention of 1997) and Regulation (EU)
      2016/679 of the European Parliament and the Council of April 27, 2016 on Data Protection
      (RGPD).

      Participation in this study is entirely voluntary and does not imply any risk to health.
      Participants are entitled to refuse to participate or to leave the study at any time they
      choose.

      All information will be treated confidentially. If it is decided to publish the results of
      the study, in these publications will not include individual data or the names of the
      participants, only information considered globally will be included.

      This study has been approved in August 2018 by the Ethics and Research Committee of the La
      Paz University Hospital in Madrid (HULP Code: PI-3320).

      The sample sizes were calculated in order to find the significance of the Pearson linear
      correlation coefficient between two variables, for a unilateral hypothesis test according to
      the formula: n = [Z1-α + Z1- β / ½ ln (1 + r / 1-r)]^2 + 3 and the largest has been chosen,
      which involve studying 22 participants.

      Taking into account the data of a previous study with participants of similar
      characteristics, a correlation of the parameters that set up the primary outcome, peak VO2 of
      r = 0.7 is assumed.

      An expected drop out in rate of 0.474 has been estimated from the data obtained in another
      related study.

      Accepting an alpha risk of 0.05 and a beta risk of 0.20 in a unilateral contrast, 22
      participants are required to detect a positive correlation between the variables of the
      exercise tests, equal to or greater than those found in the study used as reference.

      This size will guarantee sufficient power to detect correlation in the purpose of the study.
      To guarantee this power, and since there is not enough information about the previous values,
      an intermediate analysis of the data, will be carried out in the middle of the study to
      recalculate the size of the final sample.

      The incidental sampling will be carried out according to a non-probabilistic system of
      consecutive cases of people diagnosed with CFS/ME.

      Data analysis / Statistical methods:

        1. Descriptive: Descriptive analysis of all variables collected will be carried out. For
           quantitative data, centralization and dispersion measures will be calculated according
           to the distribution of each variable, such as mean, standard deviation, minimum and
           maximum median. The qualitative data will be described by absolute frequency and
           percentage. It will be checked if the variables are distributed normally by means of the
           Kolmogórov-Smirnov test for a single sample.

        2. Correlation: A bivariate analysis will be performed to observe the association between
           the variables obtained in the 6MWT with gases measurement and those of the peak
           incremental CPET; between peak VO2 in the peak CPET and the distance achieved during the
           6MWT; between peak VO2 and physical activity level at baseline and after each test; and
           between distance achieved in the 6MWT and physical activity level at baseline and after
           each test. In case of normality, the Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient will
           be used, and if any variable is not distributed normally, the Spearman correlation
           analysis will be used.

        3. Linear regression: If some variables of the 6MWT are strongly correlated with the
           corresponding variables of the peak incremental CPET, a linear regression analysis will
           be performed to construct a regression equation for the prediction of the peak test
           performance. If necessary, a multiple linear regression analysis will be carried out to
           control the possible confounding variables: medication intake, time of disease
           evolution, quality of life, multidimensional fatigue, physical activity level at
           baseline, age, sex, profession, weight, height and body mass index.

        4. Comparison: a comparative analysis of physical activity level at baseline and physical
           activity levels after each of the tests and between physical activity levels after each
           of the tests to compare decrease in physical activity level that generate both tests;
           using repeated measures ANOVA for related samples, if they meet the normal distribution
           or, if not, the Friedman test.

      In case of drop out, the data collected will be taken into account for the analysis.

      The analysis will assume a confidence level (1 - α) of 0.95 (significance level α = 0.05).
      The program SPSS® Statistics version 20.0 (SPSS Incorporation, Chicago, USA) will be used.
    
  