
    
      Glaucoma is an eye and neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive destruction of
      optic nerve cells (retinal ganglion cells), affecting vision but also the retino-hypothalamic
      pathway leading to the suprachiasmatic nuclei and helping to synchronize nycthemeral rhythms.

      It can therefore be suggested that glaucoma may affect the structure and quality of sleep.
      Few studies on the subjects of sleep quality and architecture have been performed to date,
      and all are either small series of cases without a comparator group, or studies based on
      questionnaires but without polysomnographic examination. The results of studies carried out
      to date are conflicting.

      The subject is important because glaucoma is a frequent disease (1 to 1.2 million subjects in
      France and 75 to 90 million in the world), and could potentially be a frequent cause of
      disturbance of the quality of sleep.

      The CHU Grenoble-Alpes has a large database (MARS Cohort) including polysomnographic
      examinations of glaucomatous and non-glaucomatous subjects. The objective of this study is to
      characterize the sleep parameters (sleep time, sleep period, sleep stages, sleep efficiency,
      cycles per night, micro-arousal index, etc.) in glaucomatous and non-glaucomatous subjects,
      by controlling any possible confounding factors that can affect the quality of sleep (age,
      biometric data, associated pathologies).

      This study will require confirming the diagnosis of glaucoma in subjects declared as such,
      and specifying the stage of glaucomatous involvement. A current ophthalmologic examination of
      glaucoma assessment will therefore be offered to this group of subjects (including
      examination of the visual field and tomography of the optic nerve). This study will also
      require verifying with certainty the absence of glaucoma in subjects in the control group. To
      this end, a telephone questionnaire will be administered to the subjects of this group.
    
  