
    
      Chronic pain (pain that lasts for more than 3 months) can limit physical functioning and
      negatively affect a person socially and emotionally. Chronic low back pain (that is not
      caused by cancer) is a very common condition that affects up to a third of people in the US
      at any time. The primary objective of the trial is to assess functionality changes over a
      minimum period of 9 weeks using the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) - a questionnaire to
      measure disability - in patients with non-malignant chronic low back pain who are taking
      short-acting opioids chronically, and who initiate treatment with Duragesic® (transdermal
      fentanyl). The patch delivers fentanyl in doses of 25, 50, 75, or 100 micrograms per hour.
      The ODI is comprised of 10 sections; each section consists of 6 response alternatives. The 10
      scales assessed by the ODI are Pain Intensity, Personal Care (washing, dressing, etc.),
      Lifting, Walking, Sitting, Standing, Sleeping, Sex Life, Social Life, and Traveling. The
      secondary objective is to assess changes in health-related quality of life (HRQoL) over the
      treatment period using the Total Pain Experience (TPE) subscale of the Treatment Outcomes in
      Pain Survey (TOPS), a questionnaire designed to measure HRQoL changes in patients with
      chronic pain. The TOPS contains 112 items that are scored into 16 scales. These scales
      include: Pain Symptoms, Lower Body Functional Limitations, Upper Body Functional Limitations,
      Perceived Family/Social Disability, Objective Family/Social Disability, Objective Work
      Disability, TPE (a combination of 5 other scales), Life Control, Passive Coping, Solicitous
      Responses, Work Limitations, Fear Avoidance, Patient Satisfaction with Outcomes, Health Care
      Satisfaction, Vitality, and Mental Health (the last two from a questionnaire known as the
      Short Form-36, or SF-36. Fentanyl transdermal system (skin patch) in a dosage prescribed by
      the clinical investigator according to the usual standard of care.
    
  