
    
      Oxidative stress is implicated in the pathogenesis of a number of neurodegenerative diseases
      such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Further, levels of glutathione (GSH), a prevalent
      endogenous antioxidant, are decreased in the postmortem substantia nigra (SN) of individuals
      with PD, indicating increased oxidative stress, although this has yet not been confirmed in
      vivo. Increases in intracellular oxidative stress have also been observed in primary
      fibroblast cultures obtained from patients with GD, where enzyme replacement therapy resulted
      in increases in total GSH. The hypothesis that oxidative stress plays a key role in the
      neurodegeneration associated with PD suggests that antioxidants may be useful in altering
      disease progression.

      N-acetylcysteine (NAC) is a well-known antioxidant that is thought to act both as a free
      radical scavenger and as a cysteine donor for the synthesis of GSH. NAC may be beneficial in
      the treatment of PD and GD. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) methods may be able to
      determine if there are effects from NAC on central nervous system GSH levels. In addition,
      use of red blood cell (RBC) measurements of GSH, if correlated with brain concentrations,
      could serve as an easily measured biomarker to help characterize and monitor response to
      therapy. The investigators therefore propose to conduct a study of the effect of a single,
      intravenous dose of NAC on central (brain) measures of GSH and peripheral (RBC) measures of
      GSH in people with PD and healthy controls, through the use of simultaneous MRS techniques
      and pharmacokinetic studies. The investigators hypothesis and specific aims are as follows:

      Hypothesis: RBC and brain GSH concentrations will increase following oral NAC administration
      in individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD), Gaucher's disease (GD), and control
      participants.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Quantitate baseline plasma and red blood cell GSH concentrations in those with PD and GD
           and controls; and characterize NAC and GSH pharmacokinetics after a single intravenous
           NAC administration.

        2. Quantitate brain GSH levels (as ascertained through MRS) in those with PD and GD and
           controls at baseline and after a single intravenous NAC administration simultaneously
           with Aim 1.

        3. Construct a pharmacokinetic model to evaluate the relationship between peripheral
           (plasma and RBC) and central (brain) GSH measurements.
    
  