
    
      Vitamin D deficiency is common in, especially black, HIV-seropositive patients. Vitamin D
      deficiency can be caused by lack of sunlight and/or insufficient vitamin D intake via diet.
      The HIV infection itself and antiretroviral therapy (ART) may also cause vitamin D
      deficiency. ART interferes with cytochrome p450 activity and as such might affect vitamin D
      metabolism.

      Vitamin D has several important physiological functions such as 1. regulation of calcium and
      phosphate homeostasis, 2. immunomodulatory properties and 3. effects on adipocyte
      differentiation. Low vitamin D levels lead to decreased bone mineralization, eventually
      resulting in rachitis(children) or osteomalacia (in adults). In addition vitamin D deficiency
      leads to secondary hyperparathyroidism, which leads to even more bone matrix
      demineralization. In HIV infected persons the overall prevalence of osteopenia and
      osteoporoses is 14-84% and 0-45% respectively. Vitamin D has been suggested to play a role in
      HIV-associated bone disorders. The vitamin D status also affects the host defence in HIV
      patients; a significantly lower CD4 cell count has been found in patients with
      1,25(OH)vitamin D deficiency. Furthermore, the influence of vitamin D on adipocyte
      differentiation and the effect of HAART on vitamin D levels might be relevant for changes in
      fat distribution and the development of insulin resistance as is seen days after initiation
      of HAART.

      Vitamin D is metabolized in the body trough cytochrome P450 enzymes. HAART might interact
      with vitamin D metabolism on basis of CYP3A4, which plays an important role in clearance of
      most antiretroviral agents and also showed to be a vitamin D 24 and 25-hydroxylase in vitro.
      We hypothesize that PI's lead to lower 1a,25(OH)2D3 by suppressing 1a- and 25-hydroxylase
      activity.

      The results of our pilot showed that 25(OH)D deficiency is common among HIV patients. Seen
      the diversity of functions of vitamin D, we hypothesize that it's beneficial for the patients
      to have a normal vitamin D status. Therefore, supplementation of vitamin D is warranted.

      In this study we want to investigate if, despite the complex interaction between HAART/ HIV
      and vitamin D metabolism, supplementation of colecalciferol (2000 IU daily) will lead to
      normalization of the vitamin D levels. Furthermore, we want to study the effects of
      normalization of vitamin D levels on bone mineral density, immune and adipocyte function.
      Therefore we will do a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled vitamin D
      intervention study in vitamin D deficient HIV1-seropositive patients.
    
  