
    
      This is a single center, single arm, open-label Phase I study to establish the safety of
      interstitial laser thermal therapy (ILTT) in patients with a single site of low grade
      (Gleason <7) prostate cancer who have not yet received treatment for their cancer. No control
      group will be utilized and all patients will receive laser thermal therapy. The patient will
      undergo multimode MRI to determine if a single site of prostate cancer can be localized by
      this technique and to localize the tumor in 3 dimensions within the prostate. A multicore (12
      + cores) mapping transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy of the prostate would then confirm that
      no other sites of cancer exist.

      Each patient will complete quality of life and performance questionnaires. ILLT will be
      performed under general anesthetic in a procedure similar to brachytherapy, using transrectal
      ultrasound to guide insertion of the laser and monitoring probes into the sector containing
      the cancer as visualized by the MR scan. Following the procedure, patients will be assessed
      for clinical signs of urinary, rectal, and erectile complications and will complete validated
      self-assessment tools on these functions. MRI at 7 days and MRI and biopsy at 6 months will
      be used to assess the extent of tissue effect and presence of cancer due to ILTT. Patients
      will remain on standard Watchful Waiting surveillance for any further sign of disease
      progression. ILLT will not restrict any future treatment of prostate cancer.

      To minimize the treatment risk, participants in the trial will be staged according to
      location of the disease in the prostate. The first 3 participants recruited to the trial will
      have targeted loci well separated from the urethra, erectile nerves and the rectum, and so
      treatment in this region poses minimal risk of injury to these vital structures. Lesions
      sizes measured in this initial stage will be used in planning fiber placement in the three
      remaining stages, in which fiber placement is closer to critical structures such as the
      urethra (Stage 2), erectile nerves (Stage 3) and rectum (Stage 4).
    
  