
    
      This is an open-label clinical trial of the investigational drug creatine for augmentation
      treatment of female and male Veterans, ages 18-55, with Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) who
      have failed to respond to antidepressant treatment with a selective serotonin reuptake
      inhibitor (SSRI) drug. Based on converging preclinical and animal model research, and our
      laboratory's prior clinical trials, we hypothesize that the nutritional supplement creatine
      may provide benefit as an adjunctive treatment to SSRI pharmacotherapy, for Veterans with
      treatment-resistant depression.

      Twenty (n=20) Veterans between the ages of 18-55 years with MDD will be recruited for
      participation in an open-label trial of creatine augmentation. Veterans with depression will
      have unremitted MDD, despite having had an adequate trial of an SSRI antidepressant.
      Participants with MDD will be treated with oral creatine 5 gm daily for 8 weeks and will
      continue taking their SSRI antidepressant. Participants will undergo brain scanning at
      baseline, and the scans will be repeated following 8 of adjunctive creatine.

      The neuroimaging technique utilized is Phosphorus-31 Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy
      (31P-MRS). 31P-MRS is a non-invasive method with no exposure to ionizing radiation. At the
      magnetic field strength utilized (3 Tesla), magnetic resonance imaging is FDA-approved and is
      not associated with irreversible or serious adverse events. Furthermore, 31P-MRS is the only
      in vivo method for in vivo quantification of phosphorus energy metabolism, in living human
      brain.

      In addition to Veterans with MDD, twenty (n=20) healthy control (HC) participants will be
      recruited. HCs will be Veterans between the ages of 18-55, who have no history of psychiatric
      or substance use disorder. No treatment will be administered to HC participants.

      The HCs will undergo a single 31P-MRS scan, which will be used to measure the
      phosphorus-bearing neurometabolites that are involved in brain energy metabolism. The
      research team will use data from 31P-MRS scans to compare levels of high-energy phosphate
      metabolites in MDD participants vs. healthy controls.

      In addition, comparison of pre- and post-treatment 31P-MRS metabolite levels will be
      conducted in the MDD participants, to test the hypothesis that creatine augmentation improves
      brain energy metabolism.
    
  