
    
      Antenatal hydronephrosis (ANH) is an uropathy characterized by a dilatation of the renal
      collecting system. It is the most common abnormality found during prenatal ultrasound
      examination (1-5% pregnancies). Though the majority of cases are transient or "functional"
      and ultimately resolve after birth, some cases have a pathological origin of which
      ureteropelvic junction obstruction (UPJO) is the most common (7-35% cases).

      An increased understanding of the natural history of ANH has been accompanied by a change in
      its management from systematic surgical approach to active surveillance and selective
      surgery. The main challenge is then to differentiate reversible ANH from pathological UPJO.
      Pathological obstruction generally results in an impairment of urine flow which, if left
      untreated, will result in renal damage or abnormal development of the kidney. It is therefore
      up to the paediatric urologist to determine whether the obstruction is significant before any
      irreversible damage occurs. However, without reliable prognostic criteria identified to date,
      controversy still exists regarding the indication and optimal timing for surgical management
      of UPJO.

      Diuretic renography is currently the most widely used diagnostic modality to evaluate renal
      function and obstruction. It confirms significant obstruction when it demonstrates alteration
      of renal function, but having to wait for significant and potentially irreversible loss of
      function to be able to confirm surgical indication is unsatisfactory.

      For many authors increase in hydronephrosis, defined as an increase in the dilatation of
      antero-posterior renal pelvic diameter (APRPD), is a marker of significant obstruction. But
      again, having to wait for an increase in hydronephrosis, which is by definition deterioration
      of the kidney, even if it precedes loss of function, remains unsatisfactory and therefore an
      earlier marker is needed to improve patients' management.

      Determining a reliable early predictive marker for future deterioration of renal function in
      children with UPJO will considerably change current management of these children by avoiding
      unnecessary surgery for reversible cases and by being able to offer early surgery before
      renal deterioration for pathological cases. It could also determine which patients need close
      surveillance and which do not need to be monitored as often.

      Two potential markers have been recently described: the cortical transit time (CTT) measured
      on renogram, which was shown in a recent retrospective study, to be associated with the need
      or not for surgery, and positional variation in APRPD as measured by sonography, which was
      also found to have prognostic value in a recently published pilot study. Both criteria are
      promising but need to be evaluated prospectively in larger population.

      The investigators propose to study prospectively the prognostic value of CTT and as a
      secondary objective, to determine the prognostic value of positional variation in APRPD. The
      investigators will then be able to compare these two prognostic markers.
    
  