
    
      Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia (WM) is a distinct B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder
      characterized primarily by bone marrow infiltration with lymphoplasmacytic cells, along with
      demonstration of an IgM monoclonal gammopathy. This condition is considered to correspond to
      the lymphoplasmacytoid lymphoma as defined by the REAL2 and WHO classification systems. WM is
      a rare disease, with an incidence that is less frequent than multiple myeloma, and accounts
      for approximately 2% of all hematologic malignancies. The age-adjusted incidence rate is 3.4
      per million among males and 1.7 per million among females in the US, with a geometrical
      increase with age. Despite continuing advances in the therapy of WM, the disease remains
      incurable with a median survival of 5 to 8 years from the time of diagnosis thereby
      necessitating the development and evaluation of novel therapeutics. Overall response rates
      (ORR) of 30-70% with complete response (CR) rates of up to 10% have been reported with the
      use of alkylator agents (e.g. chlorambucil), nucleoside analogues (cladribine or
      fludarabine), and the monoclonal antibody rituximab these therapeutic agents in the upfront
      therapy of WM with median durations of response averaging 2-3 years. Higher response rates
      including CR rates of up to 20% have been reported in studies combining nucleoside analogues
      with rituximab, and/or alkylator agents. Importantly, individual patients including the
      presence of cytopenias, need for more rapid disease control, age, and in particular candidacy
      for autologous transplant therapy should be taken into account in making the choice of first
      line therapy. For patients who are candidates for autologous transplant therapy, and in whom
      such therapy is seriously considered, exposure to alkylator or nucleoside analogue therapy
      should be limited. Monoclonal antibodies have been successfully used to treat patients with
      Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia (WM). Most of these efforts to date have focused on the use
      of rituximab, a chimeric IgG1 monoclonal antibody which targets CD20, an antigen which is
      widely expressed in WM. Several studies employing standard dose rituximab therapy have
      demonstrated major response (>50% reduction in serum IgM) rates of 30%, and durations of
      response of about 8 months13-17. More recently, the use of extended schedule rituximab has
      been evaluated. Time to response after rituximab is slow and exceeds 3 months on the average.
      In many patients a transient increase of serum IgM may occur immediately following initiation
      of rituximab. Such an increase does not herald treatment failure and most patients will
      return to their baseline serum IgM by 12 weeks. However, patients with baseline serum IgM
      levels of >50g/L may be particularly at risk for a hyperviscosity-related event. Bortezomib
      is a small molecule proteasome inhibitor developed by Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., (MPI)
      as a novel agent to treat human malignancies. Bortezomib is currently approved by the US FDA
      and by the European EMEA for the treatment of multiple myeloma. By inhibiting a single
      molecular target, the proteasome, bortezomib affects multiple signaling pathways. The
      anti-neoplastic effect of bortezomib likely involves several distinct mechanisms, including
      inhibition of cell growth and survival pathways, induction of apoptosis, and inhibition of
      expression of genes that control cellular adhesion, migration and angiogenesis. Thus, the
      mechanisms by which bortezomib elicits its anti-tumor activity may vary among tumor types,
      and the extent to which each affected pathway is critical to the inhibition of tumor growth
      could also differ. The mechanism of anti-tumor activity in NHL is not known; however,
      bortezomib inhibits the growth of various human lymphoma cell lines, as well as the survival
      primary WM cells. Bortezomib has been administered to patients with WM in the context of
      prospective studies. Chen et al administered bortezomib to 16 patients with either untreated
      or pretreated WM who had received ≤3 prior regimens. Six of 13 evaluable patients (46%)
      achieved a partial response. Dimopoulos et al administered bortezomib to 10 patients with
      relapsed or refractory WM. Six of these patients achieved a partial response which occurred
      at a median of 1 month. The median time to progression in the responding patients is expected
      to exceed 11months. The more common toxicities were mild or moderate thrombocytopenia, fever
      and fatigue; peripheral neuropathy occurred in 3 patients. The WM Clinical Trials Group
      (WMCTG) conducted a Phase II Study (DFCI Protocol 03-248) of single-agent bortezomib in 27
      patients with relapsed or refractory WM. In an interim analysis, the safety and efficacy
      results for 15 patients who completed at least 2 cycles of therapy were reported.37 Eight and
      7 of these patients had relapsed and refractory disease, respectively. With a median of 3
      completed cycles (range 2-8), 12 of 15 (80%) patients have demonstrated a response with 5
      partial responses (>50% decrease in serum IgM) and 7 minor responses (>25% decrease in serum
      IgM) observed. Three other patients remain with stable disease. Therapy was generally well
      tolerated with greater than grade II adverse events as follows: neuropathy (n=3; 20%);
      neutropenia (n=3; 20%); thrombocytopenia (n=1; 7%); and rash (n=1; 7%). Adverse events were
      generally reversible and returned to baseline after holding or dose modifying the study drug.

      Bortezomib (velcade) in combination with Rituximab have been shown to act synergistically in
      in vitro and in vivo models. Bortezomib plus Rituximab in combination have been used in a
      phase 2 clinical study for previously treated patients with indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
      Patients received either Bortezomib 1,3mg/m2 on d1,4,8,11 q21 days (Group A), or Bortezomib
      1,6mg/m2 weekly on d1,8,15,22 q35 days (Group B). Rituximab 375mg/m2 was administered weekly
      for 4 weeks in all patients. Response rated were similar in groups A and B, but patients in
      Group B (weekly bortezomib at increased dose) experienced less toxicity. Furthermore,
      glucocorticoids acte synergistically with Rituximab in inducing apoptosis against various
      malignant NHL B cell lines. A single dose of dexamethasone administered immediately before
      rituximab was adequate for this synergistic effect. Furthermore, we have tested this sequence
      in vivo in the context of a prospective trial of dexamethasone, rituximab and
      cyclophosphamide for previously untreated patients with WM. This combination induced
      responses in 74% of patients. Based on the above we investigate a combination of bortezomib,
      dexamethasone and rituximab (BDR) as primary treatment for patients with WM. The following
      points are of importance:

      A) Only patients who have an indication for treatment will be included and will exclude
      asymptomatic patients. This is one of few multicenter trials designed specifically for WM
      patients who have a predefined indication for treatment.

      B) By avoiding any stem cell toxic agent, we believe that we will be able to collect adequate
      number of blood stem cells from our patients≤70 years of age. These stem cells could be used
      to support high dose therapy at the time of relapse after BDR.

      C) Our previous experience with single agent bortezomib indicates a median time to response
      of one month. Thus, by starting treatment with bortezomib alone, we believe that we will
      abrogate the "IgM flare" phenomenon that occurs in almost 50% of patients receiving
      single-agent rituximab.

      D) We will limit the use of dexamethasone to one dose (40mg) just before the administration
      of rituximab based on in vitro data. In contrast to multiple myeloma, there is no evidence
      that dexamethasone is essential for the treatment of WM. Furthermore repetitive
      administration of dexamethasone may be associated with increased risk for opportunistic
      infections.

      E) We plan to administer no more than 5 cycles of bortezomib in order to avoid the increased
      incidence of neuropathy which usually occurs with more exposure to bortezomib. Subsequently
      the patients will be followed with no treatment until there is evidence of progressive
      disease.
    
  