
    
      The nephrotic syndrome is characterized by heavy proteinuria, edema, hyperlipidemia, and a
      thrombotic tendency. Membranous nephropathy, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, resistant
      minimal change disease, and Immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy (also known as Berger's
      disease) are the common forms of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome in adults. Asymptomatic
      patients with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome may be treated with ACE inhibitors and /or
      angiotension receptor blockers to reduce proteinuria, with statins to treat hyperlipidemia,
      and diuretics to control edema.

      Patients with large amounts of proteinuria are refractory to such treatments and often
      require immunosuppressive medications to promote a remission of the proteinuria and the
      nephrotic syndrome and to prevent progressive renal failure. All such immunosuppressives have
      multiple potential serious side effects. Some patients either relapse after remissions of
      their proteinuria or are resistant to immunosuppressive therapy.

      A synthetic truncated analog of ACTH has been used in patients with the nephrotic syndrome in
      both uncontrolled trials and in a randomized controlled trial in membranous nephropathy. In
      uncontrolled studies it has led to sustained remissions of the nephrotic syndrome in multiple
      forms of idiopathic disease including membranous nephropathy and focal segmental
      glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). It has also led to reduction of total cholesterol, LDL
      cholesterol, Lpa, and elevations of HDL cholesterol. In a controlled randomized trial in
      membranous nephropathy it proved equivalent to an alternating monthly regimen of
      corticosteroids and an alkylating agent that is widely regarded as a first line therapy for
      this disease.

      This synthetic truncated analog of ACTH is not available in the US. ACTHAR gel is a natural,
      highly purified, porcine ACTH which is both available in the US and FDA approved for use in
      the nephrotic syndrome. Although ACTHAR gel has been used to treat large numbers of patients
      with multiple sclerosis and infantile paralysis annually, it has, however, been used in only
      small numbers of patients for the indication of the nephrotic syndrome.
    
  