
    
      This study explores structural and functional brain changes in relation to effects on speech,
      language, communication and quality of life following an intensive speech-language program
      with additional physiotherapy for persons with chronic aphasia and/or apraxia of speech. The
      participants are consecutively recruited from a rehabilitation centre providing intensive
      treatment for chronic conditions following stroke or other neurological injuries. The
      speech-language pathologists (SLPs) involved in the rehabilitation programs perform the
      testing directly before and after intensive intervention with an additional follow up after
      16 weeks (+-2) with testing of speech-language, communication and quality of life. The SLPs
      have more than five years of experience of working with aphasia and are specialised in
      working with intensive treatment, they have acquired in-depth knowledge on how to evaluate
      and treat aphasia and apraxia of speech in lectures and workshops. The test procedure is
      recorded with camcorder and voice recorder to provide the opportunity to access data
      retrospectively and to minimize bias by including an external SLP who makes a second blinded
      evaluation on randomized participants' performance in ASRS, BNT and CAT by studying the video
      and voice material. Structural and functional neuroplasticity is also investigated with
      voxel-based morphometry (VBM) analysis, resting state functional connectivity (rsFC) in
      domain-specific (language processing) and domain-general (executive and attention
      processing). This intensive neuro-rehabilitation program for speech and language deficits
      named Multimodal Intensive Rehabilitation for Aphasia and Apraxia of Speech (MIRAA) is
      defined as an ICAP (Intensive Comprehensive Aphasia Program) with focus on both speech and
      language function and communicative activity and participation. The program is intensive:
      consisting of ten days of training (5 hours/day), with a minimum of three hours dedicated to
      speech and language rehabilitation with additional physical therapy. The program includes
      both individual treatment, group therapy and computer-based therapy. The therapy is
      individually set up after the participant's goals together with the team including SLPs,
      physiotherapists and a board-certified neurologist and/or specialist in rehabilitation
      medicine. The goals are set by the participants, family members and clinicians the first day
      of the program. The participant and their significant other are offered education with the
      aim to enhance the knowledge on communication, the key concepts of neuroplasticity and other
      functions and strategies important in everyday life. The treatment methods being used are
      evidence-based and/or widely used multimodal programs covering the need for extensive
      training programs targeting both impairment-based therapy and functional communication. The
      specific questions are: Does ten days of with an intensive comprehensive aphasia/AOS program
      result in any clinical significant improvements in speech and/or language function and other
      cognitive skills for participants with chronic aphasia and/or apraxia of speech? Does the
      intensive intervention have any effect on the quality of everyday life concerning speech and
      language functions, activity and communicative participation for people with chronic aphasia
      and apraxia of speech? Can functional and anatomical brain changes be detected following ten
      days of intensive speech and language intervention for these participants?
    
  