
    
      Reduced ovarian reserve and the consequent poor ovarian response are very recurent in
      infertile patients, indeed a percentage of 10%-24% of couples addressed to infertility
      program may be classified as Poor Ovarian Responder (POR).

      Poor ovarian response and reduced ovarian reserve can be caused by different factors such as
      advanced female age, smoking, autoimmune diseases, aneuploidies and genetic diseases or can
      be idiopathic.

      An Eshre ( European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology) consensus in 2011
      established the "Bologna Criteria" that consented a standardize definition of poor ovarian
      response (POR).

      According with the Bologna Criteria we can diagnose a Poor Ovarian Response or an expected
      Poor Ovarian Response when at least two of the following three features are present:

        -  Advanced maternal age (≥40 years) or any other risk factor for POR;

        -  A previous POR (≤3 oocytes with a conventional stimulation protocol);

        -  An abnormal ovarian reserve test (i.e. AFC -Antral Follicular Count- 5-7 follicles or
           AMH ,0.5-1.1 ng/ml). The diagnosis and the prediction of poor ovarian response consent
           the selection of the best treatment with the aim of the retrieval of an high number of
           oocytes.

      A lot of treatment have been proposed to optimize in vitro fertilization outcomes in POR
      (high dosage of Gonadotropins; short protocol, administration of androgens or Aromatase
      Inhibitors, administration of Growth Hormone and the repeated luteal phase stimulation).

      The Luteal Phase Stimulation was initially proposed for fertility preservation procedures,
      but in last years is used in POR patients too. The recently diffused "wave theory" support
      this technique. According to the wave theory two or three cohorts of antral follicles are
      recruited during the follicular and luteal phase of each ovarian cycle and in one of this
      follicular wave will be selected the dominant follicle.

      A trial performed in 2014 (Kuang et al, 2014) pubblished results of repeated luteal phase
      stimulation (Shanghai Protocol) showing that double ovarian stimulations in the same
      menstrual cycle provide more opportunities for retrieving oocytes in poor responders. More
      recently another trial (Ubaldi et al 2016) did not observe significant differences in term of
      number of oocytes retrieved and euploid blastocyst rate from follicular versus luteal phase
      stimulation.

      Objective: To evaluate whether the repeated luteal phase stimulation (Second Step) permits a
      significantly higher number of oocytes retrieved in POR when compared to conventional
      follicular stimulation.

      Interventions: The follicular phase stimulation is conduced according to a standardized
      Antagonist protocol or Short protocol (with GnRH agonist) using recombinant or urinary
      gonadotropins (starting dose 300 or 450 UI) or a long lasting recombinant gonadotropin
      (Corifollitropin alfa 150 mcg) from the second day of the menstrual cycle. When at least two
      follicles had reached 17-18 mm in diameter, ovulation will be triggered with a single
      subcutaneous bolus of urinary human chorionic gonadotropin (10.000 UI ) and oocyte retrieval
      will be performed after 35 hours.

      Two - six days after the first oocyte retrieval a second gonadotropin stimulation will be
      started with a GnRH antagonist protocol (the stimulation will be started with 250 UI of human
      menopausal gonadotropin (hMG) and a GnRH antagonist (GnRH-an) 0,25 mg\die will be
      administered when the leading follicle is ≥ 14 mm until hCG criteria are met). When at least
      two follicles had reached 17-18 mm in diameter, ovulation will be triggered with a single
      subcutaneous bolus of urinary human chorionic gonadotropin (10.000 UI ) and oocyte retrieval
      will be performed after 35 hours.

      Two or Three months after the second oocyte retrieval the Embryo transfer (ET) will be
      performed after endometrial preparation with Estradiol Valerate and intramuscular
      Progesterone.
    
  