
    
      Impulsivity, considered as the tendency to express spontaneous, excessive and/or unplanned
      behavior, is recognized as a major factor involved in suicidal behavior and self-harm
      behaviors. It consists in one of the diagnostic criteria of Borderline Personality Disorder,
      allowing as well assessment of its clinical severity. There is so far no specific treatment
      concerning impulsivity. From a neurobiological perspective, the prefrontal cortex is
      considered as a critical region in the cognitive control of behaviors. Previous studies have
      associated an hypoactivation of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) and the dorsal
      part of the anterior cingulate cortex to Borderline Personality Disorder.

      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a technique of noninvasive brain
      stimulation which delivers a subthreshold electrical current to the scalp, manipulating the
      resting membrane potential. It has shown cognitive function improvement, both in healthy
      individuals and psychiatric populations. Modulation of the dlPFC could therefore represent a
      mean of reducing impulsivity in those patients.

      With a prospective, sham-controlled, crossover, double-blind design, this study aims to
      evaluate the impact of bilateral tDCS over the dlPFC on the impulsive dimension of adults
      suffering from Borderline Personality Disorder. Subjects will be submitted to 10 tDCS
      stimulation sessions (active or sham) for five consecutive days (2 sessions of 30
      minutes/day). Current intensity will be of 2 mA, through 25 cm² surface electrodes, placed
      over the dlPFC (anode position over F4 and cathode over F3, according to the EEG 10-20
      international system). Subjects who undergo active stimulation sessions will be then
      submitted to sham sessions and vice-versa. Baseline measures will be compared to those
      obtained immediately after the end of sessions (5 days: short-term effects), and to 12 and 30
      days later (long-term effects). Active and sham stimulation sessions outcomes will as well be
      compared.
    
  