
    
      Using a new and more detailed approach to diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) recently developed
      in our lab, the investigators aim to confirm and expand upon previous findings of white
      matter abnormalities throughout the brain in individuals with autism. The investigators have
      chosen to focus particularly on cerebellar and motor pathways in consideration of the
      prevalence of motor deficits in autism as well as brain structural studies that have
      indicated cerebellar abnormalities in autistic children. Finally, a proposal to investigate a
      possible functional association between white matter structure and the expression of
      restricted repetitive behaviors in autistic children, by correlating measures of white matter
      integrity with behavioral assessments indicating the severity of various forms of restricted
      repetitive behaviors. Two specific aims will be accomplished. Aim 1: To examine the integrity
      of white matter pathways in high functioning autistic children. The hypothesis is that autism
      is associated with specific white matter abnormalities in the cerebellum and other motor
      circuits. Additionally, it is expect to confirm and expand on previous reports of cerebral
      abnormalities by using newly developed DTI methods. Aim 2: To determine whether there is a
      relationship between white matter abnormalities and the occurrence of restricted repetitive
      behaviors in children with autism. The hypothesis is that differences in the occurrence and
      type of restricted repetitive behaviors between autistic individuals are correlated with
      specific regional white matter abnormalities. Results from the proposed experiments should
      contribute to current knowledge of brain abnormalities in autism and their relationship to
      restricted repetitive behaviors, and may be relevant to understanding the mechanisms
      underlying motor deficits in this disorder.
    
  