
    
      Subjects will be recruited through fliers from local exercise and community centers,
      independent senior living centers, and on the campus of the University of Nebraska at Omaha.
      Younger subjects age 19-35 years will be recruited. Older adults age 65-79 years will be
      recruited.

      At entry in the study, all subjects must self-report to be free from the following: history
      of 1 or more falls in the previous year, ear infections, vertigo, Meniere's disease, chronic
      dizziness. Subjects will not be excluded, but information will be collected on the following
      factors: hip/knee replacements, pain in the body, body-mass index, daily physical activity
      measures. A written informed consent approved by the Institutional Review Board of the
      University of Nebraska Medical Center (the IRB of record) will be obtained prior to the
      screening process.

      Study Procedures Overview: Analysis of responses and falls from diverse slip perturbations
      will take place in the main Motion Analysis Laboratory of the Biomechanics Research Building
      at the University of Nebraska at Omaha. Each subject will participate in 3 visits within the
      span of 1 week. On the initial visit, subjects will perform informed consent, then be asked
      to provide demographic information (age, gender, height, body mass), a medical questionnaire
      to assess exclusion criteria, and a physical activity questionnaire. Upper and lower body
      strength will be measured using a hand-held dynamometer during the first and last visits. On
      each of the three visits, subjects will perform a gait variability assessment followed by a
      diverse slip perturbation assessment.

      Gait variability assessment procedures: Before recording data, retroreflective markers will
      be placed on specific anatomical locations. These locations are defined to create a full-body
      dynamics model. Following familiarization, subjects will walk on a treadmill for 5 minutes at
      a prescribed pace of 1.3 meters per second while whole body kinematics are collected. Both
      linear and nonlinear measures of gait variability will be calculated (Table 1) to determine
      possible relationships between these measures and other outcome variables such as learning
      rate for reactive movements, and fall rate.

      Diverse slip perturbation assessment procedures: subjects will walk overground back and forth
      across a large motion capture area. Previous studies show that walking speed is highly
      correlated with some outcome measures, specifically variations in whole body angular
      momentum, gait variability measures, and loss of balance following a slip. Therefore, we will
      control gait speed across all subjects to 1.3 ± 0.2 m/s, a typically comfortable speed for
      both younger and older adults. Participants will be informed that a slip may occur, and that
      if slipped, they should attempt to maintain balance and continue walking. Subjects will then
      be slipped without warning at a randomly chosen time after 1 to 3 minutes of walking. Slips
      will be administered to both feet simultaneously during early, middle or late stance in a
      randomized order.

      After each slip, subjects will rest seated for 5 minutes. During this rest period, motion
      capture data and force data from the harness will be recorded, and the WASP will be reset for
      the next trial. Subjects will complete four slips in each of early, middle, and late stance
      on each visit. Measures of falls, slip severity, and reactive stabilization movements will be
      calculated.
    
  