
    
      A proportion of prostate cancer (PCa) patients develop a local, regional (N1) or distant (M1)
      relapse following curative local treatment. For both local and distant relapses, different
      treatment recommendations are made in the guidelines (EAU guidelines 2016). However, the
      entity regional nodal recurrence is not mentioned in the guidelines but is an emerging
      clinical situation since the introduction of choline and more recently PSMA PET-CT in the
      restaging of recurrent prostate cancer. More specifically, a subgroup of these patients is
      being diagnosed with a recurrence confined to the regional lymph nodes and limited in number
      (oligorecurrence) using choline or PSMA PET-CT. As there are no specific treatment
      recommendations for these type of patients, different treatment approaches are currently
      used, mostly focusing on local ablative treatments using radiotherapy or surgery. These
      treatments are coined metastasisdirected therapy (MDT). MDT in combination with or without
      temporary ADT could delay the subsequent risk of metastases, and even cure limited regional
      nodal recurrences. Consequently, lifelong palliative ADT, with its toxicity and excess in
      non-cancer mortality might be postponed.

      The proposed trial randomizes patients with oligorecurrent nodal prostate cancer following
      primary PCa treatment to either metastasis-directed therapy (MDT) (sLND or SBRT) or MDT plus
      WPRT. In the recurrent PCa setting, 2 recent trials have suggested a progression-free and
      even survival benefit of adding temporary ADT to local salvage prostate bed radiotherapy.
      Consequently, this positive effect might also be applicable for regional recurrences.
      Although the optimal duration of ADT is unknown, a minimal duration of 6 months of ADT seems
      advisable in this setting and will be mandatory for both arms.

      This trial will improve our insights in the pattern of recurrence following these treatment
      modalities with the expectation that WPRT will reduce the number of nodal relapses, improving
      metastasis-free survival and postponing the need for palliative systemic treatments while
      maintaining quality-of-life. The current phase II trial will try to establish a golden
      standard in the treatment of oligorecurrent nodal PCa.
    
  