
    
      Invasive Gram negative bacterial infection resulting in sepsis continues to command
      substantial morbidity and mortality despite effective antibiotics and modern intensive care.
      It has been estimated that there are 300,000 cases per year in the United States. The
      emergence of multiple antibiotic resistant strains of bacteria adds to the urgency of finding
      novel therapies for the treatment of gram negative sepsis. Sepsis is a systemic inflammatory
      condition characterized by fever, hypotension, tachypnea, and tachycardia which can lead to
      multiple organ/system failure and ultimately death. This study is a randomized, partial
      blinded, placebo-controlled phase I safety and immunogenicity study in healthy subjects of
      detoxified J5 core glycolipid/ group B meningococcal outer membrane protein vaccine for
      gram-negative bacterial sepsis administered with and without synthetic unmethylated
      cytosine-guanosine motif (CPG) oligodeoxynucleotide 7909 adjuvant. The primary objective of
      this study is to establish the safety and tolerability of the combination of vaccine and CPG
      7909. The secondary objective of this study is to determine if the combination of vaccine
      with the CPG 7909 is more immunogenic than vaccine alone. One dosage level of vaccine based
      on lipopolysaccharide (LPS) content will be studied in a three-dose regimen administered
      intramuscularly (IM). Since prior experience indicates no significant differences in
      immunogenicity response between the 10 and 25 microgram (mcg) doses of vaccine, researchers
      will test the 10 mcg dose. Researchers will also use 2 different doses of the CPG 7909
      adjuvant (500 mcg and 250 mcg). There will be a control group that receives normal saline
      (NS) alone (placebo). The purpose of this study is to assess whether or not this vaccine is
      safe and well tolerated when given with an adjuvant, CPG 7909. The other goal of this study
      is to ascertain whether or not the combination of vaccine and adjuvant induces a more robust
      antibody response to the vaccine than is observed with the vaccine alone. The study
      population will include approximately 28-34 healthy subjects ages 18-50 years, inclusive,
      recruited from existing pool of Center for Vaccine Development (CVD) subjects. Subjects will
      be randomized to one of four study groups: (Group 1) 10 mcg vaccine alone; (Group 2) 10 mcg
      vaccine plus 500 mcg CPG 7909; (Group 3) 10 mcg vaccine plus 250 mcg CPG 7909; and (Group 4)
      placebo (normal saline). After blood is obtained for pre-vaccination antibody levels,
      subjects will receive 3 vaccinations at Day 0, 29 and 59. Subjects will be followed for
      safety (both clinical signs and symptoms and laboratory tests) and antibody response
      (anti-core glycolipid antibody by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay [ELISA], and
      opsonophagocytic response). Assessments for reactogenicity will be done for 60 minutes post
      vaccination and on the first and second days after each vaccination at the CVD and via 8 day
      memory aid, to be completed by the subject, after each vaccination. An electrocardiogram
      (EKG) will be performed after each vaccination. Blood sampling will be performed on Days 0,
      14, 36, 66, 120, 180, and 365 to measure the immunogenicity of the vaccine with and without
      adjuvant and for antibody screening. A safety evaluation will be done by telephone on Day 90,
      Day 150 and Day 239, and a final safety antibody and immunogenicity evaluation will be done
      during the clinic visit at Day 365.
    
  