
    
      This research protocol is designed to study the genetic basis of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) and
      related conditions in Africa. This project, the Africa America Diabetes Mellitus (AADM)
      Study, has been continuously funded for over a decade by multiple institutes at NIH including
      an R01 grant from the NIDDK to Dr. Rotimi when he was a Professor at Howard University. As a
      result, the AADM study has a well-established international infrastructure with long-standing
      collaborators. While previous phases of this study have included related individuals, we are
      currently only enrolling unrelated T2D cases and controls in order to facilitate genome-wide
      association studies (GWAS) or similar types of genetic analyses for which unrelated datasets
      are optimal. In total, we anticipate enrolling 10,000 cases and controls from 5 centers in
      West Africa (Enugu, Ibadan and Lagos in Nigeria; Accra and Kumasi in Ghana). By sampling from
      these regions, we will be enrolling individuals representing primarily 4 major ethnic groups
      (the Yoruba, Ibo, Akan, and Ga), as well as a low number of individuals from a variety of
      other ethnic groups. To date, we have enrolled 6,486 individuals. These data will be used for
      a variety of genetic analyses, including association studies based on genome-wide array data,
      exome chip array and candidate gene/loci datasets, linkage disequilibrium (LD) mapping, and
      functional studies in different ethnically-defined populations. At each site, efforts will be
      made to enroll ethnically balanced cases and controls with the goal of facilitating the
      conduct of GWAS and candidate gene/loci studies in a broad range of populations. To further
      understand the complex metabolic background of T2D and its consequences, this data will also
      be explored with respect to a variety of T2D-related traits, including obesity, hypertension,
      serum lipids, inflammation, nephropathy, and neuropathy. Additionally, these samples will be
      used to study genetic variation in the context of how participants of different ancestry
      respond to drugs and other environmental factors and how this variation may have shaped
      population history. Overall, these studies aim to further our understanding of the genetic
      basis of T2D in African individuals. Given past activities, it is also anticipated that this
      resource will form the basis of multiple collaborations between Dr. Rotimi s lab, several NIH
      intramural researchers and non-NIH scientists. It is hoped that, over time, additional
      populations from Africa and beyond may be added to this study to expand the focus on
      individuals from varying ancestral backgrounds; each subsequent population will use the same
      procedures as in the ongoing work among Africans.
    
  