
    
      The treatment, regardless of participation in the proposed research, is to bring the patients
      to the operating room where under general anesthesia the nose is suctioned clean of blood
      clot, crust and secretion. The mucosa is then injected with a local anesthetic with
      adrenaline to reduce discomfort and to reduce bleeding. The nasal mucosa is treated with a
      KTP laser in our standard fashion. A 100mg of Avastin delivered in 4cc is then diluted with
      4cc of normal saline to a total volume of 8cc. The dilution is made not for any known
      difference in treatment but rather it normally takes a minimum of 8cc to properly inject the
      nasal mucosa. The 1% Bevacizumab is then injected submucosally throughout the nasal cavity
      sparing the mucosa of the cartilage and the septum. The nasal cavity is then sprayed with 2cc
      of a fibrin sealant (EVICEL) this reduces postoperative bleeding and facilitates healing from
      the laser therapy. It has nothing to do with the Bevacizumab injection. The patient is then
      awakened and returned to the recovery room and discharged home. Beginning in approximately
      one week the patient is instructed to begin their hypertonic pulsatile nasal irrigations.
      They will follow-up in the clinic at 1 month. The data collection form is attached. Prior to
      treatment patient completes the HHT epistaxis severity score, blood is drawn for hematocrit,
      hemoglobin and serum feritin levels. Women of childbearing age all have a urine pregnancy
      test, required both by anesthesia and for the Bevacizumab study as well. Patients are
      followed monthly for the first 6 months. At 3 and 6 months the blood tests are repeated. For
      those living in San Diego they can be performed at UCSD. For those living outside the San
      Diego area they can be repeated by their primary care physician. For the ensuing 18 months
      patients are followed monthly either electronically or by telephone. ESS scores are
      calculated. Laboratory tests are not repeated. Patients are followed-up until such time as
      they begin re-bleeding and their ESS scores increase either above 2 or by 1 point above their
      1 month post-op evaluation. Experience to date with 20 or 30 patients is that bleeding ceases
      within 1 to 2 weeks. Hence the 1 month score should be their optimum result. Adverse events
      will be recorded and appropriately reported to the IRB.

      A new epistaxis severity score (ESS) has been developed and tested by the HHT Foundation. We
      have used this for the past several months and found it to be an excellent measure of HHT
      epistaxis. A copy is attached.

      The minimum sample size is 10 patients. Study duration is planned for 24 months and if more
      patients are recruited they will be included. If fewer patients are recruited the study may
      be extended. Data will be reported by means and standard deviations. Patients will be
      compared individually and collectively to their pretreatment data specifically hematocrit,
      hemoglobin, serum ferritin and epistaxis severity score.
    
  