
    
      In this context, it seems important to look for if there are specificities concerning the
      profiles of attachment and the self-defining memories at the patients suffering from
      postnatal depression. Especially as the current literature approaches only little this
      subject of public health.

      To analyze these specificities, two groups (group postnatal depression versus group control)
      will compare by estimating the type of maternal attachment and theirs self-definig memories,
      without omitting to look for a possible psychiatric pathology, and a personality problem at
      the mother.

      The main objective of this study will be to highlight specificities of the style of
      attachment and the personal identity in the postnatal depression.

      The secondary objectives of this study will on one hand be to look for the existence of links
      between the various clinical variables in the postnatal depression.

      And on the other hand to look for psychological and clinical factors which can be markers of
      vulnerability and\or factors of protection of the depression comment native (comparison
      between both groups of subjects).

      The participation to this study will be proposed to all the women of both centers, throughout
      the inclusion. Those who will have accepted will fill a scale Edinburgh Post-natal Depression
      Scale (EPDS). The score which will decide in which group women will be assigned :

        -  < 11 group control

        -  > 11 group PND The specific visit in the study will take place in a identical way for
           the cases and the witnesses.

      The patients will be seen at first by a doctor a child psychiatrist who will make a data
      collection sociodemographic and clinical and the signing of various questionnaires : Mini
      International Neurospychiatric Interview (MINI), Adult Attachment Narratives (AAN), Camir
      scale and Perceived Social Support Questionnaire (QSSP).

      Secondly, the patients will be seen by a psychologist to pursue the clinical evaluation
      (Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), Beck Depression Inventory and self-esteem scale (EES), Scale
      of vocabulary (MILL-HILL) and to realize the signing of the questionnaire of the
      self-defining memories.
    
  