
    
      Obesity has been linked to poorer quality oocytes, fewer embryos, and poorer outcomes with
      pregnancy rates and live birth rates when compared to normal BMI patients. Animal and human
      studies have shown that short term caloric restriction has lead to improved oocyte quality.
      Clearly obesity has a negative effect on egg quality. Is this related to the caloric quantity
      that these patients are consuming when compared with normal BMI patients? If caloric quantity
      has an impact on egg quality and quantity, then more accurate nutritional guidance could be
      provided to obese patients who desire to undergo fertility treatments to achieve pregnancy.
      This could ultimately lead to an improvement in pregnancy rates and live birth rates for
      these patients.

      The goal is to create a survey that would ask patients questions about their caloric intake
      and activity level. They would also be provided with a food diary to track their caloric
      intake over a three-day period. They will be instructed to complete the diary during a three
      day period that would represent their typical diet without any modifications or deviations.
      The investigators would take the information from this survey to look at average daily
      caloric intake for a single patient. This data would then be compared with AMH
      (anti-müllerian hormone) levels and antral follicle counts (AFC) seen on US that would be
      accessible through the patient's chart. This data would be readily accessible as it is part
      of all patients' initial workup for infertility assessment and treatment. The investigators
      would allow for up to a 12 month time period between when these lab and ultrasound findings
      were performed and when the patient is enrolled in the research study in order to accurately
      reflect patients' average caloric intake.

      Antral follicles are visualized and measured by transvaginal ultrasound and defined as
      measuring 2-10mm in diameter. This study would define a low AFC ranging from 0-10 antral
      follicles seen between days two and four of a regular menstrual cycle and would be consistent
      with poor ovarian reserve. AMH is a hormone level that is expressed by early follicles and
      reflects the size of the follicle pool. This level represents ovarian function and provides
      additional information on ovarian reserve. This level can be measured anytime during the
      menstrual cycle. Normal and abnormal values for the AMH lab value will be determined in this
      study by the specific laboratory assay that is used by Trihealth, and what that laboratory's
      reference ranges are since there is not an accepted standardized range.
    
  