
    
      According to recent studies, Propionibacterium acnes is found in 30% of patients with no
      preliminary shoulder operation and without obvious signs of infection. This bacterium is
      supposed to be the main pathogen causing shoulder infections. As it resides in the
      subcutaneous layer, many antiseptic and antibiotic agents that affect other layers fail to
      prevent infections. When administering antibiotics to reduce infections due to
      Propionibacterium acnes, cross-resistances to various antibiotics are created. Therefore, the
      investigators aim to investigate the efficacy of a local combination therapy without
      antibiotics (Benzoylperoxid and Miconazolnitrat) to reduce the presence of Propionibacterium
      acnes in patients first time undergoing open shoulder surgery. The investigators will also
      demonstrate the rate of positive cultures for Propionibacterium acnes in different layers
      regarding gender and age of patients. To best knowledge, no randomized controlled trials
      investigating the efficacy of Benzoylperoxid and Miconazolnitrat for reduction of
      Propionibacterium acnes in patients undergoing first time open shoulder surgery exist in the
      literature. However, in 1989 a clinical trial could demonstrate a 66% reduction of
      inflammatory acne lesions by applying a lotion containing Benzoylperoxid and Miconazol.

      The investigators suppose that the patients with the local therapy (therapy group) show fewer
      positive samples than the patients of the control group as the combination of Benzoylperoxid
      and Miconazolnitrat (Widmer Acne Crème Plus, approval number 47033, Swissmedic) is used in
      the therapy of acne where Propionibacterium acnes is the major pathogen. By decreasing the
      presence of Propionibacterium acnes, infections and revision surgeries could be reduced as
      well. The investigators expect a higher rate of positive cultures from the subcutaneous layer
      compared to the superficial and to the deep layer. The investigators await more positive
      cultures in men than in women as men show a higher density of the glands in the subcutaneous
      layer where Propionibacterium acnes is linked to. For the same reason, the investigators
      suppose also a higher number of positive culture samples in younger patients (≤40 years) than
      in older patients (>40 years).

      60 patients undergoing first time open shoulder surgery (Latarjet, prosthesis) will be
      prospectively included in this study. The investigators will do a randomized controlled
      trial, choosing with a single-blinded protocol 30 patients for local therapy and other 30
      patients as the control group without any treatment preoperative. In the preoperative
      consultation 30 patients will get Acne Crème Plus (Benzoylperoxid and Miconazolnitrat) to
      apply until operation (on average 7 days) after receiving written consent. The application
      should be done daily in the evening on the planned operative side covering the skin from the
      nipple-areola complex laterally to the medial margin of the scapula and from a horizontal
      line through the nipple-areola complex cranially over the shoulder and dorsally to the spina
      scapulae. 30 patients will be included in the control group. Those patients will not get the
      local therapy in the preoperative consultation but they will need to give written consent for
      taking swabs for culture samples pre- and intraoperative. In the operation room there will be
      done from each of the 60 patients a superficial skin swab before doing disinfection, a swab
      of the subcutaneous layer and a swab of the deep layer (joint capsule). All the three swabs
      from each of the 60 patients will be sent to Unilabs, Labor für Medizinische Analytik AG,
      Dübendorf, Switzerland to streak on agar plates to cultivate under anaerobic conditions for
      14 days. Propionibacterium acnes will be identified by use of matrix-assisted laser
      desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. The number of positive culture
      samples from the therapy group will be compared with the number of positive culture samples
      from the control group.

      Determination of Sample Size was done by performing a power analysis using www.clincalc.com,
      a sample size calculator placed at disposal by Sean P. Kane (clinical pharmacist, assistant
      professor at Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, North Chicago and advocate
      of evidence-based medicine). The study groups are two independent groups as they receive
      different treatments. The primary endpoint is dichotomous. The anticipated incidence of the
      therapy group is defined as 30%, the incidence of the control group is supposed to be 3-5%
      and the enrolment ratio is 1. The probability of a type-I-error is 0.05. With obtaining a
      power of 80%, between 56 and 70 participants are needed for the study according to the sample
      size calculator.

      Recent studies could show that 30% of the patients without any obvious signs for infection
      and no preliminary operation have positive culture samples for Propionibacterium acnes, the
      investigators expect this result as well. The investigators suppose that the patients with
      the local therapy (therapy group) show fewer positive samples than the patients of the
      control group as the combination of Benzoylperoxid and Miconazolnitrat is used in the therapy
      of acne where Propionibacterium acnes is the major pathogen. As it is known that
      Propionibacterium acnes resides in the subcutaneous layer, the investigators expect a higher
      rate of positive cultures from the subcutaneous layer compared to the superficial and to the
      deep layer. The investigators expect more positive cultures in men than in women as men show
      a higher density of the glands in the subcutaneous layer where Propionibacterium acnes is
      linked to. The investigators suppose also a higher number of positive culture samples in
      younger patients (≤40 years) than in older patients (>40 years).
    
  