
    
      New-onset atrial fibrillation (AF) after coronary bypass grafting (CABG) is common, with an
      incidence ranging from 5%-65%.

      Although postoperative atrial tachyarrhythmia is often regarded as a temporary problem
      related to the operation and therefore innocuous, this complication has clinically
      significant adverse effects on patient outcome.

      The purpose of this study was to find a good treatment without severe adverse effects to
      minimize the incidence of AF and maybe reduced the hemodynamic stress which AF is well known
      to cause. This would indicate that the risk of developing fatal events like cerebral
      apoplexy, TCI, AMI and death will be minimized as a result of the improved hemodynamic.

      Overall AF is associated with risk of illness and for the development of severe complications
      as cerebral apoplexy, TCI, AMI and death with a factor 2-3.

      There has furthermore been seen a twofold increase in the duration of intensive care unit
      stay and prolongation of the total hospitalization time with attendant increased
      hospitalization cost.

      The outbreak of AF after CABG has been increasing over the last twenty years. It is
      speculated that the reason for this rise in incidence is due to the advancing age in the
      patient populations, more complex cardiac surgery as due to former underestimation of the
      arrhythmia.

      Medical therapy includes various drugs, such as β-blockers, calcium channel blockers,
      digoxin, sotalol, quinidine, and amiodarone among others, to control heart rate and restore
      sinus rhythm. Most of these antiarrhythmic agents have significant cardiac and noncardiac
      adverse effects , why the use of these drugs should be minimized to a short period of time.
      Amiodarone is well known drug to treat AF and diminish the incidence of AF after CABG
      operation. So far there has not been any study focusing on postoperative high doses treatment
      with oral administrated amiodarone. The studies which have been publicized are studies where
      the drug was administrated intravenously pre-, post- or both pre- and postoperative. Some
      studies have orally administrated the drug in different regimes11 but no study has yet shown
      the possible affect of solitarily postoperative administrated high doses amiodarone after an
      intravenously administrated bolus, with the affect of getting loaded immediately.
    
  