
    
      The combination of chronic low back pain (cLBP) and high medication use negatively impacts
      Veterans' work productivity and quality of life, and generates substantial risk for long-term
      disability and opioid addiction. Although non-pharmacological therapies, such as those
      commonly used by doctors of chiropractic (DCs), are recommended by recent guidelines for
      treatment of cLBP, the optimal patterns of chiropractic use, clinical impact of chiropractic
      treatment on other health services utilization, and long-term effectiveness of chiropractic
      care is unknown.

      This is a pragmatic, parallel groups, multisite randomized trial. Veterans with cLBP are
      randomly allocated to undergo a course of a low dose (1-5 visits) or a higher dose (8-12
      visits) of multimodal, evidence-based chiropractic care for 10 weeks (Phase 1). The
      investigators hypothesize that a higher dose (8-12 visits) of chiropractic care will be more
      effective in improving function and reducing pain intensity and pain-related interference in
      Veterans with cLBP compared to a low dose (1-5 visits).

      After Phase 1, participants within each treatment arm will be randomly allocated again to
      receive either chronic chiropractic pain management (CCPM) consisting of scheduled monthly
      chiropractic care or no CCPM for 10 months. The investigators hypothesize that CCPM (1
      scheduled chiropractic visit per month x 10 months) will result in improved function, and
      reduced pain intensity, pain-related interference, and average number of days per week with
      low back pain (LBP) in Veterans with cLBP compared to no CCPM.

      This study will also evaluate the impact of CCPM on health services outcomes compared to no
      CCPM. Evaluation of health services utilization at 52 weeks will include use of prescription
      medications, including opioids, referrals and number of visits to other healthcare
      professionals or service lines (physical therapy, injections, surgery, etc.), and
      hospitalizations for any cause and for cLBP.

      Finally, the investigators will evaluate patient and clinician perceptions of non-specific
      treatment factors, effectiveness of study interventions, and impact of the varying doses of
      standard chiropractic care and the CCPM on clinical outcomes across 4 VA facilities using a
      mixed method, process evaluation approach.
    
  