
    
      In this study the investigators will select 20 patients scheduled for orthopedic surgery of
      the knee or foot with neuraxial anesthesia (subarachnoid or sequential blocks). Sedation for
      these procedures with midazolam or propofol is daily practice in the investigators'
      department.

      So the patients will be randomized, through the envelope method, in 2 groups with 10 patients
      each: "midazolam group" and "propofol group".

      In the "midazolam group" the investigators will administer 0,05mg/kg of midazolam, being 2/3
      administered before the neuraxial block and 1/3 after.

      In the "propofol group" the investigators will administer 0,033mg/kg of midazolam before the
      neuraxial block, and immediately after installation of the block the investigators will start
      a propofol target-controlled infusion (TCI) pump (Schnider model) with an effect
      concentration set at 1mcg/mL. This pump will be turned off at the end of the surgery.

      The neuraxial block will be performed inside the operating room and preferentially in lateral
      decubitus. The choice of drug and dosage used for the block will be left to the
      anesthesiologist, to mimetize day-to-day practice. The limit dermatome of sensory block will
      be noted.

      The investigators will administer to every patient: cefazolin 2g iv bolus, ketorolac 30 mg iv
      bolus, pantoprazole 40 mg iv bolus, paracetamol 1g iv perfusion (initiated 30 minutes before
      the end of surgery).

      Central temperature will be monitored with the SpotOnTM3MTM device from entering till leaving
      the operating room, through a sensor placed in the patient's forehead. Room temperature will
      be kept at 17 degrees Celsius (ºC). Patients will be warmed with a underbody forced-air
      blanket (BairHuggerTM3MTM) set at 38ºC and maximal flow, initiated after performing the
      neuraxial block and stopped right before leaving the operating room.

      Data will be analyzed with the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) program.
    
  