
    
      Cardiac surgical patients sometimes require temporary pacing wires to optimize cardiac
      function during weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), and/or to treat hemodynamically
      significant brady-arrhythmias. The available patient series report that 8.6% to 23.9% of
      patient undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) or valve surgery require temporary
      pacing at some time after CPB. The site of pacemaker wire placement seems to be a crucial
      determinant of cardiac output. In non-surgical patients isolated right ventricular (RV)
      pacing seems to induce electromechanical dyssynchrony of the RV and the left ventricle (LV).
      A normal ventricle in sinus rhythm displays a simultaneous contraction of all segments of the
      heart, so that regional minimal volume (i.e. maximal contraction) will occur at the same
      time. Isolated RV pacing seems to result in a left bundle branch type electrical activation
      sequence, with delayed contraction of some of the segments. The LV, but not the RV, seems to
      negatively affected by this state of dyssynchrony, resulting in decreased cardiac output. In
      surgical patients however, there is not such data available yet. Since isolated RV epicardial
      wire placement is still widely practiced in cardiac surgery, and in our own institution, we
      would like to study the effect of RV pacing on LV synchrony and LV output.

      Again from studies in non-surgical patients receiving resynchronization therapy, we know that
      real-time three-dimensional (3D) echocardiography is very useful to pick up subtle changes in
      LV synchrony and thereby guide synchronization of ventricular contraction. However, to date
      the usefulness of real-time 3D echocardiography to guide pacemaker therapy in cardiac surgery
      is unknown. In the present feasibility study in cardiac surgical patients, we want to
      investigate the acute effects of isolated RV pacing on LV synchrony, and LV output.
    
  