
    
      Hypertension is a major health issue globally and is the number one risk factor for
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Despite decades of innovation in
      pharmacotherapeutics, suboptimal BP control remains a problem worldwide. Alternative
      therapies for hypertension are therefore urgently needed.

      This project addresses the following important unmet needs:

        1. . Refractory hypertension may respond to device based approaches such as baroreflex
           activation therapy (BAT) but further independent research is needed to clarify the role
           of novel technologies. It is not possible to undertake research into BAT at all due to
           lack of funding and the manufacturer is not undertaking clinical trials of the therapy
           in the UK.

        2. . Patients with highly variable BP disorders constitute a very small but important
           sub-group of the hypertensive population but are the most challenging to manage as no
           drug therapy exists to combat high and low BP simultaneously. This group of patients
           have very poor quality of life and are unable to work due to their profound BP
           variability. Many of them experience frequent hospital admissions for lengthy periods as
           a result of potentially life-threatening hypertension. Treatment with BAT may feasibly
           improve management of their condition by dampening BP variability and preventing
           hypertensive surges whilst allowing the patients to continue with measures to prevent
           hypotension using compression hosiery and drugs.

      This project has the following objectives

      Primary:

      To establish a UK national registry for treatment of blood pressure disorders with baroreflex
      activation therapy in the following patient groups:

        -  Patients with refractory hypertension (Ref-HTN) regardless of pharmacotherapy (up to 15
           patients)

        -  Patients with highly variable BP disorders (BPV) the aetiology of which indicates that
           peripheral baroreflex failure is the underlying diagnosis (up to 10 patients)

      Secondary

        -  To undertake mechanistic research to better understand the mechanism of action of
           baroreflex activation therapy and the role of the baroreflex in hypertensive disorders
           by measuring indices of autonomic function (parasympathetic and sympathetic nervous
           system tone) and humoral factors such as renin/aldosterone and copeptin in response to
           BAT.

        -  To position the Barts BP Clinic as a national referral centre for the management of
           complex circulatory disorders with access to experimental treatments unavailable
           elsewhere in the UK.

        -  To foster a more 'joined up' approach to BAT by promoting awareness of its benefits
           among primary care practitioners and other secondary care specialists.
    
  