
    
      Introduction/Background. Nonspecific low back pain (NSLBP) is a very prevalent medical
      condition (84% of the general population has suffered from it throughout its lifetime). Its
      prevalence stands out in individuals with respiratory disease, especially in subjects with
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

      Even if there are many theories that create a relationship between the two clinical
      conditions (such as inflammation associated with smoking), the postural control one is quite
      impressive.

      The diaphragm is the main muscle of breathing with its inspiratory function, but it takes
      part in trunk stabilization on lumbar spine. NSLBP is related to lack of spinal control. The
      COPD symptoms include lack of efficiency in diaphragm (deformation, weakness and
      fatigability), which could be connected to NSLBP.

      Hypothesis and objectives. The starting hypothesis is that NSLBP is a result of an associated
      pulmonary disease. COPD can contribute, correlate or even predispose them. NSLBP is
      associated with diaphragm weakness, severity of respiratory function, COPD severity, lower
      level of physical activity and quality of life in COPD.

      Methods. A descriptive observational cross-sectional study was conducted with two groups: the
      first one with 67 subjects, diagnosed with COPD, and the second one with 67 subjects without
      pulmonary disease. Data were collected on: pulmonary function, spirometry; respiratory
      muscles strength by measuring maximal inspiratory and expiratory pressures (MIP, MEP); trunk
      postural control by motor control tests (KLAT, ASLR); quality of life with COPD, through the
      COPD Assessment Test (CAT); physical activity level, using the Modified Baecke Physical
      Activity Questionnaire (MBPAQ); pain localization, through a body map; pain intensity, using
      Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) and disability, related to lumbar pain (if there is one), using
      the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI).

      The first group, with subjects diagnosed with COPD, was recruited in the hospital context,
      while the second one, with subjects without lung disease, was recruited in and out of the
      hospital context. Data were collected in a single session through tests for pulmonary
      function, respiratory muscle strength and trunk postural control. They were also collected
      using scales and questionnaires that measure the quality of life, physical activity level,
      pain and disability.
    
  