
    
      Background: Optic neuritis is a frequent cause of vision loss encountered by ophthalmologists
      in the Caribbean. The diagnosis is made on clinical grounds. Optic neuritis can occur either
      in an isolated manner or, most often, as the first symptom of multiple sclerosis (MS) or
      neuromyelitisoptica (NMO). These 2 demyelinating disorders differ by many means, including
      treatment and prognosis. MS can cause severe long-term disability while NMO is a short-term
      sight- and life-threatening condition causing potential relapses, which may require plasma
      exchanges. Furthermore, disease-modifying therapies used in NMO are different from those used
      in MS, which can worsen the natural history of NMO. Early differential diagnosis of these
      diseases is thus crucial for preventing severe visual loss and disability.

      Purpose: The investigators aim to identify early predictive factors (clinical, biological and
      radiological) of NMO occurrence in patients presenting with optic neuritis and with no prior
      history of demyelinating diseases.

      Method: The investigators will conduct a multicentric prospective study including all
      patients of 18 years or older, with no prior history of demyelinating disorders and
      presenting with a diagnosis of optic neuritis in Martinique, Guadeloupe, French Guiana,
      Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy. Patients will first undergo a full neuro-ophthalmic
      examination which includes visual acuity, contrast vision, color vision, slit-lamp anterior
      segment and fundus examination as well as automatized visual field and optical coherence
      tomography of the optic nerves and retina. Patients will then be admitted to the Neurology
      and Ophthalmologic Department of the University Hospital of Martinique for optic neuritis
      emergency treatment, 3-Tesla brain and medullar MRIs, and ancillary testing. Specific NMO
      antibodies (AQP-4 and MOG) will be tested in all patients. Neuro-ophthalmic examination will
      be repeated after 3 days of IV steroids in order to decide on further treatment. Patients
      will be further monitored at 1, 6 and 12 months so as to determine the most likely etiology
      of optic neuritis with the aid of MS and NMO diagnosis criteria.
    
  