
    
      The CTLs:

      Blood (about 34 tablespoons) will be drawn 1 time. The blood will be frozen and stored in a
      laboratory at MD Anderson for future use to make the CTLs. If CMV comes back after your
      transplant, the blood will be used to create CTLs. To create CTLs, blood cells are grown in
      the laboratory and trained to kill CMV. If the blood is not used to make the CTLs within 3
      years, it will be destroyed.

      CTL Administration:

      If your CMV becomes active after your stem cell transplant, you will receive the CTLs through
      a needle in your vein over 1-5 minutes one time, within 72 hours after CMV becomes active
      again. Before you receive the CTLs, you will receive Benadryl (diphenhydramine) and Tylenol
      (acetaminophen) by mouth to help reduce the risk of side effects. This can be done in either
      the hospital (if not yet discharged after your transplant) or in the outpatient clinic (if
      you are discharged).

      Your vital signs will be monitored at the end of the infusion, and then at 30 and 60 minutes
      after the infusion. Your oxygen level will be measured by pulse oximetry. For this test, a
      clothespin-shaped clip will be placed on your finger for at least 30 minutes. If you are an
      outpatient, you will remain in the clinic for at least 1 hour after the CTL infusion.

      If the CMV does not become active again after your stem cell transplant, you will not receive
      the CTL infusion.

      Study Visits:

      If the CMV does not become active again after your stem cell transplant, you will not receive
      the CTL infusion and your follow-up care will be done as per post-transplant standard of
      care.

      If you receive the CTL infusion, you will have the tests/procedures listed below.

      Within 48 hours before the CTL infusion:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 6 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check your kidney and
           liver function. Part of blood draw will be used for a pregnancy test for women who are
           able to become pregnant. To take part in this study, you must not be pregnant.

      Once a week for 4 weeks, blood (about 4-8 tablespoons) will be drawn to check the level of
      CMV infection in your body. This may be done more often, if you doctor thinks it is needed.

      About 1, 2, 3, and 4 weeks, and then about 3, 6, and 12 months after the CTL infusion:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check your kidney and
           liver function.

      Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for tests to learn more about the way the CTLs are
      working and how long they last in the body. This blood will be drawn before the CTL infusion,
      and then about 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months after the CTL infusion. If possible,
      the blood needed for these tests will be collected during blood draws for routine tests so
      that no additional needle sticks will be needed.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      Once a week for 6 weeks, and then about 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after the CTL infusion, you
      will be checked for signs of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) at every clinic visit. You were
      told about GVHD at the time of being prepared for transplant.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation on this study will end after your last follow-up visit about 12 months
      after the CTL infusion.

      This is an investigational study. The use of CTLs to treat CMV infection is not FDA approved.
      At this time, CTLs are only being used to treat infections in research studies.

      Up to 105 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  