
    
      The following specific aims will be addressed:

        -  to create a user-friendly, self-explanatory instrument (FACE PAIN questionnaire) with
           pain severity visual analog scales associated with the common locations of facial pain
           in chronic sinusitis.

        -  to evaluate the clinimetric reliability and validity of the FACE PAIN questionnaire

        -  to evaluate the ability of th FACE PAIN questionnaire to detect change in symptoms
           following medical or surgical treatment

        -  to quantify a minimally important difference in the FACE PAIN instrument by correlating
           disease-specific quality of life change (Transition Scale) with FACE PAIN rating changes
           following treatment.

        -  to evaluate the correlation between facial pain symptoms described on the FACE PAIN
           questionnaire with CT scan and endoscopic findings.

      The measurements used for the study are: demographics (age, gender and race), contact
      information (to facilitate mailing of future instruments), Sinonasal Outcome Test-20 (SNOT-20
      - a well validated, 20-item measure of rhinosinusitis specific QOL), FAcial and CEphalic PAin
      INventory (instrument under study) and Translational Quality of Life Form (this transition
      scale provides a subjective quantification of the degree of change in quality of life from
      sinusitis); CT scans and nasal endoscopy findings.

      Control subjects will complete the SNOT-20 (validated QOL form) and the FACE PAIN a single
      time.

      Case subjects will complete the SNOT-20 and the FACE PAIN questionnaire at the visit during
      which they review their CT results with the MD. Thereafter, they will complete the FACE PAIN
      questionaire twice more; at weeks 12 and 14 post that visit. They will also complete the
      Transition Scale at week 12. These forms will be mailed to the subjects and returned by mail.

      We hypothesize that facial pain ratings will correlate moderately with SNOT-20 scores and a
      transition scale. Higher values are not expected because QOL instruments encompass many
      symptoms of chronic sinusitis, but the FACE PAIN instrument addresses location and severity
      of pain.

      We will also test the hypothesis that facial pain ratings will be much lower in non-sinusitis
      patients.
    
  