
    
      Background: In the context of a young population, Singapore has established a superb system
      of care, focusing largely on acute hospitals and specialty services. This has addressed the
      needs of a dominantly young population, which are usually acute and self-limited, associated
      with asymptomatic risks, and occasionally relate to single disabling or life-limiting
      conditions.

      As a population ages, the needs for health and related social services change as more and
      more individuals shift into more complex stages, with multiple conditions, loss of
      resilience, and late decline; addressing the needs associated with these stages is less
      amenable to an acute care, disease-centric approach. The needs of an older population are in
      some ways similar to those of a younger population (though generally of a greater likelihood
      and degree); however, the elderly require different strategies for supporting them through
      the later stages of their lives. For example:

        -  For chronic asymptomatic risk factors, the elderly may be more or less benefited by
           screening, definitive testing, and treatment;

        -  Elders may be less likely to have their risk factors identified and successfully
           managed;

        -  Elders may have unidentified symptomatic, treatable conditions (e.g., cataract);

        -  Social issues, such as family support and social networks may have a dominant effect on
           the introduction, use and success of medical interventions;

        -  Elders experience a loss of resilience which may occur without anyone being aware, and
           through self-reinforcement can lead to frank frailty (e.g., both as a phenotype and as a
           physiological state of loss of reserve in multiple systems);

        -  Though end of life issues are not unique to elders, supporting older people through the
           late stages of life-limiting conditions presents distinctive features, which can require
           a different set of services;

        -  The high and increasing use of acute services by elderly; both in volume and in
           proportion to their numbers) may point to opportunities to care for elders at complex
           stages of health more effectively, humanely, and sustainably.

      The primary aim of this study is to validate the Simple Segmentation Tool (SST) as a method
      of patient population segmentation in terms of inter-rater reliability, as well as convergent
      validity and predictive validity.

      Design of the SST

        1. To address the expanding needs of the elderly, it is important to take a person-centric
           approach , tailoring services to the individual. From a health system perspective, this
           presents a challenge for at least two reasons. First, health system services have
           focused on sites of care and thus one may miss opportunities to alleviate progression to
           complex stages, with high morbidity and cost. Second, implementing excessively tailored
           programs can be extremely expensive from a health system perspective, especially when
           they are hospital-based.

           To address the above challenges, the investigators propose a population segmentation
           approach. This entails assigning categories of health and associated social features
           that characterize "packages" of interventions that aim to alleviate progression to more
           symptomatic/higher risk categories, and improve quality of life. This approach has been
           advocated internationally (Hewner & Seo, 2014; Van Der Laan, Van Offenbeek, Broekhuis, &
           J., 2014; Zhou, Wong, & Li, 2014), following foundational work by Lynne et al (Lynn,
           Straube, Bell, Jencks, & Kambic, 2007). Population segmentation recognizes that while
           there is wide diversity among people and individualized approaches to care,
           understanding prototypical needs can be a powerful tool for purposes of planning and
           evaluation of health and social services.

        2. The Simple Segmentation Tool was designed to facilitate the segmentation of an ageing
           Singapore population so as to facilitate the provision of cost-effective person-centric
           care. Specifically, the tool facilitates the capture of meso-level medical needs and
           complicating factors of a patient before classifying said patient into one of 7 medical
           categories and one of 3 care complexity levels.

           A healthcare need in the context of the SST is defined as a potential to benefit from
           healthcare whereupon benefit can be understood as a reduction in the probability of a
           patient transitioning into a worse clinical state or experiencing an adverse clinical
           outcome. Meanwhile, the type of needs that the SST captures are normative needs which
           are needs of a patient as assessed by a clinician.

           The 7 medical global impressions of patient of the SST were adapted from the original 8
           based on the "Bridges to Health" model by Joanne Lynn et al (Lynn et al., 2007) in order
           to better suit our evaluation of an elderly population. Patients are classified into one
           of the 7 health categories namely 1) Healthy, 2) Acutely ill but curable, 3) Chronic
           conditions, asymptomatic, 4) Chronic conditions, stable, 5) Long course of decline, 6)
           Limited reserve and serious exacerbation and 7) Short period of decline before dying;
           that best characterizes their most salient clinical needs in the medium to long term
           (months to years). With the exception of the category "Acutely ill but curable" all
           patients should only be assigned into one category at any point in time.

           The complicating factors section of the SST is designed to measure the degree of need in
           8 different healthcare relevant characteristics. These characteristics were selected
           based on their significance towards patient management at transitional points of care.
           They are as follows: 1) functional assessment, 2) social support in case of need, 3)
           hospital admissions in last 6 months, 4) disruptive behavioral issues, 5) polypharmacy,
           6) organization of care, 7) activation in own care, and 8) skilled nursing type task
           needs.

           Decline in ADL function (Buurman, Parlevliet, Van Deelen, De Haan, & De Rooij, 2010) and
           recent unplanned hospital readmissions (L. W. & C. K. W., 1999) are known to precede
           unplanned hospital readmission. On the other hand, social support enhances an
           individual's ability to cope with stressors, promotes health-seeking behavior, and also
           provides basic healthcare services (Glanz, Rimer, & Viswanath, 2008). Disruptive
           behavioral issues are important to characterize as they can cause significant caregiver
           stress (Ahn & Horgas, 2013) . Complex medication management plans due to polypharmacy
           (Cameli et al., 2012) or multiple healthcare provider confusion (Services, 2010) are
           important to recognize so as to prevent iatrogenic harm to patient. Finally, the degree
           of patient activation (Mosen et al., 2007) as well as successful management of geriatric
           syndromes (Van Craen et al., 2010) if present are also important determinants of elderly
           health.

           Depending on the highest level of social healthcare need identified in the patient, the
           following complexity category can then be assigned. For example, if the highest level of
           social healthcare need identified is a 1 for Polypharmacy, the patient is thus deemed as
           moderately complex.

           Complexity can be understood as an "interference with standard care"(Peek, Baird, &
           Coleman, 2009). Increased complexity in a patient increases the probability of failure
           of a medical intervention and hence needs to be recognized and mitigated in order to
           improve clinical outcomes.

           The SST is designed for use in an outpatient setting. Clinicians trained in its use are
           expected to first assess a patient as part of their routine clinical assessment before
           using the SST to categorize the patient. By keeping the number of inputs required from
           the clinician brief and succinct, it is hoped that utilization of the SST integrates
           well with usual clinic operational flow.

        3. Validation and Improvement of the SST

      As the SST is a novel tool, it needs to be psychometrically validated before it can be used
      to segment patient populations in various sites of provision of healthcare.There are various
      benefits associated with successful validation of the tool in the proposed manner:

      Inter-rater reliability: Validation would allow us to assess the interchangeability of
      potential users of the tool in a heterogenous patient population (Gwet, 2010). If the
      investigators are able to establish interchangeability of clinicians of different backgrounds
      and experience such as senior doctors, nurses and even medical students, the investigators
      may then be able to more easily operationalize the tool since more medical personnel will be
      able to reliably administer it.

      Convergent validity: Validation would allow us to verify that two measures of constructs that
      theoretically should be related, are in fact related (Trochim, 2006). Demonstration of
      convergent validity when the SST is paired with widely accepted and validated pre-existing
      tools will allow us to gain reasonable confidence in the ability of the tool to capture
      similar constructs.

      Predictive validity: Validation that the SST can be used to predict future health status or
      healthcare utilization patterns such as unplanned readmissions after discharge would increase
      the SST's utility for shaping interventions that target high readmission risk individuals in
      a bid to lower their risk of unplanned hospital readmissions.

      Based on the results of the validation studies, the SST can be further modified to make it
      optimally robust before subsequent patient segmentation studies in the various sites of care.
      For example, specific sections of the SST with low inter-rater reliability or convergent
      validity can be modified to improve the tool's psychometric properties.

      SST Benefit 1 - Identification of leverage points for intervention. Through cross-sectional
      and longitudinal studies of patient profiles in terms of their medical and social healthcare
      needs using the SST, areas that are characterized by high healthcare needs can be detected in
      the various sites of care thus allowing for implementation of health service interventions in
      order to better meet these healthcare needs. Furthermore, longitudinal studies would allow
      for the determination of risk factors associated with increased transition rates from lower
      to higher severity global impression of patient category thus also facilitating targeted
      follow up intervention studies.

      Health service reorganization to better meet areas of high healthcare need would lead to
      improved clinical outcomes through reduction in the probability of clinical complications. In
      the context of an ageing population this would help keep more elderly healthy and functional
      for a longer period of time thus reducing healthcare costs associated with exacerbation of
      chronic diseases.

      SST Benefit 2 - Greater accountability. Better identification of areas of healthcare need
      allows for better comparison between needs and clinical infrastructure or services provided
      so as to allow for greater accountability in the delivery of healthcare. Services which do
      not meet identified needs can be scaled down so as to reduce healthcare costs. Resources both
      financial and manpower alike can then be diverted towards areas of greater need.

      SST Benefit 3 - Packages of care. Understanding the common combinations of population medical
      needs and complicating factors would allow for packages of care to be developed which are
      designed for common prototypical patients and can be easily modified to suit individual
      patients. Such an approach would allow for more effective resource planning and capitation
      bundling purposes, as well as integrate the delivery of healthcare interventions for the
      patient.
    
  