
    
      Axitinib is an orally bioavailable tyrosine kinase inhibitor currently approved in EU for
      treatment of patients affected by metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) progressed after
      another anti VEGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI).

      Axitinib inhibits the proangiogenic cytokines vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and
      platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGF), thereby exerting an anti-angiogenic effect.

      Avelumab is a human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) monoclonal antibody directed against the human
      immunosuppressive ligand programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) protein, with potential immune
      checkpoint inhibitory and antineoplastic activities. Upon administration, avelumab binds to
      PD-L1 and prevents the interaction of PD-L1 with its receptor programmed cell death protein 1
      (PD-1). This inhibits the activation of PD-1 and its downstream signaling pathways. This may
      restore immune function through the activation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) targeted to
      PD-L1-overexpressing tumor cells. In addition, avelumab induces an antibody-dependent
      cellular cytotoxic (ADCC) response against PD-L1-expressing tumor cells. PD-1, a cell surface
      receptor belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily expressed on T cells, negatively
      regulates T-cell activation and effector function when activated by its ligand, and plays an
      important role in tumor evasion from host immunity. PD-L1, a transmembrane protein, is
      overexpressed on a variety of tumor cell types and is associated with poor prognosis.

      The combination of axitinib plus avelumab has been recently reported to be better than
      sunitinib alone for treatment of previously untreated mRCC patients (Motzer RJ, et al. NEJM
      2019). The study reported a median PFS of 13.8 for the combination of axitinib plus avelumab
      compared to 8.4 months for sunitinib (p<0.001).

      To improve the treatment related toxicity, a previous study suggests that the discontinuation
      of the TKI in patients achieving a tumor response may lead to a longer definitive progression
      free survival (22.4 months) and overall survival (34.8 months) with a better safety profile
      (Ornstein MC et al. JCO 2017). Despite the new response to TKI after its reintroduction, the
      majority of patients progressed after the first months of treatment discontinuation
      suggesting the necessity to maintain the tumor response.

      This study aims to test if patients achieving a tumor response with the combination of
      axitinib plus avelumab, can discontinued the axitinib in order to delay the resistance to the
      anti VEGFR-TKI and decrease the related toxicity of the combination therapy.

      This is a phase II trial with a partial treatment discontinuation design in patients who
      achieved tumor decrease greater than 30% compared to baseline during the first 36 weeks of
      therapy.

      All patients enrolled in the trail will receive axitinib at 5 mg BID plus avelumab at 10
      mg/Kg every two weeks.

      Treatment will be continued until progression of disease during the first 36 weeks of
      therapy. At week 36, patients achieving a tumor decrease ≥ 30% will discontinue axitinib and
      continue avelumab until progression of disease defined as ≥ 20% increase compared to the
      tumor burden measured at week 36. At disease progression, axitinib will be restarted at the
      same dosage used before discontinuation for at least 24 weeks if progression did not occur
      before. Patients who achieved again tumor decrease of ≥ 30% after 24 weeks of therapy
      rechallenge with axitinib and avelumab may discontinue axitinib and maintain avelumab until
      progression of disease in an intermittent manner.
    
  