
    
      This is a proof-of-concept study comparing outcomes of a health facility-based acute HIV
      infection (AHI) and prevalent HIV testing intervention using point of care HIV-1 RNA
      detection, combined with assisted partner services (aPS) and follow-up in an antiretroviral
      therapy (ART) cohort for all newly diagnosed individuals and follow-up in a pre-exposure
      prophylaxis (PrEP) cohort for the uninfected partners of newly diagnosed individuals,
      compared to standard care.

      Study Design: Randomized stepped-wedge study with prospective cohort follow-up of all
      individuals newly diagnosed with acute or prevalent HIV infection and of up to 300 identified
      partners of these persons. Individuals enrolled in the observation phase will be compared to
      those enrolled in the intervention phase at each facility, after undergoing the following
      procedures in each phase.

      Study Population: The study population will be recruited from among male and female adult
      patients who present for care at 6 public or private outpatient clinics in coastal Kenya.
      Eligibility criteria for the HIV-1 RNA testing intervention include: 1) age from 18-39 years;
      2) not previously diagnosed with HIV infection; and 3) a score ≥2 on our AHI risk score
      algorithm. Eligibility criteria for partners of newly diagnosed cases with acute or prevalent
      HIV infection include: 1) age over 18 years; and 2) not previously diagnosed with HIV
      infection.

      Sample Size: 3,175 study participants total, including 2,875 participants in the
      stepped-wedge study (1,375 in the observation period and 1,500 in the intervention period).
      We estimate that approximately 2% of participants in the observation period (n=28) and
      approximately 5% of participants in the intervention period (n=75) will test positive for HIV
      infection and continue in the study. We estimate that up to 300 partners of newly diagnosed
      individuals will be offered enrollment and tested for HIV using standard tests (observation
      period) or HIV-1 RNA testing (intervention period).

      Participating Sites: Kenya Medical Research Institute (KEMRI)-Wellcome Trust Programme,
      Kilifi, Kenya with stepped wedge trial implementation at 6 community health facilities (2-4
      public, 2-4 private) and ART and PrEP cohort follow-up at the KEMRI Research Clinic in
      Mtwapa, Kenya.

      Schedule of Procedures: Individuals eligible for the HIV-1 RNA testing intervention will be
      offered enrollment when they seek care at one of the study facilities, with testing taking
      place on that same day. For individuals with negative test results for both acute and
      prevalent HIV infection, no further follow-up will occur. One 6-week follow-up visit will
      occur after testing for all individuals who are newly diagnosed with HIV. Procedures for the
      aPS intervention, the ART cohort, and the PrEP cohort are detailed in this protocol.

      Study Duration: Study enrollment will occur over 24 months. Following enrollment and study
      procedures (1-2 hours of time), all participants who test negative for HIV infection will
      have no further visits. All participants newly diagnosed with HIV will have a 6-week
      follow-up visit. All participants who enroll in the ART or PrEP cohort will be followed for a
      total of 12 months.

      Intervention: Testing for acute and prevalent HIV infection, followed by partner notification
      services and immediate ART (provided by the Kenyan Ministry of Health) for newly diagnosed
      individuals and PrEP (provided by Gilead) for uninfected partners in serodiscordant
      relationships.
    
  