
    
      Intraoperative analgesia has a tremendous theoretical potential to decrease postoperative
      pain, and thus narcotic requirement and length of subsequent hospital stay. There is indeed a
      dearth of evidence with respect to the clinical effectiveness of such analgesia.
      Tonsillectomy lends itself particularly well to the use of intraoperative analgesia;
      post-operative pain scores are high, and the majority of recipients are pediatric patients-a
      population in which minimization of post-operative narcotic use is a priority.

      The effectiveness of intraoperative analgesia for the preemptive management of postoperative
      pain, nausea and vomiting in tonsillectomy remains controversial. Pre-emptive analgesia was
      first conceptualized in 1983, with Woolf's work on a postulated central component of
      postinjury pain hypersensitivity. Tissue injury is typified by post-stimulus sensory
      disturbances that give rise to continuing pain, a hypersensitivity to further noxious
      stimuli, as well as pain in response to otherwise innocuous stimuli. These features are
      attributable to both a reduction in the threshold of skin nociceptors, as well as an increase
      in the excitability of the central nervous system (CNS) to noxious stimuli. Much experimental
      data has shown pre-injury analgesia as being superior to post-injury analgesia in terms of
      minimizing subsequent CNS excitability.

      Clinically, the effectiveness of such analgesia has shown to be highly variable with respect
      to anatomical area, surgical type, as well as analgesic used and its route of administration.
      A Meta-analysis by Cliff et al. reviewed 66 studies with respect to the primary outcomes of
      pain intensity scores, supplemental analgesic consumption, and time to first analgesic
      consumption, and demonstrated that preemptive administration of NSAIDs was superior to that
      of epidural analgesia, local anesthetic wound infiltration, systemic NMDA receptor
      antagonists, and systemic opiods.

      Ketorolac tromethamine (Toradol) is a parenteral, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug that
      has been used extensively to provide postoperative analgesia. In a prospective, randomized
      double-blind study of 57 children undergoing outpatient adenotonsillectomy, Keidan et al.
      found ketorolac to be comparable to fentanyl in terms of both post-operative nausea and
      vomiting and pain scores. One study showed that intraoperative ketorolac (60 mg IV) with
      fentanyl (2 micrograms/kg IV), compared to fentanyl and placebo, administered at the
      induction of anesthesia resulted in significant opioid sparing, decreased pain scores, lower
      incidence of nausea and vomiting and earlier discharge compared to fentanyl and placebo in
      patients undergoing diagnostic laparoscopy.

      There is a theoretical risk of post-operative bleeding with use of Toradol, on account of its
      inhibition of platelet aggregation and prolonging of bleeding time. However, in a
      meta-analysis of 13 trials comprising 955 children undergoing tonsillectomy, Cardwell et al.
      found that postoperative NSAIDs did not significantly alter number of perioperative bleeding
      events requiring surgical intervention. At present, it is common practice by some clinicians
      at the Stollery Children's hospital for pediatric patients who are undergoing standard
      electrocautery adenotonsillectomy to receive intraoperative ketorolac. Its role in improving
      post-operative pain and possible risk of increasing post-operative bleeding remains
      controversial.

      i Woolf CJ: Evidence for a central component of post-injury pain hypersensitivity. Nature
      1983; 308: 386-8

      ii Coderre TJ, Catz J, Vaccarino AL, Melzack R: Contribution of central neutoplasticity to
      pathological pain: Review of clinical and experimental evidence. Pain 1993; 52: 259-85

      iii Aida S, Baba H, Yamakura T, MD, Taga K, Fukuda S, Shimoji K: The Effectiveness of
      Preemptive Analgesia Varies According to the Type of Surgery: A Randomized, Double-Blind
      Study. Anesth Analg 1999;89: 711 ivOng CKS, Lirk P, Seymour RA, Jenkins BJ: The Efficacy of
      Preemptive Analgesia for Acute Postoperative Pain Management: A Meta-Analysis. Anesth Analg
      2005;100:757-773

      v Keidan I, Zaslansky R, Eviatar E, Segal S, Sarfaty SM. Intraoperative ketorolac is an
      effective substitute for fentanyl in children undergoing outpatient adenotonsillectomy.

      Paediatric Anaesthesia. 14(4):318-23, 2004 Apr.

      vi Green CR, Pandit SK, Levy L, Kothary SP, Tait AR, Schork MA Intraoperative ketorolac has
      an opioid-sparing effect in women after diagnostic laparoscopy but not after laparoscopic
      tubal ligation. Anesthesia & Analgesia. 82(4):732-7, 1996 Apr.

      vii Cardwell M, Siviter G, Smith A Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and perioperative
      bleeding in paediatric tonsillectomy. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. Issue: 2
      Article: CD003591, 2005
    
  