
    
      Pre-Hospital Advanced Airway Management (PHAAM) is a potentially lifesaving intervention. A
      recent meta-analysis of >15.000 patients reported a variation in the prehospital endotracheal
      intubation (PHETI) success rate with different methods used and provider background. A recent
      prehospital study from London revealed a significantly higher intubation failure rate among
      non-anaesthesiologist physicians. In Scandinavia different types of emergency medical
      services (EMS) and professionals provide PHAAM. The success rate of PHETI, incidence of
      difficult intubation and complications in the Nordic countries is not known. Although the EMS
      structure in Scandinavia is reasonably similar, there are some inter- and intra-national
      differences regarding mission profile, staffing, systems for dispatch and on-scene
      management. A Danish PHAAM study demonstrated a 99,7% anaesthesiologist PHETI success rate
      with a 7,9% complication rate. The authors concluded the study was from a homogenous Danish
      system limiting the ability to generalise the findings to other systems with different
      staffing, caseload or case mix.

      The PHAST investigators aim to provide prospective multicentre data on the pre-hospital
      intubation success rate and complications in the Nordic countries. Additionally the
      investigators will compare the PHAAM procedure for different subgroups of patients, regions
      and EMS organisations.

      In the PHAST observational study twelve Nordic (Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland)
      Helicopter and Rapid Response Emergency Medical Services will include patients during 18
      months. The decision to perform PHAAM is based on the discretion of prehospital provider. The
      PHAAM core data will be prospectively collected according the template by Sollid et al.

      The primary endpoint is PHETI success on ≤2 attempts and no complications. Secondary
      endpoints include overall PHETI success rate, PHETI success on 1st, 2nd, 3rd and >3rd
      attempt, difficult PHETI, success rate of laryngeal mask and surgical airway, PHAAM
      complications and prehospital mortality.

      Through predefined analysis of the data, the PHAST investigators hope to

        1. Describe the characteristics and outcome of advanced prehospital airway management.

        2. Identify which groups of critically injured or ill patients will benefit most from
           competent advanced prehospital airway management, and identify specific areas for future
           research.
    
  