
    
      Background: The primary purpose of cancer screening is to reduce mortality from the disease
      in the population by finding the cancer at an early and treatable stage. The cancer has to be
      an important health problem to be a suitable target for screening. With approximately 6 000
      new cases each year in Sweden (Cancer register), colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most
      common cancer in Sweden and the five-year survival rate is close to 60%, but when detected at
      an early stage the rate is 90%.

      Both larger precursor stages - the adenomatous polyp (Muto, Vogelstein) - and cancers could
      be detected by sensitive methods to analyze blood in the stool. Removal of adenomas has a
      protective effect against colorectal cancer development (Winawer, Muller, Thiis-Evensen) and,
      consequentially, a colorectal cancer screening program also have the potential of decreasing
      the future incidence of the disease.

      The screening test must be free from unwanted side effects, inexpensive, but also simple to
      take and easy to interpret (Armitage). Furthermore, a high sensitivity and specificity is a
      prerequisite for a screening test to be used in a program of the average risk population.

      Indirect tests: The most commonly used screening test has been the guaiac based fecal occult
      blood test (Hemoccult®). Four larger RCTs have demonstrated a 16% decreased in CRC mortality
      with the test in screening (Mandel, Kronborg, Hardcastle, Lindholm). More advanced fecal
      immunological tests (FITs) with higher sensitivity, but only a marginally increase in
      specificity, are now available. FIT demonstrates presence of human blood only and no dietary
      restrictions are needed.

      Direct tests: The main advantages with endoscopy are the direct visualization of the
      colorectum and the possibility of obtaining tissue samples from suspected cancer lesions for
      histopathology and removing adenomatous polyps. Recently, three RCTs with sigmoidoscopy as
      the primary screening test have demonstrated both a reduced disease specific mortality of
      around 30%, but also a reduced incidence of CRC of as much as 40% (Atkin, Segnan, Schoen).

      Up to now, there are no larger randomized controlled studies of the average risk population
      published demonstrating a disease specific mortality reduction with colonoscopy as the
      primary screening test.

      Compliance: compliance is the proportion of individuals offered a screening test and actually
      take the test (Armitage). The compliance to a screening program is a major determinant of the
      programs effectiveness - only those who participate can contribute to the mortality reduction
      achieved by the screening program and with low participation the number of deaths prevented
      will be few.

      A call for a Swedish study of colorectal cancer screening: The Swedish minister of Health and
      Social affairs, Göran Hägglund, funded a task force in 2011 in order to design a study of the
      effectiveness of colorectal cancer screening of the average risk population of Sweden. The
      present study was designed based on what data was needed to get better outcome of colorectal
      cancer screening in Sweden. All counties participate except for Stockholm and Gotland, due to
      the already implemented CRC-screening program with Hemoccult®, and the county of
      Västernorrland.

      Material and Methods - study population: In total 200 000 individuals and residents of Sweden
      will be randomized from the Register of the total population (Register of the total
      population). The randomized individuals will turn 60-years old the calendar year of
      randomization. Thirty thousand five hundred individuals will be invited to a primary
      screening colonoscopy, 60 000 individuals will be invited to high sensitive FIT and, if
      positive, to a subsequent colonoscopy and 183 000 persons will serve as controls. The
      inclusion period is set to five years with a repeated test after two years in the FIT arm.

      Invitation procedures - FIT: All individuals randomized to FIT as primary screening test will
      by regular mail receive an invitation to participate in the study. The invitation includes a
      brochure with information about the incentives of the study and the need for a follow-up
      colonoscopy in case of a positive test. The invitation contains a FIT-kit for two separate
      test samples and instructions on how to take the test. With the invitation is a pre-paid
      return-envelope.

      Colonoscopy: All individuals randomized to the colonoscopy arm will receive an invitational
      letter by regular mail including the brochure with information about the incentives of the
      study. The invitee will be informed that they shortly by mail will receive an appointment for
      colonoscopy, sent from the endoscopy clinic in their area of residency.

      Controls: The individuals randomized to the control arm will not be contacted and informed
      about participation as controls in the study. If any individuals would contact the Head
      secretariat to ask about if they are controls, information will be given.

      Interventions - FIT-arm: We plan two rounds of FIT, one the first year and one the third
      year. We will follow the findings and perform interim analyses and suggest that further
      rounds of FIT are carried out if the scientific committee deems it necessary. Two tests per
      round will be asked for without dietary restrictions. If 50% of the invitees comply and send
      their FIT test to the laboratory (experiences from the ongoing screening program in the
      counties of Stockholm and Gotland) and 10% are positive, this will generate approximately 1
      200 colonoscopies for each year in the FIT-arm except for year four when the number of
      generated colonoscopies is estimated to 2 400 due to the second round re-testing.

      Colonoscopy-arm: A primary screening colonoscopy will be carried out once and with an
      estimated adherence of about 35%, approximately 10 000 colonoscopies will be carried out. The
      examination will be performed with or without sedation following a standard bowel cleaning
      preparation. The endoscopy centers will be accredited and the quality of the examiners will
      be investigated. The preparations of the bowel will be standardized. All details will follow
      the European guidelines (von Karsa, Rembacken).

      There will be a thorough evaluation of each endoscopist from a quality aspect according to
      set guidelines. This will be carried out by using a specific quality register in the
      IT-system where data on the success rate of the colonoscopist, findings and side effects will
      be entered from all the estimated 17 000 colonoscopies. In the study registry, adverse
      advents such as pain, bleeding and perforations will also be collected. The register data
      will continuously be cross-linked with data from the National Patient register (Patient
      register) and the Swedish Causes of Death register (Cause of death register) in order to find
      severe adverse events.

      Follow-up: Follow-up time is set at 15 years after inclusion and invitation for the primary
      endpoints colorectal cancer mortality and incidence with interim analysis at 5 and 10 years.
      Data of all 200.000 individuals randomized from the population register will be obtained from
      the Causes of Death register (19) and the Cancer register (1). Regarding secondary outcomes,
      information will be retrieved from other national registries such as the Patient register
      (18).

      Ethical considerations: The study has been processed and approved by the regional Ethics
      Review Board at Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden (No. 2012/2058-31/3).

      Statistical analyses: The lifetime cumulative mortality in colorectal cancer in Sweden is
      about 1% after 15 years. With a 80% power and a 2.5% significance level according to the
      Bonferroni method the present study need to randomize 30 500 persons in the colonoscopy arm,
      60 186 in the FIT arm and 183 372 in the control arm. Based on previous studies, we estimate
      that the reduction in mortality to about 30% for those examined with FIT and a subsequent
      colonoscopy and approximately 35% for individuals who are examined with a primary
      colonoscopy. The compliance is estimated to about 50% in the FIT-arm and approximately 10% of
      them will have a positive test and invited to follow-up colonoscopy with 80-90% adherence
      rate. Compliance with primary colonoscopy is estimated to 50% and there is supposed to be a
      very low contamination from opportunistic screening.
    
  