
    
      All patients underlying heart surgery with the use of a heart-lung-machine and fullfilling of
      the inclusion-criteria should be sreened for the study. The study take place on two surgical
      intensive care units (PIT I and PIT II) of the university hospital Rostock, Germany. The
      extracorporeal treatment with the Cytosorb-Adsorber will be started 6 hours after end of the
      operation if written informed consent was obtained from all participants or from the
      patients' representatives if direct consent could not be received. The extracorporeal
      treatment duration will be 24 hours and the observation time 90 days.

      The aim of the study is recording the influence of the treatment with the Cytosorb-Adsorber
      on the course of hyperinflammation and multi organ failure in comparison with a historic
      control group. The main-criterion is a significant difference in the mean-SOFA (Sequential
      Organ Failure Assessment)-score between the Cytosorb-group and the historic control group
      after 7 days. Beside criterions are the 30- and 90-day survival, time of respirator-therapy,
      length of ICU stay, severity of the Critical Illness Polyneuropathy and dosage of
      vasopressors on the days 1, 2 and 3.

      From all patients basic demographic information, illness severity (APACHE II, SOFA scores),
      microbiological results, pre-morbidity, and clinical outcome for study cohort will recorded.
      At the days 1-4, 7, 14, 30 and before/after the extracorporeal treatment the patients will
      screened for clinical and immunological data: hemodynamic, inflammation, coagulation,
      hemolysis, temperature, organ function blood parameters and cytokines. "Day 1" was defined as
      the day of the beginning of the extracorporeal treatment. At days 1, 2 and 7 hemodynamic
      monitoring will done with the PiCCO-System (PULSION Medical Systems, Feldkirchen, Germany).
      For dynamic measurement of the liver function will used the LiMON-System (based on the
      indocyanin green plasma disappearance rate, PULSION) on the days 1, 2 and 7.
    
  