
    
      Trauma is the leading cause of death in persons younger than 40 years. Hemorrhage is the
      etiology in 30% of these deaths, and remains the leading cause of potentially preventable
      mortality (66-80%) on the battlefield. Death secondary to hemorrhagic shock occurs from both
      surgical bleeding and coagulopathy. Due to the knowledge of increased fibrinolysis promoting
      a hypocoagulable state in severe trauma, trials have been performed to determine if
      antifibrinolytics such as tranexamic acid (TXA) could reduce morbidity and mortality by
      reducing death from hemorrhage. TXA is an antifibrinolytic that inhibits both plasminogen
      activation and plasmin activity, thus preventing clot break-down rather than promoting new
      clot formation. Despite the extensive use of TXA in many surgical populations and an
      increasing use in severe trauma patients, TXA does not have an FDA approved indication for
      patients with traumatic injuries. The effect of TXA on immune function has not been
      thoroughly examined, especially in patients with severe traumatic injury. The study of the
      effects of TXA use on endothelial activation and injury is also important due to the
      inter-relationship between coagulation and endothelial function. Endothelial injury secondary
      to local hypoperfusion causes acute traumatic coagulopathy with fibrinolysis. Therefore a
      thorough and comprehensive evaluation of the effects of TXA on immune, coagulation, and
      endothelial parameters is important to allow for a better understanding of the mechanisms of
      action of this agent.

      This is a randomized placebo controlled trial to obtain mechanism of action data,
      pharmacokinetic information, and efficacy and safety data for the use of TXA in severely
      injured trauma patients. Participants will be randomized into 1 of 3 treatment arms (1:1:1):
      TXA 2 gram IV bolus, TXA 4 gram IV bolus, or placebo. The study period is from time of
      enrollment to hospital discharge or transfer. The study intervention will occur only once
      upon enrollment in the trial. Participants will receive study drug within two hours from
      their initial injury. Blood samples will be drawn at multiple time points for immune
      parameters, Pharmacodynamics, and repository samples.

      Immune parameter samples will be drawn at at approximately 0, 6, 24 and 72 hours after study
      drug/placebo administration.

      Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic samples will be drawn according to two schedules. Even
      number sampling times, blood will be drawn at the approximate time points: 0, 20 min, 1 hr, 2
      hr, 4 hr, 6 hr, 8 hr, and 12 hr. A patient sampled on odd number sampling times will have
      samples drawn at the approximate time points: 0, 10 min, 40 min, 1.5 hr, 3 hr, 6 hr, 10 hr
      and 24 hr.

      Repository samples will be drawn at approximate time points: 0, 1, 6, 24, and 72 hours.
    
  