
    
      Respiratory viruses cause severe infections, and contribute to a substantial number of
      hospitalizations, admission to intensive care units and deaths. Many hospitalizations due to
      respiratory virus infection are related to pneumonia or exacerbation of chronic lung disease.
      In addition, many hospitalizations are related to extrapulmonary complications, such as acute
      coronary syndrome or stroke.

      Previous studies have reported the incidence of respiratory viruses among patients with
      pulmonary complications, or the association of respiratory viruses with acute coronary
      syndrome or stroke. However, there are several problems associated with these studies. First,
      many of these studies are retrospective in nature, and therefore testing was only performed
      in selected patients with respiratory symptoms. Hence, many patients without respiratory
      symptoms were not recruited. Second, respiratory virus can be detected in some asymptomatic
      individuals. Therefore, the presence of respiratory virus may be an incidental finding rather
      than the cause of the complication. Third, many studies only focus on a few respiratory
      viruses, especially on influenza virus.

      This study aims to address these issues. The investigators propose to conduct a prospective
      cohort study. The investigators will recruit hospitalized adult patients with exacerbation of
      underlying lung disease, acute coronary syndrome or stroke. As controls, the investigators
      will recruit outpatients follow-up for chronic heart disease, chronic lung disease or
      neurological conditions. The investigators will collect saliva from study participants and
      perform respiratory virus testing using a multiplex PCR panel. Previous studies have shown
      that there is a high concordance between results from respiratory virus testing on saliva and
      nasopharyngeal specimens. The investigators will also use a standardized questionnaire to
      collect information regarding symptoms.

      This study will provide accurate data on the epidemiology of respiratory viruses in pulmonary
      and extrapulmonary complications.These data are important for clinicians, public health
      practitioners and scientists.
    
  