
    
      The Healthy Families safer conception program, based at the ISS Clinic at Mbarara Regional
      Referral Hospital (MRRH), offers client-centered care to help HIV-affected individuals and
      couples meet reproductive goals. This care supports clients to leverage personal motivations
      and partner and social supports to overcome structural barriers and use ART, adopt other
      HIV-prevention strategies, and remain in care. This pilot study (the 'Getting to Zero' study)
      will assess uptake and experiences of safer conception care among men living with HIV and
      their HIV sero-different partners, and will assess retention in care and HIV transmission
      risk to partners and infants.

      There are six linked objectives in this study:

        1. To assess uptake of safer conception strategies among men living with HIV and/or their
           female partners overall, and by specific HIV prevention strategies.

           Hypothesis 1: Investigators hypothesize that offering comprehensive safer conception
           services within HIV care will increase uptake of HIV prevention strategies among both
           male and female HIV-affected participants (including ART initiation, adherence, and
           HIV-RNA viral suppression in the partner living with HIV, HIV-serostatus disclosure,
           knowledge of partner's HIV-serostatus, Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) testing and
           treatment, sexual behaviour (i.e., delaying condomless sex until HIV-infected partner is
           virally suppressed), and partner HIV testing and ARV use (PrEP or ART).

        2. Among men living with HIV and their partners, to assess socio-demographic, relationship,
           structural, and clinical factors associated with uptake of safer conception strategies.

           Hypothesis 2: Investigators hypothesize that uptake will be associated with more
           equitable relationship power and dynamics, lower HIV-related stigma, higher social
           support, and other socio-structural determinants of health.

        3. To assess retention in HIV care among men living with HIV engaged in the safer
           conception intervention.

           Hypothesis 3: Investigators hypothesize that men living with HIV who are engaged in the
           safer conception intervention will be better retained in HIV care over nine months
           relative to men receiving care at the ISS clinic, but who are not enrolled in the safer
           conception program.

        4. To assess periconception HIV transmission incidence among HIV-affected individuals and
           couples where the male partner is living with HIV and engaged in the safer conception
           intervention;

           Hypothesis 4: Among HIV-affected individuals and couples successfully engaged in the
           safer conception intervention, investigators hypothesize no (within-couple) cases of
           periconception-related HIV transmission.

        5. To assess pregnancy and HIV incidence and outcomes among female partners of men living
           with HIV engaged in the intervention.

           Hypothesis 5: Of pregnancies ending in live birth, investigators hypothesize <2%
           incidence of perinatal HIV transmission among infants born to couples successfully
           engaged in the intervention.

        6. To explore the acceptability and barriers/facilitators of the safer conception
           intervention among a sub-set of men living with HIV and their HIV sero-different
           partners.

      Hypothesis 6: This is qualitative objective without pre-specified hypotheses.

      This study will be conducted at the ISS Clinic in the Mbarara Regional Referral Hospital
      (MRRH) in Mbarara, Uganda.

      This mixed-methods prospective pilot research study includes electronic chart review data,
      longitudinal survey data (from the male index and female partner participant), and
      qualitative data from in-depth semi-structured interviews. All of the study efforts will be
      conducted via the Immune Suppression Syndrome (ISS) Clinic in the Mbarara Regional Referral
      Hospital in Mbarara, Uganda. The ISS clinic is an IeDEA networks site with a high-quality
      clinical database. In December 2016, the ISS clinic initiated a safer conception program
      called the Healthy Families program, which provides counselling and clinical care for
      HIV-affected individuals and couples who desire pregnancy.

      The target population for the Getting to Zero study is men living with HIV with HIV
      sero-different partners (defined as partners who are HIV-negative or HIV status unknown), who
      report personal and/or partner pregnancy desire in the next year. Participants will be
      recruited via information sessions held at the Healthy Families program as well as at the ISS
      Clinic, MRRH HIV counselling and testing sites, referrals from regional healthcare providers,
      and via community outreach efforts.

      This pilot study aimed at demonstrating proof-of-concept aims to enroll 50 index participants
      and all female partners. Investigators anticipate, however, enrolling 25 female partners.

      The target population for the Getting to Zero study is men living with HIV with HIV
      sero-different partners (defined as partners who are HIV-negative or HIV status unknown), who
      report personal and/or partner pregnancy desire in the next year. Participants will be
      recruited via information sessions held at the Healthy Families program as well as at the ISS
      Clinic, MRRH HIV counselling and testing sites, referrals from regional healthcare providers,
      and via community outreach efforts. After providing informed consent, participants will be
      asked to complete an interviewer-administered questionnaire detailing use of HIV prevention
      strategies as well as socio-demographic information, partnership dynamics, pregnancy
      intentions and desires, sexual and reproductive behaviours and history, HIV medical history,
      mental health, experiences of violence, HIV-related stigma, and social support.

      Following the questionnaire, the participant (and his partner if she is present) will be
      offered safer conception services at the Healthy Families clinic, which includes an up to
      30-minute counseling session. Counseling sessions incorporate education and some
      problem-solving support to help individuals and couples adopt safer conception strategies
      including HIV-serostatus disclosure to partner, ART uptake and adherence and HIV-RNA
      suppression, STI testing and treatment, timing condomless sex to peak fertility, partner ARV
      use (ART if living with HIV, PrEP if HIV negative), and contraception until ready to
      conceive. In addition, (1) all female partners are offered beta hcg pregnancy testing; (2)
      all HIV-negative participants are offered HIV counselling and testing; (3) all participants
      will complete testing for STIs (Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Chlamydia trachomatis, and Trichomonas
      vaginalis) via GeneXpert. Index participants will also complete testing for syphilis using
      Bioline testing (treponeme specific) followed by RPR confirmatory testing (non-treponeme
      specific); and (4) all participants living with HIV will also complete laboratory testing to
      assess HIV-RNA suppression.

      Participants will be offered the safer conception counselling and clinical services at
      enrollment, 3-months (3M), and 6-months (6M), with two exceptions. First, STI testing will
      only be offered at the baseline visit for male participants only and subsequent follow-up
      visits will employ syndromic STI management, which is standard of care at the Healthy
      Families program. Second, participants will complete HIV-RNA suppression testing at enrolment
      and 6M.

      Male participants will be asked for their consent for the study team to contact their female
      partners to assess eligibility, interest, and willingness to participate in the study. If he
      consents for the study team to contact his partner, he will be given an information letter to
      give to her describing the study purpose and procedures. Once consented, partners will be
      invited to safe conception counselling sessions as well as to participate in an individual
      in-depth interview to explore acceptability and barriers/facilitators of the Healthy Families
      program.

      At enrollment and all Healthy Families program follow-up visits (3M and 6M):

        1. all female partners will be offered pregnancy testing via urine beta hcg testing.
           Results will be available within 3-5 minutes of testing. Women who test positive for
           pregnancy will be referred to appropriate antenatal care.

        2. all participants who are not known to be HIV-positive will be offered HIV counselling
           and testing. Individuals confirmed HIV-positive will receive post-test counselling and
           be referred for appropriate HIV care.

        3. all male participants will undergo objective STI testing at enrollment with same-day
           pathogen-specific treatment provided for the tested individual as well as to partners.
           Testing for Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Chlamydia trachomatis, and Trichomonas vaginalis will
           be done via GeneXpert. Participants will also complete testing for syphilis using
           Bioline testing (treponeme specific) followed by RPR confirmatory testing (non-treponeme
           specific). Symptomatic male patients will be treated as per national STI syndromic
           management guidelines. Male participants will be given the same course of treatment to
           take home to their female partners.

        4. all participants living with HIV will also complete laboratory testing to assess HIV-RNA
           suppression at baseline and 6M.

      The procedures described are consistent with usual clinical management of HIV-affected
      individuals/couples receiving care at the Healthy Families Clinic (i.e., are part of usual
      clinical management).
    
  