
    
      Aim #1 To investigate the prevalence, risk and correlation of the level of sepsis with
      mitochondrial dysfunction in sepsis patients Aim 1.1 To investigate the prevalence of
      mitochondria dysfunction among sepsis patients Hypothesis: Most of sepsis patients are
      affected by mitochondria dysfunction. Since there are many suspected cases of sepsis in the
      emergency department, mitochondrial function measurements will be collected. After the
      patients are diagnosed, the degree of mitochondrial function will be reported as a percent
      among all of sepsis patients.

      Aim 1.2 To investigate the risk associated with mitochondrial dysfunction in sepsis patients.

      Hypothesis: Some risks other than infection are associated with mitochondrial dysfunction in
      septic patient.

      Since there are many suspected cases of sepsis in the emergency department, mitochondrial
      function measurements will be collected. After the patients are diagnosed, the degree of
      mitochondrial function will be reported at intervals. Additionally, the correlation among
      sex, age, obesity, underlying symptoms, cause of infection, pathogen, onset of fever before
      emergency department visit, number of organ dysfunction, presence of shock and other
      hemodynamic parameter will be collected.

      Aim 1.3 To investigate the association between sepsis severity (SOFA scoring system) and the
      degree of mitochondrial dysfunction Hypothesis: The severity of sepsis and organ dysfunction
      are associated with the severity of mitochondrial dysfunction.

      Since there are many suspected cases of sepsis in the emergency department, mitochondrial
      function measurements will be collected. After the patients are diagnosed, the degree of
      mitochondrial function will be reported at intervals along with the correlation with the
      severity of sepsis in SOFA scoring system.

      Aim #2 To investigate the association of mitochondrial dysfunction in sepsis with ScvO2,
      lactate and ∆PCO2 Hypothesis: Persistence of high lactate and extreme change of ScvO2 or
      ∆PCO2 after sepsis bundle care are associated with severity of mitochondrial dysfunction.

      Since patients are suspected of having sepsis with hypoperfusion (1. Blood lactate > 4
      mmol/L, 2. Refractory hypotension: after bolus fluid 20 mL/kg and Systolic Blood Pressure
      still < 90 mmHg or require vasopressor), the sepsis bundle care will be started in the
      emergency department. The goals of this treatment are 1. A mean arterial pressure of > 65 is
      achieved by fluid resuscitation and vasopressor, 2. Lactate > 4 mmol/L or ScvO2 > 70 is
      achieved. After 6 hours following the beginning of resuscitation, blood examination for
      mitochondrial function, ScvO2 and ∆PCO2 will be determined. The correlation between these
      physiologic/biomarkers and mitochondrial function will be evaluated.

      Aim #3 To investigate the roles of steroid administration on mitochondrial function in sepsis
      patients (Therapeutic trial) Aim 3.1 To investigate the therapeutic efficacy of steroids on
      the improvement mitochondrial function in sepsis patients Hypothesis: Steroids administration
      improve mitochondrial function in norepinephrine-resistant sepsis.

      After resuscitation, hypoperfusion in the sepsis patients will be treated by fluid
      resuscitation and vasopressor. Some groups of patients may be not responsive to this
      treatment (MAP <65 mmHg), administration of steroids to this group will be blindly randomized
      (treatment and control group). During resuscitation of septic shock patients with fluid
      resuscitation and vasopressors, some may not respond to treatment (MAP < 65 mmHg). Patients
      who have shock refractory to fluid resuscitation and norepinephrine therapy for more than 0.5
      mcg/kg/min will be blindly randomized to receive steroid (treatment group) or placebo
      (control group). Blood samples will be obtained to determine mitochondrial functioning
      before, at day 1 and day 7 after administration of study medications in both groups.

      Aim 3.2. To investigate the efficacy of steroids on the reduction mortality rate in sepsis
      patients with norepinephrine-resistant hypotension Hypothesis: Steroids improve survival in
      septic shock patients with norepinephrine-resistant hypotension.

      During resuscitation of septic shock patients with fluid resuscitation and vasopressors, some
      may not respond to treatment (MAP < 65 mmHg). Patients who have shock refractory to fluid
      resuscitation and norepinephrine administration more than 0.5 mcg/kg/min will be blindly
      randomized to receive steroid (treatment group) or placebo (control group). Blood samples
      will be obtained to determine mitochondrial functioning before, at day 1 and day 7 after
      administration of study medications in both groups. Thirty-day survival will be analyzed by a
      survival analysis.
    
  