
    
      The investigators will enroll prepubescent, 8 - 12 yr old, obese (body mass index > 95th
      percentile; N=25) and nonobese (body mass between 16th and 84th percentile; N=25) children
      with mild asthma. The investigators will investigate the severity of exercise-induced
      bronchoconstriction during planned exercise performed 15 minutes after the following three
      conditions performed on separate days in a random order: (1) 8x30sec interval warm-up, (2)
      short-acting beta agonist or albuterol, & (3) control, in prepubescent, 8 - 12 yr old, obese
      and nonobese children with mild asthma. The investigators will also investigate differences
      in pulmonary function, exercise tolerance, and severity of exercise-induced
      bronchoconstriction between obese and nonobese children.

      The investigators will measure the following in all participants:

        1. Pulmonary function: spirometry, lung volumes, diffusing capacity of lung for carbon
           monoxide, maximum voluntary ventilation, maximal inspiratory and expiratory pressures,
           airway resistance, and expired nitric oxide

        2. Exercise tolerance during graded cycle ergometry: Gas exchange, ventilation, heart rate,
           blood pressure, pulse oximetry, electrocardiogram

        3. Ratings of perceived breathlessness and exercise induced bronchoconstriction in response
           to a 6 minute high-intensity exercise challenge after three conditions performed on
           three separate days:

      Three conditions that will precede the exercise challenge include:

        1. 8x30sec of interval warm-up 15min prior to exercise challenge: This includes eight 30sec
           bouts of high-intensity interval exercise at 85-95% of HRmax, with 45sec of recovery
           between.

        2. Two puffs of albuterol 15 min prior to exercise challenge

        3. Control: seated rest for 15min prior to exercise challenge
    
  