
    
      Internet-based venues such as websites, chat rooms, blogs, and bulletin boards are becoming
      an increasingly popular means for HIV-positive men who have sex with men (MSM) to meet
      potential sex partners. The anonymity, quickness, and convenience offered by online venues
      allows for numerous potential sex partners to be identified and screened with the possibility
      to meet in person. However, there are potential health hazards associated with meeting sex
      partners online, including an increased risk of sexually transmitted infections (STIs), and
      thus there is an urgent need for online behavioral interventions to help reduce STI/HIV risks
      associated with Internet-initiated sexual liaisons. This research involves developmental
      intervention studies to design and field test an online, theory-based behavioral risk
      reduction intervention for HIV-positive MSM who use the Internet to meet potential sex
      partners. Guided by the Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills (IMB) model of health
      promoting behaviors the investigators will conduct 3 stages of intervention development
      research, as follows: (1) perform initial interviews and focus groups with HIV-positive MSM
      who use the Internet to meet sex partners. Stage 1 will also bring together expert and
      community consultants to aid in the intervention development. Based on information gained
      from rapid formative studies, this first stage of research will directly lead to the
      development a novel online theory-based sexual risk reduction intervention; (2) test the
      feasibility and acceptability of the newly developed online STI/HIV risk reduction
      intervention with a sample of HIV-positive MSM who use the Internet to meet sexual partners.
      Stage 2 will also involve programming an audio-computer assisted interview for data
      collection; and (3) conduct a randomized field test to determine the potential efficacy of
      the risk reduction intervention for MSM who use the Internet to potentially meet sex
      partners. Participants in the field test will be randomly assigned to either receive the
      newly developed intervention or a time-matched attention comparison condition. Stage 3 will
      include testing for differences between groups on behavioral risk and Internet use outcomes
      across a 6-month follow-up period. The investigators will also examine the intervention
      effects on mediating and moderating constructs of information, motivation, and behavioral
      skills. The proposed intervention research will therefore develop new STI/HIV prevention
      strategies delivered exclusively online for use with people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) who
      use the Internet to meet potential sex partners. The results from this study will provide
      preliminary data on which to conduct a larger-scale, randomized controlled clinical trial in
      the future.
    
  