
    
      This study is experimental clinical, randomized control trial. This study estimated time
      would be 24 months, from May 2016 until May 2018. Samples are obtained consecutively from all
      source population that meet criteria. This study divide the samples into three groups,
      synovial artificial group, MSC and synovial artificial combination group; MSC, Synovial, and
      recombinant human growth hormone group. The number of samples in each group is three.

      Subject Criteria Inclusion Criteria for MSC Donor from Umbilical Cord:

      Umbilical cord are collected from elective caesarean section from a fullterm pregnancies
      without any complication and free from HIV, Hepatitis B, C, D virus, Cytomegalovirus, Rubella
      Virus, and free from fungal and bacterial contamination.

      Recipient inclusion criteria of osteoarthritis samples are patients aged 30-80 years old,
      based on genu X-ray examination and Kellgren-Lawrence grading is I, II, and III, or KL grade
      III with corrective osteotomy, minimal Visual Analog Scale = 2 (0-10), unresponsive with
      pharmacological therapy, and also sign up the informed consent.

      Recipient exclusion criteria are Osteoarthritis KL grade IV, and secondary osteoarthritis due
      to trauma, infection, rheumatoid arthritis, congenital diseases, and autoimmune diseases,
      hypersensitivity of hyaluronan product, cancer, pregnant women.

      Drop Out Criteria patients are ruled out from this study while the research are held or they
      undergo another treatment that are not related to this study. All drop out subjects could get
      another treatment.

      Informed consent all of subjects must be filled and signed up before ruled in this study.

      As soon as after delivery, umbilical cord is collected and processed in sterile specimen 0,9%
      NaCl at 4oC during 8 hours. The umbilical cord transported to the laboratory and cultured in
      GMP lab, at UPTTK Sel Punca Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital. Cellular viability and proliferation
      are evaluated after cell characterization test by flowcytometer.

      Sterility test are done three times to ensure cellular sterility. Subjects are positioned in
      supine position, site of injection are determined by the operator. Injection from
      superolateral or superomedial in extension knee position, injection from anterolateral or
      anteromedial in flexion knee position. Aseptic and antiseptic in site of injection use
      povidone iodine 3 times, then swab by alcohol. Local anesthetic by lidocaine 1% is injected
      subcutaneously.

      Monitoring at the site of injection encompass allergic reaction, pain, and swelling. Patients
      are approached to be followed up every three months, in 1st ,3rd ,6th ,12th month, for
      clinical examination, VAS, IKDC and WOMAC Score. Cartigram MRI are evaluated every six month,
      in 6th and 12th month.
    
  