
    
      1. Study design & sample recruitment:

           This was a quasi-experimental study which adopted the multi-site non-randomized control
           group pre- and post-test design. By adopting the multi-site design, better
           representation of the population could be obtained. This intervention study involved two
           groups of participant, the experimental and control groups, whereas no randomization
           would be taken place.

           The study was carried out in District Elderly Community Centers (DECCs) in Hong Kong.
           The DECC has been implemented since 2001 under the support from the Social Warfare
           Department (SWD) to provide community support services at district level to enable older
           people to remain in the community and to lead a healthy, respectful and dignified
           life.The service users are community-dwelling older citizens aged 60 or above living in
           the locality. Invitation letters were sent to various DECCs for joining the study.
           Finally, there were four elderly centers willing to participate in the study. The
           participants were recruited from the four DECCs using convenience sampling.

           To avoid the possible diffusion effect that might interfere the research result, all
           eligible participants in a community center were allocated to either experimental group
           or control group, who were treated with single intervention, so there would be no
           discussion among participants who have received different treatment regimes.

           The present study had employed a control group to enhance methodological rigor and
           included a pre-test to assess the equivalence between two groups, so the problem on
           selection biases could be alleviated.

        2. Sample size estimation A medium effect size of 0.5 was set for the study, based on
           previous research on the effect of Tai Chi on cognitive function. Based on the use of a
           sample size calculator (https://www2.ccrb.cuhk.edu.hk/stat/Other.htm), a sample of 64
           per group was expected to provide 80% power to detect a medium effect size of 0.5, at a
           significance level of 0.05. Allowing for an attrition rate of 20% in the Tai Chi groups,
           80 participants were recruited for each group.

        3. Intervention The intervention group received a 16-week Tai Chi program, of 32 sessions
           (two sessions per week) each one hour long.The capacity was around 20 people per class.
           A certified Tai Chi master taught the Yang-style simple form of Tai Chi to the
           participants allocated to the experimental group.There were four sets of movements
           included in the simplified form; this required less time for the older practitioners,
           who usually had less exercise endurance, to complete the whole set of movements.
           Moreover, it was an appropriate form of Tai Chi for older people with MCI because it
           involved only a few postures, hence it was easier for them to learn and remember. The
           Tai Chi classes were conducted in the open hall of the community center or a public
           playground with sufficient space, a flat floor and good lighting.To promote safety,
           measures include appropriate footwear, appropriate warm-up and cool-down, correct
           exercise technique and gradual increases in exercise dose will be emphasized in Tai Chi
           class. Incident report will be done to record and analyses causes for any adverse effect
           on Tai Chi training.To ensure adherence, the participants were required to sign
           attendance records. Telephone follow-up was arranged to provide emotional support and
           reinforce compliance if they were absent from two consecutive lessons. As well, the
           participants were advised to do daily practice at home to foster better mastery of the
           Tai Chi movements and build up a regular exercise habit. A guide book was issued to each
           participant, providing guidance to reinforce correct postures.

           For participants in the control group, they were considered as usual care group which
           could attend for different kinds of recreational activities provided by the community
           center. However, they were advised not to practice Tai Chi and not to join any
           structured physical training program during the study period to avoid possible aerobic
           capacity changes with exercise practices causing interferon on experimental outcomes.

        4. Data collection The outcome variables of the study comprised of general cognitive
           status, instrumental ADLs, and HRQOL of older participants. The outcome assessments were
           conducted at baseline, and at 4-month (at the end of study) for all participants.The
           Chinese version of the Mini-Mental State Examination (CMMSE) was used for global
           cognitive assessment. The Hong Kong Chinese version of Lawton's Instrumental Activities
           of Daily Living (IADL-CV) was used to assess the participants' IADLs levels and the
           Chinese version of the Short Form-12 Health Survey-Standard 1 (SF-12) was employed to
           assess the participants' perceived health status.

        5. Data analysis The IBM SPSS Version 24.0 (IBM Crop. Armonk, N.Y.) was used for data entry
           and analysis. All statistical tests involved were 2-tailed and the level of significance
           was set at 5%. Descriptive statistics, including mean, standard deviation, frequency,
           and percentage, were used to summarize and present the sample characteristics and
           outcome measures.

           Chi-square, Fisher's exact, and independent t- tests were used, as appropriate, to
           compare the characteristics of intervention and control group at the baseline. If there
           were significant differences between two groups of these characteristics, they were
           adjusted in the subsequent outcome analysis.

           Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) was applied for comparing each of the repeated
           measures study outcomes (i.e. CMMSE score, IADL-CV score, physical and mental components
           of SF-12 as well as subscales of SF-12) between the two groups with adjustment for those
           demographic characteristics showing statistical incomparability between groups. Two
           dummy variables, Group and Time, were included in each GEE model to represent the
           baseline group difference (Intervention - Control) and the time effect on the control
           group (Post 16 weeks - Baseline), respectively. Furthermore, the interaction term, Group
           by Time (Group*Time) was also included to assess the differential change in each outcome
           between the two groups. GEE model could account for intra-correlated repeated measures
           outcome and produce unbiased effect estimated under the data missingness mechanism of
           missing completely at random (MCAR).

        6. Ethical consideration Approval for conducting the study was obtained from the Joint
           CUHK-NTEC Clinical Research Ethics Committee of the Chinese University of Hong Kong and
           the selected community elderly centers.The participants were required to sign a consent
           form. Information and the purpose of the study were explained. They could withdraw from
           the study at any time of their own will.
    
  