
    
      Primary Objectives: 1) To investigate olfactory functioning as a possible proxy for
      neurotoxic exposure in cohorts of deployed and non-deployed Gulf War-era veterans; and, 2) To
      examine potential associations between olfactory functioning and neurocognitive performance
      on measures known to be sensitive to neurotoxic sequelae.

      Secondary Objectives: To examine associations between olfactory functioning and
      stress-related psychopathology, namely posttraumatic stress disorder, in Gulf War (GW)
      veterans.

      Primary Outcomes: The aim of this proposal is to investigate olfactory functioning in cohorts
      of deployed and non-deployed GW-era veterans. In searching for symptom patterns related to
      neurotoxic exposure, examination of deployment status and neurocognitive dysfunction in
      relation to a sensory measure (i.e., olfaction) sensitive to environmental toxins has the
      potential to contribute additional confirming or disconfirming evidence of GW exposures.

      Intervention: N/A

      Study Abstract: This study is funded by the Durham ERIC's Pilot Studies Initiative and is
      being conducted by researchers at the New Orleans, LA VAMC.

      Significant subsets of military veterans have reported such health problems as headache,
      joint pain, fatigue, and memory/concentration difficulties subsequent to their participation
      in the Gulf War. However, the etiology remains controversial. A number of toxins have been
      implicated as etiologic factors for GW-related health problems; however, exposure levels have
      been difficult, if not impossible, to document retrospectively. These difficulties with
      exposure verification have led GW researchers to de-emphasize methods typical of
      neurotoxicological research examining exposure-symptom relationships and instead focus on
      epidemiological approaches emphasizing identification of coherent symptom patterns.

      The proposed research builds on a Merit Review Award to Dr. Vasterling, "Follow-up of
      Psychological and Neurocognitive Gulf War Outcome: Relation to Stress," which is a
      longitudinal, case-controlled study of psychological functioning in over 800 deployed and 250
      nondeployed GW-era veterans. Variables currently examined include self-reported health
      symptoms, psychological symptoms, and individual difference variables (e.g., personality
      characteristics), stress exposure, self-reported environmental hazards exposures, and
      objective neurocognitive data (on a subset of veterans). This pilot study extends the
      "Follow-up" study by introducing a distinct set of variables related to olfactory
      functioning.

      The study design of the pilot study is case-controlled. A projected 120 male and female GW
      veterans who were deployed to the war zone and 38 male and female military personnel
      activated during the Gulf War will participate. Olfactory measures include olfactory
      identification, and odor intensity and pleasantness judgments, which have been revealed by
      factor analysis to reflect distinct olfactory components. Odors are presented using the
      University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test. A brief neurocognitive battery
      including standardized, age-normed measures of functions sensitive to neurotoxic exposure
      (i.e., attention, fine motor skills, executive functioning, and memory) are also
      administered. Psychopathology and self-reported health measures are also administered as part
      of the larger "Follow-up" study.

      To-date, 32 deployed and 12 nondeployed veterans have been enrolled in the study. Subject
      accrual and data collection are ongoing. The sample size is currently too small to detect
      meaningful trends. It is expected that this pilot work will generate a manuscript submitted
      to a peer-reviewed scientific journal and development of a full-scale epidemiological grant
      proposal.
    
  