
    
      Sporadic inclusion body myositis (sIBM) is a myopathy that usually does not become apparent
      before the age of 50 to 60. The disease is characterized by a progressive weakening of the
      muscles, including the finger flexors of the hand and proximal leg muscles. Swallowing
      problems are often observed. Muscular biopsy also reveals a combination of inflammatory,
      mitochondrial and myodegenerative signs. What triggers the disease has not yet been
      established, although two hypotheses are currently being explored: auto-immune and
      degeneration etiologies. Histological inflammatory hallmarks, the presence of sIMB-specific
      antibodies and the concomitance of other autoimmune pathologies point to the autoimmune
      hypothesis. On the other hand, immunosuppressive drugs only have a positive effect in a
      limited number of cases. The degenerative hypothesis is supported by the presence of rimmed
      vacuoles and protein aggregates (inclusion bodies) in the myocytes. The presence of
      mitochondrial anomalies can enhance protein aggregation that in turn can worsen mitochondrial
      changes.

      Many genetic studies have been carried out to assess a potential genetic link in the sIBM.
      However, only connections to a number of HLA alleles and haplotypes have been found. In the
      present study, the investigators propose to evaluate gene expression in the muscular tissue
      by high-throughput RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) in order to increase our knowledge of the sIMB
      pathophysiology. The RNA-seq technique can not only identify transcripted genes in a given
      tissue, but also discover unreported alternate or new transcripts, including long non-coding
      RNAs (lncRNAs). Indeed, lncRNAs play an important role in regulating gene networks, in
      particular in contributing to the setup and maintenance of epigenetic marks. The RNAseq
      approach will allow the investigators to assess the perturbations in the gene expression
      profiles and lncRNAs involved in the onset of the disease, by comparing the profiles obtained
      from patients at various stages of the disease and control subjects.

      This study aims at assessing the gene expression in the muscles of patients suffering from
      sporadic Inclusion Body Myositis (sIBM) at various stages of the disease, by comparison with
      muscles of control subject. The investigators use the RNA-seq technique to analyze the gene
      expression levels and potential alternate transcripts, including long non-coding RNAs
      (lncRNAs), in muscle tissue samples. The gene expression profiles will point to the genes of
      interest that can then become the object of future studies, in which epigenetic changes of
      these genes will be explored further. The value of those possible biomarkers will be
      assessed. The investigators will also evaluate the correlation between the gene expression
      profile, the degree of functional impairment, the histological picture and the presence or
      absence of autoantibodies.

      The study is interventional with no immediate benefits to the patient. RNAseq will be
      performed in both a group of sIBM patients (at early and late stages) and a group of control
      subjects.

      Patients suffering from sIMB will be recruited on the basis of the ENMC 2011 diagnostic
      criteria. Predominant inflammatory changes (T-cell inflammatory infiltrate, expression of HLA
      class I antigens) without a degenerative affection (rimmed vacuoles, endomysial fibrosis,
      protein accumulation) will allow for a classification in the "early sIMB" group. Muscle
      biopsies of control subjects are part of a proprietary collection of the Neurology Department
      declared to the Nice University Hospital administration; they are selected from biopsies
      devoid of anomalies among subjects matching the ages of the sIMB patients. A physical
      examination and a venipuncture will be performed on patients in order to assess the absence
      or presence of anti-cN-1A antibodies, a new marker of sIMB. Control subjects will undergo a
      physical exam and a creatine kinase dosage. Tissue muscle has been collected beforehand in
      the frame of the routine diagnostic procedure for both patients and control subjects.

      Expression profiles will be obtained by RNAseq from 15 muscle biopsies. Three groups of
      samples will be compared: 5 from early-stage sIMB patients, 5 from late-stage sIMB patients
      and 5 from control subjects.

      In addition to known expression modifications of genes involved in the inflammatory response,
      in particular at early stages of the sIMB, or of genes involved in autophagy processes, at
      late stages of the disease where muscle degeneration is advanced, this study will allow
      identifying lncRNA potentially involved in the sIMB. Inasmuch as lncRNA are crucial for the
      regulation of cell differentiation and ageing processes at the epigenetic level, this pilot
      study will make possible to identify a group of genes of particular relevance, thus enabling
      further research on epigenetic regulation. Furthermore, a delayed gene expression, as is the
      case with lncRNA in early-stage sIMB patients, compared to lncRNA in late-stages disease
      patients, may prove a biomarker for evolution, and serve as a beneficial tool for monitoring
      sIMB in therapeutic trials to come.
    
  