
    
      Tourette's syndrome is a developmental neuropsychiatric disorder which is characterized by
      stereotypical motor and verbal bursts that are called Tics.

      There is a small number of treatments that are available for the disorder, most of them are
      pharmacological agents that have serious side effects and are not very efficient in treating
      it.

      In this current study we are attempting to find a better solution for the treatment of
      tourette syndrome using deep Transcranial magnetic stimulation(dTMS) technology.our region of
      interest for stimulation is the supplementary motor cortex (SMA). earlier superficial TMS
      studies focusing on the SMA have shown promising results. In theses studies clinical
      improvement was evident after two weeks of treatment, and for some of the subjects it was
      even maintained for a period of 3 months.we are using a similar protocol of TMS stimulation
      used in a study by Mantovani et al (2006).The protocol includes bilateral stimulation to the
      SMA at 110% of the motor threshold of the Abductor Policies Brevis and at a frequency of 1
      Hz. each session is comprised of four cycles of 5 minutes of stimulation and a 2 minute
      recess.approximately 20 patients diagnosed with tourette syndrome and under pharmAcological
      or psychotherapy treatments will participate. patients will be recruited from Shnider
      hospital and all his extensions subjects would undergo rTMS sessions for five days a week,
      for four weeks, using the HBDL dTMS coil. this coil is capable of producing a magnetic field
      in deeper parts of the cerebral cortex, and for that reason we believe that it can produce
      better clinical outcomes then superficial TMS coils (such as the figure 8) used in past
      studies.

      Clinical evaluation includes Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Scale (YBOCS) , Yale
      Global Tic Severity rating Scale (YGTSS), Clinical Global Impression (CGI), Beck Depression
      Inventory (BDI), Symptoms Check List (SCL-90), Social Adaptation Self evaluation Scale
      (SASS), Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS-24), Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HARS-14),
      Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) .These evaluation will be conducted on study entry, 2 weeks
      after study entry, at the end of the treatment phase and at a 2 week follow up visit (a total
      of four times). Further more, clinical evaluation will be administrated at Schneider
      hospital, while treatments are conducted at the cognitive lab at Shalvata hospital.

      Our main objective is to observe a reduction in the severity of the symptoms post treatment
      in comparison to pre treatment, using the YGTSS as the main outcome measure.
    
  