
    
      The evolution of lower limb prostheses has made considerable progress in the past decades.
      There has been a transition from passive (e.g. Total knee®, Össur) to quasi-passive (e.g.
      C-leg®, Otto Bock) and eventually to active prostheses (e.g. Power knee®, Össur). The
      development always focused on an amputation as a primary peripheral disorder. For example,
      manufacturers have been searching to compensate the loss of muscle mass by adding torque into
      the prosthesis. However, few considerations have yet been taken to the fact that central
      adaptations are also observed after amputation in terms of neuroplasticity and
      reorganization.

      The atypical motion planning strategies of people with a lower limb amputation (LLA) could
      possibly be related to the challenges that they experience during daily activities, such as
      the sit to stand transfer. Standing up from a chair is a relevant clinical problem and
      current devices do not yet relieve the asymmetrical loading. A few studies have already
      investigated the muscular activity during a sit to stand movement in people with a LLA and
      able-bodied individuals. The movement is characterized by a forward displacement of the
      centre of mass with the highest activation of the m. gluteus maximus, m. adductor magnus and
      m. biceps femoris.The sit to stand transfer is a potential movement to investigate brain
      activity incorporating the advantages and disadvantages of EEG measurements.

      Until now, the development of lower limb prostheses approaches people with a LLA as a
      peripheral disorder whereas relevant central adaptations are also observed. Therefore, the
      purpose of this study is to identify the cortical activity that is responsible for
      successfully completing a sit to stand transfer. The hypothesis is that different brain
      locations are activated in people with a transfemoral amputation for motion planning compared
      to able-bodied individuals.
    
  