
    
      In the present study we examine the metabolic fluctuations of the most important amino acids
      and fatty acids to better understand the metabolic process in weight reduction in obese
      subjects that underwent sleeve gastrectomy surgery.

      The availability of the tandem equipment for amino acids and fatty acids determinations for
      the medical system gives us an opportunity to investigate the metabolic turmoil of weight
      reduction seen in obese subjects after sleeve gastrectomy.

      We evaluated the lipid metabolism by the measurements of the fraction of carnitine fatty
      acids which is the most available one because only a small blood specimen from a finger
      puncture is needed.

      In the present study we measured the blood concentrations of monocarboxylic and dicarboxylic
      fatty acids bounded to carnitine, free carnitine and also free amino acids 2 weeks before the
      surgery while subjects eat their regular high caloric diet, one week, one month and 3 month
      after the procedure.

      Carnitne fatty acids comprise only the tip of the iceberg of all circulating fatty acids in
      the blood with a roughly distribution of: triglycerides, phospholipids and cholesteryl fatty
      acids 4 (Lipids43-65), free fatty acids 0.6, and carnitne fatty acids 0.005 mM. Some
      additional amount is also circulating in lipoproteins. Even carnitine monocarboxylic fatty
      acids comprise around 1% of the free fatty acids and around 0.1% of all fatty compounds, the
      fluctuations in their concentrations probably reflect the most dynamics metabolic events
      because fatty acid oxidation must initiate by binding fatty acid to carnitine. The
      concentration of dicarboxylic carnitine fatty acids is much higher and comprises about 2% for
      malic carnitine and about 10% for glutaric carnitine in the total amount of free acids
      (http://www.hmdb.ca/). Yet, as for monocarboxylic fatty acids, a remarkable mass of
      dicarboxylic acids is still present as free acids.

      For all carnitne acyl compounds the distribution forms have a high variability on different
      physiological conditions.
    
  