
    
      Hyperpolarised gas MRI (3He and 129Xe) has enabled novel methods of in-vivo functional lung
      imaging that do not rely on the use of ionising radiation. Hyperpolarised 129Xe (HP Xe) MRI
      provides additional complementary information to 3He and 1H MRI and conventional lung imaging
      modalities. By virtue of its solubility, the 129Xe contrast agent follows the gas exchange
      pathways in the lungs, offering a direct means to explore regional ventilation-perfusion
      (V/Q). The competing modality of nuclear medicine lung V/Q scans suffer from very poor
      spatial resolution and a reliance on high doses of radiation via radio-nuclide inhalation.
      Nuclear medicine is thus unsuitable for studies of basic physiology in healthy volunteers or
      in longitudinal studies in lung disease patients.

      The aims and objectives of this study are:

        1. To assess the physiological differences in lung ventilation between the normal group
           (volunteers) and the cystic fibrosis disease group

        2. To evaluate differences in Xe diffusion across the alveolar membrane between the normal
           group (volunteers) and the cystic fibrosis disease group

        3. To understand the relationship between the extent of abnormal ventilation (and
           ventilation-perfusion mismatch) on MRI and the results from conventional physiological
           evaluation of lung function using pulmonary function tests (spirometry and gas exchange)

        4. To understand the relationship between gas exchange as determined by HP Xe imaging with
           the extent of ventilation perfusion mismatch on standard perfusion MRI

      This is a physiological cross-sectional feasibility study comparing regional lung ventilation
      and diffusion across the alveolar membrane in normal volunteers and cystic fibrosis. 15
      healthy volunteers and 15 cystic fibrosis patients will be recruited. All imaging will take
      place at Papworth Hospital.

      Phase I: Volunteer study (n=15, aged 18-70)

      Hyperpolarised 129Xe MRI scans will be performed in the MRI department at Papworth Hospital,
      using a Siemens Avanto 1.5 Tesla system with 129Xe capability using a dedicated
      transmit-receive RF coil.

      Phase II: CF study (n=15, aged 18-70)

      Patients already enrolled in the study 'Pulmonary magnetic resonance imaging in cystic
      fibrosis: accuracy and reproducibility' (REC reference: 13/EE/0401; IRAS project ID: 73137)
      will be invited to take part in this study too.

      These patients, with CF in stable phase, will be evaluated with same day conventional MRI,
      lung function tests and clinical scoring. The methodology of 129Xe MRI will be as described
      above for healthy volunteers.

      Morphological imaging: A combination of T1 and T2 weighted sequences will be used.

      Hyperpolarized 129Xe MR imaging: For each subject, up to two deliveries of ≤ 1L doses of
      hyperpolarised xenon will take place as follows:-

        1. 129Xe ventilation imaging will provide further information on assessment of lung
           ventilation volume using a volumetric gradient echo sequence.

        2. Chemical shift saturation recovery (CSSR) spectroscopy with dissolved xenon will provide
           an estimation of the fraction of 129Xe in tissue/interstitium and in red blood cells.
    
  