
    
      Background The development of healthy romantic relationship skills and supportive
      co-parenting skills are important to family functioning and parental well-being. Family
      systems perspective and co-parental frameworks suggest these two relationships are related
      but distinct; however, curricula targeting family functioning do not target both relationship
      dynamics. A possible reason for this oversight may be that co-parenting curricula have been
      created for adult couples (e.g., Bringing Baby Home, Family Expectations, Family Foundations,
      Two Families Now; National Registry of Evidence-Based Programs and Practices [NREPP]).
      Similarly, healthy relationship programs have been targeted towards adolescents and emerging
      adults, or premarital couple where co-parenting was not given substantial attention.

      Only two co-parenting curricula exist that target adolescent parents, the Young Parenthood
      Program (YPP) and the Family Foundations program (FFP). YPP states that it targets
      co-parenting skills, but the material actually targets healthy romantic relationship skills
      and the prevention of intimate partner violence (IPV), acknowledging youth developmental need
      to learn healthy relationship skills, but ignoring the saliency of co-parenting in this
      unique context. FFP does target the co-parenting relationship by focusing on identifying
      childrearing goals and duties and supporting the co-parental relationship; however, this
      program does not target healthy relationship dynamics or the prevention of IPV.

      Unfortunately, adolescent parents, who are experiencing an off-time transition into early
      parenthood, face the challenge of learning to positively engage in romantic and co-parental
      relationships at the same time. To better serve this population, the Strengthening
      Relationships/ Strengthening Families (SR/SF) program is targeting healthy relationship and
      supportive co-parenting skills. Because a program targeting both skills has not been
      implemented in any population, our evaluation will move the field forward by showcasing the
      efficacy of targeting two family relationship dynamics concurrently. Further, by comparing a
      full-treatment (co-parenting and healthy relationships) to partial-treatment groups
      (co-parenting only or healthy relationship only), the investigators will be able to identify
      which relationship is more salient and impactful in increasing adolescent (e.g., depression,
      self-esteem, role overload) and parental (e.g., parental stress, parental self-efficacy)
      adjustment during this off-time transition into parenthood. Finally, cost-effectiveness
      analysis will also provide information of the program impacts if services are provided to one
      or both members of the co-parental system. Taken together, the program model and supporting
      evaluation will help build our knowledge of the most salient needs of adolescent parents, and
      program service delivery best practices.

      Evaluation Questions and Hypotheses

      Due to the lacuna in the literature focused on adolescent parents and their coparenting
      adjustment, the following research questions have been formulated:

        1. Do pregnant and parenting adolescents who participate in the full-treatment group
           (Co-parenting AND Healthy Relationships) show larger improvements in their co-parenting
           and relationship knowledge and behaviors compared to those adolescents who participate
           in the partial-treatment group (Co-parenting OR Healthy Relationships)? H1: Youth
           participating in the full-treatment group will show larger improvements in their
           co-parenting and relationship knowledge and behaviors post treatment compared to youth
           in the partial-treatment group.

        2. Do pregnant and parenting adolescents who participate in the full-treatment group show
           sustained improvements in co-parenting and relationship behaviors six-months
           post-treatment? H1: Youth participating in the full-treatment group will show more
           sustained improvements in co-parenting and relationship behaviors six months
           post-treatment than youth in the partial-treatment group.

        3. Do couples who participate show significantly better co-parenting and relationship
           outcomes than couples where only one adolescent participated? (cost-effectiveness
           analysis) H1: Couples in the program will show better co-parenting and relationship
           outcomes than couples where only one adolescent participated.

        4. Do pregnant and parenting adolescents who participate in the full-treatment group show
           immediate (post-treatment) and sustained (3- & 6-month follow-up) improvements in
           well-being (i.e., reduced depressive symptoms, role overload, increased parental
           self-efficacy)? H1: Youth participating in the full-treatment group will show
           statistically significant immediate and sustained improvements in well-being.

      Impact Evaluation An intent-to-treat randomized design coupled with a time-series design will
      be used to assess differential adjustment between the treatment and control groups, and to
      assess differential changes in adjustment between groups across four time-points. SR/SF
      participants will be recruited to participate in this evaluation (See Sample Section below).
      In addition, non-SR/SF participant adolescent fathers will be recruited to participate in the
      evaluation to serve as a non-random control group. The time-series design will be
      administered pre-treatment (early Fall semester: August), mid-treatment (end of Fall
      semester: December; participants only), post-treatment (end of Spring semester: May), and
      three-months post-treatment (August). Each school year, data will be collected from a new
      cohort of participating pregnant/parenting adolescents (nparticipant/cohort = 160-200) and
      non-intervention fathers (nnon-participant/cohort = 40-50) for a total of four cohorts
      (nparticipant = 640-800; nnon-participant = 160-200).

      Sample All students participating in our program beginning Fall 2016 will be invited to
      participate in this evaluation with the primary unit of analysis being the adolescent parent.
      The investigators will recruit 160-200 students/year for a total of 640-800 participants
      across four years. Our program participants are projected to be primarily female (75%),
      Hispanic (91%), pregnant and parenting (32% pregnant, 78% parenting) adolescents between the
      ages of 14-20, with an additional 40 adolescent fathers/year recruited (by the evaluation
      team) to serve as the non-equivalent control group for Research Question #3. Regardless of
      group membership, 440-550 adolescents will receive the co-parenting curriculum, and 440-550
      adolescents will receive the healthy romantic relationship curriculum. Given our previous
      success in sample retention, less than 20% attrition is expected. However, our
      intent-to-treat design and missing data handling techniques will allow us to use the full
      sample in our analyses.
    
  