
    
      The present study was designed as a parallel, double masked, randomized, placebo-controlled
      clinical trial. The experimental gingivitis model, with the modifications by Preus and
      coworkers was used to induce gingival inflammation under supervised conditions throughout the
      study.

      The study population comprised sixty dental, medical, and dental hygienist students who
      volunteered to participate in the project. A meeting was arranged for the volunteers prior to
      the start of the study, through which the participants received information about oral
      rinsing products in general and chlorhexidine containing products as well as information on
      the study ahead, in particular.

      The study period was 21 days, not comprising any special academic, religious or ethnic events
      that could jeopardize the collective behavior of the study population. All information,
      administration and data collection was performed at the Department of Periodontology,
      Institute of Clinical Odontology, Faculty of Dentistry, University of Oslo, Norway.

      The test solutions were the commercially available mouthwash products: 0.2 % chlorhexidine
      (no ethanol), 0.12% chlorhexidine with 910 ppm Sodium Fluoride (NaF) without ethanol and
      0.06% chlorhexidine 250ppm Sodium Fluoride (NaF). The three commercially available
      chlorhexidine solutions were filled in identical, but differently labelled (A,B,C) plastic
      bottles for blinding purposes.

      Randomization was carried out using a computer generated random allocation table, assigning
      the participants to the three study groups with 20 test subjects in each. They were all
      carefully instructed to rinse for 60 sec. twice a day as recommended by the manufacturers.

      Setting the baseline dental plaque score to zero was done by giving all participants a
      professional tooth cleaning with rubber cup, pumice paste and dental floss at the start of
      the study. The participants were given their test solution and subsequently instructed to
      rinse as described above. All information was given verbally as well as in writing.

      Individual plastic tooth guards had been produced to fit the teeth in the upper right
      quadrant. Together with this individual tooth guard, the students were given identical
      prophylaxis packs containing a medium texture tooth brush, inter-dental floss and dentifrice.
      The participants were instructed to substitute their daily oral hygiene remedies with the
      ones given to them, and attach the tooth guard to the tooth brush, with a provided rubber
      string, before and after use so that the use of this always was remembered when using the
      brush.

      The participants were instructed to insert the tooth guard in the first quadrant every time
      they brushed their teeth and to perform a mechanical oral hygiene routine twice daily in the
      three other quadrants. They should then rinse 30 sec with tap water before and after removing
      the tooth guard to remove as much as possible of the remnants of the dentifrice. Following
      this procedure, the participants rinsed, as instructed, with the solution they randomly had
      been assigned, repeating the procedure for 21 days. Following the scoring at day 21, the
      participants received professional tooth cleaning after ending the study.

      A team of five people were trained in the procedure of informing participants, receiving the
      test persons for evaluation, questionnaire and clinically monitoring them. The principal
      investigator and project managers managed all contact with the participants outside the
      scoring room. In between appointments the project team kept in touch with the test persons by
      text messaging and e-mail. The success of this service was evident by zero no-shows at the
      clinic, as was the case also in the previous studies with this design.

      At the interviews at day 7, 14, 21 the project managers received reports from each
      participant about compliance (adherence to protocol) and verbal complaints and descriptions
      of subjective side-effects. A special questionnaire had been prepared for these interviews.
      Reports of ill- and side effects were carefully registered and categorized for later
      statistical examination.

      At day 21, the above mentioned interview was followed by an examination of clinical results.
      Before entering the scoring room the project managers advised the participants to refrain
      from any conversation with the scoring scientists inside. The recorders had been instructed
      likewise. In the scoring room, two researchers obtained the clinical data. The Loe and
      Silness plaque - and gingival index were recorded on the mesial, buccal, distal and palatal
      aspects of teeth 16, 15, 14, 13 and 23, 24, 25, 26. Adverse events like discoloration
      observed during the clinical examination (yes/no) and clinically visible oral mucosal
      reactions were registered. In addition, plaque index by Quigley and Hine, the Turesky
      modification, was registered. All clinical registrations were performed by the same
      experienced periodontist, leaving her colleague to register recordings on specially designed
      charts. The clinical crew was kept blind to the group allocation of the participants at all
      times, as the only one that had access to the code-book was the statistician who did not
      participate in the clinical events.

      Statistics The present experiment aimed at comparing the plaque and gingivitis preventing
      effect of the 0.12% - and 0.06% chlorhexidine solutions with the gold standard 0.2%
      chlorhexidine group.

      The total number of participants was 60, with 20 participants in each group. The number of
      participants was based on the following power calculation. The power analysis was based on
      the variable 'average plaque score in each participant'. When comparing average plaque scores
      in two groups, a two-sided independent samples t-test was used, with 5% significance level.
      Average standard deviation in the 3 groups was 0.40. It may be shown that in order to have
      80% test power to detect a mean difference in average plaque score of at least 0.40 between
      two groups, at least 15 participants must be included in each group. Because some drop-outs
      were expected, it was decided to include 60 subjects in the study. Because 80% test power is
      generally accepted as sufficiently high in clinical studies, and the mean difference in
      mesial plaque score between group 1 and group 3 was 0.41, the above calculation suggest that
      the study had acceptable test power.

      When comparing mean plaque score in two groups, a two-sided independent sample t-test was
      used, with a 5% significance level. When comparing proportion of subjects with a particular
      adverse effect, the "linear by linear association chi-square" test was used. The statistical
      analysis was conducted using the software of Statistical Package for the Social Sciences
      (SPSS) for Windows, Version 16.0.

      The distributions of the outcome variables were checked, and found to be sufficiently close
      to the normal distribution to allow for the use of a t-test.
    
  