
    
      The Investigators will conduct research to patients with outpatient treatment for
      osteoarthritis of the knee joint, pain control will be performed using the same pain control
      technique that is generally applied to patients with osteoarthritis of the knee joint.

      The enrolled patienst will be divided into the group taking celecoxib 200mg with Joins tab
      together and the group taking celecoxib 200mg with Joins placebo in the same probability of
      2:1 according to the randomization table at the first outpatient visit. Among the
      co-researchers, one researcher who is in charge of patient assignment will create a
      randomization table through computer generated randomization. And this researcher who is
      charge of the patient assignment will not intervene in any other process of this study, and
      only participates in the task of selecting the assigned group using random checks. The
      evaluation will be evaluated by an researcher who is not aware of the patient allocation
      according to the randomization table among researchers participating in the clinical study.
      Such a study plan will be fully explained to the patient in the process of seeking consent
      for the study before discharge, as it is recorded in detail in the subject description, and
      only patients who have obtained consent for this will be the subject of the study.

      Subjects assigned through randomization are prescribed and taken through the clinical
      pharmacy. Considering that Joins tab is a sustained-acting drug, the study is divided into
      Celebrex + Joins placebo group and Celebrex + Joins tab group for up to 12 weeks, and only
      Joins placeb and Joins are taken for weeks 12th week to 36th week except for celebrex. The
      total period of the study should be 36 weeks. In the case of the rescue drug, 650mg of
      Tylenol sustained-release tablet (acetaminophen) in both groups can be taken up to 3 tablets
      per day, and up to 36 weeks of taking the test drug. Patients should follow the approved
      usage and dosage, and taking relief drug is prohibited within 1 day before the regular visit.
      Relief drugs will be prescribed at baseline and from subsequent visits, if necessary,
      according to the judgment of the investigator.

      At the first visit, at 4 weeks, 12 weeks, 24 weeks, 36 weeks, the degree of pain will be
      measured using the VAS pain scale, and additional pain scale using the WOMAC pain scale,
      Brief pain inventory (BPI), and SF-36 score.

      Knee X-rays will be taken at each outpatient visit as the knee degenerative osteoarthritis
      patients are measured to check joint space width (JSW) and Kellgren-Lawrence grade to
      objectively evaluate the effectiveness and stability of the medication effect.
    
  