
    
      Introduction According to the Medical Research Council guidance, there are four critical
      steps to systematically establish a standardize intervention content and mode of delivery
      through phased approach. Theory and evidence-based practice, feasibility or piloting to test
      the procedure, estimate recruitment/retention, determining sample size, evaluation and
      implementation are the four keys of the best practice described in the guideline. In this
      article, we reported three steps in developing an evidence-based intervention, namely brief
      hope intervention that addresses the management of cancer and palliative care patients: (1)
      preparation of the present program, (2) description of the protocol of the feasibility test,
      and (3) an experimental study using wait list control design.

      Background Hope intervention is grounded on positive psychology and is mapped onto
      cognitive-behavioral therapy. It aligns with the 2014-2018 Oncology Nursing Society research
      priorities, which indicated the need for evaluating the efficacy of integrating protective
      factors, such as hope, to the care delivery to the patient and family caregivers. In a
      similar vein, growing evidence has shown the increasing needs of quality palliative care for
      non-cancer patients, who suffer from complex illnesses and progressing to end-of-life. These
      patients having unpredictable disease trajectories, significant loss and grief, and
      anticipated death would lead to depression and hopelessness. As such, the intervention should
      be extended to non-cancer patients in their last phase of life. The goal of health-promoting
      palliative care is to create a supportive environment and strengthen actions that intervene
      along the journey of care giving, loss and death and dying. In a systematic review, hope was
      found to account for therapeutic changes in clients with depressive symptoms or chronic pain.
      Nevertheless, such active ingredients of the psychotherapy are not standard elements of
      multi-modal care management. This warrants the field testing of the present brief hope
      intervention in patients receiving palliative care.

      Hope Theory Hope theory is adopted as the framework in the present study, where hope was
      believed as the central agent to facilitate the change process. It focuses on three core
      features: (1) goal setting (goals), (2) problem solving (pathways) and (3) positive self-talk
      (agency). These elements underlie the key hope strategies used in the intervention. By
      increasing hope level, the likelihood of therapeutic change will be increased. Its current
      emphasis complemented the traditional cognitive behavioral therapy by shifting the primary
      focus on positive potentials as the starting point, thereby promoting meaning in life,
      fostering personal strengths, positive changes and improving well-being.

      Some believed that being overly optimistic is harmful. However, nurturing hope was found to
      be one of the significant elements in staying positive in the coping experiences of Chinese
      couples living with cancer. Evidence has shown that high-hope individuals were found to be
      more creative and effective problem solvers. More important, a number of studies have
      reported the positive effect of hope in newly diagnosed cancer patient, for example, health,
      quality of life, self-esteem, reduced major cancer symptoms, such as pain, fatigue, cough,
      and depression in lung cancer patients or promoting positive changes in breast cancer
      patients. However, many of these researches are cross-sectional surveys or qualitative
      studies; others are mindfulness-based or spiritual-based interventions where hope is only one
      of the active components in the program. Whether improving the hopeful state of cancer
      patients and palliative care patients would lead to better clinical outcomes remains under
      explored.

      Brief Hope Intervention The present study aimed to examine the effectiveness of a brief hope
      intervention in improving the hope level and the physical and mental health of cancer and
      non-cancer Hong Kong Chinese patients who are receiving palliative care. This low intensity
      psychological intervention can be delivered by caregiver such as nurses to address the needs
      of these patients and to build their mental and/or physical abilities. Additionally, the
      skills could be streamlined in daily nursing practice and an ongoing self-help strategy.
      Would brief hope intervention be as effective as the standard session in clinical population?

      Optimal Length of Hope Intervention Preliminary evidence was found. Literature showed that
      the role and value of hope at the early counseling sessions enhanced a literal shift to
      experience a sense of worthiness. Focused hope intervention (90 minutes) has led to higher
      level of hope and increase in perceived life meaning. The statistical robustness is supported
      by the comparable effect sizes achieved by both the eight 2-hours sessions and the 90-minute
      single session in previous studies on hope therapy. The effect sizes on the agency and
      pathway hope scale scores were 0.65 and 0.38 respectively in the long intervention, and were
      0.43 and 0.38 in the brief interventions. One large scale brief positive psychology
      intervention with hope-based intervention (single session plus one booster session) recruited
      1,734 participants from the community, showed positive significant changes in well-being and
      family happiness (ES 0.11-0.14) (Zhou et al., 2015). Encouraging results were also
      demonstrated is other studies, which has tested a brief meaning in life intervention for
      advanced cancer Chinese patients (2-sessions: 30-60 and 15-30 minutes respectively). It
      showed improvement in quality of life and existential distress. Wong, Wong, & Chang (2015)
      also found a four-sessions program (one visit plus three telephone follow up) effective in
      reducing hospital readmission in community dwelling patients with chronic illnesses.
      Nevertheless, there is insufficient evidence on the optimal length of hope intervention for
      cancer and palliative patients that would produce the desired effect. Thus the present study
      results could underpin effective palliative care provision across a range of services from
      hospitalization to discharge facilitation.

      Aims The primary research question is whether brief hope intervention would improve the
      hopeful state and reduce physical symptoms and/or depression level of patients receiving
      palliative care. Fidelity was assured at the design level and in intervention delivery to
      establish a standardized procedure, skill adequacy and translating the intervention from
      research into clinical practice.

      Intervention Description of the intervention The present Brief Hope Intervention is a
      four-weeks individual intervention, helping participants to develop positive thoughts through
      skills in goal setting, problem solving and positive self-talk. The program consists of four
      sessions in total: two face-to-face sessions (1-hour) and two telephone follow up sessions
      (30 minutes) in between. This serves to create the momentum and continuity of intervention.
      The first session is the core intervention and the final face-to-face session is a summary
      talk. Two telephone follow up will review their progress and encourage the practice of hope
      exercises. Hope enhancement strategies included sharing and recalling past successes,
      hope-based goal mapping exercises, examining possible pathways to reach the targeted goals,
      hope visualization exercise and positive self-talk. A booklet will be prepared for the
      participants for reviewing their planned goals and recording achieved targets. Successful
      experiences and solutions to perceived barriers are entered. Such take-home exercise helps to
      extend the participants' practice of hope-based skills into their daily living.

      Design and Randomization This study is a randomized controlled trial. On completion of the
      baseline assessment and the screening procedure, eligible participants will be randomly
      assigned in equal number into either a brief hope intervention or the control group using
      sets of computer-generated random numbers. The research assistant conducting the assessments
      will be blinded to the treatment type. However, participants are inevitably aware of the
      conditions they have been randomized to. To reduce expectancy effects of the advantages of
      the program, the control arm is casted as a social intervention. Figure 1 presented the data
      collection using the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials, which will be done before
      the commencement of the intervention (Time1), immediately post-intervention (Time2) and one
      month after the completion of program (Time 3).

      Participants Chinese cancer and non-cancer patients in Hong Kong, who have completed the
      curative treatment regimen (surgery and/or chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy) or not eligible
      for the aforementioned treatment, but receiving palliative care will be invited to join the
      study.
    
  