
    
      The objective of this study is to investigate the effects of intranasally administered
      insulin versus placebo on tissue specific glucose uptake of the key metabolic organs as well
      as on endogenous glucose production.

      SAMPLE SIZE:

      A total of ten (n=10) healthy males are planned to be included, and the study is conducted
      with a cross-over design with each subject being investigated twice, once using intranasal
      insulin and once using intranasal placebo in single-blinded randomized order.

      SCREENING VISIT/ELIGIBILITY:

      Main inclusion and exclusion criteria will be evaluated at a screening visit. This visit will
      include a frequently-sampled 75 g oral glucose tolerance test as well as anthropometric
      measurements and clinical examination.

      PET STUDY VISITS:

      On the PET study days two cannulas will be inserted, one in a radial or an antecubital vein
      for tracer injection and infusion of glucose and insulin, another in the opposite radial or
      antecubital vein for blood sampling. The arm where the samples are taken will be kept warm to
      obtain arterialized venous blood. The subjects will rest in supine position on the PET/CT
      scanner bed during the study.

      HYPERINSULINEMIC EUGLYCEMIC CLAMP:

      Whole-body insulin sensitivity will be assessed by hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp with an
      primed insulin infusion rate of 0.25 mU/kg/min. To maintain the glucose level at 5.0 mmol/l
      intravenous glucose infusion is administered individually as needed to maintain euglycemia.

      NASAL SPRAY ADMINISTRATION:

      After 30 minutes of intravenous insulin infusion, the subjects will receive either 160 IU
      human insulin or placebo intranasally. The small amount of insulin known to be absorbed into
      circulation after the insulin nasal spray will be mimicked on placebo day. Therefore subjects
      will be administered 2.5 mU/kg of additional intravenous insulin over 15 minutes together
      with placebo spray administration.

      LABORATORY SAMPLES:

      To verify comparable insulin levels in circulation during the study, serum insulin and
      C-peptide levels will be determined in fasting state, and repeatedly throughout the
      experiment.

      BLINDING:

      The clinician and the study nurse are aware which spray is given, but subjects are blinded
      and additional insulin infusion on placebo day is done in a manner that the subjects remain
      blinded. The sprays are given on a randomized order. The randomization code was generated by
      a statistician using SAS, version 9.3 for Windows. The randomization block size was four and
      the method was permuted block randomization. The randomization was done for 16 subjects in
      case of discontinuations.

      HEART RATE VARIABILITY:

      Heart rate variability is recorded to evaluate changes in autonomous nervous system activity
      after spray administration on both visits. Polar RS800CX heart rate monitor (Polar Electro
      Ltd., Kempele, Finland) with two electrodes is used.

      FDG-PET-IMAGING:

      70 minutes after the start of clamp and 40 minutes after the application of nasal sprays the
      positron emission tomography (PET) scanning is started with the injection of glucose-analogue
      tracer labeled with positron-emitting fluorine-18 ([18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose, [18F]-FDG).
      PET/CT, GE DiscoveryTM ST System (General Electric Medical Systems, Milwaukee, WI, USA) with
      final resolution of 3.75 mm in PET images is used. All data will be corrected for dead-time,
      decay and measured photon attenuation. Dynamic PET-scans will be reconstructed with iterative
      reconstruction method. Radiotracer [18F]-FDG is produced in the PET Centre radiochemistry
      laboratory. Plasma radioactivity is measured with an automatic gamma counter by a medical
      technologist in the laboratory of the Turku PET Centre (Wizard 1480 3", Wallac, Turku,
      Finland).

      PET-IMAGE ANALYSIS:

      To determine tissue-specific glucose uptake during insulin stimulation from PET data,
      time-activity-curves of tissue activity and activity measured from plasma during the scanning
      are analysed graphically to define tracer's fractional uptake (Ki). To calculate glucose
      uptake rate (reported as µmol/kg/min), Ki is multiplied with plasma glucose level, divided
      with a constant that accounts for the differences in transport and dephosphorylation rates
      between D-glucose and FDG (lumped constant, LC) and divided with tissue specific gravity.
      Based on previous studies the LC is 1,2 for skeletal muscle; 1,0 for heart and liver; 1,14
      for adipose tissue; 1,1 for intestines and 0,8 for brain. After the PET/CT an urine sample
      will be collected to quantify endogenous glucose production (EGP). This will be determined by
      subtracting urine loss and glucose infusion rate from rate of glucose disappearance.
    
  