
    
      Counselling programmes used in many humanitarian settings are often non-specific with unknown
      efficacy and safety. Only a few interventions in humanitarian crises have been rigorously
      tested, and most studied interventions focused on posttraumatic stress disorder. Beyond
      posttraumatic stress disorder, individuals may have a range of problems including depression,
      anxiety, and not being able to do daily tasks necessary for survival and recovery. However,
      interventions are often limited since they tend to target only a single outcome, are usually
      of longer duration (8-16 sessions) or require professionals.

      In low resourced settings interventions need to be short of duration, and be carried out by
      lay people in the communities to make them sustainable and feasible to implement on a broader
      scale. World Health Organization aims to develop a range of low-intensity scale-able
      psychological interventions that address these issues, as part of its mental health Gap
      Action Program. As a first step a simplified psychological intervention Problem Management
      Plus (PM+) has been developed. It has 4 core features that make the intervention suitable for
      low resourced setting exposed to adversities. First, it is brief intervention (5-sessions),
      delivered individually or in groups; second, it can be delivered by paraprofessionals (high
      school graduates with no mental health experience), using the principle of task shifting/
      task sharing; third, it is designed as a trans-diagnostic intervention, addressing a range of
      client identified emotional (e.g. depression, anxiety, traumatic stress, general stress) and
      practical problems; fourth, it is designed for people in low-income country communities
      affected by any kind of adversity (e.g. violence, disasters), not just focusing on a single
      kind of adversity.

      Recent PM+ trails in Pakistan and Kenya have indicated PM+ to be effective in diminishing
      depression and anxiety and improving people's functioning and self-selected, culturally
      relevant outcomes. In this project Group PM+ will be piloted in a district in Nepal, which
      was affected by the 2015 earthquakes in Nepal. The current pilot study will evaluate the
      acceptability and feasibility of Group PM+ in Nepal to informant a subsequent pragmatic
      cluster randomized controlled trial. This exploratory cluster randomized controlled trial
      (cluster randomized controlled trial) will be conducted to gather information about the
      feasibility, safety and delivery of the intervention in the Nepali community settings; and to
      identify issues around training, supervision and outcomes measures. This research strategy is
      informed by the United Kingdom Medical Research Council framework for the development of
      complex interventions, which recognizes iterations of: a) Intervention Development; b)
      Feasibility and Piloting; c) Evaluation; and d) Implementation. This framework recommends to
      first conduct feasibility and randomized pilot studies before conducting large scale trials.
      In this way possible problems of acceptability, compliance, delivery of the intervention,
      recruitment and retention can be detected before the large definitive scale trail is
      conducted.
    
  