
    
      *As a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic, and after consultation with the appropriate
      research oversight, regulatory and monitoring entities, screening and enrollment has been
      placed on temporary administrative hold as of 03/27/2020. When such trial activities resume
      the clinicaltrials.gov record will be updated accordingly. * Abstract Clostridium difficile
      is the most common cause of healthcare-associated infectious diarrhea among adults in
      industrialized countries. In addition to diarrhea, C. difficile infection (CDI) may also
      result in serious complications such as shock, toxic megacolon, colectomy, and death. The
      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has estimated C. difficile results in
      250,000 hospital infections, 14,000 deaths, and $1 billion in excess costs annually.
      Recurrent CDI is the most challenging clinical dilemma facing clinicians who treat this
      disease. An estimated 30% of patients who respond to initial treatment with either vancomycin
      or metronidazole develop recurrent CDI, usually within 1-4 weeks of completing treatment.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine whether 1) standard fidaxomicin treatment
      and 2) standard vancomycin treatment followed by taper and pulse vancomycin treatment are
      superior to standard vancomycin treatment alone for sustained clinical response at day 59 for
      all treatments, for participants with either their first or second recurrence of CDI.
      Veterans presenting with a first or second CDI recurrence will be screened, consented and
      randomly assigned in a double-blind manner equally to one of three treatment groups: 1) a 10
      day course of oral vancomycin (VAN-TX), 2) a 10 day course of fidaxomicin (FID-TX) or 3) a 31
      day course of vancomycin which includes a taper and pulse following daily treatment
      (VAN-TP/P). Symptom resolution is defined as an improvement or resolution of diarrhea ( 3
      unformed bowel movements over 24 hours) for 48 consecutive hours compared to the
      participant's baseline. Recurrence is defined as having diarrhea (>3 loose or semi-formed
      stools over 24 hours for 48 consecutive hours). A sample size of 549 randomized study
      participants is required to obtain 91% global power to detect a 16% absolute difference
      (expected proportion of 31% in the VAN-TX group) in sustained clinical response (D- COM)
      proportion for at least one comparison (VAN-TP/P vs. VAN-TX, FID-TX vs. VAN-TX) at the family
      wised error rate (FWER) 0.05 level. The marginal probability (disjunctive power) of detecting
      16% absolute difference for each comparison is 81%. The expected withdrawal rate prior to day
      59 (prior outcome assessment) is estimated to be 10%. If both FID-TX and VAN-TP/P are found
      to be superior to VAN-TX, then the non-inferiority of VAN-TP/P to FID-TX will be assessed.

      With the assumption that sites recruit 6 participants (site average) per year for sites
      primarily recruiting from the main hospital and nearby CBOCS, and 9 participants (site
      average) per year for sites that could partner with independent VAMCs (Independent VAMCs LSI
      Application will be reviewed and approved by Central IRB) that are close in distance to allow
      a shared site coordinator (WOC appointed) at an increased funding level, the study is
      expected to complete enrollment of 549 participants within 6 years with 90 days of follow-up.
      This includes 2 years of pilot phase plus transitioning period from pilot phase to full
      study, and 4 years of full study. There were 6 sites in the pilot phase and will have 24
      units (26 sites) in full phase (including 5 pilot sites and 21 additional sites). Sites that
      are significantly below the recruitment target for an extensive period may be considered for
      termination. The recruitment timeline and the number of sites will be re-evaluated based on
      the actual recruitment rate, the number of sites still recruiting, whether replacement or
      additional sites will be added, the study time period on administrative recruitment hold due
      to COVID-19 pandemic, and available funding resources.
    
  