
    
      In the modern work life, performing work tasks rely on cognitive function, i.e. mental
      processes that are involved in processing information, such as attention, working memory,
      decision making and learning. Furthermore, the conditions at work include situations that
      require cognitive capacity. Information overload, multitasking and interruptions are typical
      features in any work. Thus, in the modern work life, work is knowledge work or information
      work by nature, and cognitive strain is a notable psychosocial risk factor. Not only task
      demands per se can exceed natural limitations of human cognitive capacities, but also the
      conditions at work can make it demanding for a human to perform.

      Research shows that psychosocial stress, including cognitive stress, challenges wellbeing,
      safety and productivity at work. Cognitively straining conditions, such as disruptions,
      interruptions and information overload are related to higher levels of work stress,
      occupational accidents, and cognitive failures at work. It is essential to decrease harmful
      consequences to individual workers, organizations, and the society by managing psychosocial
      risks typical to cognitively demanding work tasks and conditions.

      SujuKE study focuses on ergonomics (or human factors) practices that aim to ensure
      'appropriate interaction between work, product and environment, and human needs, capabilities
      and limitations'. In cognitive ergonomics, the focus is on making human-system interaction
      compatible with human cognitive abilities and limitations, particularly at work. The aim is
      to apply general principles and good practices of cognitive ergonomics that help to avoid
      unnecessary cognitive load at work and that improve human performance.

      The aim of the SujuKE study is to improve the conditions of knowledge work and promote the
      flow of work and reduce work strain. There are studies which show that decreasing
      disruptions, providing uninterrupted working time, and reducing information may lead to
      improved work flow and productivity. In the SujuKE-study, several sources of cognitive strain
      are restricted and concrete methods to help improve cognitive ergonomics will be worked on
      and implemented at workplace. The objective of the project is to obtain research evidence of
      the effects of cognitive ergonomics development programme on working conditions, the flow of
      work, well-being at work, and the productivity at work.

      During the SujuKE project, the investigators will implement measures at the workplace that
      aim to facilitate work and reduce strain. The objective of the project is to obtain research
      evidence of the effects of these measures on working conditions, the flow of work, well-being
      at work, and the productivity at work. The study is carried out by the Finnish Institute of
      Occupational Health (FIOH) and funded by the Finnish Work Environment Fund.
    
  