
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Aplastic anemia, a form of bone marrow failure, is a disease of largely unknown cause, except
      for the rare situations involving high doses of radiation. Many agents have been mentioned in
      case reports to be associated with the development of aplastic anemia and include drugs,
      chemicals, pesticides, radiation, and viral infection. Of these, chloramphenicol,
      phenylbutazone, and insecticides are most frequently reported. In the United States and other
      developed countries the disease prevalence is so low that too few cases occur to make an
      epidemiological study in a single city logistically feasible. The Bangkok hospitalization
      rate for aplastic anemia was sufficient to conduct a case-control study. Also, a study
      conducted in this locale provided information on drugs and chemicals not commonly used in
      developed countries.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      All aplastic anemia cases in metropolitan Bangkok were located and verified in the forty
      hospitals that agreed to participate in the study. Incidence rates were calculated by age
      group and sex. In the case-control study, interviews were used to obtain comprehensive
      histories of drug, chemical, pesticide, radiation, viral infections, and other exposures,
      along with relevant demographic and medical history information in order to examine the
      association between and test hypotheses regarding suspected hazards and to estimate the risks
      of developing aplastic anemia. The basic epidemiologic features of aplastic anemia were
      described by characterizing these patients in terms of standard demographic variables, age,
      race, sex, and medical history. The degree of association between viral hepatitis and the
      development of aplastic anemia was estimated.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  