
    
      The endovascular treatment of intracranial aneurysms has become an accepted alternative to
      surgical repair given the many recent advances with neurointerventional devices and
      procedures. The introduction of GDC coils in 1993 provided physicians and their patients a
      less invasive treatment option. Additionally, the results of two large international trials,
      ISAT and ISUIA, have shown the benefits of endovascular treatment over surgery for treatment
      of specific types of aneurysms. One limitation of endovascular coil embolization is aneurysm
      recurrence or recanalization which is not infrequently observed angiographically at follow
      up. Aneurysm recanalization may be a result of aneurysm morphology, anatomic location and
      flow orientation, aneurysm regrowth or the degree of coil compaction. Despite the widespread
      adoption of endovascular aneurysm coiling, there remains much to be learned about the
      efficacy and optimization of this treatment modality.

      The goal of endovascular embolization of intracranial aneurysms is to prevent rupture or
      re-rupture. Fortunately, the incidence of aneurysm rupture following coil embolization is
      very low. Follow-up angiographic analysis to evaluate the occlusion and stability of the
      treated aneurysm provides a surrogate endpoint against which to weigh the likelihood of
      rupture/re-rupture. However, angiographic interpretation is subjective, operator dependent
      and can be influenced by multiple confounding variables.

      The MAPS trial will examine Target Aneurysm Recurrence Rates: clinically relevant recurrence
      rates resulting in target aneurysm reintervention, rupture/re-rupture and/or death from an
      unknown cause for Matrix 2® and GDC® Coils used for the treatment of intracranial saccular
      aneurysms. The trial will compare TAR rates to recurrences measured by angiographic analysis
      and assess the utility of angiographic analysis for predicting clinically relevant
      recurrences.
    
  