
    
      [Definition and management of adverse event] Adverse event refers to any undesirable clinical
      event. It may be caused by devices, rapamycin, procedure related complications, or the
      adjunctive medications (such as aspirin, clopidogrel, ticlopidine, or other anti-platelet
      agent) used in this study. Self report of adverse events by patients should be encouraged.
      Patients have a right to inquire any information on adverse event at any time of the study.
      If an adverse event is confirmed, the investigator should collect all related information and
      complete the Adverse Event Form.

      [Classification of adverse events severity] Mild: Mild adverse event refers to clinical event
      not interfering patient's daily activities.

      Moderate: Moderate adverse event refers to clinical event affecting patient's daily
      activities.

      Serious: Serious adverse event refers to clinical event results in patient's inability to
      undertake daily activity.

      [Management of adverse event] All adverse events occurring during the study period should be
      documented on Adverse Event Forms. Investigators should provide appropriate treatment for all
      adverse events and follow up the patient until symptom(s) disappear or remain stable

      [Documents Recordkeeping] All CRFs and their other original supporting files (such as the
      informed consent, the lab report, the process records, medical history, the results of
      physical examinations and diagnosis, the diagnosis, procedure dates and the records regarding
      equipment management) must be set up in a secure central location by a research site staff
      and maintained for at least 2 years upon the notification on the termination or completion of
      the trial issued by MicroPort Medical.

      In case the person in charge of keeping these files cannot keep the trial records
      continuously due to retirement, transferring or any other reason, the recordkeeping should be
      handed over to another person who is able to accept this task, and a written notification
      with the successor's name and address should be sent to MicroPort and the Ethics Committee.
    
  