
    
      Despite effective highly active antiretroviral treatment (HAART), HIV-infection persists and
      rebounds upon treatment interruption, presumably due to latently infected resting CD4+
      T-cells. To achieve eradication of HIV-infection this reservoir of latently HIV-infected
      cells must be depleted.

      Several therapeutic strategies are considered in HIV-cure related research. One approach is
      to exploit the ability of histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors to reactivate HIV-1
      expression in latently infected cells in the presence of HAART.

      This is an investigator initiated single-group, non-randomized interventional phase I/II
      trial designed to evaluate the safety and ability of oral panobinostat to activate
      HIV-transcription in latently infected CD4+ T-cells of HIV-infected patients on suppressive
      HAART. The study will enrol 16 patients. Each subject will be used as his/her own control in
      a before-after design: endpoints measured after study intervention will be compared to
      baseline for each subject.

      The main study will comprise three phases:

        1. A pre-treatment screening/observation phase of 4 weeks (weeks 0-4)

        2. A treatment phase of 8 weeks (weeks 4-12), where 20 mg panobinostat will be administered
           orally on days 1, 3, and 5 (TIW) every other week (QOW) while maintaining background
           HAART (co-therapy)

        3. A post-treatment follow-up phase of 24 weeks (weeks 12-36) to evaluate the effect of
           study treatment

      Study participants will be reviewed 13 times during the course of study treatment and
      follow-up. Blood will be drawn for HIV viral load assessments, CD4 cell counts, biochemistry,
      hematology and additional immunological and virological analyses. An electrocardiogram of the
      heart (ECG) will be taken at screening, day 10 and 24 post treatment initiation.

      The safety and tolerability of panobinostat will be evaluated based on physical exams,
      laboratory tests and questions about any problems patients may have experienced during the
      study. A pre-specified schedule based will guide dose modification in case of unacceptable
      adverse effects.
    
  