
    
      Involution changes of the human body are characteristics of aging. A decrease in physical
      activity as well as increased life expectancy can be a factor in the development of many
      pathological changes in the movement system resulting in increase in the number of people
      with diagnosed osteoarthritis (OA) [1]. Epidemiological studies indicate that osteoarthritis
      affects up to 40 million people in Europe [2], including 10% of men and 13% of women above 60
      years of age with knee degenerative changes [3]. It is estimated that in Poland over 8
      million people suffer from osteoarthritis, out of which 25% have gonarthrosis [4].
      Osteoarthritis detracts from the quality of life and leads to malfunction and this is
      therefore necessary to early implement prevention and treatment actions which allow for
      keeping functional performance and protection against development of destructive changes
      [5].The study will be conducted in Cracow Rehabilitation and Orthopedics Centre. The study
      group will be qualified to the total knee arthroplasty due to pain caused by advanced knee
      osteoarthritis. . The patients will be randomly divided into two groups which differed in the
      type of a 10-day treatment model used after the operation.

      In the control group standard rehabilitation protocol will be used in patients following TKA,
      which is mainly based on activities in open chains (passive exercises with continuous passive
      motion (CMP) device, active exercises, isometric, active resistance, patella mobilization,
      deep tissue massage, verticalization and gait relearning). Treatment in the study group will
      be conducted with PNF method with a use of indirect training based on irradiation phenomenon.
      The program included: proprioceptive stimulation of the operated limb, improving trunk
      stabilization and active control, active foot training, muscle strength facilitation of lower
      limbs in closed kinematic chain with considering periarticular stabilization within the
      operated knee joint as well as exercises improving mobility of the operated knee,
      verticalization and locomotion with emphasis on the stance phase.

      In this study, an attempt will be made to analyze treatment effects on parameters assessing
      function of the knee joint and functional abilities in daily living with a use of a classic
      rehabilitation protocol and PNF method in patients following TKA. To evaluate efficacy of the
      therapy all the patients will be tested on the day of admission to the hospital and on the
      last day of the treatment. Structural and activity parameters of the operated knee joint will
      be evaluated, such as muscle strength (6-point Lovett scale), range of motion (digital
      inclinometer) and circuits measurement (centimeter). Circuits were measured on the level of
      the knee joint articular space, 10 cm (Thigh I) and 20 cm (Thigh II) above the articular
      space as well as on the level of lower leg (the widest point). Scales based on a subjective
      evaluation, such as Staffelstein Score and Lequesne Index will be performed to assess
      functional abilities.
    
  