
    
      Cardiovascular disease is a major cause of morbi-mortality in industrialized countries. Risk
      of recurrence after appropriate treatment is particularly frequent in patients with
      inadequate observance. Secondary prevention is therefore essential to reduce the
      morbi-mortality of high-risk cardiovascular patients. Risk factor control and lifestyle
      interventions are important for these high-risk patients to reduce the overall incidence of
      cardiac disease. To treat these risk factors and for secondary prevention after a
      cardiovascular event, some medications have been shown to be efficient and European
      guidelines have been written to enhance evidence-based medicine prescriptions for STEMI and
      NSTEMI. Despite this, concerns have been postulated about patient's self-adherence to these
      treatments. A study has shown a long-term adherence to medications of 71% for Aspirin, 46%
      for β-blockers and 44% for Lipid-lowering therapy for Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) patients.
      Non-adherence has been associated with increased morbi-mortality in this population.

      Therefore, a variety of interventions was identified to enhance patient adherence to
      medication in the cardiovascular field. These strategies included:

        -  Informational intervention (mailed information)

        -  Sending reminder postcards, illustrated daily medication schedule distribution

        -  Counseling on the importance of adherence to their cardiovascular medication and review
           of each medication during the hospital stay

        -  Clinical pharmacist intervention with medication reconciliation, medication education,
           facilitation of the delivery of discharge medications, and post-discharge telephone call
           within 48-72h These interventions showed an impact on long-term medication adherence and
           health literacy, which could lead to an improvement of the morbi-mortality of
           cardiovascular risk patients.

      In a previous study conducted at the University hospital of Lausanne, the investigators
      showed a very high prescription rate of guidelines-recommended medications for patients
      involved in the CHUV STEMI (ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction) network. Therefore, the next
      step to reduce the morbi-mortality of high-risk cardiovascular patients is to enhance patient
      adherence to the cardiovascular drug regimen. Patient education is known as an effective
      process to enhance drug adherence. Unfortunately, patient education is difficult to implement
      because of it costs and for the time needed to educate the patient. The investigator's aim at
      testing a new approach using an e-learning tool for patient education purpose. The e-learning
      will be interactive and easy to use. It will inform the patient about his heart disease
      (acute coronary syndrome) and about his medications in a short time.
    
  