
    
      Specific Aim 1: Determine feasibility of a 12-week home and telephone based intervention in
      older adults with mild cognitive impairment targeting both the impaired individual and their
      study partner to help initiate and maintain behavior change. We will recruit KUADC registry
      participants with MCI and their caregivers (as study partners). Behavioral interventions are
      more effective when there is built in social support. We will evaluate feasibility in terms
      of successful recruitment and retention of participants, 10% or less of technological
      failures, rate of participant concerns addressed by phone and at home visits, acceptability
      of the intervention to participants (measured by questionnaires during home visits).

      Specific Aim 2: Determine whether a 12-week home and telephone based intervention results in
      reduced total sitting time and shorter bouts of sitting in older adults with MCI and their
      caregivers. Electronic postural monitors will record sitting time for a duration of one week
      at three time points (pre-intervention, mid-intervention, and post-intervention). The
      intervention includes 1) feedback from baseline monitoring, 2) educational and goal setting
      session with the participants and research staff, 3) wrist worn monitors that alert wearers
      to sitting times >30 minutes, 4) home and telephone visits to address physical,
      psychological, and home environment barriers to behavior change. Changes in sitting time and
      breaks from sitting will be compared between baseline, mid-intervention, and
      post-intervention measurement occasions.

      Specific Aim 3: Determine whether sedentary behavior intervention results in improved insulin
      sensitivity and glycemic control. To evaluate whether reduced sitting results in meaningful
      metabolic changes, we will measure postprandial insulin and glucose, and body composition,
      and evaluate changes from pre- to post- intervention adjusting for relevant covariates.
    
  