
    
      This study is a non-randomized survey. The aim of the current protocol is to describe how
      will be the process to get information about the participant, the questionnaire design and
      how was validated and the planned analysis of results.

      Participants: Around 150 Down Syndrome people from Cordoba, Malaga y Granada who belong to
      The Down Syndrome association and 150 parents, family, tutors, teachers etc.

      Consent process: Before designing the survey, consent was requested from the management team
      Down of Córdoba, Malaga and Gradana associations, as well as family members, parents, tutors,
      teachers, etc.

      Standard Operating Procedures: First, RC (author) gathered as much information as possible
      about the subject under study and selected the most important topics related to the research
      focus. After that, the questionnaire was designed modifying the KidsLife-Down Scale. The
      questionnaire will be divided into three parts.

      An introduction to the questionnaire describes the instructions, structure, the reasons for
      the study and confidentiality in accordance with the Spanish Organic Law 3/2018 on the
      Protection.

      The first part of the questionnaire will assess self-perception from people with Down about
      their social skills. The second will evaluate the opinion of this issue from other people who
      know them well (at least for six months) and who have the opportunity to observe the person
      evaluated for extended periods of time (parents, family, tutors, teachers etc.). Finally, for
      the third part, it will be used the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) for
      the purpose of collecting information about the types of physical activity do in their daily
      routines. The questions will be referred to the time they have been physically active in the
      last 7 days.

      Second, the questionnaire was sent to the Down Syndrome Association of Córdoba (DSAC) so that
      they reviewed the possible mistakes made when defining the questions and validate it. After
      that, Down Malaga and Down Granada Association found the questionnaire understandable and
      acceptable.

      Third, they gave the corresponding feedback that served to formulate the questions in the
      appropriate way to avoid confusion in the surveyed.

      The questionnaire will be sent by e-mail to the Cordoba Association and a paper version will
      available for participants. From Córdoba, it will be spread to Málaga and Granada
      Associations in order it will be distributed among associates.

      Analysis of results: Estimated outcomes will be percentages of agreement with each answer.
      Data from all surveys will be analyzed. The statistical study will be carried out with the
      SPSS 24.0 program. The mean value and standard deviation (± SD) of each item will be
      calculated on a numerical scale. Statistical analysis will be performed with parametric
      tests, t-Student for related samples. The level of statistical significance will be
      calculated.

      Two of the authors (RC and JC) will analyse de data, and results will be discussed among the
      work team.

      Conducting a pilot test or pre-test before applying the survey will help to detect possible
      failures and optimize the results of our survey. Despite its importance, should not consider
      the pilot study as a substitute for a careful wording of the questionnaire.

      Report on the survey: Before writing the report, It will be reviewed the data for errors and
      inconsistencies. Make sure the data reflects exactly what the survey concludes. The
      conclusion will summarize the results.
    
  