
    
      Recent advances in insulin pumps, continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) devices, and control
      algorithms have resulted in an acceleration of progress in the development of the automated
      systems of insulin delivery including hybrid closed loop (HCL) systems.

      Initial studies on the MiniMed 670G system, the first HCL system approved, have reported
      increased glycemic control in both adults and pediatrics, having experience with insulin pump
      therapy with or without experience of CGM technology. More recently it was shown shown even
      further improvement in glycemic control with the 670G system, in children and adolescents
      naïve to both pump and CGM technologies. This may be, at least partially, due to lack of
      willingness of patients to "let the algorithm work" based on their previous experience with
      CSII and CGM.

      The investigators aim to evaluate the impact of an Advanced Hybrid Closed Loop (AHCL) system
      in adults naïve to pump and CGM technology. For this purpose the investigators target the
      population of T1DM individuals who are older than 26 years. The study will be conducted in
      Poland, where only individuals under the age of 26 are entitled to CSII/CGM reimbursement.

      If the study succeeds in terms of improved glycemic patterns, quality of life and patients'
      acceptance, it may provide evidence for consideration in CSII/CGM reimbursement for this
      population.

      Devices usage in the study:

      Envision Pro device (CE-marked) will be used to collect CGM data in a retrospective manner.
      Envision Pro records up to 6 days of data. Patients will wear 2 consecutive Envision Pro
      devices both during the run-in phase and the at the end of the study phase, i.e. up to 12
      days of data. The first Envision Pro device will be placed in the hospital and the second
      Envision Pro device will be placed by the patient at home, assisted by the study staff on the
      phone.

      In addition, patients from the AHCL group will use the MiniMed 780G AHCL system (CE-marked).
      The AHCL system will be initiated first in Manual Mode (i.e. without AHCL control) with
      suspend before low feature. In short, the protocol inputs the current insulin program (MDI)
      and calculates a 10-20% reduction in total daily dose, with a 40/60 basal/bolus distribution
      in four or five basal rates. Insulin-to-carbohydrate ratio (ICR) settings utilize the formula
      of 300-450/total daily dose (TDD) and the formula of 90-110/TDD (mmol/L) with two CF
      settings; the nighttime CF factor is set 10-20% higher than the daytime CF. Active insulin is
      set time (3 h); suspend before low feature is turned on with a threshold of 3.0-3.8 mmol/L
      (55-70 mg/dL), and glucose target ranges from 5.0 to 7.2 mmol/L (90-130 mg/dL.

      The AHCL system will be initiated in Auto Mode (i.e. with AHCL control) at Visit 2.At each
      visit, the AHCL system data will be downloaded and reviewed by the physician. The patient
      interaction with the system will be evaluated, included sensor calibration, bolus management
      (before the meals and for corrections as needed), alarms and Auto Mode exits.

      At each visit, the glycemic control will be reviewed, and system settings re-assessed and
      adjusted as needed, including ICR, AIT and basal rates in Manual Mode.

      The trial is a two-centers, randomized controlled, parallel group study. Patients will be
      followed up during approximatively 3 months.

      Study phase

      Both groups will have a similar number of visits in order to minimize bias. However, the AHCL
      group will have 2 additional visits to allow for patients to be trained on the AHCL system.

      MDI group:

      The patient continues MDI treatment as per routine procedures

        -  Visit 1 (day 0, can be combined with the randomization visit): BG meter data download,
           data review and optimization of MDI management.

        -  Visit 2 (Visit 1 + 14 days, window +/- 3 days): BG meter data download, data review and
           optimization of MDI management

        -  Visit 3 (Visit 2 + 14 days, window +/- 3 days): BG meter data download, data review and
           optimization of MDI management

        -  Visit 4 (Visit 3 + 28 days, window +/- 7 days): BG meter data download, data review and
           optimization of MDI management

        -  Visit 5 Visit 4 + 22 days, window +/- 7 days): BG meter data download, data review and
           optimization of MDI management, first professional CGM evaluation start.

        -  Visit 6 (Visit 5 + 6 days, window +3 days) - phone call: second professional CGM
           evaluation start.

        -  Visit 7 (Visit 9 + 6 days, window + 3 days): QoL questionnaire, blood sample for HbA1c
           lab test.

      Professional CGM evaluation will be repeated for 6 days in cased less than 10 days data is
      available.

      Study conclusion.

      AHCL group:

        -  Visit 1 (day 0, can be combined with the randomization visit): the patient will get the
           pre-reading materials on the 780G system, to be read before Visit 2. CGM training and
           initiation.

        -  Visit 2 (Visit 1 + 1 day, window +7 days): 780G system training and initiation in Manual
           Mode.

        -  Visit 3 (Visit 2 +3 days, window +3 days): 780G system data download. Auto Mode
           readiness assessment. 780G system initiation in Auto Mode with AHCL control

        -  Visit 4 (Visit 3 + 3 days, window +1 day) - phone call: Auto Mode initiation follow-up.

        -  Visit 5 (Visit 4 + 7 days, window +/- 3 days): 780G system data download, therapy
           assessment and optimization

        -  Visit 6 (Visit 5 + 14 days, window +/- 3 days): 780G system data download, therapy
           assessment and optimization

        -  Visit 7 (Visit 6 + 28 days, window +/- 7 days): 780G system data download, therapy
           assessment and optimization

        -  Visit 8 (Visit 7 + 22 days, window +/- 7 days): 780G system data download, therapy
           assessment and optimization, first professional CGM evaluation start.

        -  Visit 9 (Visit 8 + 6 days, window +3 days) - phone call: second professional CGM
           evaluation start.

        -  Visit 10 (Visit 9 + 6 days, window + 3 days): 780G system data download, QoL
           questionnaire, blood sample for HbA1c lab test.

      Professional CGM evaluation will be repeated for 6 days in cased less than 10 days data is
      available.

      Study Conclusion

      Study endpoints

        -  Between group comparison of data measured by CGM technology will be performed based on
           data collected by professional CGM in both groups.

        -  Between group comparison of Quality of Life.
    
  