
    
      Acute pyelonephritis (APN) is a severe acute infection in the upper urinary tract, which
      quite frequently is seen in the emergency department (ED). In our study, we define APN as a
      urinary tract infection with extension above the bladder, implicated by systemic affection in
      a suspected urinary tract infection (ie, fever, chills, malaise and/or lethargy beyond
      normal, signs of sepsis). Most often, an infection of the bladder ascends to the kidneys,
      causing APN. Symptoms and clinical affection range from mild to severe, but it is always
      important to recognize and treat APN fast in order to prevent progression to sepsis, renal
      failure and ultimately death. Uncertain or delayed diagnosis will often lead to an
      overconsumption of broad-spectrum antibiotics, which contributes to increased development of
      resistant bacteria and thus threaten the treatment options of the future.

      APN diagnosis is primarily made today on the basis of clinical symptoms and findings in the
      form of flank tenderness, fever and nausea/vomiting. Typical symptoms of cystitis (dysuria,
      pollakisuria, suprapubic pain, hematuria) are possible but often absent. Especially elderly
      can present with more generalized signs of infection with nothing clearly indicating
      localization to the urinary tract. A positive urine culture verifies the diagnosis, but it is
      only available after a minimum of 24 hours.

      To support the diagnosis of an APN and assess its severity, a measure of the systemic
      inflammatory response is useful such as abnormal temperature, elevated leucocyte count with
      neutrocytosis, or elevated C-reactive protein (CRP). Some uncertainty is associated with CRP
      because it has a delayed response to bacterial infection and is often elevated in
      non-infectious inflammatory conditions. A more sensitive and specific marker is desired that
      can differentiate between bacterial and viral infection and reflect the severity of the APN.
      Serum procalcitonin (PCT) has potential as a diagnostic tool in suspected bacterial
      infections and can distinguish between viral and bacterial urinary infections. Soluble
      urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (SuPAR) might have a potential as a marker for acute
      bacterial infections requiring antibiotic treatment. However, there are no well-conducted
      studies which compare simultaneously all three biomarkers diagnostic abilities for bacterial
      infections in general or in relation to APN.

      The investigators hypothesize that serum CRP, PTC and suPAR have an impact on diagnosing,
      prognosis, and treatment of patients with a verified APN.

      The objectives of the study are:

        -  To investigate the diagnostic value of CRP, PCT and suPAR in the diagnosis of APN

        -  To identify the prognostic value of CRP, PCT and suPAR in relation to adverse events in
           patients with verified APN
    
  