
    
      Cardiac surgery is associated with a high risk of postoperative AKI with significant
      morbidity and mortality. Acute kidney injury (AKI) constitutes a significant complication in
      hospitalized patients with an incidence of about 30%. Depending on existing comorbidities, a
      mortality of up to 60% occurs in critically ill or postoperative patients with AKI. To date,
      no preventive or therapeutic measures exist to prevent this. According to the data from
      animal trials, a preoperative diet low in sulfur-containing amino acids may be a new
      preventive measure in this context.

      This trial will investigate whether one week of changing the diets protein source to a
      non-milk-derived one prior to surgery effectively induces renal protection from post-surgery
      AKI in humans. Patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery are randomized into two arms.

      In the non-milked-derived based diet arm, patients receive an appropriate formula diet based
      on a protein source other than milk derived proteins. The formula diet replaces the regular
      diet completely from day -7 until the scheduled cardiothoracic surgery. The amount of formula
      diet is based on individual calculations to cover the patients daily energy demand.

      In the control arm, patients are provided with a formula diet based on milk-protein,
      accordingly. Total amount of calories and proteins is not restricted and - due to
      randomization - assumed not to be significantly different between the two arms.

      The primary endpoint of the clinical trial is to investigate whether a preoperative diet with
      a deficiency of milk-derived proteins leads to a reduction of AKI incidence within 72 hours
      after surgery. AKI is defined according to 'Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes'
      (KDIGO) classification as an increase in serum creatinine of ≥0.3 mg/dl within 48 hours, or
      an increase of serum creatinine to ≥1.5 times baseline, which is known or presumed to have
      occurred within the prior 7 days, or a reduction of urine output to <0.5ml/kg/hour for more
      than 6 hours.

      Baseline creatinine will be assessed prior to the start of the surgical procedure. The time
      frame for the following assessments with respect to the primary endpoint will be 72 hours
      from the onset of ischemia (cross-clamping). Blood samples will be obtained at 24 hours, 48
      hours, and 72 hours after cross-clamping. Hourly urine output will be assessed as long as a
      Foley-catheter is in place.
    
  