
    
      The investigators will micro-array genotype approximately 300,000 single nucleotide
      polymorphisms (SNP) using DNA samples from patients with rheumatic heart disease (cases) from
      New Caledonia and Fiji, and members of the general population (controls) from New Caledonia,
      Vanuatu and Fiji. The investigators will perform standard quality control checks on the SNP
      data using measures such as call rate, heterozygosity, duplication and relatedness, and
      exclude variants on the basis of deviation from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium and minor allele
      frequency. We will also impute variants not present on the micro-array with reference to the
      latest release of 1000 Genomes data and whole-genome sequence data from sixty Melanesian
      individuals from New Caledonia from the phenotypic extremes in this study.

      The investigators will conduct a discovery analysis in using a genome-wide association study
      approach focusing on Oceanic cases and controls from the Francophone nations of New Caledonia
      and Vanuatu. This analysis will be corrected for bias due to population stratification using
      the Linear Mixed Model (LMM) and consider additive, dominant and recessive genetic models.
      The investigators will then perform LMM association testing for variants with P-value in the
      discovery analysis less than 1x10^-5 in Oceanic cases and controls from Fiji and combine the
      association statistics by fixed-effects meta-analysis. The investigators will consider
      variants with significant effects in the same direction in discovery and replication analyses
      with combined P-value less than 1x10^-8 to have replicated. Unless there is clear evidence
      that associated variants are specific to Oceanic populations, further replication analyses
      for associated variants in cases and controls of Indian Descent from Fiji, as well as
      individuals of other and admixed ethnicities from both Fiji and New Caledonia.

      Recruitment completed in December 2013. After receipt of funding from the British Heart
      Foundation, genotyping and analysis will begin in July 2014.
    
  