
    
      Experimental Design: For 3 consecutive days/pattern, the participants will consume the
      respective treatment, at home, between 7-9 am and refrain from eating or drinking anything
      other than water until 12:00pm. On day 3, the participants will consume a standardized dinner
      at home the night before testing. On day 4, the participants will report to the research
      facility between 6-8 am to complete each 5-h testing day. Upon arrival to the facility, each
      participant will become familiarized with the testing day procedures. At time -15 min, a
      baseline set of computerized questionnaires (and/or blood samples) will be completed. At time
      +0 min, the respective breakfast treatment will be provided. Immediately following the first
      swallow of the breakfast meal, the participants will be given a questionnaire assessing the
      palatability. The participants will consume the breakfast within 20 min. After breakfast, the
      participants will continue to complete the questionnaires (and/or blood samples) every 30 min
      throughout the 5-h postprandial period. Throughout the day, the participants will also
      indicate if/when they would like to eat again. Regardless of the participants' meal timing
      request, at +240min post-breakfast, the participants will be provided with an ad libitum
      lunch. For the lunch meal, the participants will be given 30 min to "consume as much or as
      little as possible until comfortably full." Following these procedures, the participants will
      be allowed to leave the facility. The next day, a dietary recall will be performed to assess
      daily energy intake across the previous day. Lastly, on day 5 (at home), the participants
      will be provided with their respective breakfast along with additional carbohydrate and/or
      fat foods. Once the treatment breakfast is consumed, the participants can select and consume
      as much of the additional foods as they wish to consume within the breakfast time period (30
      minutes).
    
  