
    
      The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has rapidly instigated a
      global pandemic. As of this writing, there are approximately 65 million documented cases of
      infection worldwide, and over 1.5 million deaths. In the United States (US), coronavirus
      disease 2019 (COVID-19) has disrupted the economy, overwhelmed healthcare system, led to
      widespread school cancellations, and caused more than 274,000 deaths since March 2020. A
      vaccine against COVID-19 is widely viewed as the key to controlling the pandemic and enabling
      a return to "normal" life. Vaccine development is proceeding at an unprecedented pace with 10
      vaccines currently in phase 3 trials. Experts have projected that a safe and effective
      vaccine may be available by mid-2021. At the same time, a growing body of evidence indicates
      that a significant proportion of adults in the U.S. may not accept vaccination against
      COVID-19. Even more alarming, COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy (refusal or reluctance to accept a
      vaccine) appears to be increasing as the vaccine approval process becomes increasingly
      politicized. Just as efforts to develop vaccine production and delivery capacity have been
      undertaken in advance of having a proven effective vaccine, parallel efforts are needed to
      identify effective messages and communication strategies to overcome COVID-19 vaccine
      hesitancy.

      The study team recently surveyed a nationally representative sample of approximately 1,000
      adults in the United States and found that only 57% intended to be vaccinated when a
      coronavirus vaccine becomes available. This percentage was even lower among people who
      identified as Black or Hispanic (39% and 43% respectively), those with a high school
      education or less (46%), and those in the lowest income groups (49% of those reporting a
      household income of $30,000 or less, compared to 72% of those reporting a household income of
      $100,000 or more). The investigators asked those who indicated they would not or might not
      get vaccinated for their reasons and found that some individuals may be willing to be
      vaccinated if provided specific information about the vaccine such as side effects and
      effectiveness. Others expressed generalized skepticism, fear, and distrust of vaccines, with
      some even referring to anti-vaccine conspiracy theories. These findings are consistent with
      an extensive body of research documenting that people often do not behave rationally and
      highlight the urgent need to proactively develop and test interventions to maximize
      vaccination rates when a coronavirus vaccine becomes available. To address this need, in the
      present study, the investigators aim to create and test targeted messages to address the
      concerns of subgroups of people at risk for not being vaccinated, with the ultimate goal of
      maximizing vaccine uptake when a vaccine for COVID-19 becomes available. The investigators
      will accomplish this by working with an existing online panel of volunteers, which will allow
      efficient, focused data gathering. Results of the survey will provide a nuanced, current
      description of how vulnerable adults perceive the coronavirus and available vaccines, which
      will be used as the basis for developing messages and communication strategies. Participants
      will be randomized to receive one of five different versions of a message from a healthcare
      provider regarding vaccination. Specific wording and content of these messages will vary
      systematically in order to address concerns of those at risk for not being vaccinated. This
      project will ultimately result in a set of tested, evidence-derived messages about
      vaccination for COVID-19. The investigators will make these messages available, together with
      evidence of how these influence members of vulnerable populations' understanding of
      vaccination, and disease risk, as well as intent to be vaccinated. The messages will be
      freely available for use by organizations and providers seeking to improve communication
      about a coronavirus vaccine.
    
  