
    
      Based on the evidence that BCG [Bacille Calmette-Guérin] vaccine

        1. can potentiate immune responses to other vaccines through induction of trained innate
           immunity and heterologous adaptive immunity, and

        2. can reduce the incidence of respiratory infections, exert antiviral effects in
           experimental models, and reduce viremia in an experimental human model of viral
           infection, it is hypothesized that BCG vaccination may induce (partial) protection
           against the susceptibility to and/or severity of SARS-CoV-2 infections.

      VPM1002 is being developed with the aim to replace BCG by a vaccine that has a better safety
      profile and superior efficacy. Evidence from pre-clinical and clinical studies demonstrate
      that VPM1002 is safer and is more immunogenic than the existing BCG vaccine (for more
      information, please revert to the IB). It is therefore anticipated that VPM1002 will also
      perform better in reducing the severity of the symptoms of an infection with the SARS-CoV-2
      than the BCG vaccine. Further, manufacturing of VPM1002 using state-of-the-art production
      methods will help hasten the production of millions of doses in a very short time and thus
      would be beneficial in the current SARS-CoV-2 pandemic situation.

      The current trial will assess the efficacy and safety of VPM1002 to reduce the hospital
      admissions and clinical consequences of SARS-CoV-2 infections in the elderly population in
      the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic by modulating the immune system.

      A total of 2038 adults aged 60 or above will be enrolled across involved clinical trial sites
      in Germany. Informed consent will be obtained from the subjects willing to take part in the
      trial. This will be followed by assessment of the eligibility criteria. Subjects who fulfil
      the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be centrally randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive a
      single dose (0.1 ml) of either VPM1002 or Placebo.

      All subjects will be requested to sign into a web-based tool designed for this trial. Every
      subject is encouraged to name a designated caregiver who may provide follow-up data in case
      of hospitalisation or severe illness of the study subject. All subjects will be followed-up
      entirely remotely. The questionnaires will be designed to collect data regarding
      hospitalisation, adverse events (AE)/serious adverse events (SAE), ICU admissions and other
      secondary endpoints. The investigators will review the outcome and safety data.

      The duration of follow-up will be 240 days. Subjects with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection
      (with or without symptoms) will be followed for at least 6 weeks (from the date of test
      result), independent of the total trial duration.
    
  