
    
      Introduction Chronic low back pain (CLBP) is a highly prevalent health condition, and the
      leading cause of years lived with disability both globally and in Denmark. In the majority of
      patients with CLBP, no underlying pathology or cause can be identified and CLBP is
      acknowledged to be multifactorial.

      CLBP is defined by symptoms lasting for a period longer than three months. The high
      prevalence of CLBP causes a substantial impact on patients and their families, communities
      and health-care systems, as well as a financial burden. Besides pain and disability people
      with CLBP often experience psychosocial consequences with signs of anxiety and depression and
      effects on social, leisure, and work life. Recognition of the physical, psychological and
      social consequences of CLBP led to the development of the widely accepted biopsychosocial
      model in the understanding and managing of CLBP.

      The World Health Organization's (WHO) International Classification of Functioning, Disability
      and Health (ICF) provides a framework for applying the biopsychosocial model into clinical
      practice, especially into rehabilitation. By emphasizing, that disability is a dynamic
      interaction between the dimensions of body function, activity, participation, and
      environmental and personal factors, ICF helps treating the patients rather than only their
      low back pain by addressing all the biopsychosocial dimensions of their disability.

      Disability itself arises through complex and multi-factorial mechanisms and therefore,
      rehabilitation processes are defined as complex health interventions undertaken in a complex
      environment. Rehabilitation is rather a process than a treatment or specific action, and a
      multidisciplinary team most effectively manages the complex problems seen in rehabilitation.
      Rehabilitation has many potential active ingredients, and combining the different components
      in a whole is more than the sum of its parts.

      There is a continuing challenge to offer evidence-based rehabilitation for patients with
      CLBP. A systematic review by Kamper identified and assessed risk of bias in 12 randomized
      controlled trials (RCT's) comparing two multidisciplinary rehabilitation interventions. In
      March 2016 we performed an updated literature search in PubMed identical to that of the
      review and identified one additional RCT comparing two multidisciplinary interventions. Risk
      of bias in the additional study was assessed using Cochrane risk of bias tool (The Cochrane
      Collaboration ) identical to the review.

      Nine of the 13 studies had disability and pain as primary or secondary outcome. The
      multidisciplinary interventions being compared varied across the nine studies in content
      and/or time frame. As the studies were very heterogenic, a pooled comparison and description
      was not possible. Overall the nine studies showed that multidisciplinary rehabilitation had a
      positive effect on disability and pain in the short and medium term, but there were
      discrepancy in the studies whether the effect can be maintained in the long term. A
      literature search identified two studies on follow-up care. One study tested the effect of
      multidisciplinary rehabilitation with subsequent booster sessions conducted by telephone
      within 12 months after discharge, and found only slight advantages, but no statistical
      significance of the booster sessions. The other study compared a 3-month exercise follow-up
      program and routine follow-up on patients with CLBP who had completed a 3-week outpatient
      multidisciplinary rehabilitation program. Favourable outcomes after one year were observed in
      both groups, but only patients attending the exercise follow-up program improved in
      disability.

      There is a lack of studies on adequate follow-up approaches to maintain successful treatment.
      No earlier study has assessed if the positive treatment effects of a multidisciplinary
      rehabilitation intervention can be maintained with an intervention alternating between
      inpatient interventions and home-based activities.

      Aim To assess if a novel multidisciplinary rehabilitation intervention is more effective in
      maintaining successful treatment after 6 months, than a usual multidisciplinary
      rehabilitation intervention in patients with chronic low back pain.

      The novel intervention is a 14-week program alternating between in total three weeks of
      inpatient intervention and home-based activities. This alternation will allow the
      participants time and opportunity to adapt and transfer inpatient learning to activities and
      participation in their own environment in interaction with everyday life situations and
      surroundings. Furthermore, the novel intervention will consist of a higher degree of patient
      involvement than the usual intervention. Usual care is a four-week inpatient intervention.

      Objectives (i) To compare changes in the two multidisciplinary rehabilitation groups on
      disability, pain, pain self-efficacy, quality of life, anxiety/depression and exercise
      capacity.

      (ii) To examine the association between changes in disability versus changes in pain, pain
      self-efficacy, quality of life, anxiety/depression and exercise capacity.

      Hypotheses (i) The intervention group will experience a five points larger improvement in
      Oswestry Disability Index compared to usual care. Furthermore, the intervention group will
      experience a larger improvement in pain, pain self-efficacy, quality of life,
      anxiety/depression and exercise capacity compared to usual care.

      (ii) There is negative association between changes in disability and quality of life, pain
      self-efficacy and exercise capacity, respectively. There is a positive association between
      disability and pain and anxiety/depression, respectively. The strongest association will be
      between disability and pain self-efficacy.

      Materials and methods Study setting All participants will be recruited from, treated and
      tested at Sano Aarhus, Denmark. A rheumatologist will perform the selection of participants
      based on the clinical problem of referral.

      Randomization An independent administrative assistant will perform a randomly allocated
      computer-generated randomization of participants into either intervention or control group.
      Stratified randomization on the basis of Oswestry Disability Index score below and above 40
      will be used in order to achieve approximate balance of disability in the two groups. 1:1
      allocation in blocks of 6 will be used. Due to waiting time, randomization will take place in
      average 5-6 months before study start.

      Blinding As both interventions will be performed in the same physical setting at the same
      time, blinding of participants and intervening clinicians will not be possible due to
      knowledge of content and duration of the intervention the participants are allocated to.
      Intervening clinicians involved in the treatment of both groups will assess physical status
      of the participants. In order to raise equal expectations, participants will be blinded to
      the study hypothesis by telling them the RCT is intended to compare two equal
      multidisciplinary rehabilitation interventions both meeting current scientific standards and
      appropriate to improve health status.

      The researchers involved in the statistical analyses will be blinded to treatment groups.

      Sample size Oswestry Disability Index was used for sample size calculation. Based on data
      from the literature and a pilot study on 25 patients with CLBP from Sano, mean change is
      estimated to 10 in the intervention group and 5 in the control group, and the standard
      deviation on the changes is estimated to 10. Using 80% power and a significance level of
      0.05, 64 participants will be required in each group. A dropout rate of 20% is estimated, for
      what reason it will be planned to recruit a total of 160 participants.

      Interventions The content of both interventions will be described in details in a study
      protocol as recommended for complex interventions.

      Both groups will be managed by the same multidisciplinary staff in the same physical setting
      at the same time. Participants in the two groups will inevitably meet each other, and thus
      both they and the multidisciplinary staff will have the opportunity to compare and discuss
      the different rehabilitation interventions. Despite the possible overflow between the two
      rehabilitation interventions, the present parallel design has been preferred rather than a
      staggered design where waiting time and external circumstances would have been different
      between the two groups.

      Data collection Demographics and PROMs will be collected before the randomization (baseline),
      and due to 5-6 months of waiting time again at the beginning of the inpatient rehabilitation
      intervention (intervention start). Exercise capacity test performed by a trained
      physiotherapist using a standardized protocol, and clinical and neurological findings
      collected by an experienced rheumatologist using a standardized examination protocol, will be
      collected at the first inpatient contact.

      Follow-up data will be collected at the end of the inpatient rehabilitation intervention, at
      each follow-up (intervention group) and at 6 and 12 months. Participants dropping out will be
      asked to fill in the PROMs at 6 months.

      Participants enter data directly in a database via a link. In order to minimize missing data
      a reminder will be send via email after one week. If participants are unable to fill out the
      electronic versions, an independent administrative assistant will enter data from a paper
      copy of the questionnaires.

      Perspective The present study has emerged out of the fields where patients, clinicians and
      researchers intersect and is consequently highly clinically relevant. If positive treatment
      effects can be maintained or even improved in the long term, the results may serve as
      inspiration for the design of multidisciplinary rehabilitation interventions in clinical
      practice; this will be valuable for future patients with CLBP.
    
  