
    
      Background

      Varicose veins are common and are known to affect approximately one third of the population.
      Chronic venous disease (CVD) has been shown to have a negative impact on the quality of life
      of patients and treatment of varicose veins has been demonstrated to lead to improvement in
      the quality of life of patients. Over the past decade, new endovenous techniques have been
      introduced and these are felt to be cost-effective, especially, when performed in an
      outpatient or 'office-based' setting.

      There is currently uncertainty about the use of compression stockings following treatment of
      varicose veins. In their consensus statement in 2008, the International Union of Phlebology
      (IUP) stated that there is good evidence for using compression in certain clinical
      indications. These include the management of telangiectasia after sclerotherapy, varicose
      veins in pregnancy, prevention of thromboembolism and healing of ulcers. However, a few
      questions remain unanswered, such as the length of treatment and level of compression to be
      used6. The Society for Vascular Surgery and the American Venous Forum recommend using
      compression stockings post-operatively for 1 week to prevent haematoma formation, pain and
      swelling. The 2013 NICE Guidelines on Varicose Veins in the Legs recommended the use of
      compression hosiery for no more than 7 days after interventional treatment for varicose
      veins. However, due to current uncertainty of compression bandaging or hosiery compared to no
      compression after interventional treatment for varicose veins, the NICE Guideline Development
      Group have advocated further research to evaluate the clinical and cost effectiveness of this
      post-procedure intervention. The guidelines also suggested looking into the length of time
      compression bandaging should be worn if it shown to be beneficial.

      Several researchers have looked into the practice of using compression after venous ablation.
      In a survey of the management of varicose veins by the members of the Vascular Society of
      Great Britain and Ireland, Edwards et al. found that the majority of surgeons used bandages
      post-operatively, with 49% using elastic bandages. The literature on the use of compression
      stockings following treatment of varicose vein is limited.

      Between December 2006 and February 2008, Bakker and colleagues conducted a prospective
      randomised controlled trial on the use of compression stockings after endovenous laser
      ablation of the great saphenous vein. One hundred and nine patients were approached with 93
      finally randomised to use compression stockings for 2 days (Group A) and 7 days (Group B),
      respectively. All patients were followed up for 3 months post-treatment and the visual
      analogue scale (VAS) for pain was recorded at 48 hours, 1 week and 6 weeks. A physical
      examination and quality of life was assessed at 1 week and 6 weeks. Occlusion rate at the 3
      month point was also evaluated. Physical function and vitality was shown to be significantly
      better in group B at 1 week follow-up, but there was no statistically significant difference
      at 6 weeks. At 1 week, it was also noted that the VAS score in group B (VAS score 2.0 ± 1.1)
      was significantly lower than in patients wearing compression stockings for 48 hours (VAS
      score 3.7 ± 2.1) (p≤0.001)10. No significant difference was, however, observed at 6 weeks
      post-procedure. Limitations of the study include the high drop out of the trial (40 out of
      the initial 109 approached) and the absence of any phlebectomies or sclerotherapy in the
      patients.

      Elderman et al. carried out a randomised trial to assess the effect of compression stockings
      after endovenous laser therapy (EVLT) for great saphenous vein incompetence. Patients'
      reported pain scores and quality of life scores was evaluated on the day of the procedure,
      2-3 days afterwards and 2-6 weeks post-procedure. A total of 111 patients were randomised to
      stockings (n=55) and no stockings (n=56). There was a statistically significant difference in
      the pain scores in favour of the stockings group up to day 7, but this difference was no
      longer present by week 6. There was also a greater use of analgesia in patients in the no
      stockings group compared to patients wearing stockings (p<0.05). In addition, patients
      wearing stockings reported a statistically significantly higher score of satisfaction at 2
      days (4.44 vs 4.15) and at 6 weeks (4.59 vs 4.18). The absolute difference was, however,
      small. Two notable limitations of the study were the high level of drop outs (16 from each
      group) and the absence of any blinding.

      Hamel-Desnos et al. undertook a randomised controlled trial looking at the effect of
      compression in patients receiving foam sclerotherapy of the saphenous vein. They noted that
      patients with compression had similar pain and quality of life scores to patients not wearing
      any compression. They concluded that additional use of compression had no impact on the
      effectiveness of obliteration of veins, satisfaction scores, symptoms and quality of life,
      and that further controlled trials was needed to answer the question of whether using
      compression results in any difference to the outcome of varicose vein procedures.

      The investigators, therefore, propose to undertake a multicentre randomised study looking at
      the effect of compression therapy after endovenous thermal ablation.

      Description

      This will be a multicentre randomised clinical trial looking at the impact of wearing or not
      wearing compression stocking following endothermal ablation (either endovenous laser
      treatment (EVLT) or radiofrequency ablation (RFA)) of incompetent truncal veins. Those
      requiring concurrent phlebectomies or foam injection will be excluded.

      Patients will be randomised into group A (compression) and group B (no compression). Only the
      use of compression will be randomised while the decision as to which treatment to use will be
      at the discretion of the clinical team.

      Target Population

      Patients referred for treatment of symptomatic varicose veins will be recruited if they are
      found to have primary great saphenous (GSV) or small saphenous vein (SSV) incompetence on
      colour duplex scan.

      Intervention

      Patients will be randomised to have compression (group A) or no compression (group B). The
      compression therapy used will be Class II compression stockings. The treatment offered will
      be endothermal ablation (either endovenous laser treatment (EVLT) or radiofrequency ablation
      (RFA)) of incompetent truncal veins. Concurrent phlebectomy or foam sclerotherapy will not be
      carried out.

      Patients randomised to group A will be asked to wear compression stockings for 1 week.

      Patients randomised to group B will not be provided with any compression.

      At baseline, patients will be asked to fill quality of life questionnaires (EQ-5D, AVVQ and
      CIVIQ) and will have their clinical scores assessed (CEAP and VCSS). On discharge after their
      varicose vein intervention, they will then be provided with a diary to record their
      post-procedural pain every day for 10 days using a validated visual analogue scale (VAS) as
      well as to record when they return to their normal activities and are back to work. They will
      also be asked to attend a follow-up in 2 weeks and at 6 months.

      Patients' GP will also be sent a letter to inform them of their patient's participation in
      the study.

      Follow-up

      Patients will be followed up in the outpatient clinic at 2 weeks and 6 months.

      Follow-up at 2 Weeks At the 2 weeks' follow-up, the diary containing details of the pain
      scores and how soon patients were able to return to normal activities/work will be collected.
      In addition, patients will be asked about any bruising or phlebitis they have had in the two
      weeks after their procedure and how compliant they have been with the compression. They will
      be examined and the Venous Clinical Severity Score (VCSS) will be recorded. They will also be
      asked to fill in the EQ-5D, AVVQ and CIVIQ scores.

      Follow-up at 6 Months At the 6 months follow-up, patients will be examined and their VCSS
      will be recorded. They will also be asked to fill the EQ-5D, AVVQ and the CIVIQ scores. They
      will have a venous Duplex scan to determine occlusion of the treated vein.

      Sample Size and Study Duration

      The study team estimated the sample size needed to observe a difference of at least 10mm in
      the VAS score, with a standard deviation of 20mm. With power at 80% and 5% significance
      equivalence, the study would need to recruit 128 patients (64 per group) to show a
      difference.

      Previous studies looking at compression stockings have shown drop out rates close to 37% at 3
      months10. Therefore, if an estimated drop out rate of about 40% by 6 months is used, at least
      214 patients would need to be recruited. If at least 2 patients per week are recruited, this
      will be approximately a total of 208 patients that could potentially be randomised over the
      course of two years.

      With 6 months follow-up, therefore, the study will be running for 24 months with a target
      recruitment of 214 patients.

      Settings The study will be conducted at the Imperial College NHS Trust
    
  