
    
      This translational study seeks to establish a Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
      (COPD)-specific fracture prediction model using the investigators unique computed tomography
      (CT)-based assessment of peripheral bone micro-architecture. Osteoporosis, a common
      comorbidity among patients with COPD, accelerates morbidity and mortality. The basis for this
      comorbidity is poorly understood, thus the need for characterizing the link between
      COPD-related factors and bone micro-architecture and their association to fracture-risk.
      Multiple COPD-related factors are associated with osteoporosis. Different COPD-related causes
      of bone loss may non-uniformly impact cortical and trabecular bone structures with varying
      mechanical consequences, reflective of divergent COPD-associated fracture-risk in individuals
      with similar bone mineral density (BMD). Little is known about this linkage, and the study
      goal is to fill this knowledge gap using a clinically suitable emerging CT-based tool for
      characterization of bone micro-architecture at peripheral sites. Specifically, this study
      will-(1) establish the generalizability of the investigators bone micro-architecture
      assessment applied to emerging low dose / high resolution CT scanners from different vendors;
      (2) assess its potential as compared to dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) to explain
      prevalent fractures and predict incident fractures among patients with COPD; (3) quantify the
      impact of different COPD-related factors on bone structures and their implications for
      fracture-risk; (4) identify COPD subtypes with rapid bone structural degeneration; and (5)
      develop a COPD-specific model for assessment of fracture-risk using patient-specific data.

      The study will take advantage of-(1) existing COPD patient cohorts with lung characterization
      at the University of Iowa (UI) and Columbia University (CU) representing a wide demographic
      range; (2) access to emerging CT scanners at both sites; and (3) unique image processing
      methodologies for quantifying three-dimensional bone structural metrics. The study will
      recruit 550 smokers with and without COPD from the UI and CU cohorts of the COPDGene and
      SPIROMICS studies. Smokers without COPD will comprise the control group for the study. At
      baseline and 3-year follow-up visits, the study team will collect-(1) data related to risk
      factors; (2) a lateral spine CT scout scan to assess vertebral fractures; (3) high resolution
      CT scans of the hip and ankle for computation of bone structural metrics; (4) whole-body,
      spine and hip DXA scans for evaluation of bone mineral density and body composition; and (5)
      DXA vertebral fracture assessment.

      This study will establish an emerging CT-based scanner-independent generalizable tool to
      assess bone response to different therapeutic interventions aimed at slowing or reversing
      bone loss, and possibly restoring bone structure, potentially leading to more
      patient-specific interventions. Also, this study seeks to explain the relationships among
      various COPD-related factors, bone structural changes and their implications for
      fracture-risk.

      Finally, a COPD-specific model for assessment of fracture-risk will be developed that will
      utilize patient-specific demographic, clinical and radiographic data, and CT BMD at the
      spine, as well as bone structural measures at the hip and/or ankle.
    
  