
    
      Background:

        -  Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare tumor with an incidence of 1.5 to 2 per million
           people per year and has a very poor prognosis with an overall 5-year mortality rate of
           75 - 90% and an average survival from the time of diagnosis of 14.5 months.

        -  The treatment of choice for a localized primary or recurrent tumor is surgical
           resection. For unresectable metastatic or recurrent disease, mitotane,
           aminoglutethimide, metapyrone, and ketoconazole are used.

        -  Cisplatin is one of the most effective chemotherapeutic agents for ACC. In the Surgery
           Branch we have conducted Phase I and II trials using heated intraperitoneal (IP)
           chemotherapy with cisplatin for primary peritoneal mesothelioma, low grade appendiceal
           adenocarcinoma, ovarian malignancies, and high grade adenocarcinoma of the
           gastrointestinal tract. Synergy has been demonstrated for cisplatin and hyperthermia.

        -  The purpose of this trial is to determine if an aggressive surgical approach with
           intraperitoneal administration of heated cisplatin when tumor volume is minimal, can
           impact and improve on progression free survival.

      Objectives:

      - To determine IP progression free survival after optimal debulking and heated IP
      chemotherapy with cisplatin in patients with IP spread of adrenocortical cancer

      Eligibility:

      - Histologically proven ACC evaluable by computed tomography (CT) imaging with the majority
      of disease confined to the peritoneal cavity and surgically resectable to a residual size of
      less than 1 cm or amenable to radiofrequency ablation in patients who are > 18 years of age.

      Design:

      - This is a classic phase 2 trial to determine efficacy of this therapeutic strategy in ACC.
      Patients will undergo cytoreductive surgery to achieve a CCR of 0 or 1.

      Patients who are successfully debulked will then undergo hyperthermic intraperitoneal
      chemotherapy (HIPEC) with cisplatin.

      Patients will be evaluated by associate investigators in coordination with the Principal
      Investigator for eligibility. Due to its exploratory nature, up to 30 patients may be
      enrolled to obtain 24 evaluable patients. (Patients must undergo successful debulking and
      HIPEC to be considered evaluable.)
    
  