
    
      The study is to compare treatment response of lamivudine and entecavir in patients with
      spontaneous severe acute exacerbation of chronic hepatitis B.

      1. Primary objective:

      • To compare the overall survival (OS) rate during observational period between lamivudine
      and entecavir therapy.

      2. Secondary objectives:

        1. To compare the change from baseline in HBV DNA level at each visit between lamivudine
           and entecavir therapy.

        2. To compare the proportion of subjects who have a ≥ 2 log10 decline from baseline in HBV
           DNA level at each visit between lamivudine and entecavir therapy.

        3. To compare the change from baseline in ALT and AST level at each visit between
           lamivudine and entecavir therapy.

        4. To compare the proportion of subjects with prolonged prothrombin time (PT) at each visit
           between lamivudine and entecavir therapy.

        5. To compare the change from baseline in bilirubin level at each visit between lamivudine
           and entecavir therapy.

        6. To compare the transplantation-free survival rate during observational period between
           lamivudine and entecavir therapy.

        7. To assess the safety of lamivudine and entecavir treatments in patients with
           HBV-associated severe acute exacerbation.

      Statistical method(s) for safety/efficacy evaluations:

        1. The major analysis will be performed according to the principal of intent-to-treat
           population; the safety evaluation will be performed according to the safety population.

        2. For primary endpoint, the time to event will be analyzed by Kaplan-Meier method and
           summarized as the number of observations, number of censored, median time point estimate
           and the 95% CI for median.

        3. Secondary efficacy endpoints:

      1. Change from baseline in HBV DNA level at each visit 2. Proportion of subjects with HBV DNA
      response* at each visit

        -  Defined as a ≥ 2 log10 decline from baseline HBV DNA level. 3. Change from baseline in
           ALT level at each visit 4. Change from baseline in AST level at each visit 5. Proportion
           of subjects with prolonged PT* at each visit

        -  PT at each visit will also be assessed. 6. Change from baseline in bilirubin level at
           each visit 7. Transplantation-free survival rate during observational period Continuous
           variables will be analyzed using two-sample t-test/ Wilcoxon Rank Sum test, and
           categorical variables will be analyzed Chi-squared/ Fishers' exact test. Descriptive
           statistics including mean, standard deviation, median, minimum, maximum, 95% confidence
           interval will be also presented. Categorical variables will be summarized by counts and
           percentage in frequency table. In addition, the time to event will be analyzed by
           Kaplan-Meier method.

           (4) The summary results of laboratory at the baseline and the end of study visit, the
           change from baseline to end of study visit will be summarized by descriptive statistics
           and paired t-test will be used under significant level 0.05.

           (5) Adverse events will be coded with MedDRA and a summary frequency table of adverse
           events will be provided. The severity and relationship to study medication of adverse
           events will be summarized as well. Furthermore, if any serious adverse event had
           occurred, the brief summary about serious adverse event will be described and listed in
           tables.

           (6) All statistical tests will be two-side and evaluated at the 0.05 level of
           significance.
    
  