
    
      Patient demographics, relevant histories, baseline physical exam including POP-Q and PFDI-20
      data will be abstracted from the electronic medical record following enrollment. This
      information will be placed into a secure database.

      The randomization sequence will be generated by randomize.net, a web-based service that
      provides comprehensive randomization services for randomized controlled trials. The sequence
      will be randomized 1:1 with blocks of 4 and stratified by surgeon. Concealment will be
      completely opaque as group allocation will not be revealed until the subject is enrolled on
      the web-based service and the surgeon has elected to randomize the patient from an internet
      connection in the operating room.

      Subjects and assessors will be blinded to study group. The surgeons will, necessarily, not be
      blinded. Subjects will only be informed of their assigned group upon request following
      completion of the entire study.

      USLS with the assigned suture and any scheduled concomitant prolapse and anti-incontinence
      procedures will be performed. All procedures will be performed by one of two
      fellowship-trained, Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery board-certified
      surgeons. USLS will be performed as initially described by Shull et al with two important
      differences in technique. First, 2 sutures will be placed through the intermediate portion of
      each uterosacral ligament instead of 3. Second, when absorbable suture (polydioxanone) is
      used, the suture will be placed through the full thickness of the anterior and posterior
      vaginal walls.

      Follow up exams will occur at 6 weeks and 12 months post-operatively and will include a POP-Q
      exam. The 6 week follow up visit will include the Patient Global Impression of Improvement
      (PGI-I) and an additional survey. The 12 month follow up visit will include a the PGI-I,
      PFDI-20 and an additional survey. All participants will also be assessed for any
      suture-related complications, such as erosion or granulation tissue. Follow up exams will be
      completed by one of two urogynecology nurse practitioners who will be blinded to the surgery
      and suture choice. Both nurse practitioners have extensive experience in performing POP-Q
      exams. The examiners will complete a follow up data abstraction form for each follow up
      appointment (6 weeks and 12 months).

      The follow up clinic appointments at 6 weeks and 12 months are the times of usually scheduled
      post-operative follow up for USLS procedures. Additionally, completion of the PFDI-20
      questionnaire and a POP-Q exam constitute routine clinical care for these patients. As such,
      there is no additional time commitment for subjects compared to routine clinical care.
    
  