
    
      Background:

      Infantile idiopathic nystagmus (IIN) or congenital motor nystagmus is most common among
      infantile nystagmus cases. It has a characteristic waveform eye movement pattern with an
      exponentially increasing velocity slow-phase followed by a saccadic fast phase.

      IIN is present from infancy but usually recognized few months into life and may even be
      evident only after the child has reached several years of age. Characteristics of IIN include
      the following: conjugate eye movements with equal frequency and amplitude in each eye, gaze
      position does not change the direction of fast phase, a null point may be present with less
      motor instability, convergence achieves better motor stability, head turn and head tilt
      present to facilitate viewing at null point and absence of oscillopsia in most cases.

      When the patient is asymptomatic no treatment is required. However, if the visual acuity is
      decreased with abnormal head posture and oscillopsia interventions are warranted.

      Traditional used therapies include muscle surgery, optical devices, drugs and botulinum toxin
      injections. All current available therapies aim at changing the functional balance among eye
      muscles responsible for eye movements with hope that they will produce better ocular
      stability and better foveation time for incoming images with better vision. All such cases
      also require Low Vision Rehabilitation interventions to improve functional vision and Quality
      of Life.

      Rationale for the study:

      Active eye movement control training, an old and still most prevalent intervention in low
      vision rehabilitation (LVR) was never used in nystagmus cases with low vision for various
      reasons. One of them was the inability to document accurately eye movements and fixation
      characteristics in patients with low vision, nystagmus cases included.

      Biofeedback training (BT) is the latest and newest technique for oculomotor control training
      in cases with low vision when using available modules in the new microperimetry instruments.

      Sporadic reports in the literature highlighted positive benefits from using BT in a variety
      of nystagmus cases. The purpose of this study is to assess systematically the impact of BT in
      a series of cases with IIN and formulate guidelines for further use of this intervention in
      nystagmus cases in general.

      Study hypothesis

      The visual and audio parts of the BT program improve in a synergistic way oculomotor control
      through attention improvement and volitional eye movements towards pre-designated targets.
      Improved oculomotor control results in better fixation stability of eyes. Better fixation
      stability in turn results in better vision for distance and near. Dual sensory BT is a
      therapy used in low vision for more than ten years, showing good results for near and
      distance vision in cases with macular degeneration and other pathologies. The study
      hypothesis, never tested before, is that BT in cases with IIN will impact positively
      oculomotor control and visual acuity as it was proven to do in cases with macular
      degeneration.

      Significance of the study:

      Most cases with IIN suffer also from poor visual acuity and in essence are visually impaired.
      Where as in cases with visual impairment near vision can be easily improved to functional
      levels using magnification in spectacle glasses, distance vision cannot be improved further
      with spectacle glasses and other low vision devices are required. BT in IIN cases may result
      in significant improvement in visual abilities for distance in a similar way that BT results
      in improved distance vision in cases with macular degeneration.

      Clinical trial design:

      This is prospective clinical randomized trial to include a control group and take place over
      a period of up to 24 months.

      The objectives set for this trial is to verify if BT impacts on oculomotor control in cases
      with IIN and results in better distance visual acuity in those trained with BT.

      Clinical trial population:

      The intended population for this clinical trial is to be found among the Low Vision
      Rehabilitation (LVR) clinical practice patients. Patients will be considered for inclusion
      into the study if they meet the trial entry criteria.

      The following is an overview of the study procedures: following obtaining consent from study
      participants, confirmation of eligibility, and baseline assessments (Visit1, V1),
      participants will undergo 4 BT sessions (V2, V3, V4 and V5). Upon completion of the 4 BT
      sessions participants will return for a follow up after 1 week (V6) and 3 months (V7).

      Baseline procedures During the baseline visit (Visit 1) participants will be assessed for
      Best Corrected Visual Acuity (BCVA) for distance vision with ETDRS charts at 4 meters,
      preferred retinal locus (PRL) characteristics, fixation stability (FS) estimates and
      nystagmus amplitude with the MAIA microperimeter (Centervue, Padova, Italy). Participants
      will be assessed also for near vision and contrast sensitivity measured with the 2 contrast
      levels Colenbrander chart, stereopsis will be assessed with the Frisby Stereo Test and
      Quality of Life estimates will be assessed with the children's visual function questionnaire
      (CVFQ).

      This visit may take an hour time. Training procedure during training procedure visits (V2-5)
      the participant is seated in front of the instrument while visual targets are presented to
      the eye and auditory stimuli are presented in tandem with the visual stimuli. Patient has to
      identify targets and respond by pressing a button.

      BT includes 4 BT attempts of 5 minutes each with 5 minutes rest time between each attempt.
      The procedure involves presentation of a standard LED fixation target (FT) consisting of a
      small red circle of about 0.76° diameter. A fixation training target (FTT) will be selected
      by the trainer at a perceived better fixation point. Initially the participant will be
      instructed to stare at the FT circle. Following this stage, the participant will be guided to
      look in the direction of the FTT and listen simultaneously to the audio feedback. As
      performing this task, the participant will actively control the eye movements until the audio
      feedback becomes more frequent and then becomes a continuous sound pattern. This continuous
      sound will signalize to the patient is controlling nystagmus.

      Simulated BT includes presentation of a C10-2 microperimetry program. The procedure involves
      presentation of a standard LED fixation target (FT) consisting of a small red circle of about
      0.76° diameter. Initially the participant will be instructed to stare at the FT circle.
      Following this stage, the participant will be guided to look at the FT and simultaneously to
      be aware of any flashing lights in the periphery of vision. As performing this task, the
      participant will actively control the eye movements and similar to computer games, the
      patient has to identify targets in the peripheral field of vision and respond by pressing a
      button.

      Participants will be given take-home efficiency reading exercises. Training visits are
      repeated to a total of 4 on a weekly interval.

      End of study procedures Additional follow up Visits 6 and 7 will take place at 5 weeks and 4
      months following visit 1. Participants will be assessed also for near vision and contrast
      sensitivity measured with the 2 contrast levels Colenbrander chart, stereopsis will be
      assessed with the Frisby Stereo Test and Quality of Life estimates will be assessed with the
      children's visual function questionnaire (CVFQ).

      There are no known risks or side effects known from using biofeedback training. In some
      cases, perceived side effects observed are general fatigue, tiredness due to the efforts to
      fixate, discomfort or eye strain.
    
  