
    
      Dry eye patients experience symptoms such as; irritation, dryness, a scratchy sensation, and
      blur. These symptoms are the result of an insufficient tear layer. Blur can occur in dry eye
      patients because of an irregular tear film surface.

      Artificial tears are applied to the eye to treat a variety of eye conditions. These
      conditions typically are associated with dry eyes and include tear film deficiency due to
      ocular or systemic disease, lid resurfacing problems, and contact lens wear. The artificial
      tears are used to alleviate the dry eye symptoms.

      Dry eye is a frequently encountered ocular condition. Recent studies estimate that 7.8% of
      women and 4.8% of men over the age of 50 suffer from dry eye. The administration of an
      artificial tear to the eye can disrupt the tear layer and this disruption could then result
      in a change in contrast sensitivity for a few moments. Aberrometry is a technique that is
      able to monitor tear layer disruption and its results may correlate with contrast sensitivity
      changes.

      Tear layer disruption results in a decrease in the modulation transfer function (MTF) for the
      eye. Since the tear layer is the first refracting surface of the eye, its disruption can also
      result in a change in contrast sensitivity, visual acuity, and aberrometry. Previous work has
      demonstrated that higher order aberrations increase 1.44 fold after the tear film breaks up
      in normal subjects. Dry eye subjects demonstrate a significant increase in higher order
      aberrations (i.e., total S3+4+5, spherical-like S4, and coma-like S3+5) when compared to
      normal subjects. This has been interpreted to be the result of increased tear irregularities
      in the dry eye subjects.

      When an artificial tear (i.e., Vismed) was applied to the tear layer of dry eye subjects, the
      optical aberrations decreased. This previous study only examined the short term affect (less
      than 10 minutes) of a single administration of an artificial tear. In this study, we propose
      to examine the short and long term effects of a new emulsion on contrast sensitivity, optical
      aberrations, and reading ability after administration into the tear layer of normal and dry
      eye subjects.
    
  