
    
      Patients with connective tissue disease (CTD) frequently exhibit multi-organ
      pathophysiological and functional damage. The heart, one of the leading causes of CTD
      mortality, has attracted increasing attention. However, most patients with CTD present with
      nonspecific cardiac symptoms, normal ECG, and preserved left ventricular ejection fraction
      (LVEF) and therefore do not receive an early cardiac diagnosis. Pulmonary arterial
      hypertension (PAH), right ventricular (RV) dilatation and hypertrophy are the first and the
      most frequent cardiac findings. However, these are late-stage phenomena, which can eventually
      lead to death or right heart failure in CTD.Right ventricle abnormalities is associated with
      the risk of heart failure and cardiovascular death. RV dilation has long been considered a
      direct consequence of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), but recently, physicians have
      observed RVH in CTD patients as well. RV dilation and RVH are not necessarily found in the
      same patient. The pathophysiology behind these issues is less well-understood. RVH
      progression continues even as CTD-associated PAH alleviates. This finding implies PAH might
      not be the sole index that leads to RVH. It would be interesting to explore factors that can
      predict the presence of RVH, which may reduce major adversecardiovascular events in patients
      with CTD.

      Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) is able to depict myocardial characteristics from
      structure to tissue properties using cine and late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) sequences.
      Newly developed imaging studies to date include T1 mapping and T1-derived Manuscript ECV
      estimation.All the previous studies in CTD have been restricted to patients with advanced
      cardiac involvement. Together with clinical assessment and multi-imaging tests, the aim of
      the present study was to find markers to detect cardiac involvement before RVH presented,
      which could be important for guiding treatment decisions such as the timing and choice of
      pharmaceutical treatment. The combination of myocardial functional and tissue changes may
      offer further insight into the pathophysiology of CTD.
    
  