
    
      Currently, there is no standard treatment for patients with recurrent or refractory
      peripheral T-cell lymphoma who relapse after a first line of cyclophosphamide,
      hydroxydaunomycin, oncovin, and prednisone (CHOP) treatment.

      Chemotherapies such as gemcitabine are used as monotherapy but the results alone are
      insufficient. In addition, there is no approved monotherapy in the European Union, with the
      exception of brentuximab vedotin in refractory or recurrent large systemic anaplastic
      lymphomas.

      Stem cell transplantation may be an option for patients who respond to a second line of
      treatment or a subsequent line of treatment, but conditions for being eligible for
      transplantation, including long-term remission, are infrequent.

      Brentuximab vedotin (BV) is a targeted treatment directed against a protein, cluster of
      differentiation antigen 30 (CD30), present on the surface of lymphoma cells. It allows
      chemotherapy to enter directly into the lymphoma cell. The CD30 protein is variably expressed
      in patients with relapsed or refractory T-cell lymphoma; about 50% of patients have
      significant expression.

      Data from clinical studies with brentuximab vedotin suggest that the addition of this
      treatment to gemcitabine may be more successful than gemcitabine alone.

      The main hypothesis is a 15% increase in responder patients after 4 cycles of treatment with
      brentuximab vedotin and gemcitabine. The main objective of the study is therefore to
      determine the overall response rate after 4 cycles of treatment according to the criteria of
      Lugano 2014 (response based on CT-scan).

      The secondary objectives will focus on the efficacy of brentuximab vedotin: complete response
      rate, response time for responder patients, time to failure of treatment, time to next
      treatment and overall survival, efficacy of brentuximab vedotin maintenance: survival
      progression-free, response time, overall survival, overall response rate based on positron
      emission tomography (PET)-scan and brentuximab vedotin toxicity in patients treated with
      gemcitabine and in maintenance therapy.

      The duration of the study is estimated to be 4.5 years including follow-up with an estimated
      recruitment period of 1.5 years. 70 patients will be enrolled.
    
  