
    
      Schizophrenia is a severe brain disorder with an excess mortality and reduced life
      expectancy. It has been proposed that around 60% of this excess mortality is due to physical
      pathology, mostly cardio-metabolic disorders. In addition to the deleterious effects of
      hypercaloric diet and sedentary lifestyle, the use of antipsychotic medication has itself a
      significant effect on metabolism. The metabolic disturbances described related to
      antipsychotic exposure include weight gain and obesity, dyslipemia, and insulin-resistance or
      new onset diabetes mellitus, representing cardio-metabolic risk factors leading to
      cardio-vascular events at the long-run. Some of these metabolic disturbances have been
      described as relevant factors for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) development.
      NAFLD is accepted to be the hepatic component of the metabolic syndrome, and it has been
      described as an independent cardiovascular risk factor. A recent study by our group found a
      significant increase in the prevalence of hepatic steatosis after 3 years of antipsychotic
      treatment in a sample of patients with psychosis. Other studies proposed that there is a link
      between NAFLD and severe cardio-vascular disease that may be early predicted through
      peripheral microvascular system signs (endothelial dysfunction). Interestingly, recent
      studies have shown the presence of endothelial dysfunction in psychosis, probably related to
      antipsychotic-exposure. In summary, the investigators consider of relevance the study of a
      possible interrelation between metabolic syndrome, NAFLD, and endothelial dysfunction, at
      long-term, and their probable correlation with antipsychotic exposure.

      Based on the available scientific evidence, the investigators hypothesize that the long-term
      exposure to antipsychotic medication would be related to liver disease and endothelial
      dysfunction.

      The research project would be implemented as part of a larger prospective longitudinal study
      on first episode non-affective psychosis, in the First Episode Psychosis Clinical Program
      (PAFIP). In particular, the project would be part of the "10 PAFIP study", in which those
      patients that had been included in the PAFIP program 10 years ago will be extensively
      evaluated (e.g.: clinical, neuroimaging, neuro-psychological, and metabolic evaluations) in
      order to analyse the long-term progress of the psychosis.

      Steatosis and fibrosis indexes would be determined for 10-years time point. For those
      patients with scores predicting hepatic fibrosis, a full hepatic examination, including
      elastometry assessment (FibroScan®) with controlled attenuation parameter (CAP) and abdominal
      ultrasound would be carried out. Moreover, endothelial function would be examined, using
      EndoPAT2000® and carotid ultrasound evaluation, for those patients turning 10 years since
      their antipsychotic treatment was firstly prescribed.
    
  