
    
      A randomized controlled pilot trial will be used to test the application-based support
      systems Lifepod®PAD that are developed in collaboration with Cross Technology Solutions based
      on results from our systematic review and previous research testing the Lifepod® system in
      patients with myocardial infarction.

      Sample Approximately 60 patients with intermittent claudication diagnosed at the Department
      of vascular diseases at Skåne University hospital will be invited to participate. The
      participants should have access to a smartphone or tablet. For the randomization, envelopes
      will be prepared by a member of the research group and then mixed by another member of the
      group. After receiving informed consent, the participants are randomized by drawing one of
      the sealed envelopes with the information in which group they are included. The trial will
      have two arms; one group will test Lifepod®PAD (n=30) for three months and one control group
      (n=30) will receive secondary prevention as usual.

      Data collection All participants will be invited to a separate appointment at the vascular
      open clinic at baseline and after three months and measured regarding weight, blood pressure,
      ABPI, six minutes walking test and pain. To calculate the estimate 10-year risk of
      manifesting clinical cardiovascular disease, the Framingham Risk Score will be used. Further,
      a questionnaire will be answered at baseline and after three months containing the
      instruments, VascuQoL-6, Health Education Impact Questionnaire (hei-Q) and Medication
      Adherence Report Scale-5.

      Patients randomized to Lifepod®PAD will get access and be introduced to the Lifepod®PAD
      support system software. Patients in the control group will receive usual care meaning advice
      about lifestyle changes and medication from the physician at the visit in the vascular open
      clinic.

      After completing the intervention, a random number of patients who have tested Lifepod®PAD
      will be invited to take part in focus group interviews to discuss their experiences of using
      the devices. The interviews will be analyzed by thematic content analysis.

      The intervention Lifepod®PAD is a web-based application designed to support adherence to
      lifestyle advice and medication and is built as a two-side system. One side is the patient
      interface, the web-based application, accessible through a smartphone or tablet. The patients
      can log information about their lifestyle, symptoms and medication and review their data in
      relation to recommended targets. They get positive feedback, recommendations about healthy
      behaviours and receive notifications as short messages depending on their individual health
      status. The other side is the medical interface managed by the health care professionals. All
      information the patient is reporting into the app can be accessed by the treating nurse and
      the system ranks the patients, thus gives high priority to patients who have the greatest
      needs.

      Analysis Primary outcome will be pain free walking distance according to six minutes walking
      test at baseline and after three months. Secondary outcomes are quality of life, illness
      perception, self-efficacy, adherence to medical treatment, blood pressure and ABPI.
      Acceptability, delivery of the intervention, expected sample size and effect size, procedure
      of randomization and follow-ups will be further evaluated.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to describe the study sample. T-tests will be used to
      compare groups and chi-square tests will be used to study differences in proportions. Effect
      size will be calculated to estimate the magnitude of the potential effects and constitute a
      base for power calculation and sample size in a full-size RCT. The outcome will be used to
      design a main multicenter randomized trial Ethical considerations Verbal and written
      information about the purpose of the studies will be given and a written informed consent
      will be obtained in all studies. Additionally, they will be informed that participating is
      voluntary and the can withdraw at any time without providing any reason. Approval for the
      project are provided by the Swedish Regional Ethical Review Board (Dnr 2017/609)
    
  