
    
      Background:

      The emergency setting for acute neurological conditions, such as stroke, is peculiar due to
      time pressure and limited resources for further diagnostics. Clinical skills are essential
      for swift and accurate bedside diagnosis and thus are the basis for early and correct
      treatment. This is especially evident in the context of computed tomography being the
      standard neuroimaging method world-wide with its limitations for detecting smaller infarcts,
      strokes in the posterior fossa and reduced sensitivity for stroke mimics, such as epileptic
      seizures or migraine aura. To date, the accuracy of clinical bedside diagnosis of stroke by
      neurologists verified by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the emergency setting has not
      been studied in detail. Management of acute stroke patients is a main interest of the
      neurovascular research group at Inselspital Bern. For example, the investigators analysed the
      prediction of large vessel occlusion in acute stroke patients by clinical examination and
      found a significant association of stroke severity measured with the NIHSS score and location
      of vessel occlusion. Analysis of outcome in stroke patients with mild and rapidly improving
      symptoms demonstrated that three of four of these patients had a favourable outcome, but
      those with a central vessel occlusion were likely to deteriorate with poor outcome. These
      studies showed that there is a correlation of clinical symptoms with the mechanism of stroke,
      which is important for the outcome after treatment. Importantly, however, the quality of
      clinical assessment itself is likely highly variable, for example depending on the experience
      of the treating physician. Factors influencing this clinical assessment, which needs to be
      done under high temporal and emotional pressure in the emergency setting have not been
      investigated so far but might be crucial for rapid and successful treatment ("time is
      brain").In order to improve clinical diagnosing and future treatment it is essential to
      quantify the accuracy of clinical diagnosis of stroke in the emergency setting ("how good are
      neurologists?") and to assesses whether there are any differences between experienced staff
      neurologists and junior physicians.

      Rationale:

      By assessing whether prediction of aetiology of acute neurological deficits is
      experience-based the investigators aim to understand what symptoms/signs impede the
      in-experienced from swiftly making the correct diagnosis in the emergency setting. This
      should help to improve resident training and with this treatment of patients with acute
      neurological deficits.
    
  