
    
      Design: Prospective, observational, cross-over, clinical physiologic study of HFNC and NIV in
      patients with COPD and hypercapnic respiratory failure Intervention: Participants will be
      consecutively ventilated with the two devices, i.e., HFNC and NIV. HFNC 30 and 50 L/min will
      be applied in a random order (sealed, opaque envelope). HFNC will be set with a temperature
      at 37°C or 34°C if perceived as too warm. NIV settings will be adjusted based on the clinical
      assessment of the Respiratory Therapist as per standard practice and will not be modified
      during the test. In both groups, FiO2 will be adjusted to achieve a SpO2 of at least 92%.

      Setting: The intervention will be applied in the Medical-Surgical ICU of St. Michael's
      Hospital.

      Duration: Each device will be studied for 30 minutes. The entire study will take place over
      approximately 3 hours. There is no additional follow-up thereafter.

      Procedures: The study will start first by recording patients under spontaneous breathing
      considered as a baseline (sequence #1). Under spontaneous breathing, patients will be
      receiving oxygen therapy as it is usually done between 2 NIV sessions. Then, the patient will
      have 20 -30 minutes to acclimatize to HFNC and select his/her preferred flow rate (sequence
      #2). NIV will be applied (sequence #3). The NIV settings will be adjusted based on the
      clinical assessment of the Respiratory Therapist and will not be modified throughout the
      study. Then, according to randomization order (sealed envelopes), patients will receive a
      flow corresponding to the preferred flow selected by the patient and a second flow, either
      HFNC 30 L/min or HFNC 50 L/min depending on the initial choice (sequences #4 and #5) (see
      flow diagram). FiO2 will be adjusted to achieve a SpO2 of 90 to 94%. Each condition will be
      studied for 30 minutes and will be separated by a 5-minute washout period during which
      patients will be receiving oxygen therapy. The measurements will be collected at baseline
      (under spontaneous breathing) and during the last five minutes of each condition. In case of
      clinical intolerance as considered by the attending physician, the study will stop. In case
      the patient is considered dependent of NIV by clinicians, we will still enroll the patient
      without doing baseline period after discussion with clinicians.

      The pulse oximeter (SpO2) and transcutaneous CO2 monitor (SenTec Digital Monitoring System
      (SDMS)) will be continuously monitored throughout the study period. Exspiron device will be
      calibrated to measure minute ventilation. Four surface electrodes will be placed bilaterally
      to record each hemidiaphragm activity using a specific recording system (Acqknowledge
      software, Biopac Systems) A bedside ultrasound examination will be performed, using a
      SonoSite system (Fujifilm) equipped with a 10-15 MHz ultrasound linear probe. Diaphragm
      thickness will be measured both at end-inspiration and end-expiration. This technique will be
      applied at the end of each sequence (before ventilatory assist under conventional O2
      therapy). In patients becoming rapidly intolerant to NIV disconnection, we will limit this
      "baseline" period under O2 to a minimum (5 minutes). The thickness and contraction of the
      intercostal muscles and abdominal muscles will also be assessed.

      Interpretation of the ultrasound results to determine diaphragm and other muscle thickness
      will be read at a later time by an individual blinded to the intervention.
    
  