
    
      The PROCELLERA Antimicrobial Wound Dressing is considered a non-interactive wound dressing
      containing silver and zinc, classification product code MGP. Non-interactive wound dressings
      are considered by FDA to be non-significant risk, as per their Investigational Device
      Exemptions Manual (publication FDA 96-4159).

      Procellera is FDA cleared under K081977 for professional use as a wound dressing for partial
      and full-thickness wounds.

      Selection of Subjects

      Type of the Subject Population

        -  At least 18 years old

        -  Male or female

        -  All ethnic groups

      As a military-civilian cooperative Phase II prospective randomized trial, the study
      population will include chronic wound patients from both military and civilian backgrounds.

      As incidence of complex non-healing wounds remains high in both military and civilian
      hospital settings, it is estimated that recruitment rate will be sufficiently rapid at each
      research site. While unanticipated delays (e.g. slow accrual) may occur, the limited patient
      population and length of time allotted for the clinical study (2 years) is assumed to offset
      any delays. A total of 60 participants will be enrolled studywide to obtain 50 evaluable
      participants from both sites combined. Up to 16 patients will be screened each day. A
      consecutive series of patients who meet the following inclusion/exclusion criteria and agree
      to participate will be recruited.

      Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria

        1. Inclusion Criteria > 18 years of age or older, male or female

             -  Female subject not pregnant - pregnancy excluded by HCG (urine or serum) or by
                history (tubal ligation, hysterectomy, or menopause).

             -  Have a non-healing external wound at any location of the body of ≥90 days duration
                that is (10-50 cm2) at initial screening and does not exceed 3 cm in depth.

             -  May have a wound requiring Negative Pressure Wound Therapy in conjunction with
                standard of care wound treatment.

             -  Subject is able to apply study dressing to his/her wound, or have a reliable and
                capable caregiver to do it.

             -  Subjects will have adequate blood flow to the wound as defined by Skin Perfusion
                Pressure (SPP)47-49 of >30mmHg recorded over intact epidermis near the open wound
                margin.

             -  Subjects with arterial repairs having adequate blood flow to the wound as defined
                by Skin Perfusion Pressure (SPP) of >30mmHg recorded over intact epidermis near the
                open wound margin.

             -  Absence of clinical signs of infection (such as fever; malodorous wound exudate;
                increasing wound pain, drainage, erythema, friable granulation tissue and or
                edema).

             -  Participant agrees to participate in follow-up evaluations.

             -  Participant must be able to read and understand informed consent, and signs the
                informed consent.

        2. Exclusion Criteria

             -  Less than 18 years of age.

             -  Pregnant or lactating woman.

             -  Have undergone treatment with systemic corticosteroid or immunosuppressive therapy
                in the past 2 months.

             -  Currently undergoing dialysis for renal failure.

             -  Subject has wounds resulting from electrical burn, arterial insufficiency, chemical
                or radiation insult.

             -  Subject has wounds with exposed bone, ligament, nerve, artery and/or tendon.

             -  Active or previous (within 60 days prior to the study screening visit)
                chemotherapy.

             -  Active or previous (within 60 days prior to the study screening visit) radiation to
                the affected wound area to be treated by study device or standard of care.

             -  Physical or mental disability or geographical concerns (residence not within
                reasonable travel distance) that would hamper compliance with required study
                visits.

             -  The Investigator believes that the subject will be unwilling or unable to comply
                with study protocol requirements, including application of bioelectric dressings,
                standard-of-care self-care requirements, and all study-related follow up visit
                requirements.

             -  History of infection with Human Immunodeficiency Virus or other immunodeficiency
                disorders.

             -  Heterotopic ossification underlying the wound based upon previous imaging or
                historical information from the subject's chart.

             -  Severe anemia - Hgb < 7 g/dl (males) or < 6.5 (females) or coagulopathy (INR >
                1.7).

             -  Severe malnutrition (Albumin < 3.0 gm/dl; > 10% weight loss in preceding 6 weeks).

             -  Allergy to silver or zinc.
    
  