
    
      Low birth weight infants are premature infants that born with birth weight less than 1500 g.
      Because these infants have low birth weight, weight gain can be increased by fortifying
      breast milk after post-natal 7. day. Breast milk fortifiers might be preferred for very low
      birth weight or extremely low birth weight infants (infants with <1000 g birth weight
      infants) for faster weight gain. It does not increase risk of necrotizing enterocolitis or
      infection; and it has lower incidences of necrotizing enterocolitis and sepsis comparing to
      formula. Breast milk is usually fortified with 100 cc/kg/day enteral feeding (1,2,3,4). Even
      though many centers use olive oil to fortify breast milk for many years; there is no study to
      evaluate its scientific value. Hence it has been known that olive oil based parenteral
      nutrition solutions are well-tolerated by premature infants, are immunologically more
      neutral, does not increase proinflammatory cytokines; olive oil is the only fat consumed in
      its natural form and has antimicrobial and cytotoxic effects, lowers serum cholesterol
      concentration by decreasing cholesterol absorption, has protective measures against
      cardiovascular diseases due to antioxidant effects of ingredients such as mono- and
      poly-unsaturated fatty acids, phenolic substances, tocopherols and carotenoids; olive oil has
      antioxidant, cell renewal and anti- carcinogenic features because of containing squalene
      which is precursor of steroid synthesis and help digestion by increasing digestive juice by
      major pigments such as chlorophyll, pheophytin and chlorophyll (5).

      In previous studies; it has been shown that nutritional support with parenteral olive oil
      emulsion has better plasma lipid content similarities to breast milk, lower proinflammatory
      cytokine synthesis, lower lipid peroxidation product levels, stronger T-cell response, higher
      E vitamin levels; and thus lower risk of nosocomial infections, SIRS (systemic inflammatory
      response syndrome), BPD (bronchopulmonary dysplasia), NEC (necrotizing enterocolitis), PVL
      (periventricular leukomalacia), ROP (retinopathy of prematurity) and cardiovascular diseases
      and positive impact on glucose metabolism. Participants hypothesize that oral olive oil
      intake will have similar effects (6).

      Investigators aims to compare post-nutritional immunologic parameters of 1-28 day-aged 60
      infants with <1500 g birth weight and < 32 weeks of gestational age who were fed with
      maternal milk that is fortified with eoprotin and olive oil and diagnosed and followed-up in
      Neonatal Intensive Care Unit of Pediatrics Department of Medicine Faculty of Yüzüncü Yıl
      University.

      This study will be conducted on 60 patients who are 1-28 days-aged, below 1500-gram body
      weight, born before 32 weeks of gestational age and diagnosed and followed in Neonatal Unit
      of Pediatrics Department of Medicine Faculty of Yüzüncü Yıl University. For 45 days, 30
      patients will receive eoprotin as breast milk fortifier while another 30 patients will
      receive olive oil, then 3 cc of blood will be taken from all patients at 0, 15., 30. and 45.
      days into biochemistry vials and will be stored at -80 C after centrifuge. At the end of the
      study, vials will be thawed in room temperature and serum TNF-alpha, IL-1 Beta, IL-6, IL-8,
      IL-10 levels will be analyzed with ELISA method by BIO-Tec ELx800 Absorbance Reader device
      and lipid profiles (LDL, HDL, Total cholesterol and triglyceride) and levels will be analyzed
      with spectrophotometric method by Architect ci16200; then these parameters will be compared
      with each other.

      After feeding with olive oil infants will have received same amount of calorie with infants
      who will receive eoprotin-fortified breast milk. At the end of study, if participants
      identify that olive oil doesn't increase proinflammatory cytokines and provide enough weight
      gain in premature infants, investigators will suggest olive oil to replace eoprotin which is
      a very costly breast milk-fortifier. Investigators believe this situation will contribute to
      both country and family budgets.
    
  