
    
      Haemopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) has revolutionized the treatment of both
      haematological and perhaps some solid malignancies. However, despite recent technological
      advancements, HSCT is still associated with significant mortality and morbidities.

      Apart from various infective complications in early stage post-HSCT, bronchiolitis obliterans
      syndrome (BOS) has been a well-known late complication that can result in high mortality. It
      has been mostly associated with those who develop chronic graft-versus-host disease after
      allogeneic HSCT. Clinically, the diagnosis of BOS is largely based on demonstration of
      obstructive lung function abnormalities and air-trapping in computed tomography scan of
      thorax. Pathologically, bronchiolitis obliterans is characterized by both inflammatory and
      fibrotic reactions in the small bronchioles leading to subsequent obliteration. Upon
      diagnosis of BOS post-HSCT, inhaled corticosteroid (with or without bronchodilators) is
      commonly prescribed as anti-inflammatory agent, though with undocumented clinical efficacy.
      Unfortunately, there is still a lack of reliable biomarkers that can predict or allow early
      detection of BOS, preferably in the early and potentially reversible stage of development of
      BOS.

      Apart from measuring circulating biomarkers in blood, exhaled breath condensate (EBC) has
      recently emerged as a non-invasive sampling method for real-time analysis and evaluation of
      oxidative stress biomarkers in the lower respiratory tract airways, especially in various
      lung diseases including asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and lung cancer. As
      bronchiolitis obliterans is predominantly a disease of the small bronchioles, it is highly
      likely to be associated with changes in various inflammatory and oxidative stress biomarkers
      in EBC. However, the role of measuring EBC biomarkers in predicting the occurrence of BOS
      after HSCT has not been studied. Therefore, the current study aims to evaluate the temporal
      changes of various oxidative stress biomarkers and cytokines in EBC and blood in patients
      with haematological conditions who undergo allogeneic HSCT, with regard to the subsequent
      development of BOS.
    
  