
    
      This work will test a set of strategies for helping community health centers(CHCs) routinely
      identify and take action on the SDH-related needs of patients with / at risk for DM. The work
      will specifically study: (a) EHR-based SDH data collection / action in CHCs, and (b) the
      impact of a set of scalable implementation strategies known to support clinical practice
      changes (the 'SDH Action Plan'), on CHCs' adoption of SDH data collection and action.
      Focusing on DM risk management and obesity prevention outcomes in adult patients, the
      investigators will conduct a mixed methods formative evaluation of SDH data collection uptake
      among CHCs that had SDH data tools activated in their EHR in June 2016. (Quantitative data
      will come from all 440 CHCs' shared EHR, qualitative data from 10-12 CHCs purposively
      recruited from this pool). Identify patterns of SDH data collection in these diverse CHCs,
      and clinic-level factors associated with variation in SDH data collection rates. Use results
      to fine-tune the SDH Action Plan intervention's strategies for helping CHCs systematically:
      (i) collect SDH data in standard workflows, and (ii) integrate SDH data into care plans
      (e.g., making referrals to social services; adapting treatment plans) for adults with / at
      risk for DM.

      Through a pragmatic, stepped-wedge, cluster-randomized trial in 30 CHCs, the CHCs will be
      randomized to one of five 6-month wedges, with staggered timing. CHCs in each wedge will
      receive intensive implementation support (the SDH Action Plan). This scalable intervention
      includes both comprehensive technical assistance and training materials designed to help CHCs
      plan for and implement SDH data collection / action, and six months of remote access to an
      'SDH Implementation Team' that will tailor implementation support to each CHC's needs, with
      an emphasis on the Building Blocks of Primary Care.45 To test this approach, the
      investigators will conduct a realist evaluation of whether and how the SDH Action Plan
      intervention improves: (i) SDH data collection in CHC workflows; (ii) integration of SDH data
      into DM risk management care; and (iii) clinical measures associated with effective DM risk
      management (controlled blood pressure, HbA1c, BMI, lipids, etc.; up-to-date preventive care).
      H3a: Intervention CHCs will have significantly greater increases in (i) SDH data collection,
      and (ii) actions taken to address SDH needs, compared to control CHCs. H3b: Patients at
      intervention CHCs for whom SDH data are collected will have significant improvements in DM /
      obesity risk management / receipt of related preventive care, compared to those at control
      CHCs.
    
  