
    
      Acute lung injury (ALI) and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) are the leading causes
      of mortality and morbidity in the intensive care unit (ICU). The causes of ALI/ARDS differ
      from patient to patient, including sepsis, aspiration, systemic inflammation, trauma, blood
      transfusion, etc. With early detection and treatment, the survival rate may be improved
      significantly. However, it is often difficult to differentiate ALI/ARDS from cardiogenic
      pulmonary edema or other causes, even with advanced technology and invasive tools. A
      potential tool is the breath chemical test, ranging from exhaled gas measurement, such as
      exhaled nitric oxide or carbonic monoxide, to volatile organic compound determination and
      nonvolatile biomarker profiling. Being completely noninvasive, sampling of the exhaled breath
      condensates (EBC) allows clinicians and researchers to assess body functions in an easier and
      flexible manner. Exhaled breath contains thousands of volatile and nonvolatile compounds in
      trace amounts. Therefore, it is not until recently, after the development of highly sensitive
      cutting-edge technologies in sample analysis, that the evaluation of this type of human
      specimens becomes possible. Advanced technologies in proteomics, metabolomics, GC/LC-Mass
      Spectrometry and pattern recognition computation generate a field of exhaled biomarker
      profiling, called "breathomics." After the establishment of the metabolomic profiling of EBC
      in patients with ALI, ARDS or cardiogenic pulmonary edema, a useful and powerful noninvasive
      tool for ALI/ARDS diagnosis and outcome prediction could be set up.

      Metabolomics, or metabonomics, is a large-scale approach to monitoring as many as possible of
      the compounds involved in cellular processes in a single assay to derive metabolic profiles.
      Although metabolomics first referred to the monitoring of individual cells and metabonomics
      referred to multicellular organisms, these terms are now often used interchangeably.
      Metabolic changes occur through a number of mechanisms, including direct genetic regulation
      and alterations in enzymatic and metabolic reactions. Metabolomics allows for a global
      assessment of a cellular state within the context of the immediate environment, taking into
      account genetic regulation, altered kinetic activity of enzymes, and changes in metabolic
      reactions. Thus, compared with genomics or proteomics, metabolomics reflects changes in
      phenotype and therefore function. Techniques applied to metabolic profiling include nuclear
      magnetic resonance (NMR) and mass spectrometry (MS). Metabolomics have the advantage of being
      capable of searching for proteins or metabolites in the blood or urine. Metabolomics may be
      useful for understanding metabolic imbalances and for diagnosis of human disease. Over 30
      endogenous metabolites have been studied in breast tissue, and breast cancer show elevated
      total choline-containing compounds (tCho), low glycerophosphocholine, and low glucose
      compared with benign tumors or healthy tissue. Similar to breast cancer, prostate cancer
      exhibits a distinct metabolic profile characterized by high tCho and phosphocholine levels,
      along with an increase in the glycolytic products lactate and alanine. In prostate cancer,
      citrate may also be a marker of responsiveness to treatment. These results show the potential
      utility of metabolomics in cancer diagnosis and clinical evaluation.

      Breath chemical tests have a broad spectrum of applications ranging from exhaled nitric oxide
      fraction (FeNO) measurement to monitor the effect of anti-inflammatory treatment in asthma,
      to volatile organic compound (VOC) determination and nonvolatile biomarker profiling in the
      cooled breath sample called exhaled breath condensate (EBC). Being completely noninvasive,
      sampling of the breath allows clinicians and researchers to assess different body functions
      in a flexible manner. Therefore, breath testing is considered to be a potentially ideal
      candidate for screening purposes. Besides widely known constituents such as nitrogen, oxygen,
      carbon dioxide, inert gases and water vapour, exhaled breath also consists of thousands of
      volatile and nonvolatile components, mainly in trace amounts, making detection a challenging
      task. The use of innovative "-omics" technologies, including proteomics, metabolomics, mass
      spectromics, gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and ion mobility spectrometries,
      offers great potential for the field of exhaled biomarker profiling. Unlike bronchoalveolar
      lavage (BAL) and sputum induction which involves inhalation of hypertonic saline to induce
      cough and possibly bronchoconstriction, EBC does not influence airway function or cause
      inflammation. It can be easily and safely performed on patients with severe illness and even
      allows for repeated measurements to be taken. As such, this is a relatively new field with
      potential for more studies to be performed to investigate acute lung injury by metabolomics.
    
  