
    
      Purpose and Rationale for the Study:

      The declining incidence of obstructive CAD and a good prognosis for patients with stable
      angina challenges the resource demanding approach recommended in current guidelines. The
      CADScor®System may be an efficient, fast and low-cost diagnostic tool with a high rule-out
      efficiency. The current study aims to investigate if the CADScor®System can be added as a
      rule-out test in patients referred with suspected stable CAD to reduce unnecessary testing

      Study Hypothesis:

      A Diamond-Forrester score plus CAD-score guided rule-out strategy is superior to a
      Diamond-Forrester score guided strategy alone in reducing diagnostic procedures and
      non-inferior in terms of safety outcomes in patients with symptoms suggestive of stable
      coronary artery disease.

      Study Setting:

      This study will enrol patients without known CAD who are referred with symptoms suggestive
      for stable CAD for outpatient evaluation at the participating sites. All patients will be
      symptomatic and require evaluation for suspected CAD. Thus, whether or not the patient
      chooses to participate in the study, the patient will undergo evaluation for suspected CAD.
      All the standard NIT modalities and ICA in the study are clinically well established and
      performed routinely and safely. Experimental testing involves the CADScor®System, for ruling
      out CAD before any NIT in the intervention group.

      End of Study:

      The study will end when all the following have occurred: (1) at least 2000 patients have been
      randomized, and (2) 12±1 months (1 year) have elapsed since the last patient was randomized.

      Extended Follow-up after Study Termination:

      Follow-up might be performed for up to 10 years after randomization. Follow-up information
      will be extracted from national registers, including information on cardiovascular events and
      treatments, hospitalizations and ambulatory visits due to cardiovascular events, and causes
      of death.

      Statistical methods:

      A detailed description of the planned statistical analyses will be documented in a separate
      statistical report and analysis plan (SAP), which will be completed before data base lock.

      Sample size considerations:

      A reduction of 15% or more in the primary endpoint is regarded as clinically significant.
      Assuming an alpha significance level of 0.05, a statistical power of 80% and an expected
      number of NIT/ICA of 0.94 per patient in the standard care group, a sample size of 314
      patients in each arm is needed to ascertain superiority of the intervention.

      A sample size of 1914 provides 90% power for testing non-inferiority in terms of MACE between
      the two testing strategies, at an alpha significance level of 0.05.

      We choose to include 2000 patients, i.e. 1000 patients in each group, allowing for a 4% loss
      to follow-up and drop out and providing power for the primary endpoint and the secondary MACE
      non-inferiority endpoint.

      Statistical analysis:

      The full analysis set (FAS) will include all randomized patients in whom written informed
      consent was obtained and in accordance with the intention-to-treat principle all patients
      will be analysed according to the allocated treatment group.

      The per-protocol set (PPS) will include only those patients from the FAS who did not have one
      of the following major protocol violations: inclusion criteria not met, exclusion criteria
      met, no DF-score calculation, or no CAD-score measurement (intervention group only). Patients
      who did not receive the randomly allocated CAD-score measurement will be included and
      analysed in the control group (per protocol analysis).
    
  