
    
      In most patients, the right lobe of the thyroid gland is larger than the left lobe. After a
      hemithyroidectomy, the remaining lobe grows by up to 30% to compensate for the loss. However,
      thyroxine replacement is still necessary for 22% to 60% of all patients. The aim of this
      study is to investigate whether a right-lobe hemithyroidectomy predisposes to a higher
      postoperative dose of levothyroxine.

      Patients and Methods In a retrospective cohort study, 459 patients over the age of 18 years
      who underwent a hemithyroidectomy at the Department of General Surgery, Division of Endocrine
      Surgery and a follow-up (3-12 months post-surgery) visit at the thyroid outpatient clinic of
      the Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism between 1994 and 2018 were investigated. The
      study was approved by the local ethics committee and performed in accordance with the
      Declaration of Helsinki. The work has been reported in line with the STROCSS criteria. The
      patients were identified via data extraction from a university hospital-wide Research,
      Documentation and Analysis (RDA) database. In a second step, further information necessary
      for the analysis (ultrasound data on pre-surgery thyroid volume, pre-surgery TSH, side and
      date of hemithyroidectomy, surgery protocol, underlying thyroid disease, type and dosage of
      treatment, age, weight, height, thyrotropin (TSH), free T4 (fT4), free T3 (fT3)) were
      extracted from the internal electronic health record system. Patients who had either received
      radiation therapy had undergone previous thyroid surgery, surgery on the contralateral lobe,
      had pre-existing hypothyroidism, an autoimmune disease of the thyroid or were pregnant were
      excluded from the analysis. 33 patients were excluded due to additional surgery on the
      contralateral lobe resulting in a total of 426 patients. Pre-surgery ultrasound thyroid
      volume was calculated with the volumetric ellipsoid method (height × width × depth ×
      correction factor 0.524).
    
  