
    
      Delirium is a neurobehavioural syndrome that frequently develops in the postoperative and/or
      ICU setting. The incidence of elderly patients who develop delirium during hospital stay
      ranges from 10-80%. Delirium was first described more than half a century ago in the cardiac
      surgery population, where it was already discovered as a state that might be accompanied by
      serious complications such as prolonged ICU and hospital stay, reduced quality of life and
      increased mortality. Furthermore, the duration of delirium is associated with worse long-term
      cognitive function in the general ICU population. This long-term experience with delirium
      suggests a high socioeconomic liability and has been a focus of many studies. Due to the
      multifactorial origin of delirium, there are several but no incontestable options for
      prevention and symptomatic treatment. Overall, delirium represents a high burden not only for
      the patient and his/her family members, but also for the medical care team that aims to
      prevent postoperative delirium to avoid serious consequences associated with it.

      The aforementioned consequences of delirium are observed in all of three subtypes:
      hypoactive, hyperactive, and mixed. Many studies have been conducted to prevent and treat
      hyperactive and mixed delirium. Hypoactive delirium, suggested to be the most frequent form
      of delirium, is a different case: as it corresponds to a patient that is calm and as such
      doesn't cause any harm or inconvenience to himself or the caring medical team it also leads
      to two major problems. First, it is already known that hypoactive delirium is hard to detect.
      Second, because hypoactive delirious patients are calm or even asleep most of the time this
      delirium subtype doesn't go along with the same urge to become active in order to prevent
      harm. Also, pharmacological treatment usually addresses hyperactive and mixed delirium in
      standard operating procedures, whereas treatment of hypoactive delirium remains supportive.
      Pharmacological treatment options for hypoactive delirium are lacking. Since patients in
      hypoactive delirium suffer from disturbed circadian rhythm, investigators suggest that the
      administration of melatonin is a promising possibility in these patients to shorten delirium
      duration and to lower its severity. Previous investigations confirmed loss of melatonin
      rhythm in patients that had developed delirium thus reasoning the study hypothesis. Of note,
      melatonin is to be investigated for ICU delirium prevention in an Australian study, as the
      potential of chronotherapy to reduce delirium incidence has been suggested in a recently
      published article. The administration of dexmedetomidine to treat the disturbed circadian
      rhythm in hyperactive and mixed delirious ICU patients will be investigated in one of the
      investigators' current studies, but because of its sedative nature it clearly doesn't
      represent a treatment option for hypoactive delirium.

      The aim of the BOMP-AID trial is to assess the superiority of melatonin to placebo for the
      treatment of hypoactive delirium in the ICU. The study hypothesis is based on the assumption
      that melatonin compared to placebo (Lactose monohydrate, cellulose powder, magnesium stearate
      (Ph. Eur.), mocrocristalline cellulose) administered at night restores a normal circadian
      rhythm, thus decreasing the duration of delirium and reducing the transmission to a form of
      agitated delirium.

      Investigators would like to recruit 190 patients right after the diagnosis of hypoactive
      delirium. The administration might have to be repeated several times to achieve resolution of
      delirium.

      After the first administration of melatonin or placebo at 8 p.m. investigators shall follow
      the standard operating procedure for hypoactive delirium for further treatment of delirium
      during daytime. In case of previously undiagnosed mixed delirium investigators are forced to
      follow the standard operating procedure for mixed delirium that includes the administration
      of haloperidol, quetiapine or trazodone. During the consecutive nightly hours the randomized
      study substance will be administered again if indicated. The latter will allow investigators
      to clearly detect the suggested shortening of delirium duration in the cohort where melatonin
      is being used as treating agent. Any use of drugs to treat forms other than hypoactive will
      be recorded.

      The primary outcome measure is delirium duration in shifts of 8 hours each. Due to difficult
      diagnosis of hypoactive delirium, the investigators will consider those with an ICDSC score >
      2 (subsyndromal delirium) and Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale (RASS) score < 0 in absence
      of induced coma as eligible for study inclusion. If patients reveal an ICDSC score > 2 and a
      RASS score < 0 a member of the study team will assess the patient according to DSM-V delirium
      criteria REF] for definite study inclusion. The end of the delirium will be deï¬ned as the end
      of the last shift with an ICDSC > 2 and a RASS score < 0 that precedes a minimum of two
      subsequent shifts with an ICDSC < 3.

      Secondary outcomes can be listed as follows:

        -  Delirium-free days at 28 days after study inclusion

        -  Death until day 28, day 90, and day 365 from ICU admission

        -  Number of ventilator days

        -  Length of ICU stay (hours)

        -  Length of hospital stay (days)

        -  Sleep quality, assessed by the Richards-Campbell Sleep Questionnaire (RCSQ; total score)

      Since melatonin has no known major side effects evidence of its way of function in the human
      body strongly suggests high benefit for treatment of hypoactive delirium going along with
      increased comfort and safety also for critically ill patients. No severe adverse events are
      expected by its use in delirious patients after careful enrolment following investigators
      exclusion criteria.

      Other outcome measures:

      The following outcomes are measured by smartwatches. The smartwatches will be attached half
      an hour before the administration of the drug (07:30 p.m.) and left attached as long as
      possible, but at least until 6 a.m. of every day of the study period.

      The following smartwatch assessments are based on activity (counts/min):

        -  Sleep duration per night (minutes) defined as the period from lights off to lights on

        -  Number of sleep interruptions (number of consecutive 5-min bouts of >0 activity)

        -  The relative amplitude (RA) calculated from the ratio of the most active 10-hour period
           (M10) to the least active 5-hour period (L5) across the averaged 24-hour profile
           (assessment depends upon patient cooperation during the day with keeping the smartwatch
           attached)

        -  Interdaily stability (IS), which quantifies the invariability day by day, that is, how
           well the sleep-wake cycle is synchronized to supposedly stable environmental cues.
           Timing information comes from determining the onset of the 5 hours with least activity
           (L5 onset) and onset of the 10 hours with most activity (M10 onset).

      In addition, wrist/skin temperature (degrees/min) will be registered to assess degree of
      relaxation (i.e., difference in degrees Celsius per minute between distal skin regions
      (finger, feet etc) and proximal skin regions (clavicular, sternum etc).

      Follow-up:

      To assess long-term follow-up of patients who received melatonin and compare it to those who
      received placebo, we will perform a follow-up at three and twelve months after the prevailing
      hospital case has been officially closed (discharge date). With this follow-up, we will
      assess the following information equally at three and twelve months (information either given
      by the patient or his/her family/contact person):

        -  Death after hospital discharge

        -  Hospital readmission

        -  Activities of Daily Living Questionnaire (ADLQ)

        -  Additional episodes of delirium after study closeout

      CRF assessments:

      On our electronic case report form, we will document the following information concerning our
      study participants (sequential order):

        -  Patient information including socioeconomic status

        -  Study group

        -  Study eligibility

        -  Results of the planned assessment tools

        -  Cardiovascular parameters

        -  Lab values

        -  Drugs administered

        -  Nursing interventions

        -  Outcome overview

        -  Follow-up at three and twelve months
    
  