
    
      This is a prospective study that included 31 patients and was performed in Tanta University
      Eye Hospital in cooperation with the Pathology Department, Tanta University, between January
      2018 and June 2019. The approval of the ethical committee of the Faculty of Medicine in Tanta
      University was obtained, and the study was conducted in accordance with the 1964 Helsinki
      Declaration and its later amendment. A detailed informed written consent was signed by all
      study participants. The research is not funded by the university or any organization or
      entity.

      Fifteen cases had pars plana vitrectomy for rhegmatogenous retinal detachment nine months
      earlier with ERM detected by OCT one day before silicone oil removal. The other 16 cases
      matched for age and gender with idiopathic ERM and were included as a control.
      Histopathological features of the ERMs were compared between the two groups.

      All patients have undergone complete ophthalmic evaluation including: best corrected visual
      acuity (BCVA) by Snellen chart that was converted to log MAR for statistical analysis,
      anterior segment examination by slit lamp, posterior segment examination by slit lamp
      bimicroscopy using +78 D lens and indirect Ophthalmoscopy, and Spectral domain optical
      coherence tomography (SD-OCT) (Spectralis; Heidelberg Engineering,Heidelberg, Germany) was
      performed for all patients before surgery.

      The investigators excluded patients with previous intraocular surgery (except cataract
      surgery) for the control group, diabetes mellitus/diabetic retinopathy, coincident retinal
      pathology as choroidal neovascular membrane and age related macular degeneration, previous
      laser photocoagulation, intravitreal injection of Triamcinolone Acetonide or antivascular
      endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF) agents, prior intra-ocular inflammation, retinal
      degenerations, neovascularization or rubeosis and vascular disorders e.g. retinal vein or
      artery occlusion.
    
  