
    
      It is known that humans can be protected against malaria by repeated immunization with
      radiation-attenuated sporozoites. Sanaria, Inc. has developed a process for manufacturing, in
      compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMPs) aseptic, purified, radiation-
      attenuated cryopreserved sporozoites from a well-characterized isolate of Plasmodium
      falciparum (Pf). This product, which is called PfSPZ Vaccine, can be administered by needle
      and syringe.

      A collaboration among the Malaria Research and Training Center (MRTC, Mali), the Laboratory
      of Malaria Immunology and Vaccinology (LMIV) National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
      Diseases (NIAID), and Sanaria, Inc. has shown that sterile protection against naturally
      occurring malaria infection can be achieved. In this study, five doses of 2.7 (SqrRoot) 10^5
      PfSPZ during the dry season resulted in protective efficacies of about 48% by time to first
      positive blood smears (BS) and about 29% by proportion of participants with at least one
      positive BS during a full malaria transmission season (20 weeks), higher than those reported
      for other malaria vaccine candidates.

      A follow up study in 2015 (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02627456) that reduced the
      number of vaccinations (from 5 to 3) while increasing the dose of sporozoites at each
      vaccination (2.7 x105 to 1.8x106 PfSPZ Vaccine) was conducted. Preliminary results show that
      42 of 55 (77.8%) participants from the placebo group and 32 of 54 participants (58.1%) from
      the vaccine group developed Pf infection. Per protocol, the vaccine efficacy (VE) was 51%
      (p=0.004, 95% CI 20-70) by time-to-infection analysis (intention to treat (ITT) 39%, p=0.033)
      and 24% (p=0.031, 95% CI 2-41) by proportional analysis (ITT 22%, p= 0.041), similar to the
      previous study.

      Studies are ongoing to establish a vaccination regimen, optimum dose and schedule, that will
      lead to improved sterile protection in endemic regions. Preliminary results from more recent
      studies in malaria-na(SqrRoot) ve and malaria-experienced participants have shown that
      9.0x10^5 PfSPZ Vaccine dose per vaccination (lower than 1.8 x10^6 used in studies above) in a
      three-dose regimen may be an optimal dose for immunization. In addition, there is emerging
      evidence that a condensed, more practical regimen may also lead to development of sterile
      immunity. This proposed study is therefore designed to assess safety, immunogenicity and
      protective efficacy of two separate three-dose vaccination regimens during natural
      transmission season.

      Participants in the main phase were randomized into arms receiving either PfSPZ Vaccine or
      normal saline injections. Each group received three doses of the respective injection. After
      completion of the follow up in the main phase, all participants that are still enrolled in
      the study will be offered continued participation to receive a booster dose of the vaccine
      (dose # 4) with 9.0x10 to the fifth power PfSPZ or normal saline (depending on the group they
      were originally randomized to) at approximately 10 months post #3 vaccination. The booster
      dose is timed prior to ensuing malaria transmission season. Participants will be followed,
      similarly to the follow up during the main phase, for safety and vaccine efficacy for
      approximately 6 months during this second transmission season.
    
  