
    
      Radiosurgery can be performed using multiple Co-60 sources, a modified traditional
      gantry-based linear accelerator, or a robotic linear accelerator. Each technique has its own
      advantages and disadvantages. Co-60 radiosurgery has very precise target localization by
      using a rigid immobilization device. The requirement for rigid immobilization limits its
      treatments to the head and neck. Robotic radiosurgery permits precise radiation to be
      delivered without the requirement for rigid immobilization. Robotic radiosurgery uses
      real-time imagining, allowing it to track the cancer or internal structures as they move
      during treatment. Another advantage is that it can deliver many small beams of radiation (as
      many as 200) in a limited time period and can treat lesions anywhere in the body. A
      traditional gantry-based linear accelerator normally requires some form of immobilization and
      requires more time for multiple isocentre set up but can provide both radiosurgery and
      conventional treatments.

      Brain metastases occur in up to 50% of patients with cancer. It has been reported up to 65%
      of patients with brain metastases will present with one to three lesions. This represents
      18,000 patients in Ontario each year who would be eligible for radiosurgery as part of their
      management. Randomized trials have demonstrated improved palliation and overall survival when
      radiosurgery is added to conventional whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT). As a result the
      treatment of brain metastases currently represents the largest resource use for radiosurgery.
      During the commissioning and initial use of the first robotic radiosurgery device in Ontario
      (CyberKnife) the investigators became aware of its potential advantages for the treatment of
      brain metastases. Treatment planning time and on treatment time with robotic radiosurgery
      appeared to be better than with a traditional linear accelerator and patients appeared to be
      more comfortable with the minimal/ non-invasive immobilization required. Surprisingly, there
      were very little direct comparisons of robotic radiosurgery with other techniques in the
      literature and only one prospective randomized trial comparing two different approaches to
      delivering Co-60 radiosurgery was identified. Given the increasing importance of radiosurgery
      and the resource implications for radiation treatment programs in Ontario, this study is
      proposed to conduct a direct comparison of robotic to traditional linear accelerator
      radiosurgery for brain metastases. The primary outcome will be treatment planning and
      delivery time and an important secondary outcome is patient comfort. Treatment planning time
      will include immobilization preparation, CT simulation, image fusion, radiation planning and
      treatment plan quality assurance. Treatment delivery time will include patient set up, target
      localization and treatment delivery. The Juravinski Cancer Centre (JCC) and McMaster
      University are uniquely posed to perform this comparison with access to both robotic and
      linear accelerator radiosurgery techniques as well as research methodology expertise in
      clinical trials technology assessment, and health services research.
    
  