
    
      Hypothesis and purpose:

      The primary hypothesis of this study is that the amount of troponin T release after cardiac
      surgery is associated with mortality and cardiac morbidity within 1 year after surgery.
      Patients undergoing coronary procedures using cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) (i.e., CABG,
      valvular and combined on-pump procedures) will be analysed.

      A further purpose of the study is to evaluate the outcome of patients undergoing cardiac
      procedures at our institution, as this is currently not quantified.

      Study design:

      After ethical approval, we will conduct our study in two parts. In the first part, we will
      perform a retrospective cohort study at the University Hospital Basel to assess the 1 year
      outcome in all patients who have undergone cardiac surgery at our institution between January
      1, 2005 and December 31, 2006. In addition, we will identify the best cut-off value of
      postoperative troponin T for predicting morbidity and mortality 1 year after open-heart
      surgery.

      The second part of the study will be performed between January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2008.
      We will continue the quality control study and will prospectively test the clinical value of
      elevated troponin T values, according to the risk model developed in the first part, for
      predicting for long-term (1 year) morbidity and mortality. The prospective part of the study
      can include patients operated on as early as January 1, 2007 because the prospective
      follow-up will take place 12 months after surgery.

      Patient selection:

      Inclusion criteria: all patients who underwent or will undergo cardiac surgery using
      cardio-pulmonary bypass at the University Hospital Basel between January 1, 2005 and December
      31, 2008 will be eligible.

      For the first part of the study, patients who had cardiac surgery between January 1, 2005 and
      December 31, 2006 will be analysed retrospectively.

      For the prospective part of the study, all patients will be studied who will have surgery
      between January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2008.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Cardiac surgery without the use of cardiopulmonary bypass

        -  Procedures requiring circulatory arrest

        -  Penetrating cardiac trauma

        -  Lack of informed consent.

      Baseline variables:

      Relevant patient data including: history, functional state, medication, EuroSCORE8, and
      haematological, basic renal, hepatic and metabolic chemistry findings (the routinely
      performed preoperative laboratory tests in our institution, including preoperative C-reactive
      protein and troponin T in the presence of a recent (<7 days) ACS will be collected in the
      retrospective as well as in the prospective cohorts. Pre-operative 12-lead ECG will only be
      analysed in the prospective cohort.

      Peri-operative surgical and clinical variables:

      Surgical procedures and techniques, operative data (operating time, blood loss,
      cardiopulmonary and cross-clamp time, number of arterial and venous grafts and number of
      distal anastomoses) will be assessed. Early postoperative therapy or events in the intensive
      care unit, including total time on mechanical ventilation, postoperative inotropic support,
      blood transfusion and renal replacement therapy, lengths of intensive care unit and hospital
      stay, re-operation, new onset ventricular arrhythmia and Q-wave PMI will be recorded in both
      parts of the study study.

      Cardiac marker analyses and 12-lead ECG:

      Troponin T levels, routinely measured on the first and second postoperative day, will be used
      for analysis in both parts of the study. Also, the routinely registered 12-lead ECG at
      discharge will be compared with the preoperative baseline ECG and evaluated for ischemic
      changes according to the Minnesota criteria for Q- and R-waves as well as for ST-deviation
      and T-wave changes in the prospective cohort.

      Clinical endpoints:

      Primary endpoint: All-cause mortality within one year after surgery.

      Secondary endpoint: Major adverse cardiac events, defined as cardiac mortality, myocardial
      infarction, congestive heart failure requiring hospitalisation and need for surgical or
      percutaneous coronary intervention within 1 year.

      The outcome measures will be obtained by reviewing hospital charts and by direct telephone
      contact with the patients.

      Sample Size:

      For the retrospective part, we anticipate a sample size of 1000 patients for the planned
      study period of 24 months. Estimating a 1-year mortality of 6%, we expect 60 adverse events.
      This number of adverse events will allow for a statistically robust multivariate risk model
      based on 6 variables. We assume that a sample size of 660 patients will allow for retesting
      of the model in the prospective part of the study.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Analyses will be performed for the whole cohort as well as separately for patients with each
      type of cardiac surgery, i.e., for patients undergoing CABG, aortic valve surgery, mitral
      valve surgery, combined surgeries (CABG plus valve surgery) and for patients with a recent(<7
      days) ACS before surgery.

      Continuous data will be presented as mean ± SD and comparison between groups calculated by an
      unpaired t-test. Categorical data will be presented as absolute numbers and percentages and
      comparisons calculated by Pearson's χ2 test. Receiver operating characteristics curves will
      be computed to establish cut-off values of troponin T and its likelihood ratio for the
      outcome measures.

      Multivariate logistic regression will be used to adjust the association of troponin T
      elevation and outcome for established clinical risk parameters. This risk model, developed in
      the retrospective first part of the study, will thereafter be retested in the prospective
      second part.

      A p value <0.05 will be defined as pointing to significance. All analyses will be calculated
      by SPSS Version 14.
    
  