
    
      Patients with rheumatoid arthritis have an increased risk of stroke and heart attack when
      compared to the rest of the population. Recent studies have shown that methotrexate, a
      disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARDs) commonly prescribed for rheumatoid arthritis,
      reduces this risk. However, the mechanisms responsible for the protective effects of
      methotrexate on the heart and the brain are unknown.

      The investigators have recently completed an observational study in participants with
      rheumatoid arthritis treated with either methotrexate or with other DMARDs. Participants on
      methotrexate had lower blood pressure and 'healthier' blood vessels than participants treated
      with other DMARDs. These differences were maintained over a period of 8 months. These results
      suggest that methotrexate lowers blood pressure and exerts salutary effects on blood vessels,
      which might explain the reduced risk of stroke and heart attack with this drug. However, the
      observational nature of this study does not allow establishing a clear cause-effect
      relationship between methotrexate treatment and the observed changes in blood pressure and
      blood vessels.

      In order to address this issue, the investigators will recruit participants that have been
      recently diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis and are about to start treatment with either
      methotrexate (Group 1) or another DMARD (Group 2). Then, the investigators will assess their
      blood pressure and blood vessels for 6 months. The investigators will use an injectable
      (subcutaneous) form of methotrexate because this might provide better effects on blood
      pressure and blood vessels. The investigators will also study a third group (Group 3) of
      rheumatoid arthritis participants already on treatment (> 1 year) with oral methotrexate,
      with or without other DMARDs. They will be switched to subcutaneous methotrexate, but
      continuing all their other medications, for 6 months to see whether the subcutaneous form can
      further reduce blood pressure and provide additional salutary effects on blood vessels.
      Finally, the investigators will study a fourth group (Group 4) of participants with
      rheumatoid arthritis already on treatment (> 1 year) with DMADRs other than methotrexate who
      will continue with the same medications for 6 months, to assess possible fluctuations in
      blood pressure and blood vessel markers over time.

      Each participant will attend three study visits (baseline, 1 and 6 months), each lasting
      between 60 and 90 min.
    
  