
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the progression-free survival at 2 years in patients with HPV-positive head
      and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) who receive induction chemotherapy followed by dose
      de-intensified chemoradiotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall survival and local-regional control for patients with
      HPV-positive HNSCC who receive induction chemotherapy and dose de-intensified
      chemoradiotherapy.

      II. To determine the incidence of acute grade 3+ mucosal and esophageal toxicity associated
      with attenuated concurrent chemoradiotherapy in patients with HPV-positive HNSCC.

      III. To determine the incidence of late toxicity in patients with HPV-positive HNSCC who
      receive the dose de-intensified chemoradiotherapy.

      IV. To estimate the incidence of all toxicity (hematologic and non-hematologic) associated
      with protocol treatment for all patients on trial.

      V. To estimate the response rate of HPV-positive to induction chemotherapy using carboplatin
      and paclitaxel.

      VI. To determine the effect of reduced radiation dose on short-term and long-term quality of
      life among patients treated by chemoradiotherapy.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours and carboplatin IV
      over 30 minutes. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 2 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CHEMORADIOTHERAPY: At least 2 weeks after completion of induction chemotherapy, patients
      receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour weekly and undergo intensity-modulated radiation therapy
      (IMRT) daily 5 days a week for 5.5 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6, 9, and 12 months, every 3
      months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  