
    
      Shock is defined as cellular and tissue hypoxia due to either reduced oxygen delivery,
      increased oxygen consumption, inadequate oxygen utilization, or a combination of these
      processes. According to the etiology about how it causes a decrease in blood flow to the
      cells and tissue, there are four types of shock naming cardiogenic shock, hypovolemic shock,
      obstructive shock, and distributive shock, respectively. The evaluation and management of
      shock patients is an extremely difficult challenge for the emergency physicians and critical
      care specialists. How to diagnose, classify, stabilize, and treat the shock patients quickly
      and in time are the arduous tasks. For the emergency physicians and critical care
      specialists, how to quickly recognize shock from diverse clinical features and immediately
      treat shock patients to prevent progression to irreversible organ dysfunction from initially
      reversible shock condition are important issues and challenges. In recent years, ultrasound
      instruments have gradually developed with higher radiographic quality and lower cost.
      Ultrasonography had been extensively used in clinical practice recently, and well-trained
      medical staffs can quickly and easily apply ultrasound to evaluate, examine, diagnose, and
      even treat the patients. The clinical application of point-of-care ultrasound can help the
      firstline physicians rapidly evaluate and diagnose the main symptoms and signs of the
      patients at bedside, and further initially stabilize and appropriately treat the patients
      subsequently. The aim of this program is to prospectively collection of the findings of
      point-of-care ultrasonography in shock patients at emergency room in NTUH. The clinical
      manifestations, and followed up the examinations, treatments, and prognosis will also be
      collected. The effect of bedside ultrasound on differential diagnosis and treatment of shock
      patients will be analyzed. The results of the current study can provide the base for further
      clinical trials and set up of shock team.
    
  