
    
      Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is a prevalent inflammatory disorder of the nasal passages and
      sinuses associated with detrimental effects on quality of life and productivity as well as
      billions of dollars in healthcare expenses and lost productivity each year. Numerous
      endoscopic scoring systems have been developed to assess CRS disease severity such as the
      popular Modified Lund-Kennedy (MLK) score which assesses sinus cavities only based on 3
      criteria (polyps, edema, and discharge) with small 0-2 integer scales. Yet, such systems at
      best have reported good to moderate reliabilities and weak to no correlation with
      patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) which should motivate further research to develop a
      more reliable and clinically valid CRS endoscopic scoring system, especially one which can
      better align the observed endoscopic signs of disease with the severity of symptoms reported
      by patients. In this study we propose a more descriptive Alsaleh-Javer Endoscopic Sinus Score
      (AJESS) system which assesses all sinuses and nasal passages with a numerical score of
      inflammation severity, alphabetical score for presence of CRS features, and an aggregated
      numerical score of overall disease severity. Our mixed-methods clinical study of 100 stable
      post-operative CRS patients and 30 post-operative CRS patients experiencing an exacerbation
      who are visiting St. Paul's Sinus Centre will gather both cross-sectional (1 visit, CRS
      stable) and prospective (2 follow-up visits approximately 2-4 weeks apart each, CRS flares)
      clinical data including two PROMs (SNOT-22, VAS) and an objective olfactory sensation test
      (Sniffin' Sticks TDI Score) to assess AJESS and MLK scores in terms of inter-rater
      reliability, test-retest reliability, correlation with clinical data, and responsiveness to
      changes in clinical data. Pending validation and head-to-head analysis with the MLK score,
      the AJESS system may be a more reliable and valid endoscopic scoring system for clinical
      practice and outcomes research in CRS.

      Study goals and objectives

        1. Assess the test-retest and inter-rater reliability of the AJESS and MLK scores.

        2. Assess the correlation of AJESS and MLK scores with cross-sectional PROMs (SNOT-22, VAS)
           and Sniffin' Sticks TDI Score

        3. Assess the reactivity of AJESS and MLK scores with prospective PROMs (SNOT-22, VAS) in
           patients experiencing CRS exacerbations

      Research design

      Participants visiting St. Paul's Sinus Centre who meet inclusion criteria and no exclusion
      criteria who are stable (N=100) and who are experiencing an exacerbation (N=30) will be
      approached at random and consented to the study. Encounters are expected to be 30 minutes
      each and participants experiencing a CRS or AFRS exacerbation will be expected to present for
      follow-up after 3 weeks (+/- 1 week) intervals for a second and a third encounter until their
      exacerbation are settled. The first encounter will collect relevant clinical data, endoscopic
      photos of 10 anatomic sites, patient-reported outcomes measures (PROMs, eg.SNOT-22, VAS) and
      olfactory sense test results (Sniffin' Sticks TDI score). Subsequent visits for exacerbated
      participants will collect the same endoscopic photos, PROMs and olfactory sense test results.
    
  