
    
      Investigators will enroll a total of 45 subjects, 30 after TBI and 15 patients with
      hydrocephalus having ventriculo-peritoneal shunts inserted. It is anticipated that in order
      to enroll 30 TBI participants investigators will need to screen approximately 50 subjects;
      and for the patients undergoing ventriculo-peritoneal shunt placement we will need to screen
      30 patients in order to enroll 15. Of the 30 TBI patients, 15 will have PEMF+ and 15 will
      have PEMF-. PEMF+ means that the device will be in place and will be on, PEMF- means that the
      device will be in place but will not be turned on.

      The study will be double blinded. The honest broker (HB) Dr. Amal Alchbli, will not be
      involved in the study except to turn on the PEMF device with the indicator light showing when
      the PEMF device is on , will be hidden from view by tape. The HB will keep a list of the
      patients treated with PEMF+ or not PEMF- along with their MRN# coded and the start and end
      times of PEMF treatment during their stay in the NSI. The nurses in the unit will be asked to
      indicate on the CNS monitor when the PEMF applicators are on or off the patient.

      The subjects will participate in this study for up to one week while in the Neuroscience
      Intensive Care Unit (NSI). There will also be follow up on secondary clinical outcome
      measures at discharge, one and three months post discharge. The one and three month follow
      ups will be conducted over the phone.

      The duration of enrollment is expected to be two years. The estimated date for the
      investigators to complete this study (complete primary analyses) is 3.0 years.

      The estimated time for data retention is 5 years.

      Table 1: Clinical evaluations throughout the study in both TBI and CVA patients.

      Scored on TBI patients Admission Impact Score Daily for up to 7 days GCS Discharge GCS One
      and three months GOSE, DRS, mRS
    
  