
    
      Every year children aged 0 to 19 years old are diagnosed with cancer around the world. For
      pediatric oncology patients, chemotherapy-related acute nausea and vomiting are among most
      common symptoms and has a bad influence on quality of life. When it cannot be prevented, it
      can cause serious medical problems. Continuous, repetitive and unavoidable vomiting affects
      patients' and their families' quality of life adversely, causing delay or even termination in
      chemotherapy treatment. It is a well-known fact that medical treatment is insufficient to
      control nausea and vomiting symptoms. Therefore, supportive care is needed besides medical
      treatment. One of the approaches mentioned is acupressure. Non-invasive stimulation of the P6
      acupuncture point is a harmless and complementary approach to health. The point between
      flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus, located at a three finger distance from the wrist
      crease, is named as "P6 Nei-Guan". This acupuncture point, placed on the pericardium channel,
      is generally used to harmonize stomach and relieve the vomiting. Acupressure is a way of
      stimulation applied on acupuncture points by finger, palm or acustimulation bands (sea-band,
      relief band) and can be used for children as well. Acupressure is defined as one of the
      complementary health approaches which nurses can apply. It is stated that this method, which
      is non-invasive, economical, easy to apply and reliable, has no side effect and patients can
      apply to themselves with a good guidance.

      Chemotherapy-related nausea and vomiting are among the symptoms affecting children's quality
      of life and their adaptation to the treatment. There are limited amount of research intended
      to manage pediatric oncology patients' chemotherapy-related nausea and vomiting symptoms by
      using acupressure. It is thought that the research will provide significant contribution for
      literature, nursing practice and the quality of patient care since power of the study is high
      and it is the first study which efficiency of wrist-band, manuel acupressure and placebos is
      being compared for management of chemotherapy-related acute nausea and vomiting symptoms in
      pediatric oncology patients.
    
  