
    
      This was a randomized (1:1), open-label, multi-center, active-control, parallel-group study
      to compare the efficacy and safety of TNK-tPA (tenecteplase, Metalyse®) with that of
      accelerated rt-PA (alteplase, Actilyse®) in Asian patients with AMI. The primary endpoint
      (TIMI 3 Flow) and the secondary endpoint (TIMI frame count) were evaluated in a blinded
      manner in the core laboratory.

      Patients eligible for the trial who met all inclusion and exclusion criteria and who gave
      their informed consent were randomized to one of two treatment groups (i.e. TNK-tPA or
      accelerated rt-PA).

      The study period totaled 30-37 days and included baseline, randomisation, study drug
      administration, in-hospital follow-up and thirty-day follow-up.

      Coronary angiography was performed at 90 minutes after the start of study drug
      administration. 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs) were obtained before randomization, between
      60 to 75 minutes and 180 ± 15 minutes after the start of study drug administration, and at
      hospital discharge.

      If the patient showed rapid and progressive hemodynamic deterioration before 90 minutes,
      rescue PTCA or other appropriate interventions should be performed at the discretion of the
      treating physician.

      Following the analysis of TIMI flow and frame count at each study center, the results were
      carefully recorded on the CRFs. This data was stored on a compact disk or a film and labeled
      with the subject's study I.D. number. It was then sent with the summary worksheets and ECGs
      to the Angiographic Core Laboratory located at the Leuven Coordinating Center (LCC) of the
      University Hospital Gasthuisberg (Leuven, Belgium) for central evaluations.

      Study Hypothesis:

      The null hypothesis tested was that there was no difference between the two treatment groups:
      TNK-tPA (Tenecteplase, Metalyse®) and accelerated rt-PA (Actilyse®), against the alternative
      that there was a difference.

      Comparison(s):

      The primary endpoint of the study was TIMI 3 flow at 90 minutes after start of thrombolytic
      therapy, angiograms were evaluated in a blinded manner in a core laboratory.
    
  