
    
      Patients This will be a retrospective analysis of patients with histologically confirmed
      HR-positive, HER2-negative advanced (recurrent or metastatic) breast cancer. The
      investigators will use data from patients treated at Hellenic Cooperative Oncology Group
      (HeCOG)-affiliated departments of oncology. Eligible patients will be of 18 years or older,
      women of any menopausal status with HR-positive/HER2-negative advanced breast cancer who have
      received treatment with CDKi in combination with endocrine therapy for their advanced breast
      cancer. Treatment combinations of CDKi with any endocrine therapy will be accepted. Patients
      will be included in the analysis if they heve received at least two months of treatment with
      a CDKi. Patient clinical data will be obtained from their medical records. Toxicity data will
      be recorded from the clinicians' documentations during scheduled patient clinical visits.

      Statistical analysis The primary endpoint of the study will be progression-free survival
      (PFS), defined as the time from treatment initiation to either the first documented disease
      progression or death from any cause. Secondary endpoint will be overall survival (OS),
      defined as the time from treatment initiation to patient death or last contact. Patients
      alive will be censored at the date of last contact. Adverse events will be graded based on
      Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, version 4.0). Survival curves will be
      estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and compared across groups with the log-rank test.
      The associations between the clinicopathological factors to be examined and the mortality
      rate will be evaluated with hazard ratios estimated with Cox proportional hazards model. The
      statistical analyses will be completed using the SAS software (SAS for Windows, version 9.3,
      SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC).
    
  