
    
      A multilevel, multidisciplinary intervention is required to assist frail CKD patients given
      the complexity of their condition. However, the optimal methods for this intervention are not
      very well defined in the literature.

      It was previously described that dialysis does not improve (and often times can worsen) the
      outcomes of frail patients with renal disease (41). The nowadays trend is to try to optimise
      and decrease frailty before initiation of dialysis. If that is not possible, a more
      conservative and palliative approach is envisaged. Regardless, a combined geriatric and
      nephrological expertise may help to identify patients at high risk of early death for whom
      this approach is indicated (42).

      Major medical societies have regularly reviewed and published their guidelines for medical
      management of chronic kidney disease. Most reputable such guidelines are KDIGO 2012 Clinical
      Practice Guideline for the Evaluation and Management of Chronic Kidney Disease (43) and The
      National Kidney Foundation Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (NKF KDOQI, (44)). In
      Canada, field experts reviewed current evidence and provided similar recommendations (45). In
      summary, all this guidelines provide expert opinion on treatment and targets of treatment in
      CKD patients with an accent on controlling cardiovascular risk factors (hypertension,
      diabetes, dyslipidemia), lifestyle management, control of CKD complications (proteinuria,
      anemia, mineral metabolism), and initiation of renal replacement therapy.

      Lifestyle management is probably one of the most important intervention in CKD population.
      First and foremost, it empowers the patients to take control of their lives and become an
      active partner in their treatment. Smoking cessation, weight reduction, dietary protein
      control, alcohol intake, exercise, and controlling salt intake are proven to improve outcomes
      and are part of current guidelines. Regular physical exercise improves physical fitness,
      walking capacity, cardiovascular parameters (e.g. blood pressure and heart rate),
      health-related quality of life, and nutritional parameters (48). Physical activity is also
      protective against depression (49). In the case of frail patients, usually sedentary, with
      multiple cardiac risk factors, it is recommended to begin with gradual exercise and under
      supervision.

      Nutrition must be targeted in the frail elderly with CKD because decreasing energy intake is
      associated with higher stages of CKD (50). Though in the CKD non dialysis population,
      nutrition supplementation has not been formally assessed, the general population of frail
      elderlies have been evaluated with protein supplementation.

      Tieland et al (51) randomized 65 frail elderly in protein versus placebo supplementation
      groups for 24 weeks. January 11, 2015 revised The protein supplementation group had no
      benefit with respect to weight gain or muscle strength. However, when resistive exercise
      training was coupled with protein supplementation, body weight gain was achieved.

      Furthermore, Tieland et al (52) randomized 62 frail elderly in two groups, both who received
      exercise training but only one group received protein supplements. A 0.7 kg weight gain was
      recorded in the protein supplement but none in the control group. The sustainability and the
      benefit in survival of such weight gain has not been determined, especially in the CKD non
      dialysis patients. Thus, the investigators propose that exercise with protein supplementation
      will benefit the CKD frail older population.

      Frail patients with or without CKD are at risk of experiencing psychological distress.
      Acknowledging one's own limitations, inability to perform up to certain social standards,
      losing function when comparing with friends or family members within same age group,
      depending on other's support can all be envisage as high risk factors for depression and/or
      other psychological ailments. Psychological distress is associated decrease quality of life
      of worse outcomes. Anxiety and depression are 2 major compounds of psychological distress.
      Patients can be screened with two easy to use scales: GAD-7 (for anxiety) and PHQ-9 (for
      depression). Were identified, these conditions should be treated by Psychiatry or Geriatrics
      services.

      Disability is best assessed using the standard ten variables addressed in the Barthel scale
      (56) are: presence or absence of fecal incontinence, presence or absence of urinary
      incontinence, help needed with grooming, help needed with toilet use, help needed with
      feeding, help needed with transfers (e.g. from chair to bed), help needed with walking, help
      needed with dressing, help needed with climbing stairs, and help needed with bathing. The
      Maryland State Medical Society holds the copyright for the Barthel Index. It may be used
      freely for noncommercial purposes with the following citation: Mahoney FI, Barthel D.
      "Functional evaluation: the Barthel Index." Maryland State Med Journal 1965;14:56-61. The
      scale is detailed in Appendix 2 and it is used with permission.

      Interventions targeted to improve frailty are limited by the patient's ability to collaborate
      and work with the treating team. Severe cognitive impaired patients lack insight and capacity
      and they are limited in their capacity to rehabilitated. MoCA (57) is a well validated tool
      at identifying cognitive impairment, it is widely available in many languages, and it is
      recommended by The Canadian Consensus Guidelines for Diagnosis and Treatment of Dementia for
      detection of Mild Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer's disease. A cut-off of > 17 is
      generally used to exclude severe dementia. A language specific MoCA and instructions to
      administer the test are available online at http://www.mocatest.org/. The original English
      version is reproduced in Appendix 3.

      The primary objective of the proposed study is to assess the effect of intensive
      multidisciplinary interventions on survival, hospitalization and need to start dialysis.
      Secondary objectives include the assessment of the intervention in different stages of
      sarcopenia and measurement of physical functioning and nutritional parameters to evaluate the
      effect of such interventions among the frail CKD population.
    
  