
    
      Physician training has developed over recent years to include simulation-based learning as a
      method of both formative and summative assessment. Simulation based medical education (SBME)
      with deliberate practice has been shown to be superior to traditional clinical education with
      respect to procedural skills in physicians in training (McGaghie,W.C. 2011), and a similar
      concept with Mastery Learning has shown to increase resident skill in lumbar puncture
      placement. In addition, it has been shown that Simulation Based Mastery Learning (SBML) in
      central line placement reduces hospital wide rates of central line associated bacterial
      infections.

      When used in continuing medical education (CME), simulation has been shown to be feasible,
      and to increase clinician confidence in patient management. A recent study of nephrology
      fellows and attendings in practice showed that both groups scored similarly on a pre-test
      examination, and that all fellows who completed mastery learning subsequently passed the
      checklist assessment at the competency level and rated the training session highly.

      In other work, simulation has been used for ongoing professional practice assessments (OPPE),
      for example in psychiatry using online simulated patients and assessments as a way of
      identifying a smaller number of attendings requiring focused assessment in person). Using
      electronically collected clinical data, anesthesia cases were reviewed for deviation from the
      standard of care on several key pieces of documentation common to many anesthesia procedures.
      This method of direct chart assessment for OPPE may be possible in anesthesia, a field where
      many cases have similarities in procedure, but would not work for a field such as Emergency
      Medicine, where the type and acuity of patient encounters varies greatly from day to day.

      The ability of Simulation to present a standardized, specific procedural need offers an
      opportunity to assess Attending Emergency Physicians on a variety of critical procedures in a
      concise way. The investigators' research aims to present one possible approach to this
      assessment.
    
  