
    
      Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is potentially curative for
      refractory hematologic malignancies, but its application has been limited historically by
      morbidity and mortality from conventional transplant preparative regimens and
      graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Donor T cells mediate GVHD and also help to eradicate
      malignancies through an immune-dependent graft-versus-tumor effect. Efforts to decrease
      preparative regimen toxicity have led to reduced-intensity or 'nonmyeloablative' regimens,
      facilitating the study of allogeneic HSCT in a broader population. As a promising strategy
      for reducing GVHD, donor Th2 cells were shown to abrogate Th1-mediated GVHD without impairing
      engraftment in murine models of allogeneic HSCT. These findings led to a phase I/II clinical
      study of donor Th2 cells for the prevention of GVHD during reduced-intensity allogeneic HSCT
      (CC 99-C-0143); preliminary results suggest that a randomized trial will be necessary to
      evaluate donor Th2 cells further.

      In CC 99-C-0143, a novel induction chemotherapy regimen, EPOCH-Fludarabine (EPOCH-F), was
      well tolerated and effective for sequential host immune depletion. However, a significant
      proportion of patients failed to achieve satisfactory disease control before transplant,
      providing a basis for intensifying this induction regimen. Furthermore, the initial 20
      patients treated on this study experienced relatively high rates of acute GVHD and
      considerable morbidity associated with cyclosporine monotherapy for GVHD prevention,
      indicating that future studies should use more aggressive prophylaxis. These observations
      warrant modifying our approach to allogeneic HSCT before undertaking a randomized study of
      donor Th2 cells.

      We now propose a pilot study of HLA-matched, related, reduced-intensity allogeneic HSCT in
      refractory hematologic malignancies, using an intensified EPOCH-F induction chemotherapy
      regimen with rituximab added for patients with CD20+ malignancies (EPOCH-F/R). This regimen
      will be evaluated for toxicity and disease control before transplantation. GVHD prophylaxis
      will consist of a standard dual-agent regimen, cyclosporine/methotrexate; the impact of this
      change on hematopoietic recovery, donor/recipient chimerism, and the incidence of acute GVHD
      will be assessed.

      Immune reconstitution following allogeneic HSCT is an important research interest among
      Experimental Transplantation and Immunology Branch Investigators. Current evidence suggests a
      critical role for interleukin-7 (IL-7) in CD4+ T cell homeostasis, and interleukin-15 (IL-15)
      appears crucial to CD8+ T cell and NK cell homeostasis. The relationships between these
      cytokines and lymphocyte subpopulations have not been studied in the setting of allogeneic
      HSCT; such analysis may enhance our understanding of engraftment kinetics, graft-versus-host
      disease, and immune reconstitution. We will correlate serum IL-7 and IL-15 levels with
      changes in circulating T-cell and NK-cell subpopulations during EPOCH-F/R induction
      chemotherapy, after transplantation, and with the development of GVHD.
    
  