
    
      Port-wine stain (PWS) is a congenital capillary malformation characterized by ectatic
      capillaries and postcapillary venules located predominantly in the papillary and
      mid-reticular layers of the dermis. It has an incidence of 3-5/1000 newborns and grows
      commensurately with the affected individual.

      Pulsed dye laser (PDL) of 585 and 595 nm is considered to be the gold standard for treating
      PWS. Although PDL treatment can significantly lighten and reduce most PWS lesions, 20% of
      cases show little improvement after treatment. This ratio therefore represents a relatively
      large number of patients who may benefit from an alternative treatment modality.

      Vascular-targeted photodynamic therapy (PDT) has been used to treat PWS since the 1990s. In
      1990, Orenstein et al. used a chicken comb model to show that PDT can treat hypervascular
      dermal lesions while leaving the normal overlying epidermis completely intact. The use of
      vascular-targeted PDT for treating PWS was first described in 1991. PDT can theoretically
      target ectatic capillaries of all diameters and, in contrast to PDL, can induce vascular
      damage deeper in the dermis, with a considerably reduced risk of epidermal necrosis due to
      its vascular-selective characteristics. Previous studies have also demonstrated that PDT is
      an effective and safe means of improving the appearance of PWS.

      Our previous researches suggested that PDT may be a beneficial option for PWS cases that are
      resistant to multiple PDL treatments.Therefore, the choice of early treatment for PWS is very
      important . The effect of PDL therapy on the follow-up photodynamic treatment of PWS unknown.

      In this study, a single center, prospective, parallelled, controlled study was conducted to
      compare the efficacy of PDT on PWS treated with standard PDL and those without any treatment.
      Our objectis to explore whether the previous PDL treatment will affect the efficacy of the
      follow-up PDT on PWS, so as to provide early treatment options for children with PWS.
    
  