
    
      Background: Greater adherence to the Mediterranean diet, a traditional dietary pattern of the
      wider region of the Mediterranean sea, has been associated with favourable cardiometabolic
      outcomes, including the prevention of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases (CVD).
      However, limited local food availability, increased cost or unfamiliar culture and tradition
      render the Mediterranean diet difficult to follow in the northern European environment. The
      Nordic Diet or those of other traditional diets of the Nordic countries (Sweden, Norway,
      Finland, Denmark, Iceland, Faeroe islands) are dietary patterns rich in traditional Nordic
      foods, including berries, grains, and fatty fish common in northern Europe. The Nordic Diet
      has been associated with favorable cardiometabolic outcomes including improved lipid profile
      and insulin sensitivity. These benefits have been recognized in the most recent updates of
      the clinical practice guidelines for diabetes in Canada. The European Association for the
      Study of Diabetes (EASD) has not included the Nordic dietary pattern in their guidelines.

      Need for proposed research: High quality systematic reviews and meta-analyses of randomized
      controlled trials and prospective cohorts represent high-quality evidence to support dietary
      guidelines and public health policy. As dietary guidelines and public health policy have
      shifted towards food and dietary-pattern based recommendations, there is a need for
      systematic reviews and meta-analyses comparing the role of the Nordic diet in the prevention
      and management of cardiometabolic outcomes and cardiovascular diseases.

      Objectives: To support the update of the European Association for the Study of Diabetes
      (EASD) clinical practice guidelines for nutrition therapy, the investigators will conduct a
      systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials and prospective cohorts
      using the GRADE approach on the Nordic dietary pattern on cardiometabolic risk factors and
      cardiovascular disease outcomes.

      Design: The systematic review and meta-analysis of clinical trials and prospective cohort
      studies will be conducted according to the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of
      interventions and reported according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews
      and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) and Meta-analysis of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (MOOSE)
      guidelines.

      Data sources: MEDLINE, EMBASE, and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
      (Clinical Trials; CENTRAL) will be searched using appropriate search terms supplemented by
      hand searches of references of included studies.

      Study selection: Randomized controlled trials conducted in humans with a follow-duration ≥ 3
      week investigating the effect of a Nordic diet on cardiometabolic outcomes will be included.
      Studies that are not conducted in humans, not randomized, have an acute feeding design (<3
      weeks), lack a suitable control (non-isocaloric) and/or do not report viable endpoint data
      will not be included. Prospective cohort studies with greater than 1-year of follow-up will
      be included.

      Data extraction: Two or more investigators will independently extract relevant data and
      assess risk of bias using the Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool for randomized clinical trials and
      the Newcastle Ottawa Scale for prospective cohorts. All disagreements will be resolved by
      consensus. Standard computations and imputations will be used to derive missing variance data
      for the randomized clinical. Risk ratios, odds ratios and hazard ratios for clinical outcomes
      in the prospective cohort studies will be extracted or derived from clinical event data
      across exposure to a Nordic diet.

      Outcomes: For the randomized clinical trials, the primary outcome will be LDL-cholesterol.
      Secondary outcomes will include markers of glycemic control (HbA1c, fasting glucose, fasting
      insulin); other blood lipids (non-HDL-C, apo B, HDL-C, triglycerides); adiposity (body
      weight, BMI, waist circumference), blood pressure (systolic and diastolic blood pressure) and
      inflammation (C-reactive protein [CRP]).

      For prospective cohorts, the primary outcome will be incident CVD Secondary outcomes include
      incident coronary heart disease (CHD) and incident stroke.

      Data synthesis:

      Trials: Data will be pooled by the generic inverse-variance method with DerSimonian and Laird
      random-effects models and expressed as mean differences (MDs) with 95% confidence intervals
      (95% CIs). Random-effects models were used as they account for residual heterogeneity and
      yield more conservative estimates. Fixed-effects models will be used for <5 trials. Paired
      analyses will be applied to all crossover trials. Heterogeneity will be tested by Cochran's Q
      statistic and quantified by the I2 statistic. To explore sources of heterogeneity, we will
      conduct sensitivity analyses, in which each study is systematically removed. If there are ≥10
      trials, we will explore sources of heterogeneity by a priori subgroup analyses by study
      design (parallel or crossover), follow-up duration (<12 weeks or ≥12 weeks), comparator diet,
      baseline measurements, risk of bias, disease duration, and funding source. Significant
      unexplained heterogeneity will be investigated by additional post hoc subgroup analyses (e.g.
      age, sex, diet quality index, composition of the background diet [total % energy from fat,
      carbohydrate, protein]). Meta-regression analyses will assess the significance of categorical
      and continuous subgroups analyses. When ≥10 studies are available, publication bias will be
      investigated by inspection of funnel plots and formal testing using the Egger and Begg tests.
      If publication bias is suspected, we will attempt to adjust for funnel plot asymmetry by
      imputing the missing study data using the Duval and Tweedie trim and fill method.

      Prospective cohort studies: Natural log-transformed relative risks (RRs) or hazard ratios
      (HRs) of clinical outcomes, comparing extreme quantiles (the highest exposure versus the
      lowest exposure or reference group), will be pooled separately using the generic inverse
      variance method with random effects models and expressed as RRs with 95% confidence intervals
      (CIs). Heterogeneity will be tested by Cochran's Q statistic and quantified by the I2
      statistic. To explore sources of heterogeneity, we will conduct sensitivity analyses, in
      which each study is systematically removed. If ≥10 cohort comparisons were available, then we
      will perform an a-priori subgroup analyses by meta-regression for follow-up (<10 years vs.
      ≥10 years), sex (males vs. females, males vs. mixed, females vs. mixed), study quality (NOS
      <6 vs. ≥6) and funding source. Significant unexplained heterogeneity will be investigated by
      additional post hoc subgroup analyses. Linear and non-linear dose-response relations will be
      explored with the use of random-effects generalised least-squares trend estimation (GLST)
      models and spline curve modeling (MKSPLINE procedure), respectively. When ≥10 studies are
      available, publication bias will be investigated by inspection of funnel plots and formal
      testing using the Egger and Begg tests. If publication bias is suspected, we will attempt to
      adjust for funnel plot asymmetry by imputing the missing study data using the Duval and
      Tweedie trim and fill method.

      Evidence assessment: The certainty of the evidence for each outcome will be assessed using
      the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE).

      Knowledge translation plan: The results will be disseminated through interactive
      presentations at local, national, and international scientific meetings and publication in
      high impact factor journals. Target audiences will include the public health and scientific
      communities with interest in nutrition, diabetes, obesity, and cardiovascular disease.
      Feedback will be incorporated and used to improve the public health message and key areas for
      future research will be defined. Applicant/Co-applicant Decision Makers will network among
      opinion leaders to increase awareness and participate directly as committee members in the
      development of future guidelines.

      Significance: The proposed project will aid in knowledge translation to the role of the
      Nordic Diet in cardiovascular disease prevention and management, strengthening the
      evidence-base for guidelines and improving health outcomes by educating healthcare providers
      and patients, stimulating industry innovation, and guiding future research design.
    
  