
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the toxicity of high-dose combination chemotherapy comprising
           cyclophosphamide, thiotepa, and carboplatin followed by autologous peripheral blood stem
           cell transplantation and immunotherapy consolidation therapy comprising anti-CD3 x
           anti-CD20 bispecific antibody (CD20Bi)-activated T cells (ATC) in patients with
           non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of CD20Bi-ATC in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine whether ATC traffic to tumor sites in select patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Assess the immune reconstitution of B cells and incidence of infection in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Compare relapse rates and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen with
           historical controls.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of activated T cells.

        -  Peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) mobilization and collection: Patients receive
           filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) once daily for 5 days. They then undergo
           leukaphereses to collect peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC). Some of the lymphocytes are
           treated in the laboratory to produce anti-CD3 x anti-CD20 bispecific antibody
           (CD20Bi)-activated T cells (ATC).

        -  High-dose chemotherapy and PBSC transplantation: Patients receive carmustine IV on day
           -7, etoposide IV twice daily and cytarabine IV twice daily on days -6, -5, -4, and -3,
           and melphalan IV on day -2. Autologous PBSC are reinfused on day 0.

        -  Immunotherapy consolidation: Patients receive immunotherapy consolidation comprising
           CD20Bi-ATC IV over 15-30 minutes starting on day 4, once a week for 4 weeks for a total
           of four infusions.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of CD20Bi-ATC until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 12-24 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  