
    
      PRECIS

      Background:

      Psychological distress is an emotional state experienced by primary brain tumor (PBT)
      patients throughout the illness trajectory. It can often be under identified in this patient
      population.

      Limited therapeutic interventions in managing distress symptoms can allow symptoms to linger
      without tailored mechanisms to manage the emotional challenges experienced with a tumor
      diagnosis. Individualized therapy in advanced cancer patients is a preferred method over
      pharmacological interventions when managing psychological distress, but more evidence-based
      research is needed to address the benefits.

      The CALM intervention is a brief, individualized psychotherapeutic intervention established
      to meet an unmet need to address psychological distress and promote well-being in advanced
      cancer patients. Previous studies implementing the CALM intervention have focused on
      metastatic and advanced cancer patients and have reported positive effects. Implementing the
      CALM intervention in a sample of PBT patients will be one of the first studies to identify
      the preliminary effectiveness.

      Objective:

      To demonstrate the effects of the CALM intervention in reduction of depressive symptoms using
      the PROMIS-Depression scale in PBT participants, from baseline to 6 months.

      Eligibility:

      Adult participants greater than or equal to 18 years of age with a PBT diagnosis who are
      undergoing standard of care or experimental treatment.

        -  The ability of the subject to speak English

        -  Subjects who have a life expectancy of at least 3 months from time of study entry to
           allow for participation in the 3 required sessions.

        -  The ability of the subject to understand and willing to sign a written informed consent
           document as determined by the assessment of the clinical team.

      Design:

      A total of 100 participants will be enrolled

      Neuro-Oncology participants being seen in the clinical center or receiving telehealth
      services will be screened to participate. Participants will be assigned a CALM therapist and
      all sessions will be completed remotely.

      Data from standardized measures will be collected at 3 timepoints (Baseline, 3 months, 6
      months) and qualitative interviews will be completed after the 3rd CALM session.

      Approximate time for sessions is 45-60 minutes.
    
  