
    
      Safe driving relies heavily on "good vision." Good vision while driving relates to multiple
      abilities, such as dynamic visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, management of glare and
      peripheral vision, etc. While spherical contact lenses address issues of correction of visual
      acuity as determined by forward static vision tests, if they do not provide visual acuity
      both immediately and smoothly with eye movement then vision can be compromised. Glare can be
      a problem as well when contact lenses are off center. Fluctuating vision as a result of lens
      movement on the eye could be especially problematic and frustrating for patients who have
      astigmatism. Furthermore, experiencing moments of blurred vision no matter how brief can be
      potentially hazardous while driving. The 1*DAY ACUVUE® MOIST for ASTIGMATISM contact lenses
      have a unique blink-activated stabilization system to prevent rotation of the lens on the
      eye, and may have significant visual advantages for drivers with astigmatism. These lenses
      provide continuous corrected acuity compared to non-ballasted contact lenses, and thus are
      potentially safer for driving. Contact comparison will consist of 1*DAY ACUVUE® MOIST
      (spherical control) versus 1*DAY ACUVUE® MOIST for ASTIGMATISM (the daily disposable
      astigmatism alternative).

      The study will investigate the potential advantages of contact lenses specifically designed
      to correct for astigmatism, compared to similar correction with spherical contacts, for adult
      licensed drivers with astigmatism, employing a double-blind (subjects and research assistant
      blind to hypotheses), randomized, cross-over design (spherical, vs. astigmatism contacts).
      This will be a multi-stage study comprised of the following:

      Preliminary study to determine the likelihood of detecting a significant difference between
      the standard spherical and astigmatism contacts in a full Randomize Clinical Trial (n=12;
      data and power analysis)
    
  