
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the ability of early chemotherapy to improve overall survival of patients
           commencing androgen deprivation for metastatic prostate cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Determine whether early chemotherapy can increase the time to clinical progression
           (radiographic or symptomatic deterioration due to disease) over hormonal therapy alone.

        -  Determine whether early chemotherapy can increase the time to development of
           hormone-refractory disease over hormonal therapy alone.

        -  Determine whether early chemotherapy can increase the time to serological progression
           over hormonal therapy alone.

        -  Determine rates of biochemical response at 6 months and 12 months in the chemohormonal
           arm versus the hormonal therapy alone arm.

        -  Determine the frequency of adverse events and the tolerability of chemotherapy combined
           with hormonal therapy versus hormonal therapy alone.

        -  Determine whether the postulated clinically meaningful increase in disease control is
           associated with an alteration in overall quality of life using the Functional Assessment
           of Cancer Therapy-Prostate questionnaire.

        -  Determine the ability of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) changes to be a surrogate for
           clinical benefit from therapy and overall survival.

      Tertiary

        -  Determine whether there are proteins differentially translated from the genome in
           hormone-sensitive prostate cancer, prostate cancer that has responded to hormonal
           therapy, and hormone-refractory prostate cancer.

        -  Determine the frequency of constitutive polymorphisms of enzymes involved in steroid
           metabolism and other carcinogenic processes.

        -  Determine whether the amount and frequency of certain carcinogenic proteins in prostate
           cancer tissue such as C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR-4) and manganese superoxide
           dismutase can be correlated with a poor prognosis.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (≥
      70 vs < 70), ECOG performance status (0-1 vs 2), combined androgen blockade for > 30 days
      (yes vs no), duration of prior adjuvant hormonal therapy (> 12 months vs ≤ 12 months),
      concurrent bisphosphonate use (yes vs no), and volume of disease (low vs high). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm A (Androgen-Deprivation Therapy and Docetaxel): Patients receive
           androgen-deprivation therapy (including luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone [LHRH]
           agonist therapy, LHRH antagonist therapy, or surgical castration). Patients also receive
           docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment with docetaxel repeats
           every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Arm B (Androgen-Deprivation Therapy alone): Patients receive androgen-deprivation
           therapy (as in arm A) alone.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at months 3, 6, 9 and 12.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 10
      years.
    
  