
    
      Patients and Methods This was a block-randomized, controlled, open-label trial to evaluate
      the relative caries preventive effect of fluoridated table salt in communal feeding of
      preschool children after 12 months. The study protocol was approved by the Witten/Herdecke
      University institutional review board (No. 106/2010) and by the Department of State for
      Health and Social Welfare of the Republic of The Gambia in the form of a memorandum of
      understanding. All participants and parents or legal guardians gave written informed consent
      with the aid of a native speaker before study-related procedures were performed and the study
      was conducted in line with the Declaration of Helsinki. Figure 1 describes the study design
      in brief.

      Sample Size Sample size calculation was performed with G*Power 3. Basic data for sample size
      calculation was the mean dental caries experience of preschool children in urban parts of The
      Gambia that was reported to be 2.09 dmft teeth (SD: 1.92). An effect measure of caries
      prevention by fluoridated table salt of 35 % was assumed according to the relevant
      literature. Alpha error was set with 0.05, and the study power with 80 %. A target sample of
      130 subjects for each study arm (test and control group) was calculated.

      Study Population

      Eligible participants were children aged from 3 - 5 years living in urban Gambia with
      preschool attendance at the co-operating kindergartens. The inclusion criteria for
      participating in this study were:

        1. a complete primary dentition

        2. parental or legal guardian informed consent. The only exclusion criteria was refusal to
           participate in the study. Study End Points To measure the caries preventive effect of
           salt fluoridation (1) the difference of incidence of cavitated carious lesions
           (Δd3/4mft) after study related intervention was chosen as the primary end point. Using
           the primary study end point, the relative preventive dental caries effect was calculated
           according to the following formula: 100 - (Δd3/4mft (test group) / Δd3/4mft (control
           group)) x 100.

      Secondary end points were:

      (2) the difference of incidence of white spot lesions (ΔG2-4) with G2 denoting slight white
      spot formation, G3 denoting excessive white spot formation, and G4 denoting white spot
      formation with cavitation into enamel.

      (3) the difference of incidence of total carious lesions (ΔTCL (= G2-4 + d3/4mft)).

      Total carious lesions (TCL) were calculated as a weighted sum score according to the
      following weights: G2: 1 point; G3: 2 points; G4: 3 points; d3/4t and ft: 4 points; tooth
      with pulpitis, ulcera, fistula or abscess due to caries: 5 points; missing tooth (mt): 6
      points.

      For quality control, (4) a fluoride concentration measurement of the table salt was performed
      as safety endpoint at t0, t0+6 mths, and t0+12 mths = t1. For this purpose, packages with
      fluoridated salt and provided for the study were randomly selected. Measurements were
      executed using an Orion Ionplus Fluoride Electrode (Thermo Electron, Beverly, USA) after
      standardised calibration for low-level measurement. The analysis was undertaken in triplicate
      per sample, and a mean was calculated for each measurement point. The threshold limit value
      was set at 0.1 ppm F-.

      Participants and Investigators Participants were screened, recruited, and included in the
      study at two public preschools in Brikama, West Coast Region, The Gambia, in March 2012. The
      screening and dental examinations took place during regular teaching time in an affiliated
      dental station. Two investigation teams performed the study related examinations. A team
      consisted of two dentists of which one was the clinical investigator and the other served as
      information specialist. All were equally calibrated in clinical dental caries screening.
      Inter-examiner Cohen´s reliability Ҡ was 0.82 [Cohen, 1960], indicating an almost perfect
      match against the expert (RAJ).

      Randomization and Allocation Concealment As the intervention procedure was bound to the
      communal preschool feeding, an individual randomization of subjects to the study arms was not
      feasible. Instead, one preschool was chosen for intervention and the other preschool served
      as control. The assortment of intervention was performed according to a random selection by a
      person who apart from this was not involved in the study (LGW). All preschool children
      meeting inclusion and exclusion criteria were primarily allocated to the test group and to
      the control group, respectively.

      Interventions Natural fluoride availability in the Gambian West Coast Region had been
      determined in advance of this interventional study to evaluate general fluoride availability.
      In the study region, the fluoride concentration in drinking water was determined to be 0.1
      mg/liter. In this region, traditional oral hygiene for children does not comprise (fluoride)
      toothpastes until religious maturity at the age of about 12 years.

      Study related intervention of administration of fluoridated table salt (MarkenJodSalz +
      Fluorid, Südsalz, Heilbronn, Germany) was organised during once-daily communal preschool
      feeding. Acccording to the manufacturer's declaration, fluoride concentration of the
      fluoridated table salt was 250 mg/kg. The central preschool kitchen was instructed to flavour
      the meals with a calculated amount of fluoridated table salt. The amount was set with 0.4 mg
      fluoride per capita and day for a period of 12 months. The study intervention period was
      executed between September 2012 and August 2013. The calculation for the total flavouring
      table salt amount was as follows:

        -  number of subjects in the intervention preschool (including subjects not included in the
           study but taking part in the communal preschool feeding) n = 450

        -  fluoride concentration of fluoridated table salt: 25 mg F- per 100 g salt

        -  recommended daily age-dependent supplementary dose: 0.4 mg fluoride per capita (i. e.
           0.05 - 0.07 mg F- per kg body weight)

        -  consequently, 720 g fluoridated table salt daily for preparation of the communal
           preschool feeding, resp. 1.6 g fluoridated table salt per capita and day, which complied
           with recent WHO recommendations of salt intake.

      Meals of the control group were prepared without fluoridated table salt. Before starting the
      intervention, all subjects received a dental examination at t0. Teeth were cleaned with an
      electric toothbrush (Vitality precision clean, Oral-B, Schwalbach, Germany) before inspection
      without using toothpaste. Teeth were then dried with cotton rolls (Cotton rolls for kids,
      Roeko, Langenau, Germany) and hand-bellows (Delamax, Berlin, Germany). Dental caries
      inspection was performed visually with the aid of dental mirrors and blunt probes in natural
      light according to recent recommendation for epidemiological field studies. With respect to
      available field hygiene measures, disposable dental instruments were used (Nordenta, Hamburg,
      Germany). After completion of the intervention, all subjects were dentally examined again at
      t1 in the exact same manner than at t0.

      Study Settings According to the allocation concealment, subjects of the test group were
      preschool children at the "Kindergarten Wattenscheid in Gambia", Brikama-Kabafita, West Coast
      Region, The Gambia. Subjects of the control group were preschool children at the
      "Kindergarten Bottrop in Gambia", Brikama, West Coast Region, The Gambia.

      Study Hypothesis The investigators used a null hypothesis (H0) assuming no statistical
      difference of Δd3/4mft at t1 between the test group and control group.

      Statistical Analysis Demographic data were compared as inter group comparison using Wilcoxon
      rank sum test with p <0.05 for statistical significance. Analyses of the study end points
      were performed using 95 percent confidence intervals (95%-CI). IBM SPSS software (version 21;
      International Business Machines Corp, Armonk, USA) was used for computing statistical
      analysis.
    
  