
    
      Seroma is one of the most frequent complications occurring after ILND as it affects nearly
      one third of these cases. During the past decades, many actions have been tried in the
      perioperative care to decrease the incidence of these complications, as employing well
      vascularized bulky flaps to obliterate the dead space and to protect vessels, great saphenous
      vein sparing, strict bed rest and fibrin sealant application. Realizing the underlying
      pathology for seroma formation is the key point in its prevention. Thirty-nine patients
      scheduled to perform Inguinal lymphadenectomy for various causes have been checked for
      eligibility to be enrolled in this prospective, randomized study. Thirty-two patients have
      met the inclusion criteria. Inguinal lymphadenectomy has been performed including scarifying
      saphenous vein. Sartorius muscle transposition flap was routinely performed for protection of
      femoral vessels, then an 18 French conventional non-suction tube drain was inserted in all
      patients. All the previous steps were similar in both groups. At this stage, the wound was
      closed for the control group, while fibrin glue was prepared to be applied to the fibrin glue
      group in a dose of 2mL for 100 cm2 surface area. Postoperatively, the daily collected drain
      fluid was measured till the drain was removed when the daily drainage was less than 30 ml.
      Then the patients were planned to be followed up postoperatively for at least 4 weeks, to
      detect the possible clinically encountered complications as seroma, wound infection, or skin
      flap necrosis.

      Patients' demographic data and preexisting co-morbidities were recorded. Operative and
      pathological data regarding defect size, blood transfusion, primary tumor pathology, and
      number and status of retrieved lymph nodes were collected. The mean cumulative amount of the
      collected serous fluid, length of drain placement, together with occurrence of
      post-operative, seroma, infection, or skin flap necrosis were recorded and compared between
      the two groups. The length of hospital stay was compared in the groups.

      The normality of distribution of variables was verified by Kolmogorov- Smirnov test.
      Chi-square test (Fisher or Monte Carlo) was used for comparisons between groups for
      categorical variables. Student t-test was used to compare two groups for normally distributed
      quantitative variables. For not normally distributed quantitative variables, Mann Whitney
      test was used to compare between two groups. P value was set to be significant if <0.05.
    
  