
    
      Invasive fungal infections (IFI) remain the major cause of death among neutropenic patients
      receiving high dose chemotherapy or allo-SCT. Especially, patients undergoing allo-SCT
      generally receive intensive immunosuppressive therapy, which make those patients at high risk
      of developing IFI.

      Prompt intensive antifungal therapy may increase the incidence rate of IFI and improved
      responses and survival. Antifungal prophylaxis has been recommended in patients undergoing
      allo-SCT by Infectious diseases society of America (IDSA) and Chinese guidelines for the
      diagnosis and management of IFI in patients with hematologic/malignant tumor (revised).

      Few studies have addressed the role of previous IFI in the feasibility of stem cell
      transplant, or the secondary prophylaxis with antifungal drugs in preventing recurrence of
      infection after transplantation. However, given the lack of prospective studies, the role of
      primary antifungal prevention and the course of treatment remain unclear.

      Itraconazole is a wide-spectrum triazole antifungal agent active against Candida albicans,
      non-albicans, Aspergillus spp., Blastomyces dermatitidis, Blastomyces coccidioides,
      Cryptococcus neoformans, Sporothrix schenkii, Paracoccidioides brasiliensis, Histoplasma spp.
      and various kinds of yeast fungi and mycetes.

      The role of itraconazole in IFI prophylaxis has been proved by many interventional studies.
      However the optimal course of prophylaxis is still unknown，especially in China. In this
      prospective, multicentric study of primary antifungal prevention, long-term or short-term
      sequential therapy (intravenous followed by oral itraconazole) will be given at standard dose
      to patients undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation to assess the efficacy and safety
      of itraconazole in primary prophylaxis, and to analysis the relationship between the
      incidence rate of IFI with plasma concentrations of itraconazole and hydroxy-itraconazole.
    
  