
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of black cohosh vs placebo in diminishing hot flash activity in
           women with breast cancer OR a concern about taking hormones because of a fear of breast
           cancer.

        -  Determine whether continued use of this drug by these patients leads to prolonged
           reduction of the hot flash score with minimal toxic effects.

        -  Correlate the reduction of hot flash score with improvement in quality of life and
           related outcomes in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the toxic effects of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine whether abnormal sweating is decreased in patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. Patients
      are stratified according to age (18 to 49 vs 50 and over), current tamoxifen use (yes vs no
      vs unknown), current raloxifene use (yes vs no vs unknown), current aromatase inhibitor use
      (yes vs no), duration of hot flash symptoms (less than 9 months vs 9 months or more), and
      average frequency of hot flashes per day (2-3 vs 4-9 vs 10 or more). Patients are randomized
      to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral black cohosh twice daily for 4 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo twice daily for 4 weeks. All patients then cross
           over to the other arm and receive treatment as above for 4 weeks.

      After completion of the crossover treatment, all patients may opt to receive open-label black
      cohosh for an additional 8 weeks.

      Patients complete a hot flash diary daily at baseline and during the 8-week double-blind
      study, and then daily for 8 weeks during optional open-label treatment.

      Patients who opt to receive open-label black cohosh are followed at 6 months, 1 year, and 2
      years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 110 patients (55 patients per arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 6-11 months.
    
  