
    
      This prospective, single-arm trial will include all consecutive patients undergoing
      cannulation of peripheral VA ECMO at the Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) from April 2019
      to March 2020. All enrolled patients will undergo surgical placement of Impella® via axillary
      artery within 48 hours after peripheral VA ECMO initiation and be managed with early
      extubation and ambulation strategy.

      After Impella® placement, there will be no research procedures performed. Subjects will
      receive standard of care and the subject's progress will be documented throughout the 30 days
      study follow-up. The data obtained from the electronic medical record in Epic health record
      system at MGH will be reviewed throughout the study.

      The primary outcome of this study will be survival at 30 days. Prespecified secondary end
      points will include the rate of death from cardiovascular causes, New York Heart Association
      (NYHA) functional class, LV function (assessed by echocardiography), and the rate of stroke,
      neurological functional status, acute kidney injury, vascular complications, and bleeding.

      The enrolled subjects (early Impella®) would be compared with patients who underwent current
      elective placement of Impella® after cannulation of VA ECMO (elective Impella®) in the past
      two years. Student's t-test (for continuous variables) or Fisher exact test (for categorical
      variables) will be used for between-group comparisons. The primary endpoint in the data
      analysis is binary: 30-day survival. The null hypothesis of no difference between early
      Impella® and elective Impella® will be tested using logistic regression. The secondary
      endpoint, the rate of death from cardiovascular causes, NYHA functional class, LV function,
      and the rate of stroke, neurological functional status, acute kidney injury, vascular
      complications, and bleeding, will be addressed using competing risks hazard regression
      models. This is a pilot study for the future multicenter study. If this study demonstrates no
      inferiority or any significant superiority, we will proceed to do multicenter prospective
      study. Power analysis will be assessed based on the result of this preliminary study.
    
  