
    
      Estrogen and Progesterone play a role in promoting EOC growth, metastasis, and progression.
      Recent data show that ER and PgR expression is frequent in high grade EOC and has prognostic
      significance. A large meta-analysis showed a clinical benefit with any endocrine treatment,
      and in particular for aromatase inhibitors (AIs), with a greatere benefit for ER+ and/or PgR+
      patients and platinum sensitive tumors. Moreover, the analysis of a few randomized clinical
      trials (RCTs) showed a reduced mortality with endocrine therapy in EOC, suggesting that ER
      and PgR have a predictive role and that inhibition of their activation could therefore be a
      treatment option for EOC.

      Exemestane is a well-tolerated and effective AI in endocrine sensitive breast cancer which
      inhibits the production of Estrogens by the adipose tissue in postmenopausal women.

      In this Italian, multicentre, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, phase III study
      will be assessed the efficacy of exemestane versus placebo in addition to the standard front
      line treatment in patients with high grade serous or endometrioid EOC, IHC positive (≥ 10%)
      ER or PgR disease, stage IIB - IV according to the FIGO classification.

      The primary objective of the study is to test the superiority of exemestane over placebo in
      addition to the standard front line treatment in terms of PFS.

      Secondary Objectives are:

        1. to test whether the percent expression of ER and PgR is predictive of the effect of
           exemestane on PFS;

        2. to test whether the addition of exemestane to the standard front line treatment can
           prolong Overall Survival (OS);

        3. to evaluate objective response rate Overall Response Rate (ORR) of experimental
           treatment compared with the standard one;

        4. to assess whether the effect of exemestane is affected by the proliferative index Ki67;

        5. to evaluate the effect of exemestane on Quality of Life (QoL);

        6. to evaluate the compliance to the study treatment;

        7. to evaluate the safety profile of the experimental treatment compared with the standard
           one.

      Study design: a total of 468 subjects (234 per Arm) will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to
      receive either standard chemotherapy treatment plus exemestane (Experimental arm) or standard
      chemotherapy plus placebo (Control arm). Exemestane/placebo will be self-administered as a
      single oral tablet of 25 mg/day until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or
      physician/patient decision to withdraw, whichever comes first. Radiological disease
      assessments and CA125 will be performed at baseline and every 4 months from randomization,
      until end of study or disease progression whichever comes first. Safety assessments will be
      performed at each cycle during standard chemotherapy treatment, then at each study visit, up
      to 30 days after the last Experimental Treatment administration.Quality of Life will be
      assessed by a menopause-specific questionnaire, administered to patients at baseline (T0), at
      12 months (T1) and at disease progression (T2). For patients who have signed the specific
      informed consent, tissues and blood samples will be collected.
    
  