
    
      Until recently, the only non-invasive diagnostic modality to help identify the location of
      ventricular arrhythmias was the 12 lead ECG. The Medtronic CardioInsight wearable vest is a
      recently FDA approved diagnostic modality noninvasive, single beat cardiac mapping system
      that provides 3D electroanatomic maps of the ventricular chambers. CardioInsight projects
      unipolar signals collected from a 252-electrode vest to cardiac chambers imaged with a
      non-contrast CT of the chest. The created non-invasive 3D electroanatomical maps can be
      evaluated by the physicians pre-procedurally but also during the actual electrophysiology
      study (EPS).

      The technology has been approved by FDA for non-invasive mapping of any arrhythmias, however
      there is little evidence on its value in predicting the origin of ventricular arrhythmias and
      its proven diagnostic superiority over the standard 12-lead ECG.

      With this study the investigators seek to assess the sensitivity and specificity of
      CardioInsight in predicting the chamber of origin of ventricular arrhythmias and compare its
      diagnostic accuracy with the standard 12-lead ECG. The study will include thirty patients
      with ventricular arrhythmias undergoing EPS and ablation. The day of the procedure patients
      will be fitted with the CardioInsight vest and undergo a non-contrast CT chest. Spontaneous
      arrhythmias will be recorded and noninvasive 3D maps will be created prior and during the
      EPS. The non-invasive maps will be used, per operator discretion, in designing mapping and
      ablative strategies during the EPS. The true origin of the arrhythmia will be determined
      during the EPS. In addition, the investigators will perform threshold pacing from common site
      of idiopathic ventricular arrhythmias. The 12-lead ECGs and non-invasive maps will be stored
      for off line review and analysis.

      Non-invasive maps, as well as ECGs of spontaneous arrhythmias and pacemaps will be evaluated
      off line by 2 electrophysiologists blinded to the results of the EPS. The sensitivity and
      specificity of the 12 lead ECG, as well as the non-invasive maps, in predicting the site of
      origin of the ventricular arrhythmias and pacemaps will be calculated and compared.
    
  