
    
      Necrotizing enterocolitis continues to be a disease that is associated with significant
      morbidity and mortality in premature infants. It affects annually 0.72 infants per 1000 live
      births among all neonates and 33 infants per 1000 live births among very low-birth-weight
      (below 1500 gram).

      Necrotising enterocolitis presents with both gastrointestinal and systemic signs.
      Gastrointestinal signs as delayed gastric emptying, abdominal distention and bloody stools.
      Non specific signs as lethargy, apnea, respiratory distress.

      Although clinical and characteristic radiological findings remain the most important tools so
      far. Unfortunately, these signs are usually detectable in an advanced stage of disease.

        -  Haematological studies as severe or persistent thrombocytopenia, neutropenia,
           coagulopathy, or acidosis might indicate severe disease.

        -  Serial C-reactive protein : that persistently high C-reactive protein indicated
           developing complications, such as stricture or abscess.

      Unfortunately, the majority of these biomarkers lack accuracy in preclinical stage and do not
      allow proper discrimination from sepsis Therefore, the search for disease-specific, early and
      noninvasive diagnostic biomarkers remains warranted.

      Calprotectin, a peptide secreted by neutrophils and macrophages and is a useful laboratory
      biomarker for diagnosing necrotizing enterocolitis . Its non-specific biomarkers of
      inflammation, but the nature of the specimen, e.g. stool, renders these mediators more
      indicative of the site of tissue injury. And its levels may be a marker for early diagnosis
      and resolution of gastrointestinal illness , but its utility for early diagnosis and
      assessment of resolution of necrotizing enterocolitis needs to be studied in a larger
      studies.

      Plain X ray: Definite signs include pneumatosis intestinalis (intramural air) and portal
      venous gas .

      Ultrasound : More sensitive and accurate imaging studies and could become helpful adjuncts to
      abdominal films in the diagnosis of necrotizing enterocolitis .

      The major advantage of sonography over plain abdominal radiography is its superiority in
      depicting small amount of gas. Ultrasound with Doppler might be more sensitive than abdominal
      films for detecting necrotic bowel requiring surgical intervention.

      When necrotizing enterocolitis is suspected, infants are given bowel rest , bowel
      decompression, and broad-spectrum antibiotics (after cultures are obtained). Anaerobic
      coverage should be considered. Adjunctive therapy includes cardiovascular, pulmonary, and
      haematological support as clinically indicated.

      The two main options available for the surgical management of necrotizing enterocolitis are
      exploratory laparotomy and primary peritoneal drainage .
    
  