
    
      Background:

        -  Checkpoint kinases 1 and 2 (Chk1/2) are major regulators of the cell cycle and are
           intimately associated with the cellular response to DNA damage and repair. Chk1/2 also
           function as the primary mediators of cell cycle arrest in tumors with p53 dysfunction,
           such as high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC), and triple negative breast cancer
           (TNBC).

        -  Participants with germline BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation have inherent defects in DNA damage
           repair pathways.

        -  Chk1/2 inhibition alone yielded DNA damage and mitotic catastrophe preclinically, even
           in the absence of DNA damage by external agents in tumors with underlying DNA repair
           dysfunction.

        -  The second-generation Chk1/2 inhibitor, LY2606368, yielded safety and preliminary single
           agent activity in advanced cancer participants.

        -  We hypothesize that LY2606368 will result in clinical benefit in participants with
           gBRCAm-associated breast or ovarian cancers, and HGSOC and TNBC with low genetic risk.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine the objective response rate (CR+PR) of single agent LY2606368 in patients
           with gBRCAm-associated breast or ovarian cancer, HGSOC and TNBC with low genetic risk.

        -  To determine the safety and toxicity, and progression-free interval (PFI) of LY2606368
           in pretreated participants.

        -  To determine biochemical changes in the DNA damage repair and cell cycle check point
           pathways in tumor and blood samples in response to treatment.

        -  To determine potential resistance mechanisms to LY2606368 treatment in HGSOC.

      Eligibility:

        -  Participants with recurrent/refractory BRCA mutant breast or ovarian cancer, HGSOC, and
           TNBC, for whom there remains no standard curative measures.

        -  A documented deleterious germline or somatic BRCA mutation for breast or ovarian cancer
           participants enrolling in Cohort 1.

        -  Negative BRCA mutation testing or negative family history of hereditary breast and
           ovarian cancer syndrome for HGSOC (Cohort 2).

        -  Negative BRCA mutation testing or negative family history of hereditary breast and
           ovarian cancer syndrome for TNBC (Cohort 3).

        -  Effective with amendment I (version date 4/24/2017), mCRPC, Cohort 4 was closed.

        -  Negative BRCA mutation testing or negative family history of hereditary breast and
           ovarian cancer syndrome for recurrent platinum-resistant HGSOC with measurable and
           biopsiable disease (Cohort 5).

        -  Negative BRCA mutation testing or negative family history of hereditary breast and
           ovarian cancer syndrome for recurrent platinum-resistant HGSOC with measurable but
           without biopsiable disease (Cohort 6).

        -  Participants must be off prior chemotherapy, radiation therapy, hormonal therapy, or
           biological therapy for at least 4 weeks.

        -  ECOG performance status 0-2 and adequate organ and marrow function.

      Design:

        -  This is an open label, single arm phase II trial to examine activity of LY2606368 in
           participants in the 6 independent cohorts (Cohorts 1-6).

        -  LY2606368 will be dosed at the RP2D of 105 mg/m2 IV once every 14 days of a 28
           day-cycle.

        -  Research samples including whole blood, CTCs, and tumor biopsies will be obtained for PD
           endpoints at baseline, Cycle 1 Day 15 (6-24hr post-2nd dose), and/or at progression in
           all participants. Tumor biopsies will not be performed in Cohort 6.

        -  Participants (Cohorts 1-3, 5 and 6) will be evaluated every two cycles for response
           using RECIST v1.1 and every cycle for safety using CTCAE v4.0.
    
  