
    
      This is a multi-center study, sponsored by Derm Tech (DTI) International.

      Specific Aims of the study

      This research study proposes to use a non-invasive method to capture superficial cells on
      pigmented skin lesions that are suspected of being early melanomas. This non-invasive
      "biopsy" technology has been developed and patented by DermTech International. RNA in skin
      cells captured by this method will be profiled in order to diagnose the nature of the lesion
      (i.e. malignant melanoma or not). A successful outcome of this proposal would create a
      candidate non-invasive diagnostic assay based on a gene expression profile for identifying
      early stage melanomas. This assay and more in particular the diagnostic gene expression
      profile are considered candidate because the profile would have to be validated (i.e. proven
      to be diagnostic) in larger clinical trials. Secondary outcomes could include tests for
      diagnosis and prognosis of a variety of pigmented skin lesions.

      Specific Aim 1: To create a sample set of pigmented skin lesions. Each sample consisting of:

        1. RNA recovered by tape stripping the superficial epidermis overlying the lesion (tape
           stripping will also be used to recover RNA from normal skin areas and benign nevi as
           controls).

        2. A standard biopsy of the same lesion and accompanying histology and diagnosis. Biopsies
           would be taken after tape stripping and subjected to standard histopathologic analysis,
           which would provide a "gold standard" diagnosis. These diagnoses could then be
           correlated with the data generated in Specific

      Aim 2.

      This specific aim is composed of three individual aims:

        1. Analysis of selected lesion RNA samples by DNA microarray.

        2. Correlation of gene expression data with histopathology.

        3. Creation of a candidate expression classifier for diagnosis of melanoma.

      Tape stripping (commercialized as a method for RNA recovery as Epidermal Genetic Information
      Retrieval or EGIR™) is a non-invasive method that allows recovery of cells comprising and
      associated with the upper epidermis [4]. The feasibility of non-invasive sampling of human
      epidermis by sequential adhesive tape stripping was shown by Morhenn et al [4]. Their work
      showed that tape stripping of skin yielded sufficient RNA for analysis by ribonuclease
      protection assay to detect specific RNA species, including those known to be at low
      abundance.

      4. Therapeutically removed tissue will be collected

      Tape-stripping procedure will be performed before all biopsy procedures. The tape will be
      applied to the site and briskly rubbed with the blunt rounded end of a marker or plastic test
      tube in a circular motion. A minimum of 15 circular motions must be completed before the tape
      is removed. To accommodate the fact that many sites will be smaller than the diameter of the
      tape, care will be taken to apply the tape only to the lesion or control site and not to the
      surrounding normal epidermis. The border of the lesion will be demarcated on the tape with a
      surgical marker; when the tapes are processed for RNA extraction, the marking will allow
      removal of tape that did not contact the lesion (and that might harbor normal epidermis). A
      total of 4 tapes will be used to sample a site greater than or equal to 6 mm in diameter.
      Preliminary data obtained from DTI show that lesions less than 6 mm in diameter may require
      up to 8 tapes to recover RNA. Tape stripping will also be performed on one normal appearing
      skin area (preferably; upper back or mastoid process) as well as one benign nevus (if
      available) to use as a comparison. After sampling, the tapes will be stored at -20oC or
      below. The tapes will be shipped to DTI on dry ice, by express mail, for analysis.

      Biopsy After the tape-stripping procedure is completed, the whole lesion will be surgically
      excised according to standard clinical practice. The biopsy is a standard of care procedure
      that would be conducted regardless of the research. All tissues removed are fixed in formalin
      and sent to a histopathology laboratory, where they are embedded in paraffin and sectioned
      for histopathological analysis. Pathology results will be collected for distinguishing
      diagnosis. The subject pathology reports will be identified with the assigned unique subject
      identifiers prior to use in the study to protect subject identity.
    
  