
    
      The long-term goal of this proposal is to identify non-opioid drugs that harness endogenous
      anti-inflammatory mechanisms resulting in the suppression of proinflammatory cytokines such
      as IL-1ß providing a novel approach to treat chronic pain in people while lacking potential
      for addictive side effects.

      This study is conducted to determine the therapeutic benefit of pramipexole for pain, which
      is a repurposing of this FDA-approved drug with a good safety profile. In collaboration with
      Dr. Koshkin (co-I at UNMH Pain Clinic), patients from the UNM pain clinic will be recruited
      who are experiencing modest or suboptimal pain relief. The patient will meet the CTSC
      Clinical Research Coordinator, who will escort the patient to the Clinical Research Lab. At
      the time, an explanation of the study, consent, the Brief Pain Inventory survey will be
      completed, blood draw and Clincard will be given to the patient ($15/visit). Scheduling for
      the midterm visit to the CTSC (at the end of two weeks) will be determined. At the time of
      consent, all patients will be under standard pain treatment and will be randomized into two
      groups: (1) patients receiving pramipexole in addition to their standard ongoing pain
      treatment, or (2) no pramipexole but will continue to receive the standard pain treatment.
      Patients will be followed up in the morning at weekly intervals to provide pain scores either
      by phone (for week 1 and 3), or by return visit (for end of week 2 and at the end of week 4)
      until study termination which is at the end of week 4.. At the initiation of the study and at
      the end of 4 weeks, blood will be collected and analyzed for mRNA for TLR4, p38, NFkB,
      NLRP3-ASC, Caspase-1, IL-1ß, TNF-α, HMGB1, and IL-10. The dose and route of administration of
      pramipexole will be identical to that previously approved for the treatment of Restless Legs
      Syndrome and according to manufacturer's recommended prescribing protocol (Mirapex,
      Boehringer Ingelheim Int. GmbH). Briefly, oral dosage will be titrated each week to achieve a
      weekly total daily dose of 0.125 (mg), 0.250, or 0.5. Patients will take one capsule
      containing pramipexole of placebo 2-3 hours before bedtime.

      Patient recruitment, assessment of Brief Pain Inventory (BPI): Pain scores and blood draws
      will be conducted at the CTSC Participant Clinical Interactions Unit with the CTSC Clinical
      Research Coordinator. Blood samples collected by the CTSC Clinical Research Coordinator will
      be analyzed at the Center for Molecular Discovery by personnel from Dr. Milligan's lab,
      trained by personnel from the Center for Molecular Drug Discovery (Director; Dr. Sklar,
      co-I). Personnel from the Milligan lab have expertise in inflammatory marker analysis from
      PBMCs [57, 58]. All freshly collected blood samples will be frozen and stored by the Clinical
      Research Coordinator at the CTSC Clinical Laboratory and will be transported to the Center
      for Molecular Drug Discovery once ALL of the samples for the study have been collected for
      mRNA and protein analysis. This is to allow for assay to be conducted at the same time to
      avoid potential effect of 'time of assay' that may impact data.

      All subjects will therefore meet with the CTSC Clinical Research Coordinator for a total of 3
      times; at the initiation of the study, at mid-term when the second batch of drug is dispensed
      and unused drug is returned, and at termination for a second and final blood draw and
      providing all completed Brief Pain Inventory surveys (4/patient). At the termination of the
      study, patients will turn in their paper copies of the Brief Pain Inventory questionnaire
      completed for each week of the study (total 4 weeks). Original data records are important to
      demonstrate all necessary physical documentation of the study.

      The long-term goal of this proposal is to identify non-opioid drugs that harness endogenous
      anti-inflammatory mechanisms resulting in the suppression of proinflammatory cytokines such
      as IL-1ß providing a novel approach to treat chronic pain in people while lacking potential
      for addictive side effects.
    
  