
    
      Stroke is a major cause of chronic disability worldwide. After stroke, patients remain at
      continued high risk for recurrent stroke as well as for myocardial infarction and cardiac
      death. Comorbid cardiovascular conditions are present in 75% of stroke patients, representing
      the leading cause of death in stroke survivors. Due to the low levels of physical activity,
      stroke survivors are deconditioned, leading to a loss of functional and social independence
      with subsequent declines in quality of life. Interventions to improve cardiorespiratory
      fitness are still not part of routine neurorehabilitation programs in many rehabilitation
      centers, and therapy is often dominated by standard rehabilitative therapies based on
      neurodevelopmental principles such as the Bobath concept. These standard therapies are an
      insufficient stimulus to increase fitness levels after stroke.

      The first aim of the study is to evaluate the effects of a high intensitive physical training
      in improving cardiorespiratory fitness and gait ability in chronic stroke patients. The
      second aim is to compare the effects of high aerobic interval treadmill training and maximal
      strength training in chronic stroke patients.

      Patients will be randomized into three groups. The first group (experimental group) will be
      subjected to 3-month training period (3 sessions/week) of high intensity aerobic training on
      treadmill. The second group (experimental group group) will undergo to a strength training
      with the same duration and frequency of the first group. The third group (control group)will
      be subjected to conventional training with the same duration and frequency of the
      experimental groups. Data will be analysed by means parametric and non-parametric tests.
      Both, within and between groups comparison will be performed.

      As primary outcomes measures will be considered the peak oxygen uptake, walking energy cost,
      6 minutes walking test. As secondary outcomes measures will be considered the 10-meter
      Walking Test,Time Up and Go test, Activities- specific balance confidence scale, SF-36 Health
      Survey Questionnaire, Stroke Impact Scale, Oxygen Uptake Efficiency Slope (OUES),
      arterial-venous oxygen difference; cardiac output and muscle strength.
    
  