
    
      ECMO is a technique which is currently being used worldwide for providing life support for
      patients experiencing both pulmonary and cardiac failure. Though ECMO can effectively rescue
      life at the initial scene, being invasive, complex, resource intensive, and serious related
      complications developing on the following days of ECMO support have greatly restricted it
      use. The major causes of ECMO-related mortality and morbidity are serious coagulopathy,
      either bleeding (7-34%) or thrombosis (8-17%). Contact of high extracorporeal blood flow and
      the large artificial surfaces plays a critical role leading to the subsequent coagulopathy.
      Systemic heparin and heparin-bonded circuits is usually used to reduce thrombus. However,
      non-urgent invasive procedures should be avoided or minimized during that support and regular
      clinical monitoring to guide the adjustment of optimal dosage is mandatory making the
      clinical care intensive. Whereas the pharmacological interventions may bring the risk of
      critical imbalance between hemostasis and thrombosis, efforts to modify the ECMO system
      focusing on improvement of biocompatibility seem a fundamental way particularly regarding the
      extended periods of ECMO use. ZrO2 and Al2O3 are more excellent biocompatible and
      hemocompatible materials compared with PVC (polyvinylchloride) which is the current material
      of ECMO circuit. Despite the broad applications of ZrO2 and Al2O3 in artificial implants,
      traditional thin-film coating techniques are unable to deposit these hemocompatible oxides on
      the inner surface of the PVC tubing in ECMO circuit. In this subproject, the investigators
      will apply a new technique of atomic layer deposition (ALD) to coat biocompatible and
      hemocompatible ZrO2/Al2O3 nanolaminate thin films on the inner surface of ECMO tubing to
      suppress the device-induced coagulopathy. ALD is a thin-film deposition technique for
      preparing high-quality oxides with atomic-layer accuracy. It offers many benefits including
      accurate thickness control, excellent conformality, high uniformity, low defect density, good
      reproducibility, and low deposition temperature. These characteristics clearly accounts for
      the feasibility to deposit high-quality hemocompatible oxide thin films on the whole surface
      of complex 3-D structures, such as the inner surface of ECMO tubing, using the ALD technique.
      The newly-prepared ECMO circuit will then undergo in vitro tests and animal study to
      carefully examine the safety and effectiveness of improvement of hemocompatibility.
    
  