
    
      Primary Objectives:

      • Number of patients age 60 and older with newly diagnosed AML and who are not candidates for
      standard induction chemotherapy who complete an 8-week program of physical conditioning and
      decitabine treatment. The goal is set at 30% of 20 enrolled patients completing the 8 weeks
      of decitabine and physical conditioning program.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  Number of patients with adverse events as a measure of safety and tolerability of the
           physical conditioning program during decitabine therapy.

        -  Number of patients with overall response (complete response, disease-free survival
           [DFS], and overall survival [OS]) of the rehabilitated patients after conclusion of the
           8-week program.

        -  Changes in quality of life among study subjects before and after the 8-week exercise
           program.

        -  Changes in cytokine profiles drawn at baseline, 4 weeks and 8 weeks.

      Treatment Plan:

        -  Twenty subjects, age 60 and older with newly diagnosed AML who are deemed by their
           referring physicians not to be candidates for standard induction chemotherapy will be
           recruited from the inpatient and outpatient services at Emory University Hospital and
           the Winship Cancer Institute of Emory University.

        -  After signing the informed consent and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
           Act (HIPAA) forms, a screening evaluation will be performed. Subjects who are eligible
           will meet with the physical therapist and will enroll on an 8-week program of physical
           conditioning.

        -  Each patient will participate in 2-3 exercise sessions per week supervised by a physical
           therapist and a home exercise program. Evaluations of physical fitness will be performed
           before and after the 8-week exercise program. Each exercise session will be customized
           based on each patient's baseline fitness level. Subjects' heart rate, blood pressure,
           and rate of perceived exertion score will be monitored during the exercise treatment
           session.

        -  Patients' fitness at the conclusion of the physical therapy regimen will be assessed by
           checking for improvement in Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status
           by at least 1 point from baseline and 25% improvement in the Special Forces (SF)-36
           fitness scoring system.

        -  Decitabine will be infused according to standard of care practice with daily infusions
           for 5 consecutive days of a 28-day cycle for 2 cycles (1 cycle = 28 days) during the 8
           week physical-conditioning period.

        -  Patients will be assessed by the hematology provider on a weekly basis, and adverse
           events/toxicities will be recorded on an ongoing basis.

        -  Bone marrow biopsies will be obtained at baseline, at 8 weeks, and as clinically
           indicated to assess for response. A sample of marrow will be collected for correlative
           assays coincident with the standard of care collections.

        -  Peripheral blood (20 mL) will be collected for correlative studies at baseline, 4 weeks
           and 8 weeks.

      Assessment of Disease Response:

        -  Complete blood counts (CBC) with differential will be obtained weekly and bone marrow
           biopsy and aspirates will be obtained as clinically indicated to assess response to
           treatment.

        -  Active participation in the study will end 1 month after completion of the 8-week
           exercise/decitabine program. Thereafter, long term follow-up for survival will be
           performed by record review or telephone interview for patients who no longer follow-up
           at Winship Cancer Institute of Emory University.

      Monitoring:

      The study will be monitored by the Data Safety Monitoring Committee at the study institution.

      Statistical Methods:

        -  Feasibility: Based on data showing that 50% of older fit AML patients tolerated a 4-week
           exercise regimen, feasibility is defined as:

             -  Completion of the 8-week physical conditioning regimen/decitabine program in at
                least 30% of the study subjects.

             -  The proportion of patients with full treatment delivery will be estimated with an
                exact 90% confidence interval.

        -  Assessment for fitness of the study population will be undertaken at 4 weeks from
           enrollment and conclusion of the 8-week physical therapy regimen.

        -  Kaplan-Meier curves will be used to estimate the distribution of time to relapse,
           disease-free survival, and overall survival.
    
  