
    
      Background :Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) afflicts 24 million US residents and
      is the 3th leading cause of death in the United States. Each year, 150,000 patients die from
      COPD in the U.S. or about one patient every 4 minutes. Health care costs for COPD patients in
      the US is approximately $6.5 billion/ year, but its indirect costs probably double the costs
      of care when taking into account lost productivity and caretaker expenses. COPD exacerbations
      add considerably to that burden because they: (1) cause frequent hospital admissions and
      relapses or readmissions, (2) contribute directly to the death of many patients, either
      during hospitalization or shortly thereafter, (3) cause patients significant stress,
      prolonged physical discomfort, disability and dramatically reduced quality of life, (4)
      consume the majority of the resources available to manage this chronic condition, (5)
      frequently progress to a severe stage warranting hospitalization before any abortive
      treatment is instituted, and (6) may hasten the progressive loss of lung function, a steady
      decline that is a cardinal feature of COPD itself.

      Hospitalized exacerbations result in a profound impact on patient survival, function,
      symptoms and health status as well as costs. Re-hospitalization in COPD is frequent and
      associated with a particularly negative impact. Patients discharged from the hospital after a
      COPD exacerbation have a high mortality and are frequently readmitted with recurrent
      exacerbations. Although a number of pharmacologic and behavioral interventions have been used
      to decrease exacerbations in COPD, it is not clear that these same interventions are
      successful in reducing hospital admission rates or re-admission rates. Except for the use of
      noninvasive ventilation in patients that present in acute respiratory failure during COPD
      hospitalization, no new therapies have been discovered in the last 3 decades.

      A. Specific Aims: In this pilot proposal, we will test the feasibility of roflumilast to
      decrease all cause readmission and mortality 180 days after hospitalization for acute COPD
      exacerbation. We propose to conduct this study in 100 patients at three centers to assess the
      tolerance and treatment effect of roflumilast in order to power an appropriate definitive
      phase III multicenter trial.

      B. Study Design and Synopsis: Parallel-group, prospective, randomized, double blind,
      placebo-controlled trial of roflumilast 500 ug daily vs. placebo in approximately 100
      hospitalized AECOPD patients. Both groups will receive GOLD guideline-recommended care.

      Patients hospitalized with AECOPD will be eligible for enrollment ≤ 12 hours after admission.
      Demographics, blood tests, health related quality of life, comorbidity (Deyo-Charlson index),
      post bronchodilator spirometry, vital signs, dyspnea measured by MMRC, SaO2 and amount of
      inspired O2 to maintain SaO2> 90% at rest, serum fibrinogen levels, HBA1c, Biomarkers and
      Genetics will be obtained after enrollment and then patients will be randomized to standard
      AECOPD care plus roflumilast 500 ug daily vs. placebo. Patients will begin roflumilast or
      placebo < 12 hours of hospitalization for a total period of 180 days post enrollment. On
      discharge day (approximately day 3-4 after admission based on the recent COPD CRN zileuton
      study of hospitalized AECOPD), the measurements will be repeated as indicated (baseline
      measurements), with follow-up phone assessments at days 7, 30, 60, 90, 120 and 194 days post
      enrollment. An in-person clinical visit will be conducted at days 14 and 180 post
      randomization.

      Study will begin within 12 hours of patient's admission and last for 194 days. Baseline: Will
      occur within 12 hours of patient's admission to the hospital. Patients will have a medical
      history taken as well as smoking history. Patients will also be given a physical exam
      including vital signs. A spirometry test will also be performed. Women with the potential to
      become pregnant will be given a pregnancy test. Data will also be collected in regards to
      dyspnea scales, Deyo-Charlson index, and GOLD classification. Patients will complete a
      Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale to exclude patients with a history of suicidal
      behavior ≤ 2 years or suicidal ideation ≤ 6 months prior to enrollment Randomization:
      Patients will be randomized to one of two treatment groups. Randomization will be done using
      a randomized block design stratified by treatment center. One group will receive roflumilast
      500 mcg (Daliresp®) and the other will receive a placebo tablet. Patients will begin one of
      these treatment arms within 12 hours of hospitalization for a total period of 180 days post
      enrollment.

      Day of hospital discharge: A spirometry test will be performed and an adverse event
      assessment will be completed.

      Day 7: Phone Visit. Data collected includes: interim history, adverse events, vital status,
      and exacerbation history. During this telephone visit the study doctor or nurse coordinator
      will ask how the patient is feeling and if they have needed to visit the doctor or go to the
      emergency room or hospital since the last time they were contacted. They will be asked how
      well they are tolerating the study drug.

      Day 14: Clinic Visit. At this visit vital signs, C-SSRS test, interim history, adverse event
      assessment, vital status, and exacerbation history will be recorded. The following
      questionnaires will given: EQ-5D, the St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ), and the
      Modified Medical Research Council dyspnea score (MMRC).

      Days 30, 60, 90, & 120: Phone Visit. Data to be collected includes: interim history, adverse
      events assessments, vital status, and exacerbation history. During each of these telephone
      visits the study doctor or nurse coordinator will ask how the patient is feeling and if they
      have needed to visit the doctor or go to the emergency room or hospital since the last time
      they were contacted. They will be asked how well they are tolerating the study drug.

      Day 180: Clinic Visit. At this visit vital signs, C-SSRS test, interim history, adverse event
      assessment, vital status, and exacerbation history will be recorded. A spirometry test will
      be performed as well during this visit. The following questionnaires will given: EQ-5D, the
      St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ), and the Modified Medical Research Council
      dyspnea score (MMRC).

      Day 194: Phone Visit. This phone call covers the wash out period for the study treatments.
      Data to be collected includes: interim history, adverse events assessments, vital status, and
      exacerbation history. During this telephone visits the study doctor or nurse coordinator will
      ask how the patient is feeling and if they have needed to visit the doctor or go to the
      emergency room or hospital since the last time they were contacted.

      All patients will receive standardized, optimized care for AECOPD. Nebulized albuterol (2.5
      mg in 0.5 ml, dilute to 3 ml NSS administered every 4-6 hours) and ipratropium bromide (0.5
      mg in 0.5 ml, diluted with 2.5 ml of saline administered every 6 hours) will be given. A
      14-day course of systemic steroids consisting of intravenous methylprednisolone 125 mg every
      6 hours for up to 72 hours, followed by once daily oral prednisone 60mg/day for days 4-7, 40
      mg prednisone days 8-11 and 20 mg prednisone days 12-14 will be provided. A 7-day course of
      antibiotics will be selected based on patient's medical allergy history and relevant culture
      data if available. Supplemental oxygen will be provided by route and dose to achieve maximum
      patient comfort and compliance to maintain a SaO2 > 92%. Noninvasive positive pressure
      ventilation will be utilized at the discretion of the treating physicians.

      Following oral administration, roflumilast is rapidly absorbed with a tmax of about 1 hour
      and an 80% bioavailability. Roflumilast is metabolized by CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 enzymes with
      N-oxide being the principal major metabolite. N-oxide has selectivity for the PDE4 isoenzyme
      and mainly accounts for roflumilast's in vivo bioactivity. No major interactions have been
      reported between roflumilast and other COPD medications.

      The present proposal is a pilot study designed to test the feasibility of a future project to
      be conducted in a multicenter trial in hospitalized patients. Determine the treatment effect
      of roflumilast as add-on therapy to decrease all cause readmission and mortality as a
      composite endpoint 180 days after randomization to roflumilast or matching placebo ≤ 12 hours
      after hospitalization for acute COPD exacerbation.

      The primary analysis for all study outcomes will be performed on an intention to treat basis.
      In the intention to treat approach, all subjects are analyzed in the group to which they were
      randomized, regardless of whether the assigned treatment was adhered to and regardless of
      whether there were any eligibility violations.

      Univariate descriptive statistics will be calculated for baseline parameters overall and by
      treatment group. For categorical outcomes, these will include the number percentage of
      subjects in each category. For continuous variables, these will include the mean and standard
      deviation for variables with approximately normal distributions and the median and 25th and
      75% percentiles for variables with skewed distributions.

      The primary outcome is time from randomization to a composite outcome of all cause
      re-hospitalization and all-cause mortality, whichever comes first. The primary analysis will
      be a log-ranked test and associated Kaplan-Meier plot, unadjusted for any covariates.
      Censoring will occur at the earliest date of any of the following occurrences, unless the
      subject has already experienced the primary outcome event:

        -  Lost to follow-up despite intensive efforts

        -  Subject or healthcare proxy withdrawal of consent

        -  180 days after randomization. 3. Analysis of secondary outcomes. Primary analysis of
           other time to event outcomes will be performed using unadjusted log rank tests that have
           associated Kaplan-Meier plots, similar to the primary analysis of the primary study
           outcome. Secondary analysis of these outcomes will use Cox regression to adjust for
           baseline subject factors (covariates) that are known to be associated with the outcome.

      The primary analyses of changes in continuous measures such as absolute and percent changes
      in spirometry and dyspnea scores, for example, will be analyzed using an analysis of
      covariance where change from baseline to a particular time period is the dependent variable.

      In this pilot proposal, the treatment effect of roflumilast vs. placebo to prolong the time
      to event of a combined endpoint of death or re-hospitalization will be assessed in an
      intention to treat manner. In a similar manner, the treatment effect of roflumilast vs.
      placebo to effect all of the secondary endpoints proposed to be measured in the pivotal phase
      III trial will also be measured (time to respiratory death or respiratory re-hospitalization
      during the 180 days post-randomization; rate of death or readmission at 30 days
      post-discharge; treatment failure; change in health status, change in FEV1, and dyspnea
      during the 180 days post-randomization; length of hospital stay during the index
      hospitalization; and the tolerance of roflumilast vs. placebo in hospitalized AECOPD).

      Because this is a pilot study the intent is to see if there is a signal that would justify a
      larger clinical trial. Therefore the significance level has been set to 0.1 and the power has
      been set at 0.7. A total of 100 patients will enter this two treatment parallel-design study.
      The probability is 70 percent that the study will detect a treatment difference at a two
      sided 10.0 percent significance level, if the true hazard ratio is 1.654. This is based on
      the assumption that the accrual period will be 36 months and the follow up period will be 6
      months and the median time to event is 8 months. The total number of events will be 73.
    
  