
    
      Eating Disorders (ED) are common and serious psychological disorders. Anorexia Nervosa (AN)
      has a prevalence estimated at between 0.48% and 0.70% among young females. Bulimia Nervosa
      (BN) is a serious mental health problem, with a prevalence of between 1-2% of young women
      while clinically significant bulimic behaviors occur in an additional 2-3%. There are
      significant barriers to access of evidence-based treatments and current models of individual
      psychotherapy will likely never meet the enormous need for psychological services for ED.
      Unfortunately, even with treatment, rates of recovery are modest with the best performing
      treatments achieving remission in only about 50% of cases while relapse rates are high,
      especially if the ED becomes chronic. It is widely acknowledged that a major shift in
      intervention practice is needed and that smartphone apps will almost certainly play a role
      due to their reach and breadth of functionality.

      As the first commercially available smartphone app for EDs, Recovery Record (RR) has
      established wide reach and user acceptability. The app provides users with meal and ED
      symptom self-monitoring and coping skill strategies in an evidence-based CBT format.
      Preliminary pilot data suggest that for a proportion of RR users, using RR is associated with
      clinically significant symptom reduction. However, a limitation of the current app is that it
      is a "one-size-fits-all" product that does not account for the heterogeneity of ED symptoms.
      Genetic, personality and neurocognitive data support distinct clusters of ED presentations
      that also differ according to response to treatment, course and outcome. Pilot data confirm
      that clinical response to RR is not homogenous across groups and that extent of cognitive
      distortions is the most potent factor to predict outcome. There is considerable opportunity
      to increase RR's effectiveness across a range of ED symptoms and behaviors by creating
      adaptive and tailored content focused on remediation of cognitive distortions.

      During Phase 1 of this study screening algorithm will be validated against an unseen,
      prospective test dataset of approximately 2,000 users. All candidate predictor variables will
      be entered into a Signal Detection Analysis to confirm the sensitivity and specificity of the
      screen. Informed by the resultant algorithms, adaptive content will be developed that targets
      ED-specific cognitive distortions. To evaluate acceptability, adapted content will be piloted
      with approximately 200 individuals for a period of one month. Participant feedback and
      utilization data will inform content acceptability and feasibility. By the end of the first
      phase tailored content that is acceptable to individuals with specific symptom presentations
      will be developed.

      Phase 2 will focus on an evaluation of whether an adaptive app offering tailored content
      addressing eating related cognitive distortions in a stepped way can outperform the current
      standard app. The adaptive content will be integrated into a new, dynamic version of the app
      (RR-A) that will then be evaluated against the current app (RR-S). Approximately 5,000
      registered users of RR will be randomized to receive either RR augmented with targeted
      content (RR-A), or RR in its current standard format (RR-S) over a two-month period. Outcome
      data will be measured at baseline, one month, end of treatment, and at six-month follow-up.
      At the end of the study period it is predicted that the resultant evidence-based product will
      have demonstrated ability to bring about clinically significant reduction in symptoms in more
      users than the current app, and thus will have potential to make a substantial public health
      impact.
    
  