
    
      Preliminary evaluation of efficacy and determination of the ribociclib safety profile in
      patients with brain tumors will be studied. All patients will be treated with ribociclib (600
      mg/day) for 8-21 days before surgical resection of the recurrent tumor. Rb status of the
      recurrent tumor will be determined by immunohistochemistry within 2 weeks after surgery.
      Patients with Rb-positive tumors will continue treatment with ribociclib (21 days on, 7 days
      off) after surgery. Patients will be treated until unacceptable toxicity is observed, or
      until disease progression as assessed by radiographic or clinical metrics. We will determine
      whether molecular markers associated with changes induced by ribociclib treatment in tumors
      (matching initial vs. recurrent tumors) correlate with progression-free survival.

      Approximately 20% of patients with recurrent high-grade glioma will undergo surgical
      resection of their tumor typically at the time of first recurrence. These patients will be
      eligible for this study. An extra 10 mL of blood will be collected during a routine clinical
      procedure prior to initiation of ribociclib treatment (i.e., baseline blood sample),
      separated into plasma and buffy coat fractions, and frozen for pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis.
      Patients will be treated with ribociclib for 8-21 days prior to surgery to identify drug
      effects on tumor cells, and to determine drug PK. The last presurgical dose of ribociclib
      will be administered on the day of surgery at 4-8 hours prior to surgery to allow sufficient
      time for the drug to enter tumor cells, inhibit CDK4/6, and modulate downstream effectors.
      Blood will be acquired within 1 hour before surgery (as close to the time of surgery as
      possible). Blood will be separated into plasma and buffy coat fractions, and frozen. During
      surgery, samples of brain tumor core and infiltrating brain tumor will be acquired. Tissue
      samples will be frozen or fixed in paraffin embedded blocks and histology for PK and
      molecular analyses.
    
  