
    
      Cystathionine beta-synthase deficient homocystinuria(CBSDH) is an inherited disease that
      results in elevation of a substance called homocysteine(Hcy)in blood and urine. Individuals
      with this disorder have a very high risk for developing blood clots that can cause a stroke
      or other life-threatening problems. In addition, these individuals have bone and joint tissue
      abnormalities.

      Current treatment with an extremely strict diet and medication (betaine) is very difficult to
      follow, and often fails. Development of additional treatment strategies has been limited by a
      lack of knowledge and understanding of how this disease works. Hence, there is a need to
      better understand what causes the blood clots and the bone and joint tissue abnormalities.

      New data suggest that oxidative stress and inflammation play a central role in animals with
      this disease. Limited data on humans with this disease support this as well. Further, data
      from animals with this disease suggests that taurine, a natural body substance and food
      product, which is low in these patients, mitigates this effect. This study is designed to
      follow-up on these data.

      The purpose of the study is to increase our understanding of the disease process in this
      disorder, and to see in a pilot study if short-term supplementation with taurine is an
      effective intervention. The aims of the study are to:

        1. see if substances (markers) associated with oxidative stress and inflammation are
           increased in individuals with CBSDH

        2. see if the levels of these markers relate to the levels of homocysteine

        3. see if the levels of these markers decrease with short-term taurine supplementation

        4. see how bood vessels and platelets (small substances in the blood that help blood clot)
           work in individuals with CBSDH, if their ability to work is related to levels of markers
           of oxidative stress and inflammation, and if taurine supplementation improves how they
           work

        5. see if alterations of bone strength are related to levels of markers of inflammation.

      The hypotheses to be investigated are as follows:

        -  Biomarkers of oxidative stress and inflammation are increased in individuals with CBSDH

        -  The degree of elevation of the biomarkers of oxidative stress and inflammation is
           relative to the degree of elevation of homocysteine, the main accumulating substance for
           this disease.

        -  Treatment with taurine mitigates the elevation of biomarkers of oxidative stress and
           inflammation.

        -  Endothelial function (blood vessel function) is abnormal in individuals with CBSDH even
           when receiving standard therapy and is improved with taurine supplementation.

        -  Chronic platelet aggregation, a variable finding in individuals with CBSDH, is mitigated
           with taurine supplementation.

        -  Decreased bone mineral density relates to the increase in inflammatory markers in CBSDH.

      In addition, baseline pharmacokinetics (how much taurine is in the blood) of oral
      pharmacologic doses of taurine will be developed.
    
  