
    
      2 OUTLINE OF STUDY METHODOLOGY (See Appendix D) The methodology of the testing is outlined
      below:-

      STARVATION POLICY The three exercise tests will be undertaken on three separate days but at
      the same time in the morning to minimise the starvation time and ensure consistency. All
      patients will be asked not to partake in strenuous exercise 24 hours prior to the test as
      this could affect hydration and performance status.

      Starvation exercise test Participants will be asked to starve from midnight prior to the
      test. They may have a small glass of water at 6am on the day of the test. This is in line
      with the current starvation policy at the Freeman Hospital.

      CHO loaded test Participants will be asked to drink an isotonic carbohydrate loaded drink
      (preload) appendix E the night before the test and also two hours prior to the CPX test. This
      type of clear drink has been shown to be emptied from the stomach within 2 hours and as such
      can be administered safely on the day of surgery. They again will be asked to starve from
      midnight prior to the test.

      CHO-P loaded test

      Participants will be asked to drink an isotonic carbohydrate drink (Highfive energy source
      4:1) the night prior to the test and also two hours prior to the CPX test. Again, it has been
      shown that this type of drink is emptied from the stomach rapidly. They again will be asked
      to starve from midnight of the test

      CARDIOPULMONARY EXERCISE TESTING

      Cardiopulmonary exercise measurements are conducted in the consistent environment of the
      preassessment clinic in Clinic H, Freeman Hospital. CPX equipment includes an electronically
      braked cycle ergonometer, 12 lead ECG and a metabolic cart. The ECG allows online monitoring
      of all leads for rate and rhythm, and can measure changes in any S-T segment
      depression/elevation suggestive of cardiac ischaemia. The metabolic cart has oxygen and
      carbon dioxide analysers with a response time enabling breath-by-breath measurement.
      Calibration is ensured before each test. VO2, VCO2, heart rate, minute ventilation, and work
      rate are displayed continuously throughout the test.

      Setting up the CPX test Patients have ECG leads applied before getting on the bike, and are
      coached on the mouthpiece and communication during the test. They are instructed to give
      their 'best effort' but to stop if they feel dizzy or faint. The increment in work rate is
      predetermined using equations for an estimate of expected work capacity, to aim for the test
      duration to be approximately 6-10 minutes.

      CPX Test protocol Initially, 2 - 5 minutes of resting data is performed, ensuring patient
      comfort, and that the Respiratory Exchange Ratio (RER) falls below 1, indication the patient
      is not hyperventilating. Next, there is 1-3 minutes of unloaded cycling, followed by a graded
      increase in incremental workload. The leg speed throughout the test is maintained at 50-60
      rpm to ensure constant effort. The patient is given verbal feedback and encouragement
      throughout the test. The test is stopped by the patient due to fatigue, pain, light
      headedness, or when they fail to maintain greater than 30 rpm for more than one minute
      despite encouragement. On completion of the exercise phase of the test, the patient is
      further monitored during the recovery period until heart rate reaches within 10% of pre-test,
      and all ST segments have normalised if applicable.

      Exercise data processing Results are presented in standard nine-panel format compiled by CPX
      software. Further analysis for sub maximal parameters related to cardiopulmonary reserve is
      undertaken by trained personnel
    
  