
    
      Around 1 in 10 (10%) pancreatic cancer patients carries an inherited change (mutation) in a
      gene which can increase the risk of cancer. Relatives of patients with pancreatic cancer are
      often unaware that the mutation can be passed down through the family. Having information
      about genetic risk can be important to family members. There may be options for early and/or
      more frequent screening (to look for cancer or pre-cancer) or early detection
      recommendations.

      This research is being done to study the impact of different methods of teaching about and
      offering genetic testing to family members of pancreatic cancer patients who may carry a
      mutation.

      Study arms:

      Individuals will be randomized (like flipping a coin) by family to one of the two study arms
      to receive genetic education and elect to undergo genetic testing.

      Individuals in Arm 1 (video conference platform plus Color Genomics) will receive genetic
      education via a pre-recorded educational video and interactive session with the study team
      through an internet-based platform.

      Individuals in Arm 2 (Color Genomics Only) will receive genetic education from Color
      Genomics, Inc., an online, commercial genetic testing service.

      Informed consent:

      Participants will be asked to provide informed consent in order to join the study.

      Study questionnaires:

      Questionnaires will be given at baseline and throughout the duration of the study.
      Participants will be asked to complete questionnaires through the online study database,
      called REDCap (paper questionnaires are also an option). The baseline questionnaires will ask
      participants about their medical history, their experience with pancreatic cancer and other
      relevant health behaviors.

      The follow-up questionnaires will ask about how much participants worried about cancer, how
      participants made choices, their knowledge gained and how much families shared genetic test
      results (if participants chose to get testing). The study will also ask about participants'
      choices to have pancreas exams and other surveillance (long-term screening) procedures, and
      their lifestyle choices after receiving the intervention.

      Genetic testing:

      GENERATE offers genetic testing at no cost to participants in the study. Color Genomics will
      provide the genetic testing services for the study. Participants will be directed to create a
      personal Color Genomics account that will allow them to enter their personal and family
      history information, keep track of their genetic testing kit and receive their genetic test
      results. Participants will be mailed an FDA-approved saliva collection kit from Color
      Genomics. When participants receive the kit in the mail, they will be able to use the kit's
      unique barcode number to activate it and link it to their online account. A video on the
      website will show participants how to provide a large enough saliva sample. It will also
      contain instructions for how to properly package and mail back the kit to Color Genomics
      using a pre-paid shipping package.

      Getting test results:

      It usually takes about 4-6 weeks to get the results back from this genetic test. Participants
      will receive an email letting them know that their results are available for review through
      their Color Genomics account or via a phone call with a Color Genomics genetic counselor.

      Length of study:

      The total participation on this study will last about 18 months, including follow-up.
      Participants may be contacted regarding participation in future studies.
    
  