
    
      The increasing incidence of incomplete Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) has raised new rehabilitation
      challenges. Recovery of walking is one of the top priorities in SCI persons and growing
      efforts have been pursued aimed at identifying effective alternative techniques for improving
      gait performance.

      Standard rehabilitation approach has been so far the most widely used, but the recent
      introduction of anthropomorphic exoskeletons may open new frontiers in the field.
      Anthropomorphic exoskeletons have been developed to assist SCI patients with mobility, but
      there is also a certain optimism that they may have potentialities to improve walking
      patterns of incomplete SCI persons after a rehabilitation period with such devices is
      terminated. So far, however, while different systematic reviews and meta-analyses have
      reported on the safety of the training with such exoskeletons, there are no significant
      Fiftystudies on its efficacy. Along with this, central mechanisms underlying the anatomical
      and functional changes induced by these approaches have never been investigated in SCI.

      This longitudinal randomized controlled trial, with a 2-arm parallel group design, aims at
      evaluating the efficacy of the training with an anthropomorphic, robotized exoskeleton
      (EKSO-GT, by Ekso Bionics), as "add-on" to the standard locomotor rehabilitation, in
      improving walking performance, when compared to the standard locomotor rehabilitation alone,
      in a population of patients with non-acute motor incomplete SCI. Along with this and other
      clinical outcomes, neurophysiological and structural markers of Central Nervous System (CNS)
      plasticity will be explored, aimed at capturing mechanisms underlying how anthropomorphic
      exoskeletons affect CNS plasticity.

      Fifty patients will be recruited in 3 Italian rehabilitation hospitals setting and assigned
      to 2 groups, with an allocation ratio of 1:1, through a block randomization approach. One
      group will perform a 4-week standard locomotor training (sLT) alone, while the other will
      perform a 4-week period sLT plus a training with the EKSO-GT (sLT + EX-T). Afterwards, both
      groups will undergo a further 4-week sLT alone.

      Patients will be evaluated at several time points (always when the exoskeleton is not worn):
      clinical outcomes will be assessed by means of clinical examinations, standardized tests and
      validated scales; neurophysiological modulations will be evaluated by means of paired Motor
      and Sensory Evoked Potentials and a study of Electroencephalographic (EEG) slow waves
      oscillations and signal coherence during sleep; anatomical and structural cortical
      modifications will be studied with brain functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI).

      It is expected that the overground locomotor training with a new-generation exoskeleton, as
      "add-on" to standard locomotor training, can further improve clinical outcomes (especially
      walking performance) in the studied population, and that such clinical improvements are
      underlined by mechanisms modulating synaptic plasticity occurring also at the CNS level.
    
  