
    
      Intervention

      The intervention product (Yakult) (supplied as fermented milk) and placebo will be delivered
      in sealed pots of 65 mL with date stamped expiry. Yakult contains Lactobacillus casei Shirota
      (a minimum of 6.5 × 10 9 live cells of Lactobacillus casei Shirota are contained in each
      pot). The pots will be stored at 4-7 °C (domestic refrigerator) on premises at University
      Hospital of Leicester and the University of Leicester until provided to participants. These
      products have a shelf life of four weeks but fresh deliveries will be sent every two weeks.
      They will be stored at approximately seven degrees Celsius (refrigerated at the University
      and subsequently, after delivery to participants, in domestic refrigerators) in a restricted
      area where only members of the research team will have access to them. Participants will have
      supplies provided to them in person every two-weeks and will be required to ingest two pots
      of Yakult, every day for six months. Participants will be instructed to ingest one 65ml pot
      in the morning (prior to breakfast) and one bottle in the evening (prior to an evening meal).
      They will also be instructed to avoid any other dietary supplement aimed at modulating the
      gut microbiota during the six month intervention period. Researchers will keep a log of the
      amount of pots supplied to participants and will visit the participants at the haemodialysis
      unit to supply more pots.

      Placebo

      The placebo will be indistinguishable (identical in taste and colour but will not contain
      Lactobacillus casei Shirota) to both participants and trial investigators. It will be stored
      and provided in exactly the same manner as the intervention product.

      Compliance

      A record of compliance for supplement ingestion will be completed by all participants
      (including days where they may have missed taking the supplement). Following feedback from a
      research patient group, all participants will be offered any or all of the following steps in
      any combination to aid adherence to the product:

        -  Phone call reminders (daily or weekly)

        -  Text or email alerts at any preferred schedule

        -  Regular visits / reminders in person on the dialysis units

      Patient Numbers - Feasibility and Statistical Power Patients will be recruited from within
      the Leicester Renal Network, which includes ten dialysis units treating over 800
      haemodialysis patients. The number of participants required is therefore readily attainable.
      Based on a previously reported (Wang et al., 2015), post-intervention change (compared to
      pre-intervention) in serum endotoxin following probiotic supplementation in peritoneal
      dialysis patients (-1.11 ± 1.5 EU/mL for probiotic and 0.86 ± 2.3 endotoxin units/mL for
      placebo), it was calculated (Stata IC version 15.1, StataCorp, Texa, USA) that n=44 (n=50
      accounting for 10% dropout for death and transplantation over 6 months) was required to
      detect a significant difference between probiotic and placebo groups with 90% power and alpha
      0.05.

      Dropout rate A drop-out rate of 10% in line with previous studies is expected. This is also
      entirely in-keeping with previous experience of interventional studies in the haemodialysis
      population which show a 10-20% drop out rate due to death, transplantation and non-adherence
      (Graham-Brown et al., 2016).

      Randomisation The trial design will be a randomised-controlled trial (RCT). Participants will
      be individually randomised to either the Lactobacillus casei Shirota or a well-matched
      placebo. After recruitment, participants will be randomised to one of two groups using the
      REDCap system by the bioinformatics team within the National Institute of Health Research
      Biomedical Research Centre at the University of Leicester.

      Blinding This trial will be conducted in a double-blind manner. Both participants and
      researchers will be blind to the treatment allocation. Both the Lactobacillus casei Shirota
      (Yakult) and the placebo will be supplied, and simply marked as, 'A' or 'B', by Yakult
      Honsha. Neither the researchers nor the participants will know which is Yakult and which is
      placebo and will therefore both be unaware which product they are taking. Yakult Honsha will
      have no knowledge of which patients are randomised to which group. Once all patients have
      completed the study, the database has been locked and statistical analyses performed, the
      nature of the two product groups will be revealed by un-blinding.

      Main assessments (at baseline and six months) will take place over one or more sessions
      dependent on patient preference. Blood and saliva samples will be taken at the start of
      dialysis, eliminating the need for additional venepuncture; relevant demographic data will be
      extracted from medical records throughout the trial and also collected from participants
      prior to their usual haemodialysis appointment. Participants will have the choice of
      completing the questionnaires during their usual haemodialysis appointment (with the
      assistance of a researcher) or taking them home to complete at their convenience and return
      them to the researcher at their next haemodialysis appointment. The questionnaires will take
      no longer than 30 minutes to complete.

      Participants will have the choice of giving their faecal sample either at their normal
      dialysis appointment or will be given a kit to collect their sample at home. All data can be
      collected from participants around their usual haemodialysis treatment so as to reduce the
      additional time participants need to attend over and above their out-patient appointment.
      Although this may require them to arrive earlier (e.g. 30 minutes) than their usual
      appointment time.
    
  