
    
      Neutropenia is one of the most common side effects of myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Febrile
      neutropenia and infectious complications are associated with chemotherapy dose delays and
      reductions and an increased risk of hospitalization. Prophylaxis with recombinant G-CSFs
      reduces the incidence, severity and duration of CIN and the risk of developing FN.
      Pegfilgrastim is available for over 10 years and is specified in the SmPC to be applied at
      least 24 hours after cytotoxic chemotherapy. For this application patients often have to
      return to their physician one day after chemotherapy treatment for the sole purpose of
      receiving pegfilgrastim subcutaneous (s.c.) injection. For different reasons, some of the
      patients requiring pegfilgrastim may not be able to return at this day and thus may not
      receive pegfilgrastim in accordance with the SmPC. The On-body injector for pegfilgrastim
      provides an option for patients not to return to the clinic/medical office the day after
      chemotherapy for their pegfilgrastim injection. The kit includes a single-use prefilled
      syringe co-packed with the On-body injector for pegfilgrastim. The On-body injector is
      applied to the patient's skin at the day of chemotherapy treatment and it automatically
      delivers pegfilgrastim approximately 27 h after the On-body injector was applied to the
      patient's skin.

      Patient-reported outcomes on preference for either application form can help to guide
      physicians' treatment choice, particularly in terms of application of the same active
      substance, in this study pegfilgrastim.

      This study aims to compare the two application forms of pegfilgrastim (pegfilgrastim
      pre-filled syringe vs. On-body injector for pegfilgrastim) with regard to patient preference
      and health economy. A trial design with randomization of patients to receive the two
      application forms of pegfilgrastim in an alternating sequence for 4 cycles starting with
      either On-body injector for pegfilgrastim (Arm A) or pegfilgrastim pre-filled syringe (Arm B)
      was chosen. In this way, all patients will receive both application forms in order to be able
      to decide for their individual preference. Four cycles (that means each patient will receive
      each application form of pegfilgrastim twice) should be a sufficient number for the patient
      to make a decision. This design with two treatment arms serves to exclude a systematic bias
      that might be generated when starting with the same application form for all patients.
    
  