
    
      Background: Nausea and vomiting (emesis) is a common and burdensome side-effect of emetogenic
      chemotherapy. Emesis affects both the patient's quality of life and induces high costs within
      the health-care system. Many patients are interested in acupuncture, despite weak scrientific
      evidence for its effects beside non-specific effects. Few credibly sham-controlled studies
      have previously been conducted. The therapist's care and communication during acupuncture as
      well as during standard care may induce non-specific effects, such as placebo effects,
      potentially driven by the patient's expectations. It is not known if the type of
      communication, in terms of how positive the therapist communicates regarding expected
      effects, affects the effect of antiemetic treatments.

      Aims: To investigate if chemotherapy-induced emesis, treatment expectancy and quality of life
      differ between patients who receive A) standard care including antiemetics, B) standard care
      plus sham acupuncture or C) standard treatment plus genuine acupuncture by a therapist who
      emphasizes the positive expected outcomes of the treatment, compared to a therapist who
      communicates neutral regarding the expected outcomes.

      Procedure: Patients undergoing chemotherapy for cancer at three Swedish oncology departments
      will receive written and oral study information and are screened for study criteria. The
      eligible patients will be randomized to A) standard care, including antiemetics or to B)
      standard treatment plus sham acupuncture or C) standard treatment plus genuine acupuncture.
      Within the three groups, the patients are randomized to receive either neutral or positive
      communication with the therapist during the treatment.

      Outcome measures: The primary outcome is intensity of nausea within the five days after the
      chemotherapy session in patients receiving positive or neutral communication. Data collection
      of nausea and vomiting, expectations, and quality of life is performed at baseline the day
      before the studied chemotherapy session, during 10 days after the studied chemotherapy
      session, and at a follow-up ten days after the last chemotherapy session.

      Qualitative interviews regarding the patients' experiences of the communication with the
      professionals are conducted with a strategicaly selected group of patients from all
      randomization combinations. The selection aims to provide heterogenicity.
    
  