
    
      Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is a prevalent entity, affecting over 50% of men older
      than 60 years.3 The clinical picture of the disease includes lower urinary tract symptoms
      such as interrupted and weak urinary stream, nocturia, urgency and leaking and even sexual
      dysfunction in some individuals. Medical therapy is usually the first-line treatment.
      However, the efficacy of drugs like alpha-blockers is limited, and as disease progresses more
      invasive treatment options have to be taken into consideration.

      In cases with moderate to severe lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) monopolar transurethral
      resection of the prostate (TUR-P) is the standard treatment. Especially in frail patients,
      conventional TUR-P is associated with relevant and potentially deleterious complications.

      The proportion of elderly patients on anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy with cardial
      comorbidities increases. Especially major bleeding and transurethral resection syndrome (TUR
      syndrome) put these high-risk patients at a relevant perioperative risk.

      TUR syndrome is caused by absorption of electrolyte-free irrigating fluid (which has to be
      used in monopolar TUR-P), and consists of symptoms from the circulatory and nervous systems.
      Mild forms are common and often go undiagnosed, while severe forms of the TUR syndrome are
      potentially life-threatening.

      Using isotonic saline, like in bipolar TUR-P and transurethral laser vaporization (TUV-P),
      TUR syndrome can be prevented. Moreover, these techniques were thought to completely prevent
      influx of irrigation fluid into the vascular system due to their excellent coagulation
      properties.

      However, the Zürich study group has demonstrated that in bipolar resection of the prostate
      and with the Greenlight-Laser, significant intraoperative fluid absorption can occur. The
      authors emphasized, that care must be taken if using this procedures in patients with
      significant cardiovascular comorbidities, as large volume influx in patients with significant
      cardiac comorbidities could result in dangerous complications.

      Ethanol monitoring was first used in the late 1980's as an alternative to traditional methods
      of measuring fluid absorption (i.e. measuring volumetric fluid balance and serum sodium
      concentration). These techniques, however, are bothersome and must be carried out
      meticulously to yield a valid figure of absorption. If a tracer amount of ethanol is added to
      the irrigation fluid, the volume of fluid absorbed can be estimated from the amount of
      ethanol measured in the patients' exhaled breath.

      The expired-breath ethanol technique is an established method of investigating intra
      operative absorption of irrigation fluid. Ethanol 1% is added to conventional isotonic 0.9%
      saline for use as intra-operative irrigation. The absorption of irrigation fluid can be
      estimated by measuring the end-expiratory ethanol concentrations with an alcometer.

      During the last years, the Thulium laser has emerged as an alternative to other types of
      lasers, combining the best features for performing vaporisation techniques: Thulium laser has
      a wavelength of 2013 nm, and its target chromophore is water. The energy of the Thulium laser
      has a high tissue absorption rate, producing effective vaporisation with scant depth in the
      remaining tissue. As the properties of water remain unaltered until it reaches boiling point,
      the effect of the laser on the tissue remains constant throughout the surgical procedure.

      The short-term complication rate with the Thulium laser is similar to the rate described
      after vaporisation with other laser systems and less than that with TUR-P. Thus, Thulium
      vaporisation of prostate has established as a standard procedure in many urological
      departments including ours.

      Despite recent publications on the safety and complications with Thulium vaporisation of the
      prostate, to the investigators knowledge, until now, no prospective trial has directly
      assessed, whether absorption of irrigation fluid occurs and to what extent in Thulium Laser
      vaporisation of the prostate.

      The investigators therefore aim to investigate if absorption of irrigation fluid occurs
      during Thulium Laser vaporisation of the prostate by expired breath ethanol test.
    
  