
    
      Hypotheses

        -  There is an optimal pain control regimen for post-tonsillectomy pain control in adults

        -  Post-tonsillectomy pain levels in adults peak around postoperative day number seven

        -  Post-tonsillectomy adults return very slowly to normal (pre-surgery) oral intake and
           diet

      Purpose

        -  To assess daily post-tonsillectomy pain level in adults for the two weeks after surgery

        -  To determine if there is an optimal post-tonsillectomy pain control regimen in adults
           for the two weeks after surgery

        -  To determine oral intake levels in post-tonsillectomy adults for the two weeks after
           surgery

        -  To determine daily amounts of nausea/vomiting in post-tonsillectomy adults for the two
           weeks after surgery

        -  To determine the change in weight in the two to three weeks after surgery

      Study Background Tonsillectomy (with or without adenoidectomy) is a very common procedure in
      children and adults. The most common indications for tonsillectomies include chronic
      tonsillitis and/or obstructive sleep apnea. While many studies have examined the optimal
      postoperative pain control regimen in children, the optimal pain control regimen in adults
      remains poorly studied and understood.

      Literature regarding post-tonsillectomy pain in adults has primarily focused on the specific
      tonsillectomy surgical technique (there are many) rather than the exact medications used for
      pain control. Interestingly, some of these aforementioned studies did not include the name,
      type or quantity of pain medications given to their patients when the primary study endpoint
      was pain. Additional studies have examined the role of steroids, antibiotics, and/or pain
      medications given by Anesthesia while a patient is anesthetized and undergoing tonsillectomy
      to determine if this can reduce postoperative pain. IV steroids given perioperatively to
      adults undergoing tonsillectomy have less pain, nausea, and vomiting in the first few days
      after tonsillectomy. IV steroids are now routinely given before tonsillectomy by most
      practicing Otolaryngologists, including our senior authors.

      There are a limited number of studies looking at actual postoperative pain control regimens
      in adults. Most of these studies are limited in that they only looked at the first 24 hours
      following surgery rather than trending pain levels for the first week or two after surgery.
      Additional studies are limited because they are observational or prospective without
      comparative pain regimen groups (i.e. they gave all patients the same medications asked them
      their daily pain levels).

      Furthermore, a majority of studies involving postoperative pain control used a "cold steel"
      technique tonsillectomy, which is uncommonly practiced in the United States by
      Otolaryngologists, who prefer the use of electrocautery devices for tonsillectomy. It is well
      known and accepted that cautery causes more postoperative pain due to thermal tissue injury,
      however it allows for a straightforward surgery with better intraoperative control of
      bleeding. Furthermore, randomized prospective studies for postoperative pain control
      following cautery tonsillectomy are lacking in the literature.

      It is well known that the expected recovery period for adults is 2-4 weeks, during which they
      cannot work or do any strenuous activity. We would argue that the first 24 hours after
      tonsillectomy is actually better tolerated by adults because they have received high potency
      narcotics (usually through their IV) during and right after surgery. Therefore a more
      meaningful time period to study would be postoperative day number 1 - 14, when the patient is
      at home and the pain is most severe (most patients state that their pain peaks around
      postoperative number 5-7). Pain control is incredibly important issue in the
      post-tonsillectomy patient. If they have too much pain, they will not drink or eat enough to
      stay hydrated and nourished. This can lead to electrolyte abnormalities and dehydration
      requiring visits to the Emergency Department with or without admission to the hospital.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate post-tonsillectomy pain control in adults using
      three randomized medication regimens. All patients would undergo the same surgical technique
      to avoid confounding variables. Surgeries would be performed by Otolaryngology - Head and
      Neck Surgery Residents under the direct supervision of Otolaryngology staff attending
      surgeons. All of the proposed pain regimens are commonly accepted regimens used by practicing
      Otolaryngologists for adults.

      Patients would be asked to complete a questionnaire that numerically evaluates their daily:
      pain level, amount of oral intake, amount of nausea/vomiting, and amount of pain medications
      used. They would asked to mail in their results or return the clinic. Additional information
      would be collected from the patients and/or their medical records including visits to the
      emergency department, readmissions to the hospital, and postoperative complications including
      post-tonsillectomy bleeding. Data would be compiled and analyzed to determine the typical
      postoperative pain levels, daily oral intake level, and to compare the different pain
      regimens to determine if one is superior.

      It is important to note that there are accepted risks of general anesthesia and undergoing
      tonsillectomy with or without adenoidectomy. Participation in this study would not change any
      of the accepted risk of undergoing the surgical procedure. The risks commonly discussed with
      patients before tonsillectomy with or without adenoidectomy include failure to resolve
      chronic throat infections, failure to resolve obstructive sleep apnea, voice changes after
      surgery, damage to lips/teeth/tongue, taste changes, dehydration, need to return to the
      emergency department, need for admission to the hospital, and 3-5% risk of post-tonsillectomy
      bleeding that may result in need for additional surgical procedures and/or blood
      transfusions.
    
  