
    
      Investigators will perform a prospective, randomized, controlled study. All subjects in this
      group will be adults having undergone an open reduction internal fixation of the distal
      radius at San Antonio Military Medical Center (SAMMC) clinic system. Participants will be
      provided information about the study and inclusion/exclusion criteria, and upon conclusion of
      the formal consenting process, and signature of the consent document, will be considered
      enrolled in the study. Prior to initiation of any study procedures each patient must be
      cleared for participation in treatment by his or her surgeon as per standard post-operative
      protocol. This will be verified by accessing the medical record to confirm that a referral
      was made for post-operative rehabilitation. Before initiation of treatment, the enrolled
      subjects will be randomized to either a standard rehabilitation group or an occlusion
      training rehabilitation group. Treatment will be initiated approximately 6 weeks after
      surgery (when cleared by the orthopedic surgeon). Participants will undergo approximately
      8-12 weeks of treatment with therapy sessions two to three days a week (consistent with
      standard of care), and will have re-assessments completed at approximately 4 weeks, 8 weeks,
      and 12 weeks after initiating the training protocol. The 12-week time point (after initiation
      of therapy) will be at approximately the same time that patients are released for full
      activity per standard of care.

      The control (non-occlusion training) group will follow the standard post-operative distal
      radius fracture rehabilitation protocol. Treatment will include passive, active assistive,
      active range of motion (P/AA/AROM) to wrist, forearm and hand; desensitization as needed;
      edema control as needed; heat/cold modalities as needed; and strengthening exercises.
      Specific strengthening exercises which include wrist flexion/extension over a foam wedge,
      forearm pronation/supination with arm positioned at side and elbow at 90 degrees, thumb
      opposition as well as grip strengthening.

      The occlusion training group will follow the same protocol as described above but will
      utilize occlusion training with the strengthening exercises. Investigators will use an
      established occlusion training protocol already being used at the CFI. The resistance for
      strength training will be determined based on the individual participants tolerance.. A cuff
      will be wrapped around the most proximal portion of the arm of the involved extremity. In
      order to individualize the pressure for each subject, the limb occlusion pressure will be
      measured (with dopplar ultrasound over the radial artery at the wrist level) at the first
      scheduled therapy visit. The cuff pressure utilized during the post-operative exercises will
      be set at 50% of the limb occlusion pressure. Repetitions will be 30, 15, 15 and 15 for each
      of the four sets. A 30-second rest will be given between sets. The tourniquet will stay
      inflated throughout the entire exercise and rest sessions, and no longer than 30 minutes
      consecutively for any time that the tourniquet is inflated. After completion of the 4 sets
      the tourniquet pressure will be deflated. The subjects' strength will be re-assessed
      approximately every 2-4 weeks and the load will be increased as tolerated.
    
  