
    
      Background:Brain metastasis is a common event for advanced stage cancer,and whole brain
      radiotherapy(WBRT)is one of the most effective and widely utilized measures for brain
      metastases.Gaining control of the brain metastases may provide better survival for
      patients,but can also cause cognitive impairment,sometimes may be severe.Considering
      cognitive function is one of the most important aspect of quality of life(QoL), some remedies
      for the treatment-related adverse effect should be provided. Some agents were evaluated for
      this purpose,and results were unsatisfying. Ganglioside-Monosialic Acid (GM1) is used as an
      neuroprotective agent after brain surgery or neurodegenerative disease,and a clinical
      trail(NCT02468739) hosted by our team demonstrated that it could relief taxane-induced
      neurotoxicity.So GM1 is proposedto be effective in treating WBRT related cognitive
      dysfunction.

      Outline:This will be an single-blind,randomized study,102 patients planning to receive WBRT
      will be allocated to control and experiment group,respectively,to receive GM1(100mg D0-D14)
      or placebo(0.9% saline).Cognitive scales will be utilized to evaluate the efficacy.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      Evaluate the efficacy of GM1 in alleviating WBRT related cognitive impairment by Hopkins
      Verbal and Learning Test Revised-Delayed Recall(HVLT-R DR) before and after RT.

      Secondary Objective:

      Evaluate the efficacy of GM1 in alleviating WBRT related cognitive impairment by Alzheimer's
      Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive(ADAS-Cog )before and after RT.

      Evaluate the efficacy of GM1 in alleviating WBRT related cognitive impairment by Mini-mental
      state Examination(MMSE)before and after RT.

      Evaluate the efficacy of GM1 in alleviating WBRT related cognitive impairment by comparing
      severe cognitive impairment incidence,and onset time of cognitive dysfunction.

      Explore the molecular parameter for GM1 benefit. Treatment group: Ganglioside-Monosialic Acid
      is added into 250 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride injection, which is given once a day via
      intravenous drip infusion for 15 days. The first dose is given at 1 day before the start of
      the radiotherapy. At the same time, the patients are treated with a WBRT protocol selected by
      the investigators.

      Placebo group: Placebo is 250 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride injection, which is given once a day
      via intravenous drip infusion for 15 days. The first dose is given at 1 day before the start
      of the RT. At the same time, the patients are treated with a WBRT protocol selected by the
      investigators.

      Follow up: Assessment will be performed before and 12,24 36,48 weeks after RT.
    
  