
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Fibromyalgia (FM) affects 2-4% of the general population with typical symptoms being
      generalized and widespread pain, sleep disturbances, problems in memory and attention,
      anxiety and depression. Different studies have demonstrated a clear relationship between the
      presence of psychological trauma and FM, in terms of sexual and physical abuse, chronic
      stress and adverse lifetime events. According to some studies, the prevalence of
      Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) in patients with FM is 45,3%, while in the general
      population it appears to be between 1.3%-12.3%. Nevertheless, current therapeutic approaches
      do not take into account the assessment and treatment of this risk factor, therefore the
      clinical benefits obtained are limited. Moreover, existing studies in the field do not carry
      out a thorough clinical characterization of these traumatic events. As a result, there is a
      lack of consensus about the prevalence of the different types of traumatic events and their
      temporality, as well as a lack of awareness of the level of interference and impairment in
      patients with FM. Additionally, studies done on the topic are subject to important
      methodological biases.

      JUSTIFICATION OF THE STUDY:

      Due to everything explained above, we consider that studying the prevalence and clinical
      characteristics of the possible traumatic events in patients with FM has a great relevance
      and clinical importance, due to the considerable negative impact they have across the
      beginning, curse and prognosis of this disease.

      AIMS:

      The main objective of the project is to study de prevalence and characterization of traumatic
      events in a sample of women diagnosed with FM and their association with FM's clinical
      severity.

      Specifically, the study intends to analyze the existence of specific characteristics of
      traumatic events, such as the age when the event was experienced, the type of trauma
      (interpersonal o intrapersonal; simple or complex; single or repeated in time, etc.) that can
      be predictors or explicative of the patterns presented by these patients.

      HYPOTHESIS:

        1. Participants who have suffered traumatic events during childhood, of the interpersonal
           type and repeated in time will be associated with greater severity of FM and higher
           levels of pain.

        2. Participants who have suffered traumatic events during childhood, of the interpersonal
           type and repeated in time will present greater severity in the clinical symptoms of
           trauma.

        3. Participants who have suffered traumatic events during childhood, of the interpersonal
           type and repeated in time will present higher severity in affective symptoms, sleep
           disturbances and quality of life.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      This is a transversal descriptive study in which the Rheumatology Service, Adult Mental
      Health Service and Primary Care Centers of the Parc de Salut Mar will participate. The
      evaluations will be carried out in a single interview with the duration of 1 hour and a half,
      and will be conducted by specialized psychologists of the Centre Forum Research Unit (IMIM).
      Participants will have the choice to attend the assessment in the Centre Forum C/Llull 410,
      08019) or in the Rheumatology Service (CAP Vila Olímpica, C/Joan Miró 17, 08005) of the Parc
      de Salut Mar.

      During assessment sociodemographic, clinical and pharmacological data will be collected.
      Additionally, through the use of evaluation scales, pain and FM impact, psychological trauma
      related symptoms, clinical symptoms, insomnia and quality of life will be evaluated.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      The data analysis will be carried out using the R statistics package. Logic, range and data
      consistency tests will be applied to clean the data. In the same way, the different
      distributions of the variables will be obtained in order to facilitate the detection of
      possible errors in the data entry.

      Descriptive analysis will be carried out of all the identified variables in the study.
      Likewise, regression analysis will be used to predict the pain severity index (EVA, PDI, FIQ)
      based on trauma-related variables (CTQ, IES-R, SUD, DES, SDQ-20), and to predict the clinical
      severity index (HADS, AIS, SWLS) based on the pain-related variables (EVA, PDI, FIQ).
      Redundant variables will be eliminated from the model in order to identify the smallest
      possible group of predictors to explain a substantial amount of the variation in the
      dependent variables.

      To control a possible confusion bias, an adjustment model will be defined to study the
      influence of other variables and analyse possible confounders.

      A general lineal model will be used for independent variables of more than 2 categories and
      two sample t-tests will be used for variables of 2 categories. Where data does not meet
      criteria for parametric tests, non parametric tests will be used.
    
  