
    
      Criteria for preoperative assessment and grading for all five levels "F" 0 Normal level of
      difficulty or no difficulty to be expected

        1. Difficulty to apply air tight the facial mask ventilation by one person (difficulty to
           maintain SpO2 above 92% with 100% O2), or inability to prevent the decrease in SpO2
           during facial mask ventilation.

        2. Increased ventilation difficulty, requiring the presence of two anesthetists in order to
           maintain the patient's oxygenation, or inability to ventilate the patient with the
           facial mask.

      "R" 0 Normal level of difficulty or no difficulty to be expected

        1. Incomplete teeth, loose teeth, edentulous status, incisor protrusion, prognathia,
           micrognathia, limited opening of the mouth but still more than 3 cm., expected
           difficulty with direct laringoscopy and/or insertion of a supraglottic device.

        2. Mobile teeth, mouth opening less than 3 cm, laryngoscopy or insertion of a supraglottic
           airway device impossible "O"

      0 Normal level of difficulty or no difficulty to be expected

      1 Laryngoscopy and intubation difficult expected by intaroral mass, abscess, anatomical
      anomalies (large tongue) 2 Laryngoscopy and tracheal intubation expected to be extremely
      difficult or impossible "N" 0 Normal level of difficulty or no difficulty to be expected

        1. Reduced mobility of the cervical spine, short neck, bulky chest, special positioning of
           the patient necessary (roll under the shoulders)

        2. Immobile cervical spine "T"

      0 Normal level of difficulty or no difficulty to be expected

        1. Expected trouble for passing the tube through the glottis (polyp, tumor, abscess), and
           tube with smaller diameter necessary

        2. Severe obstruction in the upper airway (polyp, tumor, abscess, paralysis of the vocal
           cords), tracheal stenosis, tracheomalacia

      Criteria for intraoperative assessment and grading for all five levels. "F" 0 Normal level of
      difficulty or no difficulty

        1. Difficulty to seal the face mask accordingly by one person in order to maintain SpO2
           above 92% by ventilating with oxygen.

        2. Inability to maintain SpO2 above 92% by ventilating with oxygen with handling the face
           mask by two persons.

      "R" 0 Normal level of difficulty or no difficulty

        1. Incomplete dentition, protruding incisives, prognathia, micrognathia, a reduced
           interincisive gap above 3 cm thus explicitly hampering (but not completely preventing)
           intubation or supraglottic device insertion.

        2. Incomplete dentition, protruding incisives, prognathia, micrognathia, a reduced
           interincisive gap below 3 cm limiting intubation or supraglottic device insertion.

      "O" 0 Normal level of difficulty or no difficulty

        1. Macroglossia, presence of tumours or other findings with increased oral tissue mass,
           tongue base processes which hamper the performance of direct laryngoscopy
           (Cormack/Lehane grades up to 3°), conventional intubation or the insertion of a
           supraglottic airway. Final success could be achieved after two attempts to secure the
           airway with any adopted technique.

        2. Macroglossia, presence of tumours or other findings with increased oral tissue mass,
           tongue base processes which prevent the performance of direct laryngoscopy
           (Cormack/Lehane grade 4°), conventional intubation or the insertion of a supraglottic
           airway. Tracheal intubation could be achieved only after recurring to a visualizing
           technique (e.g. flexible fiberoptic).

      "N" 0 Normal level of difficulty or no difficulty

        1. Reduced cervical spine mobility, short neck, risk of spinal cord damage by certain head
           positions that hamper direct laryngoscopy and conventional means of tracheal intubation.
           Successful intubation possible by 2 or more attempts. Supraglottic airway insertion is
           not affected.

        2. Reduced cervical spine mobility, short neck, risk of spinal cord damage by certain head
           positions that prevent direct laryngoscopy and conventional means of tracheal
           intubation. Tracheal intubation could be achieved only after recurring to a visualizing
           technique (e.g. flexible fiberoptic). Supraglottic airway insertion may have been
           affected.

      "T" 0 Normal level of difficulty or no difficulty

        1. Difficult forwarding of a tracheal tube with regular diameter to a mid-tracheal
           position. Supraglottic airway insertion is not affected.

        2. Impossible forwarding of a tracheal tube even with a reduced diameter to a mid-tracheal
           position. Supraglottic airway insertion is not affected but ventilation is difficult or
           impossible. Necessity to apply jet ventilation or to bypass the oro-tracheal route by
           performing a trans-tracheal access.
    
  