
    
      Background: Obstructive pelvic arterial lesions were present in approximately 70-80% of
      patients aged >50 years and having erectile dysfunction. Previous studies have shown that
      most arterial stenoses were present in the internal pudendal and common penile artery
      segments. Investigators have also demonstrated that angioplasty for both internal pudendal
      and penile arteries is safe and can achieve clinically significant improvement in erectile
      function in ~60% of patients with erectile dysfunction. Nevertheless, in the ZEN study and
      investigators' preliminary observation, the 6-month angiographic binary restenosis rate for
      drug-eluting stents (DES) in internal pudendal artery approached 30-50%. The internal
      pudendal artery requires integral vasomotor function to provide sufficient blood supply
      during erection, whereas metallic stents impair vasomotor function. A fully bioabsorbable
      drug-eluting stent that scaffolds the vessel wall when needed and then disappear once the
      acute recoil and constrictive remodeling processes have subsided is therefore particularly
      advantageous for the internal pudendal artery. Investigators herein would like to assess the
      feasibility and safety of the bioabsorbable everolimus-eluting stents in patients with
      erectile dysfunction and concomitant internal pudendal artery stenoses.

      Methods: This prospective, unblinded, single-arm, single-center study is a feasibility trial
      designed to provide preliminary observations and generate hypotheses for future studies. A
      total of 15 BVSs are planned to be assessed and will be deployed in the internal pudendal
      artery, with a 1:1 ratio of both proximal and distal segments. All subjects will undergo
      pelvic CT angiography at baseline and 6 months after intervention. Invasive selective
      pudendal angiography will be performed 6-9 months after intervention as well. Intravascular
      ultrasound and/or optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging will be obtained during invasive
      angiography. The primary feasibility endpoint is CT angiographic binary restenosis (≥50%
      lumen diameter stenosis) at 6 months.
    
  