
    
      Background: End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) requiring chronic dialysis treatment is associated
      with poor health outcomes and high costs. Recent data shows that early initiation of
      dialysis, defined as starting dialysis with an estimated glomerular filtration rate >10.5
      ml/min/1.73m2 (eGFR; the measure of kidney function used in practice), has risen rapidly in
      the last two decades. In 2010, a large randomized trial was published that evaluated the
      effect of early vs. late initiation, noting no health benefits but higher costs. Despite
      this, in a recent national cohort study, the investigators noted substantial practice pattern
      variation in the timing dialysis initiation in Canada, noting that > 40% of all patients
      started dialysis "early", ranging from 10% to 57% across regions.

      The Canadian Society of Nephrology has recently released clinical practice guidelines on the
      timing of dialysis initiation, recommending an "intent-to-defer" over an "intent-to-start
      early" approach for the initiation of chronic dialysis. Since simply releasing guidelines
      does not ensure that the evidence practice gap is bridged, the Canadian Kidney Knowledge
      Translation and Generation Network (CANN-NET), a national network of clinicians, researchers
      and knowledge users, was established to ensure best practices for patients with chronic
      kidney disease (CKD). On behalf of CANN-NET, we propose a cluster randomized controlled trial
      (RCT) of a knowledge translation (KT) strategy to reduce early initiation of dialysis in
      patients with severe CKD. Informed by careful survey work, the knowledge translation
      intervention will consist of patient- and provider-directed educational tools based on the
      recent published clinical practice guidelines, and will include compelling visual aids
      (infographic and whiteboard video), audit and feedback, and in-person medical detailing. The
      control group will have access to the published clinical practice guidelines, consistent with
      current clinical practice.

      The investigators' hypothesis and specific aims are as follows:

      Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that the clinics randomized to the active KT
      strategy will start a greater proportion of patients on dialysis later (eGFR below 10.5
      ml/min/1.73m2) compared to the control.

      Aim 1 - Efficacy: To compare the impact of an active KT intervention with passive guideline
      release on the proportion of patients followed by a Nephrologist ( > 3 months) who start
      dialysis with an eGFR >10.5ml/min/1.73 m2 across the randomized CKD clinics (clusters) in
      Canada.

      Aim 2 - Safety: To compare the impact of an active KT intervention with passive guideline
      release on safe dialysis initiation (acute unplanned dialysis starts) across the randomized
      CKD clinics in Canada.

      Study Design: A cluster randomized trial of CKD clinics across Canada comparing the efficacy
      and safety of a KT intervention targeting early initiation of dialysis in patients with
      advanced CKD. The unit of observation will be the patient (i.e., outcomes will be measured at
      the level of an individual patient), and the unit of randomization will be at the level of
      the multidisciplinary CKD clinic.

      Team: The investigators' study team includes experts in the clinical epidemiology of CKD and
      kidney failure, local opinion leaders from every province/region, as well experts in
      knowledge translation and cluster randomized design. As such, the team is well positioned to
      carry out the proposed study.

      Research Significance: Early initiation of dialysis leads to uncertain benefit and potential
      harm to patients with CKD, with an increase in health care costs. This topic was deemed the
      highest priority area for knowledge translation intervention by regional and provincial
      kidney health administrators across Canada in a 2010 survey. If successful, the
      investigators' intervention will reduce the practice pattern variation in dialysis
      initiation, provide a successful framework for future KT interventions, and could have
      significant health and economic benefits.
    
  