
    
      Radioiodine therapy in thyroid carcinoma is a procedure performed for over six decades, and
      there is a vast literature in respect of its value in the complementary treatment of this
      neoplasia. This procedure also promotes a reliable follow-up based on sequential
      thyroglobulin dosages and makes possible to reduce the disease recurrence rate. One of the
      main aspects of the patients preparation before receiving the radioiodine consists in
      promoting stimulation for an effective uptake of the radioiodine, obtained either by
      endogenously TSH level elevation after post-surgical thyroid hormone withdrawal, or
      exogenously after use of recombinant human TSH. This last alternative does not demand
      suspension of thyroid hormone reposition after total thyroidectomy. Although not fully
      comprehended, it is known that hypothyroidism results in renal function hazard, which is
      reverted after hormonal reposition. It is also known that renal function modifies the
      radioiodine residence time and that the longer this time, the greater the patient's radiation
      exposure will be, and consequently with undesired irradiation of healthy tissues and organs.
      So theoretically stimulating the patient with recombinant human TSH could avoid the transient
      deficient renal function, promoting a lower radioiodine residence time and consequently
      lowering radiation exposure in this therapy.

      This project aims to evaluate the effects of the different stimulation, endogenous and
      exogenous, over renal function by glomerular filtration rate determined by 51Cr-EDTA. This
      will be a controlled and randomized study in which 44 patients that has clinical indication
      of remnant ablative radioiodine treatment will be prepared by either one of the TSH
      stimulation procedures. Additionally radiation dosimetry calculus will be done to analyze the
      levels of the patient's radiation exposure associated with each of the uptake stimulation
      procedures for radioiodine therapy.
    
  