
    
      Purpose: To determine if non-opioid pain control is a safe and effective option in the
      treatment of post-operative pain following intracapsular adenotonsillectomy in various
      pediatric age groups.

      Methods: The subject population will be patients between the ages of 3 and 17 who will
      undergo intracapsular adenotonsillectomy (T&A). Intracapsular versus total T&A technique will
      be predetermined by the child's physician and will not be a part of the study. The study will
      consist of two unblinded arms - patients receiving standard pain control regimen which
      include opioids and non-opioids, and patients receiving non-opioid pain medications only. In
      the diary they will receive, patients or caregivers will record frequency of pain medication
      taken each day with daily symptoms, a survey, and pain ratings measured by the Wong-Baker
      FACES Pain Rating Scale. Within 4-8 weeks post-operatively the patients will return for a
      follow up appointment along with their diary. If the patient does not have a follow-up
      appointment, the families may return the pain diary by email to the research coordinator or
      by mail with the given postage paid envelope. Demographic information such as age, race,
      gender, household income will be extracted from the diary and the electronic medical record.
      Information such as surgical technique, concurrent operations, post-operative pain
      prescription (types, weight based dosage, and total days prescribed) will be extracted from
      the electronic medical record and recorded as well. Outcomes measured will include pain scale
      rating and rates of complications between the two groups. We will also be investigating
      whether or not an opioid disposal pouch helps the process of disposing any leftover opioids
      from the trial. We will be providing all patients in the opioid arm an opioid disposal
      education document and randomizing half to receive the opioid disposal pouch.

      Significance: If it can be demonstrated that non-opioid pain control after intracapsular
      adenotonsillectomy does not lead to increased pain or worse outcomes in certain pediatric age
      groups, a strong argument can be made for the cessation of opioid prescription for these ages
      following this technique. Given the widespread opioid epidemic, this would be a significant
      step in curbing the massive opioid problem, as well as reducing the adverse effects of opioid
      usage in pediatric populations.
    
  