
    
      Sleep disturbance is among the most common symptoms experienced by cancer patients, occurs in
      up to 80% of patients during chemotherapy, and results in serious impairments in quality of
      life. Although pharmacologic therapies improve sleep disturbance, they have numerous side
      effects, problems with tolerance and dependence, and are not well studied in oncology
      patients. While non-pharmacologic therapies may decrease sleep disturbance, the current level
      of evidence on their efficacy is insufficient. Fatigue occurs in up to 95% of those receiving
      chemotherapy, and results in major impairments in functioning and quality of life. Despite
      its significance, few effective treatments currently exist for fatigue. Prior studies suggest
      that yoga may be helpful for sleep disturbance and fatigue, but these studies have
      limitations. An important challenge in yoga research is that it is typically a multi-modality
      practice that can include physical postures, breathing practices, and/or meditation
      components. Prior studies have not adequately addressed the effects of individual components.
      Therefore, key questions remain unanswered about the most effective elements of yoga; how to
      best combine them for particular problems such as chemotherapy symptoms; and optimal dosing.
      The current study will address these gaps in the literature and perform key developmental
      steps to prepare for a large randomized, controlled trial (RCT). It builds on preliminary
      work in which yoga breathing practices during chemotherapy were found to improve sleep
      disturbance, showed trends toward improvements in fatigue, and were feasible to implement in
      patients undergoing chemotherapy. Using a mixed-methods approach to evaluate each
      intervention component, the investigators will pursue three closely interlinked steps in
      cancer patients receiving chemotherapy. In Aim 1 (n=10), the investigators will manualize an
      individualized approach to the yoga breathing intervention and iteratively refine it to
      insure feasibility and acceptability. In Aim 2 (n=20), the investigators will manualize a
      yoga posture intervention, evaluating both restorative/static poses and flowing poses, and
      perform iterative refinement to test feasibility and acceptability. In Aim 3 (n=70), the
      investigators will assess the final multi-modality yoga intervention to select final
      intervention elements and delivery methods for testing in a planned future RCT. This proposal
      will help to improve the treatment of debilitating cancer associated symptoms and advance
      approaches to developing therapeutic yoga intervention trials.
    
  