
    
      Background: Clinical event rates in Non ST elevation myocardial infarction acute coronary
      syndrome (N-STEMI ACS) patients remain high, with one year MACE rates as high as 20%. While
      there may be early mortality differences between N-STEMI and STEMI, outcomes beyond one year
      become very similar. N-STEMI ACS patients therefore rightly remain the focus of a number of
      research directives. The objective of the RAPID-NSTEMI trial is to determine if clinical
      outcomes can be improved by very early intervention in a pre-determined higher risk N-STEMI
      ACS population. Published data has shown that inpatient Percutaneous Coronary Intervention
      (PCI) in N-STEMI ACS patients reduces subsequent clinical events. This had led to guidelines
      supporting its use in clinical practice. However, there is much less certainty regarding the
      timing of the PCI and, in particular, whether this should be a strategy used early to
      optimize outcomes. Thus, while evidence based guidelines (NICE and European) provide general
      time parameters for PCI, immediate angiography with a view to intervention in higher risk
      patients has never been robustly tested in any adequately powered, prospective randomised
      trial with clinical end points. The RAPID-NSTEMI trial sets out to test the benefits, or
      otherwise, of a strategy of immediate angiography with follow-on revascularisation in higher
      risk N-STEMI ACS patients.

      Hypothesis: Very early angiography +/- PCI improves clinical outcomes in higher risk NSTEMI
      patients when compared to standard invasive management.

      Methods: In order to identify higher risk patients as soon as possible after presentation, a
      high sensitivity troponin (Hs-Troponin-T or Hs-Troponin-I) will be taken, allowing
      calculation of a GRACE 2.0 score (GS 2.0) early after admission. The GS 2.0 will be
      determined in sufficient time to be able to test an early intervention strategy arm. Patients
      with GS 2.0 of ≥118 alone, or ≥90 with additional high risk features will be randomised in a
      1:1 fashion to one of two groups:

      Group A: immediate angiography with follow-on revascularisation if required Group B: standard
      care - pharmacological treatment until angiography with follow on revascularisation if
      required (preferably within 72 hours as per current guidelines).

      The primary outcome for the main study will be a 12-month of all-cause mortality, new
      myocardial infraction and hospital admission with heart failure.

      Power calculations indicate that 2314 patients are required to show MACE superiority for
      early intervention in such higher risk N-STEMI ACS patients.

      Analyses will be primarily according to "intention to treat", with a secondary analysis
      according to trial treatment received (comparing those who actually received follow-on
      revascularisation at the two different trial time points). There will be a cost effectiveness
      analysis.

      Mechanistic sub-studies in the two groups will be undertaken.

        1. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging substudy to assess differences in infarct size,
           oedema, microvascular obstruction and left ventricular ejection fraction between the two
           arms.

        2. Novel biomarkers substudy that will be funded separately after appropriate funding
           applications

      Expected value of results: The investigators have designed a superiority trial to anticipate
      that outcomes will be improved in higher risk patients revascularised very early after
      presentation with N-STEMI. Irrespective of outcome, this trial should determine whether there
      is a need for a change in current patient management of a common condition and, in
      particular, if all N-STEMI patients should be admitted to a PCI-capable hospital to allow for
      very early intervention. The results will inform national and international guidelines. The
      planned cost effectiveness analysis will become particularly important if clinical outcomes
      are no different between groups since length of stay should be different.
    
  