
    
      75 patients undergoing midline hernia repair under general anesthesia will be recruited and
      will be randomly allocated using closed envelope technique as follows: Control group, Local
      infilteration (Field block infilteration) group, Ultra sound Guided Rectus sheath block
      group.

      General anesthesia will be standardized for all patients with :

      2 µg kg-1 fentanyl and 2 mg kg-1 propofol. Neuromuscular blockade will be achieved with 0.5
      mg kg-1 atracurium followed by tracheal intubation.

      Muscle relaxation will be maintained by 0.1mg / kg / 30 minute of Atracrurium. Anesthesia
      will be maintained by sevoflurane. Mechanical ventilation will be adjusted with fresh gas
      flow oxygen in air 30-50% at a rate of 1 L min-1to maintain end-tidal carbon dioxide of 35-40
      mm Hg and Spo2 greater than 94%.

      BIS values will be maintained between 40 and 60. All surgical procedures will be done in the
      range between 10 am and 1 pm and by the same surgical team.

        1. Control group : will receive field block using 0.3 ml/kg of normal saline at site of the
           hernia plus ultra- sound guided rectus sheath injection using 0.3 ml / kg of normal
           saline.

        2. Field block group: will receive 0.3 ml / kg of 0.5% bupivicaine subcutaneously
           surrounding the site of the hernia following the induction of anesthesia and ultra-sound
           guided rectus sheath block with 0.3 ml / kg of normal saline.

        3. Ultrasound guided rectus sheath block : Under sterile conditions a 21/22 G , 50- 100
           milli meter length echogenic needle guided by the ultrasound into rectus sheath at the
           level of the umbilicus , using an - in plane technique. After -ve aspiration 0.3 ml/ kg
           of 0.5 % bupivicaine will be deposited on each side and the spread of local anesthesia
           will be observed by ultrasound plus 0.3 ml/kg of normal saline subcutaneously at the
           site of the hernia.

      All solutions used will be prepared by a colleague who will not participate into the study.
    
  