
    
      While most soldiers exposed to the stresses of the war-zone exhibit psychological resilience,
      about one-fifth become psychological casualties of war. The fact that such a significant
      number of soldiers have difficulty adapting to life after war exposure suggests that we need
      to have well-defined treatments that are effective and cost-efficient. Currently,
      recommendations for first-line pharmacological management of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
      focus on the use of selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as fluoxetine.
      Despite this recommendation by the DoD/VA Clinical Practice Guidelines, there have not been
      any studies evaluating the effectiveness of these medications in patients that have recently
      been exposure to war-zone stressors. In fact, studies in Vietnam Era veterans have shown
      limited effectiveness of SSRIs for PTSD. In addition, there is very limited information
      available to understand the factors that influence whether a particular soldier will respond
      to treatment with an SSRI. This study is designed to determine whether fluoxetine is an
      effective treatment for PTSD and associated conditions in soldiers with recent war-zone
      exposure, as well as determine whether response to SSRIs is related to the severity of the
      trauma exposure and PTSD symptoms, psychological resilience, adequacy of social supports
      (family, extra-military and military), post-deployment stressors and life adversity, or the
      degree of any cognitive impairment.

      After informed consent is given, fluoxetine (150 subjects) or placebo (150 subjects) will be
      administered for 12 weeks in doses from 20 mg daily up to 60 mg daily to active duty soldiers
      who are already receiving usual psychological care in the Resilience and Restoration Center
      of the Carl R. Darnall Army Medical Center at Ft. Hood. At the conclusion of this initial
      phase of the study, all participants will receive fluoxetine in doses up to 80 mg daily for
      an additional 20 weeks. All participants will be regularly monitored to determine changes in
      their PTSD symptoms. If a subject does not have at least a 50% improvement after being given
      80 mg daily of fluoxetine for 4 weeks, then they will be randomly assigned to also receive
      either bupropion SR (150 mg daily) or buspirone (up to 40 mg daily) in an attempt to amplify
      the response to fluoxetine. Statistical analyses will be used to determine which factors
      provided the greatest influence on the response to these medication trials.

      Each subject will be asked to receive a physical exam, give medical history information, and
      receive a diagnostic interview prior to participation in the study. After being randomly
      assigned to treatment, subjects will have interview or questionnaire assessments at weeks 2,
      4, 6, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28 and 32. Based solely on the degree of response as measured by the
      PTSD Checklist (a questionnaire that will be administered at each study visit), the dosage of
      study medication fluoxetine or placebo capsules will be adjusted by a pre-determined
      schedule.
    
  