
    
      This will be a crossover, placebo controlled, and randomised pilot study in 15 pre-menopausal
      female individuals with ferritin levels below 40 mcg/l but normal hemoglobin (Hb) and C
      reactive protein (CRP). The study will last 12 weeks and consist of two separated 4-week
      randomised intervention treatment periods with a prebiotic (Synergy-1) or placebo
      (Maltodextrin) in combination with an iron supplement (FeSO4) separated by a 4-week wash-out
      period. Volunteers will take daily doses of an iron supplement and a prebiotic (Synergy-1) or
      placebo (Maltodextrin) during the trial excepting in the washout period where the iron
      supplement and prebiotic/placebo treatments will be discontinued.

      This trial will investigate the effects of an iron supplement treatment in combination with a
      prebiotic food supplement or placebo food supplement. Participants will be required to take
      one daily tablet of a generic, iron supplement (200 mg FeSO4 equivalent to 65 mg iron)
      (provided by pharmacy). In addition, participants will be required to take one of the
      products (prebiotic or placebo) daily at the same time each day. The prebiotic food
      supplement (supplied by the Beneo company) is a chicory inulin powder produced in Belgium. It
      has been used in scores of human intervention studies with no adverse effects. Participants
      will be required to take one 7 g sachet of prebiotic food supplement daily. This will be
      reconstituted with water and participants will be encouraged to take the sachet at the same
      time each day. The placebo control food supplement will be maltodextrin. Maltodextrin is a
      standard placebo product for use in human studies involving prebiotics and has been used
      safely at this dose, in many trials by ourselves for the last 20 years. The products will be
      provided as a powder (served in sachets) and identical in texture and appearance. The Beneo
      company will produce and provide barcoded sachets, blinded to the investigators and
      volunteers. After all volunteers have completed their study visits and all samples have been
      analysed by researchers, Beneo will provide information about barcoded sachets. Compliance to
      food supplement (prebiotic or placebo) will be assessed by recording intake in
      gastrointestinal (GI) diaries and participants will also be asked to return any unused
      sachets to the researchers at the end of the each 4-week intervention periods. For
      participants to be considered compliant and therefore included in the study, they will be
      required to take the food supplement or placebo at least 6 out of every 7 days of the trial
      for the week period and return completed questionnaires.
    
  