
    
      The high prevalence of HIV and HCV co-infection, similarity in testing strategies, and
      interrelated risk factors suggest a practical overlap in integrating screening services. This
      integration could effectively utilize existing resources and infrastructure to address both
      epidemics and facilitate the linkage of HCV-infected individuals to care.

      The objective of this study was to integrate rapid HCV testing into a well-established HIV
      testing and counseling program to evaluate the effect of rapid bundled screening on HIV test
      acceptance rate. Secondary outcomes include HCV test acceptance, identification of newly
      diagnosed HCV- and HIV-positive patients, HCV knowledge, risk assessment, and refusal
      reasons.

      The two-armed, randomized controlled trial was conducted at Jacobi Medical Center, a Level 1
      trauma and tertiary care center located in the Bronx, New York. Upon recruitment, all
      participants completed questionnaires that included demographic information, HCV risk
      assessment, and HCV knowledge questions. Participants were randomized either to the control
      arm or the intervention arm. The control arm was offered HIV testing only and the
      intervention arm was offered HIV testing concurrently with HCV testing (bundled HIV/HCV
      screening).

      Sample size was determined using the following parameters: 1) 80% power; 2) significance
      level of 0.05; 3) two-sided significant test; and 4) 10% difference between groups on the
      acceptance of HIV testing. Using these parameters, a sample of 227 in each group was needed
      to test the primary outcome: acceptance of an integrated screening program for HIV and HCV
      infection. Groups of at least 333 were used to allow for drop-outs and protocol violations.

      Patients were recruited from the adult Emergency Department (ED) at Jacobi Medical Center.
      Recruitment took place during a six-month period from December 2012 to May 2013, and 478
      patients were enrolled in the study.

      Research Assistants were trained as Public Health Advocates to perform HIV and HCV testing
      and counseling. The Public Health Advocates approached eligible patients in the ED and
      followed a script to ask patients if they were interested in participating in a study through
      which they would be offered free screenings recommended for their general health. Patients
      who refused the offer of the HIV and/or HCV tests completed a test-refusal questionnaire. All
      enrolled participants completed a questionnaire including demographic information, HCV risk
      assessment, and HCV knowledge.

      After providing verbal consent, participants were randomized to either an HIV test only group
      (control) or a bundled HIV/HCV test group (intervention). Randomization was performed by an
      independent statistician who used a computer generated allocation schedule. Randomization
      assignments were placed in sealed opaque envelopes that were opened sequentially after verbal
      consent was obtained for the study.

      Those randomized to the control group were offered only an HIV test, and those randomized to
      the intervention group were offered both HCV and HIV tests. The OraQuick® HCV Rapid Antibody
      Test was employed as a rapid blood fingerstick test for HCV antibodies. The OraQuick Rapid
      Antibody Test Advance® HIV-1/2 Antibody test was used to test for HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibodies
      in oral fluid. Both point-of-care tests provide results in 20 minutes.

      A Public Health Advocate delivered the test(s) results to the patient and conducted post-test
      counseling. In the case of a preliminary positive result on either test, the Public Health
      Advocate informed the patient and the patient's provider and scheduled a follow up
      appointment for the patient.

      Data was recorded in an electronic database using Microsoft Excel (Microsoft Corp., Redmond,
      WA). Data obtained from subjects were entered using unique subject numbers, without specific
      identifiers. Acceptance rates for HIV testing in experimental and intervention arms was
      compared using chi square with fisher's exact derived confidence intervals. Stata statistical
      software was used to tabulate participant demographics and testing frequencies for HIV, HCV,
      or both.
    
  