
    
      INTRODUCTION Nephrolithiasis is a common disorder with a reported incidence of 12% in
      industrialized countries. The peak incidence is in ages 20s to 40s. Men are affected two to
      three times more often than women. Gouty diathesis describes uric acid or calcium oxalate
      nephrolithiasis and low urinary pH (<5.5) in the absence of excessive gastrointestinal alkali
      loses or dietary animal protein excess. Hyperuricemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and a history of
      gouty arthritis may be present. Subjects with gout are singularly predisposed to stone
      formation. Persistent acidity of the urine is a common manifestation of primary gout, that
      may be accompanied by uric acid nephrolithiasis. In the presence of an increase in the
      concentration of uric acid in the urine, the formation of uric acid stones is further
      facilitated.

      In the primary forms of nephrolithiasis the most important predisposing factors for kidney
      stones are: hypercalciuria, hyperoxaluria, hyperuricosuria, hypocitraturia, hypomagnesuria,
      high urinary sulfate, low urine volume, high urinary sodium, cystinuria, infection,
      persistently high or low urinary pH. A hereditary component has been outlined for several of
      these abnormalities, leading to the hypothesis of a genetic predisposition to
      nephrolithiasis. Pirastu and co-workers took advantage from a small, isolated population from
      Sardinia, characterized by a high prevalence of Uric Acid Nephrolithiasis (UAN). The disease
      shows familial clustering, although the transmission of UAN does not follow a simple
      mendelian inheritance pattern, suggesting that hereditary factors could play an important
      role in susceptibility to UAN. They found an association of UAN to a new gene, called ZNF365,
      and in particular to its variant Ala62Thr, making it a strong candidate predisposing factor.

      At the Unit of Nephrology, Ospedali Riuniti di Bergamo, we follow at the moment 560 patients
      with nephrolithiasis of which more than 100 are affected by gouty diathesis. 50% of all
      patients with gouty diathesis has a familiarity for kidney stones formation.

      Understanding of the genetic factors that contribute to the development of this disorder may
      lead to earlier diagnosis, thus allowing to identify, within a family, subjects that are at
      risk to develop nephrolithiasis before manifestation of the disease. These subjects may have
      access to counseling aimed at modifying their dietetic and sanitary attitudes and/or to
      pharmacological treatments in order to prevent the manifestation of the renal disease or to
      slow its progression.

      AIM The study is aimed at identifying the genetic factors that predispose to the development
      of nephrolithiasis in patients with gouty diathesis.

      DESIGN Fifteen consecutive unrelated patients with familial form of nephrolithiasis
      associated with gouty diathesis (at least two affected subjects within a family) will be
      recruited, within 3 years, through the stone clinic ambulatory of the Unit of Nephrology,
      Ospedali Riuniti di Bergamo.

      All patients affected by gouty diathesis and their selected relatives will undergo to the
      following evaluations:

        -  clinical history collection;

        -  renal ultrasound examination, to confirm previous diagnoses and identify asymptomatic
           cases;

        -  metabolic analyses, including:

        -  blood collection in order to evaluate: urate, urea triglycerides, calcium, phosphate,
           creatinine, bicarbonate, sodium, potassium, chloride, glucose;

        -  24 hours urine collection in order to evaluate urate, calcium, phosphate, oxalate,
           citrate, urea, magnesium, sodium, chloride, creatinine, sulphate, ammonium;
           determination of urinary pH and titrable acidity; calculation of acid net excretion;

        -  morning urine spot in order to evaluate volume, pH, calcium, uric acid, creatinine;

        -  genetic analyses: 10 ml blood on EDTA to obtain DNA and 3 ml without anticoagulant to
           obtain serum from each subject will be collected.
    
  