
    
      In the majority of the world, the population is living to a greater age. However, older age
      is usually associated with elevated risk of several pathologies, as well as age-related organ
      dysfunctions, which in turn can accelerate functional impairments, disability, or death. To
      identify this geriatric syndrome the term frailty phenotype has been commonly utilized. In
      particular, the frailty phenotype can be distinguished in physical frailty (PF) phenotype or
      cognitive frailty (CF) phenotype.

      Despite several groups of researchers tried to develop preventive interventions to counteract
      the physical and cognitive frail condition of elderly, the success of this task has been
      tempered by the lack of standardized, and universally agreed protocols. Moreover, the limited
      knowledge of the neurophysiological, and biological determinants of these conditions has
      precluded important advances in the research of this domain.

      Many factors combine to achieve a successful aging: genetics, health care and healty
      lifestile. Therefore, the aim of the current trial will be to understand the behaviors and
      the strategies that promote healthy lifestyle and successful human aging.

      Oldest old participants with CF and PF will be selected from the neurorehabilitation unit of
      the University Hospital of Verona (Italy). Healthy oldest old and young participants will be
      recruited from the section of Movement Sciences of the University of Verona.

      After a first phase of neurophysiological and biological examinations that will involve all
      the 4 groups, only CF and PF participants will be randomly assigned to an intervention
      program (physical exercise, physical+cognitive exercise or control). Frail participants
      assigned to exercise groups will then perform 1 year of intervention, 3 days per week, 1 hour
      per day. Afterwards, the three groups of intervention will undergo the same
      neurophysiological and biological examinations of the beginning of the study.
    
  