
    
      The proposed randomized controlled trial aims at comparing the opioid use per- and
      postoperatively in patients with versus without SIP block undergoing VATS.

      We hypothesize that use of a SIP block results in less opioid use during and the first 24
      hours after VATS as compared with patients without SIP block.

      Single center randomized controlled trial on patients undergoing VATS under general
      anesthesia.

      We intend to recruit patients scheduled for elective VATS in our hospital during a period of
      3 months. Surgical patients will be screened twice a week, because there are two days a week
      that VATS procedures take place in our hospital. We will randomize 20 patients, based on the
      power analysis (cfr infra).

      Inclusion criteria: Patients scheduled for VATS under general anesthesia Exclusion criteria

        -  Age < 18 years

        -  Urgent surgery

        -  Allergy to sufentanil or ropivacain

        -  Postoperative need for invasive ventilation within 24hours after surgery

      Sample size calculation was based on our primary hypothesis and primary study outcome, and
      was informed by data collected in patients who underwent VATS procedures in our hospital
      during the previous six months. These calculations indicate that 14 patients need to be
      included, assuming a significance level of 0.05 and a power of 80%, to detect the expected
      difference in per- and postoperative opioid use between the SIP-group and the placebo group.

      Main study parameter/endpoint: Opioid use during the first 24 hours after end of surgery
      Secondary study parameters/endpoints

        -  VAS score on day 0 and day 1

        -  Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV)

      Surgical patients in our hospital will be considered eligible if they fulfill the entry
      criteria. Eligible patients will be screened, their demographic data recorded (registry: age,
      gender, type of surgery) and those without exclusion criteria will be randomized. In total,
      20 patients will be included.

      Patient Consent All patients or legal guardians must provide written informed consent
      according to local regulations before inclusion in the study.

      Randomization will be performed using a sealed envelope system. Randomization arms Before
      surgery patients will be randomly assigned 1:1 to a placebo SIP block or to a real SIP block.
      All investigators involved intra- and postoperative are blinded. An independent anesthesia
      nurse not involved peri-operatively is asked to prepare the drugs in a different location
      according to the info kept in a sealed envelope. This envelope remains sealed in the patient
      files to be broken if an adverse event happens.

      After induction of anesthesia and before surgery, each patient will receive an injection in
      between the serratus anterior and the intercostal muscle. The injection will be localized in
      the midaxillary line, between the 4th and 5th rib. The intervention group will receive a
      total amount of 60cc which consists of:

        -  3mg/kg Ropivacain 1%

        -  1mcg/kg dexmedetomidine (Dexdor速) (ampul with 2 ml contains 100mcg/ml)

        -  Addition of NaCl 0.9% up to 60ml The control group will receive an injection of 60cc
           NaCl 0.9% at the same injection site of the SIP block.

      Each patient will receive 5-15mcg sufentanil (Sufenta速) before induction of anesthesia,
      depending on the personal choice of the anesthesiologist. To induce anesthesia, patients will
      receive 2mg/kg propofol 1% (Propofol速), and if not sufficient, a supplemental bolus will be
      given. To receive adequate neuromuscular blockage, at least 0.6mg/kg rocuroniumbromide 1%
      (Esmeron速) will be used.

      Starting from insicion, depending on the personal choice of the performing anesthesiologist
      or based on ANI monitoring, a supplemental bolus sufentanil will be given if considered
      necessary. Routine intra-operative monitoring should include noninvasive blood pressure
      measurements, pulse oximetry, end-tidal carbon dioxide fraction and electrocardiography.
      Every patient should receive at least one peripheral venous line to allow adequate fluid
      resuscitation during the study period. Nasogastric tubes, urinary bladder catheters and/or
      other intravenous catheters, as well as other, more invasive monitoring may be used according
      to local practice and/or guidelines.

      All patients receive a PCIA pump with sufentanyl and the dose requested and given is measured
      for the first and the second day. Patients receive paracetamol 1 gram every 6 hours.

      Data to be collected

      Pre-operative variables will be collected at the pre-anesthetic visit or before induction of
      general anesthesia:

      Intra-operative variables will be collected after induction of anesthesia and during surgery:

      Postoperative variables will be collected with a patient questionnaire and clinical
      examination, both on day 0 en 1 after surgery. Following variables will be collected:

      Patient characteristics will be compared and described by appropriate statistics. The
      analysis will be performed with STATA or SPSS.
    
  