
    
      Rationale: Previous research indicates that high dose aldesleukin produces tumor regression
      through upregulation of the patients' immune system. Research suggests that sorafenib
      directly targets tumors by inhibiting angiogenic activity with possibly some cytotoxicity.
      Angiogenic refers to the formation of new blood vessels that support tumor growth.
      Cytotoxicity is the measurement of a chemical's ability to damage or kill cancer cells.
      Researchers have hypothesized that the complementary ways aldesleukin and sorafenib work, and
      their non-overlapping toxicity profiles, may create a reasonable combination for the
      treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma and metastatic melanoma. The current Phase I
      study will evaluate toxicity in patients through assessing various dose levels of sorafenib
      in combination with aldesleukin.

      Purpose: The primary objective is to determine the maximum tolerated dose and characterize
      the toxicity of high dose aldesleukin and sorafenib in patients with unresectable or
      metastatic clear cell renal carcinoma and metastatic melanoma. Secondary objectives include
      determining progression free survival in patients, evaluating in a preliminary manner
      response rates, and assessing other measurements in study participants.

      Treatment: Study participants will be given bolus high dose aldesleukin and sorafenib.
      Aldesleukin will be provided through intravenous infusions on days 1 through 5. Each 5 day
      treatment is considered a cycle. The second cycle of aldesleukin will start on day 15. Two
      cycles are considered 1 course. All study participants will be given the same dose level of
      aldesleukin. No dose reductions will be permitted. Sorafenib will then be administered on day
      29. Since this study will assess the maximum tolerated dose of sorafenib, some study
      participants will receive different amounts of this drug compared to others depending upon
      when each individual enrolls in the study. Each group of 3 to 6 study participants will
      receive a higher dose of sorafenib until the maximum tolerated dose is established. Imagining
      studies will be performed to determine response to treatment during week 12. If the patient
      has stable or responding disease, a second course will be administered on the same schedule.
      Patients without disease response will be given one additional course of aldesleukin past
      maximal response. When it is decided that no further aldesleukin will be provided to
      patients, sorafenib at the Food and Drug Administration approved dose may be continued until
      there is a lack of clinical benefit or intolerable side effects develop. Several tests and
      exams will be given throughout the study to closely monitor patients.
    
  