
    
      Background

      In recent years, multiple new agents have been developed that inhibit angiogenesis and the
      epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signalling pathway.

      The cell signalling routes that are inhibited by these agents however are not only active in
      tumour formation but are also involved in physiological processes in normal tissue and
      organs. This means that these drugs do not only have an anti tumour effect but also modify
      several physiological processes that lead to side effects. Little is known about these side
      effects that generally are less severe than side effects of cytotoxic chemotherapy, but
      because targeted therapy is often administered for prolonged periods of time, these side
      effects can seriously affect quality of life.

      Objectives

      Primary objectives

      1. To determine the characteristics, frequency and severity of vascular, metabolic and
      hormonal side effects of angiogenesis and EGFR inhibitors.

      Secondary objectives

        1. To investigate if steroid profile, indol profile, concentrations of catecholamines and
           metanephrines or thyroid antibodies change during treatment with angiogenesis and EGFR
           inhibitors.

        2. To investigate if known biomarkers change during treatment.

        3. To investigate whether vascular function changes during treatment with angiogenesis and
           EGFR inhibitors.

        4. To determine if changes in skin autofluorescence and development of AGE's occur during
           treatment with angiogenesis and EGFR inhibitors.

        5. To determine whether changes in factors mentioned under secondary objectives 1-4 are
           correlated with side effects of targeted therapy and/or response to angiogenesis and
           EGFR inhibitors.

        6. To evaluate if polymorphisms in genes involved in pathways mentioned under 1-4 associate
           with toxicity and efficacy of angiogenesis and EGFR inhibitors.

      Study design and population

      This is a prospective, explorative observational cohort study in patients treated with
      angiogenesis or EGFR inhibitors. Concomitant chemotherapy, immunotherapy or radiotherapy is
      allowed. Patients must be 18 years or older at start of treatment and must be willing to give
      written informed consent.

      Primary study parameters

      Patients will be evaluated for vascular changes by measuring

        -  24-hour ambulatory blood pressure

        -  nail fold capillary microscopy

        -  skin autofluorescence at 3 time points: before start of treatment, and after 3 and after
           6 weeks of treatment. Patients will also be asked to measure their blood pressure at
           home twice a day, for 6 weeks. Metabolic and hormonal changes and investigation of
           biomarkers will be done by blood and urine analyses every 3 weeks for the first 3
           months, every 6 weeks up to 6 months and every 3 months thereafter.

      Changes in vascular, hormonal and metabolic status will be related to clinical side effects
      and to response to treatment.

      Secondary study parameters

      When clinically relevant differences in side effects and response to treatment are found
      among patients treated with the same agent, DNA analysis will be carried out to investigate
      if changes in candidate genes are related to these differences.

      Burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group relatedness

      The minimal invasive tests will be performed during routine outpatient visits. As far as
      known no serious adverse events are linked to the described study procedures. With this study
      we hope to get insight into the characteristics, frequency, severity and underlying
      mechanisms of angiogenesis and EGFR inhibitor induced vascular, metabolic and hormonal side
      effects and to find usable surrogate markers for efficacy of treatment. Eventually, this may
      contribute to the early detection of vascular, metabolic and hormonal changes, to the design
      of intervention strategies for side effects and to better patient selection for angiogenesis
      and EGFR inhibition.
    
  