
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of Rice Bran Arabinoxylan Compound
      (RBAC) on metabolic syndrome variables in persons living with HIV (PLWH). This nutritional
      supplement is made from a water soluble extract of rice bran that has been partially
      hydrolyzed by the action of a natural enzyme complex extracted from Shiitake mushroom. Given
      that these micronutrients may be important for regulating the immune system and metabolizing
      glucose, the investigators will explore the impact of RBAC on metabolic syndrome (MetSyn)
      variables according to the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Adult Treatment
      Panel III guidelines (1) (fasting plasma glucose, waist circumference, high-density
      lipoprotein [HDL] cholesterol, triglycerides, and blood pressure), secondarily on additional
      atherogenic variables (total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol, hip
      circumference, and body mass index) and immune functioning (CD4+ and CD8+) among 40 HIV+
      adult (18+ years of age and over) patients on stable antiretroviral therapy (ART).
      Specifically, subjects will participate in a 6-month, two-group, randomized intervention,
      where one group (n=20) will take 3 gram/day RBAC and the other group (n=20) will take a
      placebo to compare differences in outcomes between the two groups. The results of the study
      are intended to address the multi-faceted physiological problems of HIV+ patients by testing
      the efficacy of a nutritional supplement intervention on multiple outcomes in this
      population.

      No substantial psychological, medical, or social risks exist to the participants, other than
      minor discomfort associated with the venipuncture. Although all measures to protect
      confidentiality will be put in place, the possibility exists that electronic data could be
      jeopardized. In the remote case that such event occurs, it will be immediately reported to
      the Institutional Review Board.

      The components of RBAC should be harmless without significant food allergies. No serious,
      untoward side effects have been reported to the company by consumers nor observed during
      previous human studies. Potential adverse effects will be explained to each participant when
      informed consent is obtained. Whole foods supplements are virtually no different than
      consuming food, because of how they are manufactured. The investigators prior study on RBAC
      showed no adverse effects. If any side effect does occur, the remedy is to discontinue until
      asymptomatic, and then reintroduce at 1/4 dosage, increasing by the same amount every 2 days,
      if uneventful, until full dosage is achieved. Study staff will provide additional follow-up
      and consultation with any subject who experiences an untoward side effect.

      Other potential risks include:

        1. Randomization. A potential risk for the placebo group is no improvement in the
           investigators outcomes of interest.

        2. Data collection. The investigators foresee minimal risks associated with the testing,
           other than discomfort or fatigue.

      A toxicology search for each component reveals no unique toxicity characteristic of the
      materials. As reported by Daiwa Health Development, the manufacturer of the product,
      thousands of people currently use RBAC (under the trade names BRM4 and PeakImmune 4), and
      Daiwa is unaware of significant toxicities. Daiwa applies the latest scientific methods to
      ensure the value and safety of their raw materials. Daiwa products are manufactured in
      state-of-the-art facilities, under strict quality control and environmental protection
      standards.

      Participants will incur no additional appreciable psychological or social risks by
      participating in this study, although they may undergo psychological and physical discomfort
      sometimes. The process of interviewing during the assessment may cause discomfort. Discomfort
      or fatigue may also be experienced in completing the assessment battery.

      Alternatives to this study for these MetSyn and immune functioning variables include
      prescription medications, exercise, dietary modification, and other nutritional supplements.
      The risks of medications can be very significant, including life-threatening, but the risk of
      taking nutritional supplements is not totally understood, since they are not regulated by the
      US Food and Drug Administration. Medications and nutritional supplements, as part of a change
      in lifestyle behaviors, may also prove to be beneficial for MetSyn variables and immune
      system functioning, but their long-term use has unknown consequences.

      The information obtained in this study will help in determining the efficacy of using RBAC on
      MetSyn and metabolic variables and immune system functioning. By participating in the study,
      subjects may experience improved health status. The risk of participating in this study is
      reasonable because of the potential enhancements in metabolic and immune system functioning
      with improved nutritional status.
    
  