
    
      METHODOLOGY:

      This randomized clinical study comparing metformin and insulin in the treatment of
      gestational diabetes and type 2 diabetes in pregnancy was conducted between December 2008
      till December 2012 in the tertiary care university hospital of Lyari General Hospital and Dow
      University of Health Sciences and in four other private obstetric (maternity) hospitals of
      Karachi. The study was approved by the ethics committee of Dow University of Heath Sciences.
      A written informed consent was taken from the participants of the study and the consequences
      and suspected outcomes were informed.

      The patients were selected from those attending the antenatal clinic with previously
      diagnosed type 2 diabetes or were screened in antenatal clinic due to presence of high risk
      factors for diabetes mellitus and were found to have impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) or
      gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM).

      All pregnant women were subjected to screening after evaluation of high risk factors at their
      first antenatal visit irrespective of gestational age in order to pick undiagnosed type 2
      diabetes early in pregnancy. Women who were screen negative at first antenatal visit were
      subjected to repeat screening at 24-28 weeks and 32-36 weeks.

      A 50gm oral glucose challenge test (GCT) was done as an initial screening test irrespective
      of the fasting status and a blood sugar level of 140gm/dl was considered as a positive GCT.
      Gestational diabetes was then diagnosed by a 2 hour 75gm oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT)
      after an over night fast of 10 hours. Diagnosis of GDM was made with at least two out of
      three abnormal high plasma glucose levels in a 75gm OGTT FBS> 95, 1 hour ≥180 and 2 hour
      ≥155.

      All women with type 2 diabetes mellitus and screen positive of gestational diabetes with
      pregnancy beyond first trimester and having FBS >100mg/dl and 1 ½ hour postprandial glucose
      of >126mg/dl were advised for dietary modifications and life style counseling including
      exercise. Women with blood glucose levels being too high and those who do not maintain the
      required blood glucose levels on diet and exercise were included in the study and randomized
      for treatment with metformin or insulin along with diet and exercise advice. Randomization
      was done as the patients were divided into two groups as they enter the study.

      Group A: Patients with gestational diabetes. Group B: Patients with type 2 diabetes. Each
      group was further subdivided into two sub groups. Group A1: Received metformin treatment.
      Group A2: Received insulin treatment. Group B1: Received metformin treatment. Group B2:
      Received insulin treatment. Odd numbers in each group were assigned for metformin treatment
      and even numbers in each group for insulin treatment. Blinding of the treatment was not
      possible because of the different routes of administration. Patients not fulfilling the
      inclusion criteria and controlled on diet alone were excluded from the study.

      All the women were provided with standard nutritional instructions for three meals and three
      snacks daily. Adherence to the dietary regimen was evaluated and reinforced at weekly or
      fortnightly antenatal visits. The diets were designed to provide 25kcal/kg of body weight for
      non obese women with 40-45% calories from carbohydrates.

      Metformin was started at dose of 500mg daily and increased up to 2500mg daily in divided
      doses as tolerated by patient and depending on maternal glucose levels. Target blood glucose
      values are taken as FBS of less than or equal to 100mg/dl (5.5 mmol/l) and RBS ≤ 126mg/dl
      (7mmol/l). If blood glucose levels were higher than the cut off values after one to two weeks
      of treatment and in spite of achieving the maximum dose of metformin, insulin was added as
      supplementary treatment with metformin continued.

      Insulin was added as supplementary treatment in patients not controlled with metformin alone
      in 1-2 weeks or at any time when glycemic targets were not achieved with metformin alone.
      Insulin was given as a combination of short acting and intermediate acting Human insulin
      twice daily before meals. Patients were followed in outpatient clinic at 1-2 weeks interval
      depending on blood glucose control till blood glucose levels were stabilized. However they
      were provided the phone number to contact the researcher in case of any emergency or
      otherwise.

      Insulin was prescribed as a combination of short acting and intermediate acting human insulin
      twice daily before meals. For estimation of starting dose of insulin a combination of
      maternal weight in kg and pregnancy trimester was used. A 24-hour total insulin dose was
      calculated using 0.7 units/kg in first trimester, 0.8 units/kg in second trimester and 0.9
      units/kg in third trimester. Two thirds of the total dose was given in the morning before
      breakfast and one third at night before dinner. Two thirds of the morning insulin dose was
      given as intermediate acting insulin (Humulin N) and one third as short acting insulin
      (Humulin R) with both given as single injection. Half of the night insulin is intermediate
      acting and half was short acting insulin given in a single injection.
    
  