
    
      Globally, severe infection is the second leading cause of neonatal mortality. It is one of
      the indirect leading causes of death in a world. According to Annual report, 28% neonatal
      deaths were due to preterm baby, 26% due to severe infection , 23% due to asphyxia and 7%
      neonatal tetanus. Every year, three - fourth deaths occurred in first week and four million
      babies die each year within first four weeks of birth, whereas, 99% of cases were reported by
      low and middle income countries.Severe infections are the second major cause of death among
      neonates in Pakistan. Breastfeeding helps to protect infants from infections due to the
      multiple anti-infective, anti-inflammatory, and immuno regulatory factors such as secretory
      antibodies, glycan, Lactoferrin etc. Lactoferrin, the second most abundant protein in human
      milk has multiple putative functions. A trial in Italy found that the incidence of late-onset
      sepsis and sepsis related deaths were significantly lower in very LBW infants who were given
      daily (Bovine Lactoferrin) bLF compared to placebo. One small trial from India, found there
      was a 79% reduction in neonatal infections in LBW infants who received daily bovine
      Lactoferrin (bLF) from birth until 28 days. Evidence gaps remain about the appropriate daily
      prophylactic dose, the optimal method to deliver, and the effectiveness of bLF to prevent
      neonatal sepsis in LBW infants in low & middle-income countries.The overall goal of the
      project is to improve newborn survival among low birth weight (LBW) Pakistani infants through
      provision of a daily prophylactic dose of bLF. The project aim is to prevent neonatal
      infections, as opposed to the current approach which treats neonatal infections when they
      occur. The current approach depends on early detection of infections in newborns through
      post-natal care and treatment with antibiotics, with the potential risk of inappropriate use
      of antibiotics.A two stage study will be conducted including formative research followed by
      RCT to evaluate the appropriate daily dose of bLF. At the end of the study the investigators
      will have developed and tested an appropriate method to deliver bLF to newborns at home &
      identified the most appropriate dose of bLF to prevent neonatal sepsis in LBW newborns.

      This study will be conducted at the Aga Khan University and Hospital, Karachi in two phases.
      A qualitative study will be conducted followed by a RCT. 300 LBW new born babies will be
      recruited;all standard operating procedures will be followed for administration of bLF to the
      neonates. Each arm of the study will be allocated 100 newborns.
    
  