
    
      Pain and inflammation are predictable sequelae following tissue injury, such as surgery.
      Conventional treatment for intraoperative and postoperative control of pain includes local
      anesthetic administered preoperatively and analgesics administered postoperatively.
      Disadvantages of these approaches include pain during the interval when the effect of local
      anesthesia dissipates and the postoperatively administered analgesic takes effect and adverse
      effects of opioid-containing analgesics in ambulatory patients. Research over the past two
      decades has demonstrated that administering nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
      preoperatively significantly reduces the intensity and the duration of postoperative pain up
      to eight hours (Dionne et al., 1978 and Jackson et al., 1989). Parallel clinical
      investigations suggest that the pre-emptive treatment with a long-acting local anesthetic or
      an NMDA-antagonist reduces pain at 24 to 72 hours post-surgery (Gordon et al., 1997; Yamamoto
      et al., 1993; Gordon et al., 1999). This proposed clinical trial will use the oral surgery
      model to assess the therapeutic efficacy of pre-emptive and preventive treatment with a
      potent selective COX-2 inhibitor, rofecoxib (Vioxx® (Registered Trademark)), given prior to
      and following third molar extractions to reduce postoperative pain at 24 and 48 hours
      post-surgery.

      This study is a double-blind, randomized control trial with parallel groups using placebo,
      ibuprofen, or rofecoxib. Rofecoxib 50 mg will be administered PO 90 minutes before surgery in
      the Clinical Center at NIH and another 50 mg will be self-administered 24 hours later by the
      subjects at their homes. This regimen is predicted to suppress the onset and intensity of
      post-operative dental pain to a greater extent than placebo or a non-selective COX-1/COX-2
      inhibitor (ibuprofen). The analgesic effect of the drugs will be estimated by hourly
      observations over the first four hours after surgery using two different measures of pain
      intensity, the category scale and a visual analog scale (VAS). It is hypothesized that the
      pre-emptive administration of a selective COX-2 inhibitor, rofecoxib will inhibit the
      development of central and peripheral sensitization following tissue injury which manifests
      as hyperalgesia at later time points.
    
  