
    
      Improving and maintaining health-enhancing levels of physical activity (PA) leads to
      reductions in the metabolic, hemodynamic, body composition, epi-genetic and functional status
      risk factors that heavily contribute to the development of many non-communicable chronic
      diseases. As such, PA has a significant role, in many cases comparable or superior to drug
      interventions, in the prevention and treatment of more than 40 diseases such as obesity,
      heart disease, diabetes, hypertension, cancer, depression, anxiety, arthritis, and
      osteoporosis.

      While conceptually simple, implementing clinical-community linkages for PA promotion is
      hindered by barriers at multiple levels such as inadequate training and self-efficacy among
      health care providers (HCPs), insufficient health system support and care team coordination,
      and scarcity of certified community resources for referring patients. The challenge for HCPs
      and health systems is how to operationalize, standardize, and implement PA promotion in a
      cost-effective and innovative fashion.

      This study is a pilot project to test the feasibility of implementing a physical activity
      promotion protocol including routine evaluation of patient's physical activity levels and
      provision of educational material in the clinical workflow of the Seavey Internal Medicine
      Clinic at Emory University. Physically inactive adult patients with at least one documented
      cardiovascular disease risk factor (overweight/obesity, dyslipidemia, hypertension, diabetes)
      but cleared for self-directed exercise by their treating clinician will be invited to
      participate in physical activity intervention. Patients will be randomized to receive a
      wearable device (Garmin vivofit 3) or a smartphone app (Microsoft Band) to objectively
      monitor their physical activity. Participants will be further randomized to receive automated
      motivational text messages, or a personalized motivational message, or no messages.
      Participants will be followed through the 12 week intervention period and an additional 12
      weeks with no intervention. The researchers will assess changes in objectively-measured
      physical activity (primary outcome) and explore impact on secondary outcomes including
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors (assessed routinely as part of clinical
      management), as well as self-reported mental health, quality of life and exercise
      self-efficacy using validated questionnaires.
    
  