
    
      The proposed trial will utilize an open label study design. Patients with hypertension and
      obesity will be recruited. After a 3-week washout period for patients currently on
      antihypertensive medication, eligible participants will be assigned to receive 25 mg of
      eplerenone or 5 mg of amlodipine. After a 4 week period on medication, drug will be advanced
      to 50 mg of eplerenone or 10 mg of amlodipine for an additional 4 weeks.

      Protocol Synopsis:

        1. Recruit 20 study participants with a systolic blood pressure (SBP) between 140 and 160
           mmHg and/or a diastolic blood pressure between 90 and 100 mmHg who also have a body mass
           index > 30-45. If participants are on antihypertensive treatment, they will undergo a
           3-week washout period. The study participants will be identified in the Division of
           Hypertension.

        2. Assign study participants to receive 25 mg of eplerenone or 5 mg of amlodipine per day
           for 4 weeks. Up-titration to eplerenone 50 mg and amlodipine 10 mg for an additional 4
           weeks.

        3. Obtain basal metabolic rate, cardiac output and other indices of cardiac performance,
           cognitive abilities, and rating of depression and anxiety symptoms at baseline and after
           8 weeks of treatment.

        4. Obtain blood pressure measures at all visits.

        5. Obtain mood ratings at all visits.

        6. Compare basal metabolic rate, cardiac output and other indices of cardiac performance
           between treatment groups.

        7. Compare difference in SBP and DBP between treatment groups.

        8. Compare differences in plasma insulin, serum electrolytes, plasma renin activity,
           cortisol and aldosterone concentrations, urinary albumin excretion, and glomerular
           filtration rate between treatment groups.

        9. Compare mood rating as well as symptoms of depression and anxiety between treatment
           groups.
    
  