
    
      Ever since the 1979 Nobel Prize was awarded to Cormack and Hounsfield for the development of
      computer assisted tomography (CAT scans, this technology has revolutionized the practice of
      medicine. CAT scans combine special x-ray equipment with sophisticated computers to produce
      images of the inside of the body. They are widely used, noninvasive medical tests that help
      physicians diagnose and treat numerous medical conditions. In 2000, the U.S. Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) and the Conference of Radiation Control Program Directors (CRCPD)
      estimated that approximately 40 million CAT scans are performed annually.

      In recent years, multiple articles have highlighted the increased risk of developing cancer
      from ionizing radiation. The risk increases with higher radiation doses, and accumulates with
      repeated scans. The 2007 American College of Radiology's white paper on radiation dose in
      medicine by Amis, et al., emphasizes the importance of addressing this issue, and proposes a
      plan to educate all stakeholders in the principles of radiation safety and appropriate
      utilization of imaging. In addition, in 2007 the Society for Pediatric Radiology joined
      forces with the American College of Radiology and several other medical societies to form the
      Alliance for Radiation Safety in Pediatric Imaging (the Image Gently Alliance). The charge of
      the Alliance is summarized in its mission statement: "…to raise awareness in the imaging
      community of the need to adjust radiation dose when imaging children."

      Hospitals with computerized physician order entry systems (CPOE) have the unique opportunity
      to use decision support on radiation safety to influence a physician's ordering practice in
      real-time. CPOE and decision support technology have been successfully used to positively
      effect physician ordering behavior and improve patient safety in many aspects of patient
      care, including the ordering of radiology tests. An ideal decision support tool for radiation
      safety will educate the physician about the dangers of cumulative ionizing radiation, present
      the patient's image history, and guide the provider to the best modality that meets the
      patient's diagnostic needs with as little radiation exposure as possible. The design
      challenge is to create a decision support tool that appropriately protects our patients from
      overutilization of CAT scans, without inadvertently leading to underutilization of CAT scans
      or inappropriate utilization of alternative tests. This research protocol proposes to study
      one such design at a large, academic medical center.
    
  