
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The study should improve knowledge of the patterns of functional lung development during
      childhood and factors that influence both relative level and growth rate of lung function in
      Black children and should offer new understanding of the predictive value of spirometric
      tests of lung function performed at an early age.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study used a previously existing database which was of unique value because it included
      comprehensive respiratory illness data collected on-site during the children's tenure in the
      Frank Porter Graham Child Development Center's daycare facility and spirometric data
      collected longitudinally from three to 13 years of age. Furthermore, the measurements were
      for children in a racial group for whom limited cross-sectional or longitudinal spirometric
      data were available.

      The longitudinal analyses had two primary objectives. The first was to characterize patterns
      of functional lung development in Black children from three to 13 years of age and relate
      these patterns to potentially influential factors such as (a) wheezing and non-wheezing
      associated LRI experience during the infant (ages 0 to two) and preschool (ages two to five)
      years, (b) ages of occurrence of first and subsequent LRI episodes, and (c) respiratory
      syncytial virus etiology of LRI. Potentially confounding factors included prenatal and
      childhood exposure to environmental tobacco smoke and allergies. The second objective was to
      determine the degree to which spirometric parameters 'track' for individual children and for
      populations of children over the interval from three to 13 years of age. This objective
      required assessment of the degree to which spirometric evaluations during the preschool years
      were predictive of later lung function.

      The statistical analyses for achieving these objectives used recently developed statistical
      methods based on the general linear mixed model. By design, these methods for longitudinal
      data handled unbalanced data with missing values, incorporated time-varying covariates, and
      provided more exactly the extent to which the level of lung function of individual children
      was maintained relative to that of other study children and determined the value of preschool
      spirometric measurements as predictors of levels of spirometric performance during later
      childhood and adolescence. These analyses utilized methods developed by Stewart, Pekow,
      Burchinal, and Helms in 1991 that were unique in that they were designed to handle
      incomplete, inconsistently-timed data as well as complete, balanced data.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  