
    
      Gastric varies (GV) rarely rupture. However should it occur, the outcome would be worse than
      rupture of esophageal varies (EV). Rupture of GV is characteristic of a higher rebleeding
      rate, a requirement for a larger amount of blood transfusion and a higher mortality. Up to
      date, the treatment of GV bleeding (GVB) is still sub-optimal in contrast to the treatment of
      EV bleeding. The management of GV has been focused on treatment of acute GVB. Various
      specific methods are used to control GVB and prevent rebleeding; however they were far from
      ideal. It is because GV are usually larger vessels formed in deeper submucosa and connect to
      the spontaneous gastrorenal shunt which creates a fast blood flow. Therefore, voluminous
      blood in the larger diameter GV leads to exsanguine bleeding when ruptured. A variety of
      endoscopic methods, which include injection of sclerosants, tissue adhesive (cyanoacrylate),
      thrombin and ligation with rubber bands, detachable nylon loop and steel snares, are applied
      to control acute GV bleeding with variable successful rates (50~100%) and rebleeding rates
      (20~90%). The successful rate of endoscopic cyanoacrylate injection to arrest active GVB is
      more consistent around 90~100% and rebleeding rate is around 30~40%. The recent International
      Consensus Meeting endorsed that endoscopic cyanoacrylate injection is the first line
      treatment for acute GVB. The embolic complications, either septic & aseptic, are not
      uncommon. Expertise is also required to reduce the embolic complications and instrumental
      injuries. Therefore, the efficacy of specific treatment for GVB is sub-optimal, consecutive
      innovation of new methods are required to improve the prognosis of GVB. Non-selective
      beta-blocker is effective to reduce rebleeding from esophageal varices. However, its effect
      on gastric variceal hemorrhage has never been proven.

      This is an important issues prompted by current portal hypertension experts. We have much
      experience in the treatment of gastric variceal bleeding and published fruitful results in
      high ranking journal. Therefore, we design a randomized trial to compare the effect of
      endoscopic cyanoacrylate injection obliteration versus non-selective beta-blocker in the
      secondary prevention of acute gastric variceal bleeding.
    
  