
    
      This is a retrospective study that involves collecting information about the past and
      comparing that with contemporary information collected from the same cases. The patients'
      dental records' archive and the digital dental records of the Folktandvården Specialistklinik
      in Malmö will be scrutinized. The patients will be retraced in the Swedish Personal Data
      System and will be invited for a recall visit with a clinical and radiographic examination.
      The patients will then be informed of the design of the study through the reading of the Form
      for Patient Information and the Informed Consent in Swedish and verbally. In case the patient
      is not willing to pay a recall visit, only the data of the patient's records will be used,
      under the patients' approval.

      The data from the patients' records will be directly inserted to a computer file of the
      statistical software Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS Inc., Chicago, USA).
      The additional follow-up information from the patients' recall visit will be collected in
      specific forms and then inserted to the previously mentioned computer file. All dental
      implants inserted will be included in the study. Data will be categorized as surgical,
      implant-specific, patient-related, anatomic, loading conditions, prosthetic, and trans- and
      postoperative complications.

      Periapical radiographies of the patients' digital record will be neatly filed in a computer
      file. Periapical radiographies that could possibly exist in celluloid film will be
      digitalized. From each patient, additional radiographs will be selected from the patient's
      record, based on availability in several time intervals. At the recall consultation, new
      periapical radiographies will be taken. The reference point will be established at the
      implants-abutment junction, and the marginal bone level measurement will be performed by
      using the Image J software.
    
  