
    
      This is a prospective observational follow-up study in a single center.

      Number of patients: It is estimated to enroll 100 patients in Taiwan.

      Population:

      Female patients with pregnancy confirmed, at least 20 years of age diagnosed with chronic
      hepatitis B. The patients are able to communicate well, provide informed consent and willing
      to participate in the entire study.

      Inclusion criteria:

      Patients must meet all of the following criteria

        1. Documented chronic hepatitis B defined by clinical history compatible with chronic
           hepatitis B and detectable serum HBsAg

        2. Female 20 years of age with confirmed pregnancy

        3. Willing and able to comply with all the requirements in the observational followup study

        4. Willing and able to provide written informed consent to participate in the study

      Exclusion criteria:

      Patients will be excluded from the study for any of the following reasons:

        1. Concurrent infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV), hepatitis D virus (HDV) or human
           immunodeficiency virus (HIV)

        2. One or more known primary or secondary causes of liver disease other than hepatitis B
           (e.g., alcoholism, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, autoimmune hepatitis, malignancy with
           hepatic involvement, hemochromatosis, alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, Wilson's disease,
           other congenital or metabolic conditions affecting the liver, congestive heart failure
           or other severe cardiopulmonary disease).

        3. Any other concurrent medical or psychosocial condition likely to preclude compliance
           with the schedule of evaluations in the protocol or likely to confound the efficacy or
           safety observations of the study.

        4. Enrolled or planning to enroll in another clinical trial of an investigational agent
           while participating in this study.

        5. Patients with antiviral therapy to chronic hepatitis B
    
  