
    
      This study is a survey study designed to assess the impact of the current COVID-19 pandemic
      on participants with psychiatric disorders to identify areas of needed support and services.
      This survey is an exploratory investigation of patient experience to guide Siyan in program
      improvement and development of next steps to serve patients. A one-time survey will be sent
      out electronically via email to approximately 3,500 adult patients in the Siyan Clinical
      Corporation and Siyan Clinical Research practices. The survey will consist of the
      Epidemic-Pandemic Impacts Inventory (EPII). This is a new tool designed to assess tangible
      impacts of epidemics and pandemics across personal and social life domains.

      Siyan staff will derive a list of patients from the Siyan EHR who meet eligibility criteria.
      The list will include Patient ID, age, gender, ethnicity, occupation, employment status,
      primary diagnosis, and last known email address. Each patient in the sample will receive an
      email inviting them to participate in the survey, explaining the purpose of the survey, how
      Siyan will use the survey results, and how the survey will be administered. All patients in
      the sample who have not responded will also receive a reminder email approximately one week
      later. Each e-mail will include information to contact the Investigator with any questions.

      Patients that reply to the initial invitation will receive the electronic Informed Consent
      Form (eICF) to sign and return to the Project Coordinator via Adobe Sign. The Project
      Coordinator will track the name and email address of all patients who consent to participate,
      and will send each a link to the online survey in SurveyGizmo.
      https://www.surveygizmo.com/s3/5751791/Siyan-COVIDImpactSurvey) The online survey will repeat
      the text of the electronic Informed Consent Form (eICF), allowing participants to again
      confirm agreement and continue the survey or disagree and exit out. Participants who agree to
      the consent will be asked to confirm their email address, and respond to the 92 questions in
      the EPII about how the coronavirus disease pandemic has changed their and/or their family's
      lives. Respondents will also be asked basic demographic questions: age, gender identity,
      ethnicity, education level, employment status, industry, children under 18 in the home,
      marital status, and experience with basic psychiatric disorders.

      The evaluation consultant will tabulate responses and provide basic frequencies and analyses
      to the Investigator, along with a de-identified dataset for further advanced analysis. Data
      collected may serve as a foundational research in the prevention, care and treatment of
      mental health disorders during pandemics such as COVID-19. Analysis of data collected will be
      published in academic journals to serve as a foundational research in the prevention, care
      and treatment of mental health disorders during pandemics such as COVID-19.
    
  