
    
      OUTLINE: This is a multi-center study.

      STUDY PLAN:

      SUBJECT IDENTIFICATION AND CONSENT:

      Sites may approach all subjects who attend an appointment for evaluation of metastatic
      urothelial cancer for inclusion. Study staff review consent documents with potential subjects
      and answer any and all questions. If a subject desires additional time or wishes to delay
      enrollment in the study, he/she is given a copy of the consent document and informed about
      how to ask questions or enroll at a later date. If the subject chooses to participate in the
      study, he or she signs the consent, and is given a copy for his or her own records.

      BIOSPECIMEN COLLECTION AND PROCESSING:

      When subjects are consented for entry into this study, they consent to access of any archival
      tumor tissue (whether from the primary or any metastatic site) for genetic analysis. This
      tissue is not de-identified at the time of testing so that a subject specific report may be
      generated and sent to the treating physician. Further, subjects consent to the indefinite use
      of their specimens and linked clinical information for ongoing or future biomedical research.
      Additionally, sites inform subjects during the consent process that researchers may use their
      information for genetic research including research on somatic or germline mutations. The
      specimens and report provided to HCRN are de-identified and future analyses will be performed
      on coded (de-identified) data/specimens.

      Collection of Archived Tumor Samples:

        -  After the subject is consented, sites will request primary and/or metastatic archived
           tumor tissue. The tissue specimen sent may come in the form of a block or slides. Needle
           biopsy is also acceptable.

        -  Each institution can use its own standard operating procedure for the preparation of the
           FFPE material. Each participating site will ship specimens accessed under GU15-217
           directly to the lab performing the NGS analysis. Sites will also request corresponding
           pathology report(s). A de-identified pathology report will then be sent to HCRN with the
           tissue.

      Collection of Blood for Research Purposes Only:

        -  Each subject will have 47 mL of blood collected and banked for future testing. 10mL of
           the sample will be used for plasma for banking. 17 mL of the sample will be used for
           PBMC isolation and cryopreservation. 20mL of the sample will be used for plasma for
           cfDNA. Any DNA analysis of blood (including possible germline analysis) is for research
           purposes only and will be performed on coded (de-identified) samples.

      Report Generation:

        -  The subject specific report generated includes a summary of genomic alterations
           highlighting those variations considered potentially actionable, a concise discussion of
           the molecular analyses, a list of potential clinical trials incorporating relevant
           targeted agents, and potential therapeutic options based on the specific alterations
           discovered along with associated levels of evidence for each. The selection of clinical
           trials and levels of evidence provided are based on extensive review and analysis of the
           literature as well as a BCGC convened panel of experts in bladder cancer. This BCGC
           expert panel will work with the NGS lab to ensure that all potential clinical trials are
           represented in the individual subject reports.

      Storage for Future Research:

        -  The BCAN Biobank at Hoosier Cancer Research Network (HCRN) will store DNA and RNA
           isolated for the study, additional FFPE and any biospecimens remaining after the NGS. If
           at any point a subject wishes to withdraw from the study, the subject will contact their
           study physician. HCRN will destroy any specimens that it may link to the subject. Once
           specimens have been stripped of all identifying information or links to identifying
           information they cannot be recalled to be destroyed.

      COMMUNICATION OF NGS RESULTS TO PROVIDER AND SUBJECT:

      After NGS testing is complete, a subject specific report will be provided to the subject's
      treating physician either in hard copy and/or via on-line portal (typically within 14
      business days from receipt of tumor tissue) and a de-identified report to HCRN. If an
      addendum is made to a report, an updated report will be provided to the treating physician
      and HCRN in the manner described above. During the informed consent process, sites inform
      each subject that his or her physician will communicate results of the genetic testing on
      their tumor specimens. Along with the results that are communicated, the subjects' treating
      physician will explain the implications of their testing results, including whether their
      genetic profiles render them potentially eligible for a specific therapy or clinical trial.

      Sites also inform subjects that researchers will store any specimens remaining after genetic
      profiling of their tumor is complete. Storage continues indefinitely for future biomedical
      research. This may include development of commercial products from their specimens.

      Sites must explain to subjects that although a blood sample is being obtained, this study is
      not aimed at discovering germline mutations. Sites must emphasize that genetic analyses
      performed within this study should not be construed as genetic testing for genetic mutations
      associated with hereditary cancer susceptibility. Nevertheless, because NGS may be performed
      on blood, it is possible that a germline mutation that predisposes a subject to cancer will
      incidentally be discovered. Subjects will not receive any information about such mutations,
      however, as this analysis will be performed on de-identified samples.

      ABSTRACTION OF MEDICAL RECORDS:

      Research staff at each site abstracts clinical information from each subject and enters the
      information into the web based clinical research platform (EDC system). Data abstracted
      includes details on the following: demographics, cancer diagnosis, cancer stage, surgical and
      medical management, any treatment decisions made in response to the NGS results communicated
      to the physician and any response/longer term outcome data as a result of these treatment
      decisions.

      ACCESS TO DATA/SPECIMENS FOR FUTURE RESEARCH:

      The database links coded clinical and genetic data, creating a biospecimen and data
      repository. These data, along with biospecimens stored at HCRN, will ultimately be available
      for researchers with BCGC-approved and IRB-approved studies allowing access to these
      data/specimens, and with HCRN managing the data, protecting the confidentiality of study
      subjects.
    
  