
    
      Suture embedding acupuncture is one of the most often used interventions for the treatments
      of chronic low back pain (cLBP). The investigators will investigate the efficacy and safety
      of suture embedding acupuncture for cLBP in this single center, parallel, randomized,
      sham-controlled clinical trial.

      Participants will be randomized into 2 groups (real acupuncture and sham acupuncture) by
      central allocation. Randomized participants will complete a questionnaire that solicited
      information regarding age, sex, marital status, occupation, education, and medical history.
      The blinding credibility of the treatments will be evaluated at the end of the treatment.

      Real Suture embedding Acupuncture for Treatment Group To make the real suture embedding
      acupuncture treatment reflect an ordinary clinical practice condition, participants received
      standardized acupuncture treatment. That treatment was accomplished by selecting a group of
      acupuncture points that predefined. Acupuncture points will be bladder meridian pattern
      acupuncture points including Shenshu (BL23), Qihaishu (BL24), Dachangshu (BL25), and Yimmen
      (BL37). Treatment will be given using sterile, disposable stainless steel 23G or 25G
      injection needles with 1 mm 5.0 Vicryl suture inside the needle. The needles will be inserted
      perpendicular to a depth of 5 to 35 mm depending on the acupuncture point, which was followed
      by manual stimulation by bidirectional rotation to induce Deqi sensation. Deqi was defined as
      a dull, localized, and aching sensation, which signaled the attainment of qi. After the Deqi
      sensation being achieved, the suture will be embedded with a sterile stainless steel needle.
      After needle removal, a 5mm × 5 mm sterile tape will be adhered to the needle hole. Patients
      will be asked not to remove the tape unless necessary.

      Sham Acupuncture for Control Group Treatment will be given using sterile, disposable
      stainless steel 30G or 32G acupuncture needles. The acupuncture points will be the same as
      real suture embedding acupuncture group. The needles will be inserted perpendicular to a
      depth of 5 to 35 mm depending on the acupuncture point and will be pulled up immediately.
      After sham acupuncture, the point will be adhered a sterile tape as real group. Patients will
      be asked not to remove the tape unless necessary.

      Outcome Measures Primary Outcome Measure The primary outcome measure is VAS for LBP. To
      understand the impact of cLBP on the participants' life, VAS for bothersomeness is chosen
      instead of pain intensity. The participants will be asked to mark, on a 10 cm VAS (0, absence
      of bothersomeness; 10, the worst bothersomeness imaginable), the average degree of
      bothersomeness due to LBP experienced within the most recent 1 week from the day of the
      assessment. This measurement has substantial validity. Bothersomeness of LBP will be measured
      at baseline, 2-, 4-, 8-, 12-, 16-, 20-, and 24-week. The primary endpoint is the 8-week
      follow-up (i.e., 4 wk after finishing all of the treatments).

      Secondary Outcome Measures VAS for pain intensity is a simple method evaluating the
      subjective intensity of pain. Pain intensity will be measured in the same way as VAS for
      bothersomeness. Validity of its reliability has been demonstrated. The Chinese version
      Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) is used to measure back pain-related dysfunction.
      Health-related quality of life will be measured using the well-validated EuroQol 5 dimensions
      (EQ-5D). A higher score is indicative of a better general health status. Participants
      satisfaction will be evaluated with 5 point scale (1 is worst, and 5 is best)

      Statistical Analyses To determine appropriate sample size, the VAS mean difference between
      the 2 groups will be assumed to be 1.5 and standard deviation to be 2.73 cm with significance
      level([alpha]) = 0.05 and power(1-ß) = 0.80. For the equal allocation for the 2 groups, total
      sample size considering dropout rate of 20% will be calculated as 130 subjects, which means
      that at least 104 subjects would finally be required after drop outs. The investigators
      performed the Shapiro-Wilk normality test to determine whether or not the sample values
      followed a normal distribution and finally assumed normality according to the test result.
      For all statistical analysis, SPSS 18.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL) will be used. Significance
      level will be set at P < 0.05. Per protocol (PP) analysis included all participants
      randomized and followed up until the last follow-up point.
    
  