
    
      Study visits and parameters to be measured

      All visits in this study will be performed at the University of California, San Diego
      Dermatology Clinic, 3rd floor, 8899 University Center Ln., San Diego, California 92109.

      Baseline Visit and Laser exposures (Visit 1)

      This visit is expected to take approximately 1 hour. The following describes the procedures
      performed at this visit.

        1. Prior to any screening assessments, informed consent will be obtained by the
           investigator. When the subject fully understands the nature of the study and its risks,
           the subject will be asked to sign and date the informed consent form. The investigator
           will then sign and date the form.

        2. A detailed medical history of information pertaining to treatment will be obtained.

        3. The subject will be examined to determine if he or she meets the study criteria.

        4. If the subject meets the criteria for the study, the subject will be assigned the next
           consecutive subject number.

        5. Females of childbearing age will undergo a urine pregnancy test

        6. Clean skin within the test sites with alcohol and shave hair with disposable shavers (if
           hairs are present within the test areas)

        7. The lesions to be treated will be identified and marked. A record of the location of the
           lesion will be made. Marking will be done to include the tumor and a 4mm margin of
           normal skin using a surgical marking pen.

        8. The treatment area will be photographed. Emphasis will be place on keeping the ambient
           lighting, facial expression and camera angles exactly the same for each scheduled
           photograph during the study. In addition, effort will be made to include anatomic
           landmarks.

        9. The tumor will be irradiated with appropriate overlapping laser pulses with a 5-7 mm
           spot from the laser with the 1064nm laser with energy settings determined to be
           appropriate by the study investigator as described above. A 4 mm margin zone will be
           included.

       10. The treatment area will be photographed again.

       11. The treatment area will be assessed for side effects using the following scale:

             -  0 = absence

             -  1 = mild

             -  2 = moderate

             -  3 = severe

       12. The subject will be instructed on post-treatment care of the treatment areas including
           washing the area twice daily and applying topical antibiotic, sun avoidance and sun
           protection. A dressing will be applied following treatment. Subjects will be encouraged
           to call the investigator if they experience any adverse effects that may be related to
           the study.

      Final Evaluation Visits (Visit 2)

      30 to 90 days after laser treatment, all subjects are required to return for excision of the
      tumor site as located and recorded at the time of the first treatment. At this final
      follow-up visit, there is no will be no laser treatment. The following procedures and
      assessments will be performed.

        1. The lesional areas to be treated will be located. A record of the size of the lesional
           area will be made.

        2. The lesional area will be photographed.

        3. The treatment area will be assessed for side effects using the following scale:

             -  0 = absence

             -  1 = mild

             -  2 = moderate

             -  3 = severe

        4. The lesion will be surgically excised, using standard surgical techniques, and following
           the original tumor margins plus 4mm as determined and recorded at the initial visit.

        5. Study participant will be instructed in standard post-operative care of the surgical
           site. Participant will return in 2 weeks for suture removal.

      Drugs to be used

      No systemic drugs will be used in this study. Local injections of 1% lidocaine with
      epinephrine will be used at the end of the study in order to perform an excision of the basal
      cell carcinoma. This is standard therapy that the study subject would have undergone without
      participating in the study.

      Devices to be used

      Cutera 532/1064nm Laser

      The treatment device consists of a KTP (potassium titanyl phosphate) laser at 532 nm as well
      as an Nd:YAG laser emitting light at 1064nm. It is an FDA approved device that enables the
      treatment of small superficial vessels to large vascular lesions. Only the 1064 nm wavelength
      will be used for this study. The 532 nm wavelength will be turned off for the purposes of
      this study. All study participants will be treated with parameters determined by the PI based
      on the characteristics of the basal cell carcinoma. The laser wavelength will be 1064nm with
      a spot sizes of 5-7mm with appropriate overlapping without dynamic cooling.

      (For additional device description and specifications see attached device brochure provided
      by Cutera)

      Procedures/surgical interventions

      On the final visit, 30 to 90 days after the laser treatment has been performed the study
      participant will undergo a standard surgical excision of the lesion with 4mm margins as
      below:

        -  4mm margins will be drawn around the lesion

        -  1% Lidocaine with epinephrine will be infiltrated

        -  The area will be prepped with betadine in a sterile fashion

        -  This will be excised to the level of the subcutaneous fat with a number 15 bard-parker
           blade

        -  The tissue will be removed with sharp and blunt dissection

        -  The lateral margins of the resulting defect will be undermined with sharp and blunt
           dissection and hemostasis was achieved with electrocautery. Dog ear repair will be
           performed

        -  The deeper layers of the defect including subcutaneous fat will be approximated to
           reduce tension on the suture line

        -  Layered wound closure will be performed as appropriate for the surgical site. The wound
           will be cleaned with hydrogen peroxide, dried off, bacitracin ointment will be applied
           and the wound covered with a pressure dressing. The patient will be given detailed
           verbal and written instructions on post-operative care. Participant will return in 2
           weeks for suture removal.

      Data to be collected and when data is to be collected

      Data to be collected throughout the study includes, the items listed in Table 1 (below).

      Visit Type Visits 1 Final Visit Suture Removal

      Clinical measurement of lesion size X X

      Clinical evaluation of post treatment side effects X X

      Photo documentation pre and post treatment X X

      Histologic evaluation of tumor regression X

      Removal of Sutures X

      Table 1. Data to be collected throughout study on all subjects.

      Biostatistical Analysis

      Specific data variables (e.g. data collection sheets)

      The primary outcome data collected during the study will include:

        -  Histologic complete regression of tumor.

      Secondary outcome data scores and measurements will include

        -  Clinical side effects occurring after each treatment

        -  Clinical and photographic evidence of tumor regression

      Study endpoints

      This is a study to measure the efficacy of the Nd:YAG laser to cause complete regression of
      basal cell carcinoma. The number of tumors of each type (i.e. superficial low risk, nodular
      low risk) responding with complete regression will be determined. Complete response will be
      defined as no histologic evidence of disease. The number of partially responding tumors will
      also be determined. Partial response will be defined as a clinical reduction in surface area
      of the treated tumor, with histologic evidence of residual disease

      Statistical methods

      Long-pulsed Nd:YAG (yttrium aluminum garnet) 1064 nm laser treatment of BCC is expected to
      provide complete clinical and histologic clearance in approximately 90% of tumor based on a
      previous study.9 The number of subjects (n=50) in this study is chosen to provide statistical
      power of β≥0.8 to detect a complete response frequency of at least 80%. Approximately, this
      level of response is considered to be clinically significant.

      A statistician will be enlisted to assist in statistical analysis of the results. A
      Kruskal-Wallis non-parametric one-way ANOVA will be performed for various parameters
      including width and length of the lesion and area of the lesion to determine if size affects
      the outcome of treatment. Clearance rates as determined by histology will be compared between
      treatment and established clearance rates for standard excision to determine statistical
      significance. All statistical tests of differences will be considered statistically
      significant ≤ 5%.

      BCC tumors will be analyzed as a whole and then will be stratified by subtype. Stratification
      of the BCC subtypes will account for the variation in results, if any. If subjects have more
      than one lesion treated, each lesion will be counted separately.

      The primary outcome of the study is histologic complete regression of tumor

      The secondary outcome is

        -  Clinical and photographic evidence of extent of side effects occurring after each
           treatment

        -  Clinical and photographic evidence of tumor regression

      V. Study Procedures

        1. Study visits and parameters to be measured All visits in this study will be performed at
           the University of California San Diego Dermatology Clinic, 3rd floor, 8899 University
           Center Ln., San Diego, California 92109.

           Baseline Visit and Laser exposures (Visit 1) This visit is expected to take
           approximately 1 hour. The following describes the procedures performed at this visit.

             1. Prior to any screening assessments, informed consent will be obtained by the
                investigator. When the subject fully understands the nature of the study and its
                risks, the subject will be asked to sign and date the informed consent form. The
                investigator will then sign and date the form.

             2. A detailed medical history of information pertaining to treatment will be obtained.

             3. The subject will be examined to determine if he or she meets the study criteria.

             4. If the subject meets the criteria for the study, the subject will be assigned the
                next consecutive subject number.

             5. Females of childbearing age will undergo a urine pregnancy test

             6. Clean skin within the test sites with alcohol and shave hair with disposable
                shavers (if hairs are present within the test areas)

             7. The lesions to be treated will be identified and marked. A record of the location
                of the lesion will be made. Marking will be done to include the tumor and a 4mm
                margin of normal skin using a surgical marking pen.

             8. The treatment area will be photographed. Emphasis will be place on keeping the
                ambient lighting, facial expression and camera angles exactly the same for each
                scheduled photograph during the study. In addition, effort will be made to include
                anatomic landmarks.

             9. The tumor will be irradiated with appropriate overlapping laser pulses with a 5-7
                mm spot from the laser with the 1064nm laser with energy settings determined to be
                appropriate by the study investigator as described above. A 4 mm margin zone will
                be included.

            10. The treatment area will be photographed again.

            11. The treatment area will be assessed for purpura, edema, erythema, scar or
                blistering using the following scale:

                  -  0 = absence

                  -  1 = mild

                  -  2 = moderate

                  -  3 = severe

            12. The subject will be instructed on post-treatment care of the treatment areas
                including washing the area twice daily and applying topical antibiotic, sun
                avoidance and sun protection. A dressing will be applied following treatment.
                Subjects will be encouraged to call the investigator if they experience any adverse
                effects that may be related to the study.

           Final Evaluation Visits (Visit 2)

           30 to 90 days after laser treatment, all subjects are required to return for excision of
           the tumor site as located and recorded at the time of the first treatment. At this final
           follow-up visit, there is no will be no laser treatment. The following procedures and
           assessments will be performed.

             1. The lesional areas to be treated will be located. A record of the size of the
                lesional area will be made.

             2. The lesional area will be photographed.

             3. The treatment area will be assessed for side effects using the following scale:

                  -  0 = absence

                  -  1 = mild

                  -  2 = moderate

                  -  3 = severe

             4. The lesion will be surgically excised, using standard surgical techniques, and
                following the original tumor margins plus 4mm as determined and recorded at the
                initial visit.

             5. Study participant will be instructed in standard post-operative care of the
                surgical site. Participant will return in 2 weeks for suture removal.

        2. Drugs to be used No systemic drugs will be used in this study. Local injections of 1%
           lidocaine with epinephrine will be used at the end of the study in order to perform an
           excision of the basal cell carcinoma. This is standard therapy that the study subject
           would have undergone without participating in the study.

        3. Devices to be used Cutera 532/1064nm Laser

           The treatment device consists of a KTP laser at 532 nm as well as an Nd:YAG laser
           emitting light at 1064nm. It is an FDA approved device that enables the treatment of
           small superficial vessels to large vascular lesions. Only the 1064 nm wavelength will be
           used for this study. The 532 nm wavelength will be turned off for the purposes of this
           study. All study participants will be treated with parameters determined by the PI based
           on the characteristics of the basal cell carcinoma. The laser wavelength will be 1064nm
           with a spot sizes of 5-7mm with appropriate overlapping without dynamic cooling.

           (For additional device description and specifications see attached device brochure
           provided by Cutera)

        4. Procedures/surgical interventions

           On the final visit, 30 to 90 days after the laser treatment has been performed the study
           participant will undergo a standard surgical excision of the lesion with 4mm margins as
           below:

             -  4mm margins will be drawn around the lesion

             -  1% Lidocaine with epinephrine will be infiltrated

             -  The area will be prepped with betadine in a sterile fashion

             -  This will be excised to the level of the subcutaneous fat with a number 15
                bard-parker blade

             -  The tissue will be removed with sharp and blunt dissection

             -  The lateral margins of the resulting defect will be undermined with sharp and blunt
                dissection and hemostasis was achieved with electrocautery. Dog ear repair will be
                performed

             -  The deeper layers of the defect including subcutaneous fat will be approximated to
                reduce tension on the suture line

             -  Layered wound closure will be performed as appropriate for the surgical site. The
                wound will be cleaned with hydrogen peroxide, dried off, bacitracin ointment will
                be applied and the wound covered with a pressure dressing. The patient will be
                given detailed verbal and written instructions on post-operative care. Participant
                will return in 2 weeks for suture removal.

        5. Data to be collected and when data is to be collected Data to be collected throughout
           the study includes, the items listed in Table 1 (below).

      Visit Type Visits 1 Final Visit Suture Removal

      Clinical measurement of lesion size X X

      Clinical evaluation of post treatment side effects X X

      Photo documentation pre and post treatment X X

      Histologic evaluation of tumor regression X

      Removal of Sutures X

      Table 1. Data to be collected throughout study on all subjects.

      VI. Biostatistical Analysis

        1. Specific data variables (e.g. data collection sheets)

           The primary outcome data collected during the study will include:

             -  Histologic complete regression of tumor Secondary outcome data scores and
                measurements will include

             -  Clinical and photographic evidence of extent of side effects occurring after each
                treatment

             -  Clinical and photographic evidence of tumor regression

        2. Study endpoints This is a study to assess the efficacy of the Nd:YAG laser to cause
           complete regression of basal cell carcinoma. The number of tumors of each type (i.e.
           superficial low risk, nodular low risk) responding with complete regression will be
           determined. Complete response will be defined as no histologic evidence of disease. The
           number of partially responding tumors will also be determined. Partial response will be
           defined as a clinical reduction in surface area of the treated tumor, with histologic
           evidence of residual disease

        3. Statistical methods Long-pulsed Nd:YAG 1064 nm laser treatment of BCC is expected to
           provide complete clinical and histologic clearance in approximately 90% of tumor based
           on a previous study.9 The number of subjects (n=50) in this study is chosen to provide
           statistical power of β≥0.8 to detect a complete response frequency of at least 80%.
           Approximately, this level of response is considered to be clinically significant.

      A statistician will be enlisted to assist in statistical analysis of the results. A
      Kruskal-Wallis non-parametric one-way ANOVA will be performed for various parameters
      including width and length of the lesion and area of the lesion to determine if size affects
      the outcome of treatment. Clearance rates as determined by histology will be compared between
      treatment and established clearance rates for standard excision to determine statistical
      significance. All statistical tests of differences will be considered statistically
      significant ≤ 5%.

      BCC tumors will be analyzed as a whole and then will be stratified by subtype. Stratification
      of the BCC subtypes will account for the variation in results, if any. If subjects have more
      than one lesion treated, each lesion will be counted separately.

      The primary outcome of the study is histologic complete regression of tumor . The secondary
      outcome is clinical and photographic evidence of extent of side effects occurring after each
      treatment

        -  Clinical and photographic evidence of tumor regression

      VII. Risks and Discomforts

        1. Complications of surgical and non surgical procedures The laser device will be used
           under the immediate direction of the principal investigator and co-investigator, Drs.
           Arisa Ortiz and Brian Jiang, who are laser certified operator. Only credentialed laser
           users at the hospital can operate the device. Only Dr. Ortiz and Jiang will operate the
           device. Dr. Ortiz will report any minor or major adverse events (per the University of
           California HRPP (Human Research Protections Program) reporting guidelines that occur
           during the study, immediately to the UCSD Human Research Protections Program. Any risk
           of eye damage in subjects participating in this study will be eliminated by the wearing
           of protective eyewear during laser use.

           Laser pulses will produce an immediate sensation comparable to a pin-prick or rubber
           band snapping against the skin (mild to moderate pain) at the treatment site, and there
           may be a transient sensation of sunburn after irradiation that disappears over a period
           of several days. The following is a list of potential adverse events that could occur
           from use of the laser device in this study. Please note that the goal of the laser
           therapy is to produce damage and necrosis to the tumor. Therefore signs of this effect,
           including inflammation and purpura are expected outcomes and will not be recorded as
           adverse events.

           Subjects enrolled may expect some side effects (purpura, erythema, and edema) at the
           laser-treated site. Erythema and edema usually disappear within 24 to 72 hours. Purpura
           may persist for approximately one to two weeks. Blistering and scaling at the treated
           sites may also develop but are rare and temporary. Scarring, ulceration,
           post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation, and infection also occur
           rarely. The risk of infection will be minimized by proper wound care. If infection is
           evident at the treated site at the time of scheduled excision, the infection will be
           treated appropriately and the excision will be postponed for up to 2 weeks until the
           infection is resolved.

           Standard excision for BCC is associated with a small risk of recurrence. This risk is
           not increased as a result of the study.

           Subjects will be provided post laser-treatment and post excision instructions (see
           attached).

        2. Drug side effects and toxicities The only drug used in this protocol is
           lidocaine/epinephrine for local anesthesia. Patients will be asked regarding allergy to
           medications. No adverse effect is anticipated. However, allergic reaction may occur with
           any medication.

        3. Device complications/malfunctions Laser device Operating or treating with the device is
           restricted to authorized and trained personal. If the investigator has any evidence of a
           device malfunction that is potentially hazardous for the subject or is interfering with
           the performance of the device, the treatment shall be immediately interrupted and the
           IRB will be notified.

           Eye injury due to use of the laser system is a risk to the subject and the operator.
           Goggles will be labeled for specific use with the 1064 nm laser. Subjects and
           investigators and anyone present in the room will wear appropriate protective goggles
           during the procedure to avoid potential eye injury.

        4. Psychosocial (non-medical) risks The investigators do not anticipate any psychosocial
           risks due to this study. However if any participants experience emotional distress
           during the study the investigators will assist them to resolve this stress with
           appropriate referrals. Steps to prevent this outcome will include detailed explanation
           of the study and what to expect from the study treatment.

        5. Radiation risks This laser does not emit any ionizing radiation. Therefore, the risk
           associated with this type of radiation is non-existent. This laser emits light only in
           the visible and infrared range of the optical spectrum and therefore only thermal
           interaction with the tissue can be expected.

      VIII. Potential Benefits

        1. Potential benefits to participating individuals There will be no direct benefit to the
           subjects participating in the study

        2. Potential benefits to society The results of this study will help us acquire information
           that may lead to the development of an improved treatment for skin cancer.

      X. Monitoring and Quality Assurance

        1. Independent monitoring of source data

           At this time the investigators do not anticipate a need for an independent monitor as
           our monitoring of the data will be sufficient to ensure the validity and integrity of
           the data and adherence to the IRB-approved protocol.

           Patients will be recruited during their scheduled office visit in the exam room. Consent
           will be obtained in the exam room, where patients will have the opportunity to ask the
           physician questions.

           The investigators will make every effort to accurately document all data on study case
           report forms. All source data will be organized and filed into individual subject
           binders. Any pertinent notes to file regarding the subject shall be documented by a
           study investigator and kept in the applicable subject binder. The principal investigator
           shall review data on an ongoing and consistent basis throughout the duration of the
           study. Study numbers will be used to deidentify patients. All subjects must be assigned
           a study identification number that is the only item that appears on the subject binder
           and photographs. Electronic digital images, labeled with the study identification
           number, will be stored both in the patient binders and on a secured hospital server.
           Only investigators involved in the study will have access to this data. Even with these
           precautions, there is a risk of loss of confidentiality. If this occurs, the subject
           will be notified immediately.

           This study shall be performed in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local
           laws and regulations, including without limitation 21 CFR Parts 50 and 56 and the Health
           Insurance portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA") and any regulations and
           official guidance promulgated there under.

        2. Safety monitoring Safety data will be collected at each visit of the study.
           Investigators will perform overall efficacy assessments of this study. The Principal
           Investigator will be reviewing data on an ongoing and consistent basis throughout the
           duration of the study. The Principal Investigator is responsible for protecting the
           rights, safety, and welfare of subjects under his/her care. The Principal Investigator
           will be responsible for this review and for determining whether the research should be
           altered or stopped. If any severe adverse effect or death directly related to the
           procedure proposed occurs, Principal Investigator will report to the IRB.

        3. Outcomes monitoring Any adverse events will be reviewed and analyzed by the Principal
           Investigator as soon as the event occurs and will be documented in the subject's binder.
           Any unexpected adverse reactions will be reported by telephone to the IRB within 48
           hours of observing the event. If a unexpected side effect occurs, Principal Investigator
           will also report adverse events to the FDA.

        4. Adverse event reporting guidelines The principal investigator will follow the UCSD Human
           Research Committee guidelines for Adverse Event Reporting.
    
  