
    
      Participants will be breast cancer patients receiving radiation therapy at Massachusetts
      General Hospital. There will be two groups of patients: those receiving adjuvant radiation
      therapy alone following surgical tumor resection, and those receiving adjuvant chemotherapy
      and radiation therapy following surgical tumor resection. Patients receiving any radiation
      regimen detailed below in section 2b are eligible for the study. In this study the
      investigators will be drawing blood for beta-endorphin measurement prior to, at various times
      during, and following patients' treatment regimens. In addition, at each blood draw, patients
      will complete questionnaires that assess fatigue, mood, and pain. These questionnaires have
      all been validated for use in cancer patients (see "Procedures Involving Human Participants
      section below), and for our study, the investigators have formatted them onto computer
      tablets for ease of patient completion and data analysis. This study will progress as
      follows:

      Patients: Patients expected to receive adjuvant radiation therapy at Massachusetts General
      Hospital will be approached for enrollment onto this study. Two groups of patients, a
      chemotherapy group and a non-chemotherapy group, will be enrolled as follows:

        1. Adjuvant chemotherapy followed by radiation therapy

        2. Adjuvant radiation therapy without chemotherapy

      The enrollment goal for each group is 50 patients (total of 100 patients for the study). This
      calculation is based on the approximate number of 30 patients the investigators will need to
      achieve a sensitivity of β-endorphin changes of 5 pM being statistically significant to a
      p-value of<0.05 with 95% power. Based in our finding in mice, the investigators expect
      β-endorphin levels to vary between individuals, and the investigators have increased sample
      size by 70% from our calculations to account for deviations from our β-endorphin levels
      estimations. Additionally, the investigators have added patients to account for a number of
      patient dropping out of the study, since this is a long trial for patients requiring multiple
      blood draws.
    
  