
    
      The purpose of the proposed research is to collect tissue, blood and fecal samples from
      patients undergoing standard of care for their gastrointestinal disease, including
      Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), and Colorectal Cancer (CRC). Tissue and blood samples will
      be obtained during procedures that are part of normal treatment, including blood and fecal
      collection, surgical resection, and biopsy collection. Samples will be obtained from
      consenting patients at Seton Dell Medical Center at the University of Texas (SDMCUT), or
      other relevant facilities (see section 6.i below), and only tissue not required for
      histopathological analysis will be collected. Initially, the focus will be on IBD, and CRC,
      where there are extensive previous studies to draw from.

      The collected samples of the proposed study will be used to establish biomimetic human
      organ-on-a-chip platforms by leveraging microfluidic tissue culture technology. Another focus
      of the research will be study the human intestinal microbiome that is highly associated with
      the pathogenesis of human gastrointestinal diseases. The investigators have developed the
      microchip technology to mimic the structure and physiological function of human intestine by
      integrating tools developed in a microfluidic device, tissue engineering, and clinical
      microbiology, using intestinal cell lines. To recreate more reliable intestinal disease
      models and to further investigate the host-gut microbiome interactions in these experimental
      platforms, the investigators are transitioning to use human clinical samples. The
      investigators will use tissue biopsies to culture human intestinal cells including
      epithelium, endothelium, connective tissues on-chip. Blood samples will also obtained to
      isolate peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) that represent mixed population of white
      blood cells (WBC). Isolated WBCs will be co-cultured with intestinal cells. Any potential
      application of microbiome-related therapies such as fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT)
      will also be further investigated.
    
  