
    
      Study Design: Eligible subjects will receive the following: (1) medical history and physical
      examination, (2) Measurement of general chemistry, CBC, HbA1c, TSH, and (3) 75 grams OGTT.

      After completing the OGTT, subjects will be randomized to receive for 6 months, in an open
      label fashion: (1) weekly exenatide (bydureon) 2 mg per week (n=105); (2) liraglutide 1.8 mg
      per day (n=105); or (3) dulaglutide 1.5 mg per week (n=105).

      Liraglutide will be started on 0.6 mg/day and dulaglutide will be started at 0.75 mg/week and
      the dose will be increased to the maximal tolerated dose according to the patient response.

      During the treatment period, subjects will be seen monthly for follow-up visits. Each visit,
      medical history, physical examination will be performed. Body weight, blood pressure, FPG,
      Insulin, C-Peptide, glucagon, and HbA1c will be measured. At the end of 6-month treatment
      period, the OGTT will be repeated.

      Patient will be asked to bring the injection device at each monthly follow-up visit, and
      patient's compliance will be examined. Subjects with compliance rate <80% will be dropped off
      the study by the PI and other patient will be recruited to replace him

      MATERIAL AND METHODS Screening: During this visit a complete medical history and physical
      exam will be performed. Blood will be drawn for general chemistries, lipid profile, complete
      blood count (CBC), and thyroid function tests (TSH and T3, T4). An additional 30 ml blood
      will be drawn and immediately frozen for the measurement of adipocytokines (adiponectin,
      TNF-alpha, IL6, resistin, leptin and hsCRP) and DNA extraction.

      OGTT: All subjects will receive a 75 gram OGTT at 0800h after a 10-12 h overnight fast.
      Plasma glucose, insulin, C-peptide, GLP-1, GIP, glucagon, and FFA concentrations are measured
      at baseline (-15, -10 and 0 min) and every 30 min for 2 hours after glucose ingestion.
      Insulin sensitivity is calculated using the Matsuda Index (MI) of insulin sensitivity, which
      agrees closely with that measured with the euglycemic insulin clamp technique. The following
      indices of insulin secretion will be measured: early insulin response (ΔI0-30/ΔG0-30;
      ΔC-Pep0-30/ΔG0-30; ΔISR0-30/ΔG0-30) and total insulin response (ΔI0-120/ΔG0-120;
      ΔC-Pep0-120/ΔG0-120; ΔISR0-120/ΔG0-120), where ISR = insulin secretory rate calculated by
      plasma C-peptide deconvolution. Beta cell function is assessed using the insulin
      secretion/insulin resistance (disposition) index and is calculated as (ΔI/ΔG x Matsuda index;
      ΔISR/ΔG x Matsuda index).

      Beta cell function during the OGTT also will be assessed using the Mari-Ferrannini model.
      This model expresses insulin secretion (in pmol min-1m-2) as the sum of two components: (i)
      beta cell glucose sensitivity which represents the dependence of insulin secretion on the
      plasma glucose concentration at any time point during the OGTT; (ii) rate sensitivity which
      represents the dependence of insulin secretion on the rate of change of plasma glucose. The
      ISR-plasma glucose dose-response curve is modulated by a potentiation factor that encompasses
      several potentiating mechanisms (prolonged exposure to hyperglycemia, non-glucose substrates,
      gastrointestinal hormones, neural modulation, time-dependent molecular/biochemical/enzymatic
      changes within the beta cell). In normal individuals, the potentiation factor typically
      increases from baseline to the end of the OGTT.

      During the OGTT, 20 ml blood will be drawn to extract DNA and genome wide association
      analysis will be performed to identify genetic markers associated with beta cell function.
    
  