
    
      Out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is a major public health problem. More than 45,000
      Canadians suffer OHCA annually, with only 8.4% surviving to hospital discharge. Early
      bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and defibrillator use can save lives but are
      rarely done.

      Advances in mobile device technology have allowed the development of a system which can
      notify CPR-trained citizens within 400 meters of a possible cardiac arrest. The PulsePoint
      mobile device application (www.pulsepoint.org) empowers them to respond and provide basic
      life support while professional crews are being dispatched. When a mobile device receives the
      alert data from the PulsePoint system, the application presents a map showing the exact
      location of the emergency and the closest public access defibrillator.

      PulsePoint will be implemented in 3 regions across Canada and the US (British Columbia,
      Winnipeg, and Columbus, Ohio). After a coordinated marketing campaign in each participating
      region to maximize the number of mobile device application downloads in the community, 9-1-1
      calls for suspected cardiac arrest having at least one PulsePoint responder within 400 meters
      will be randomized to conventional dispatch for suspected cardiac arrest versus conventional
      dispatch plus PulsePoint notifications. The primary outcome will be bystander CPR or
      defibrillator use prior to professional responders arriving on scene. The primary analysis
      will involve comparing outcomes between the control and treatment groups among all eligible
      randomized patients with cardiac arrest.

      The investigators hypothesize that the PulsePoint system will have an immediate impact on
      increasing bystander CPR and defibrillator use in participating communities. In the long
      term, this project will provide valuable data on how effective PulsePoint is with respect to
      bystander resuscitation and survival. The data will directly inform policy decisions about
      PulsePoint implementation in the participating communities and guide other North American
      jurisdictions around these policy decisions in the future.
    
  