
    
      Background:

        -  Current greater than or equal to 2nd line treatments for metastatic breast cancer
           provide modest response rates, and modest improvement in progression-free survival but
           no treatments are curative.

        -  Bavarian-Nordic (BN)-Brachyury vaccine is a recombinant poxvirus vaccine against the
           transcription factor brachyury, which plays an important role in the
           epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in breast cancer. A recently completed phase 1
           study of BN-Brachyury vaccine showed the vaccine was well tolerated and generated an
           immune response.

        -  M7824 is a novel bifunctional fusion protein composed of a monoclonal antibody against
           human PD-L1 fused to the soluble extracellular domain of human TGF-Beta receptor II
           (TGF-BetaRII), which functions as a TGF-Beta trap.

        -  Ado-trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1 or Kadcyla) is an antibody drug conjugate used in
           second- and third- line treatment of metastatic HER2+ breast cancer (HER2+BC). T-DM1
           activates ADCC, dendritic cell maturation, increases TILs, increased PD-L1 expression,
           and increased immunomodulatory cytokines.

        -  Entinostat is a class 1 histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi) which suppresses tumor
           initiating cells, regulatory T-cells and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), as
           well as enhances cytotoxic T-cell mediated lysis, direct natural killer (NK) lysis, NK
           cell activation, increases PD-L1 expression and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity
           (ADCC). In addition, entinostat may also be able to overcome HER2 resistance.

        -  We propose a Phase 1b trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the stepwise
           combination of the BN-Brachyury vaccine, M7824, T-DM1 and entinostat in metastatic
           breast cancer.

             -  Arm 1 - Triple Negative Breast Cancer (TNBC); M7824 + BN-Brachyury

             -  Arm 2 - ER-/PR-/HER2+ Breast Cancer; M7824 + BN-Brachyury + T-DM1

             -  Arm 3 - ER-/PR-/HER2+ Breast Cancer; M7824 + BN-Brachyury + T-DM1+ Entinostat

      Objectives:

      Primary Objectives:

        -  Arms 1-3: Overall response rate (ORR; PR+CR)

        -  Arms 1-3: Safety for each of the three combinations of agents explored in the arms

      Eligibility:

      Selected Inclusion Criteria

        -  Histologically confirmed metastatic breast cancer with appropriate IHC testing by a
           certified lab:

             -  For Arm 1: Triple negative breast cancer. Hormone receptor negative is defined by
                estrogen receptor < 10% and progesterone receptor < 10%. HER2 negative breast
                cancer is defined as HER2 per IHC 0 or 1+ or 2+ with negative FISH.

             -  For Arms 2 and 3: Hormone receptor negative, HER2+ breast cancer as defined by
                estrogen receptor < 10% and progesterone receptor < 10%. HER2 positive as per IHC
                3+ or 2+ with positive FISH.

        -  Prior treatment:

             -  For Arm 1: greater than or equal to 1 prior therapy in the metastatic setting.
                Patients with known PD-L1 positive tumors must have received prior treatment with
                atezolizumab + nab-paclitaxel. Patients with ER 1-9% must have received treatment
                with at least two lines of endocrine treatment (SERM, AI, fulvestrant) with one
                prior treatment including a CDK4/6 inhibitor + endocrine therapy for their
                metastatic cancer and should be considered endocrine therapy resistant.

             -  For Arms 2 and 3: greater than or equal to 1 prior treatment in the metastatic
                setting with a taxane (docetaxel or paclitaxel), herceptin and pertuzumab.

        -  Females or males greater than or equal to 18 years old

        -  ECOG 0 or 1

        -  Measurable metastatic disease per RECIST 1.1.

        -  For Cohort 3, Arms 2 and 3: At least one biopsiable lesion and willingness to undergo up
           to three research biopsies.

        -  Adequate hematopoietic, hepatic, renal and cardiac (EF greater than or equal to 50%)
           function.

      Selected Exclusion Criteria

        -  Patients who have received chemotherapy, including trastuzumab and pertuzumab in the
           previous 3 weeks; other investigational agents within 4 weeks or a PD-1/PD-L1 antibody
           within 4 weeks prior to study enrollment; radiotherapy less than or equal to 4 weeks of
           study entry.

        -  Symptomatic CNS metastases and leptomeningeal disease are excluded but treated brain
           metastases (no radiotherapy within 6 weeks) or asymptomatic brain metastasis are
           allowed.

        -  History of invasive malignancy less than or equal to 3 years prior to enrollment.

        -  History of congestive heart failure (CHF) as defined as NYHA class 3 or 4 or
           hospitalization for CHF (any NYHA class) within 6 months of trial start.

        -  Concurrent use of chronic systemic steroids except for physiologic systemic steroids for
           replacement defined as 10mg of prednisone or an equivalent dose.

      Design:

      This study contains three separate, single arm phase 1b trials.

        -  Arm 1 will evaluate M7824 and BN-Brachyury in patients with TNBC.

        -  If this doublet is determined to have acceptable toxicity (0-1 DLTs of the first 6
           patients), up to 19 patients will be enrolled on Arm 2 in which BN-Brachyury, M7824 and
           T-DM1 will be evaluated in patients with advanced HR-/HER2+ BC with disease progression
           after treatment with THP or intolerance to THP.

        -  If this triplet is determined to have acceptable toxicity (0-1 DLTs of the first 6
           patients), 19 patients will be enrolled on Arm 3 in which BN-Brachyury, entinostat,
           M7824 and T-DM1 will be evaluated in patients with advanced HR-/HER2+ BC with disease
           progression after treatment with THP or intolerance to THP.

        -  Up to 51 evaluable patients will be recruited for this study, with an accrual ceiling
           set at 65 patients.

      Trial Drugs

        -  BN-Brachyury vaccine every 3 weeks until cycle 9, then every 12 weeks:

             -  Recombinant MVA-BN-Brachyury (R2PD): 4 injections of vaccines with 1 given SC in
                each extremity on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 2. Each injection of MVA-BN-Brachyury
                consists of 2.0 x 10(8) infectious units (Inf.U).

             -  Recombinant FPV-Brachyury: 1 injection given SC in one extremity on Day 1 of Cycles
                3 and beyond. Each infection of FPV-Brachyury consists of 1.0 x 10(9) Inf.U.

        -  T-DM1 3.6mg/kg via IV infusion q3 weeks on Day 1 of each cycle.

        -  M7824 2,400mg via IV infusion q3 weeks on Day 1 of each cycle.

        -  Entinostat 5mg by mouth weekly (RP2D) administered by patient on Days 1, 8 and 15 of
           each cycle.
    
  