
    
      New bariatric patients who have elected for a sleeve gastrectomy as part of standard of care
      will be invited to participate in the study during the bariatric clinic at William Beaumont
      Army Medical Center. Patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be invited to participate
      in the study. These patients will be consented in the bariatric clinic by a research
      coordinator (Doreen Bandari-Spaulding) or physician listed on the study if the coordinator is
      unavailable.

      Three folders will be made, one for each bariatric surgeon, and 25 Covidien cards and 25
      Ethicon cards will be placed into each for a total of 150 patients. All bariatric surgeons
      are trained and familiar with both devices. Once consented, a card will be removed at random
      to determine which stapler will be used. Bioabsorbable staple line reinforcement will be
      utilized with both staplers. Once in the operating room, the case start time, time from first
      staple firing to completion of sleeve, total stapler loads required, number of staple
      misfires, character of any staple line bleeding, and time for tech to load each cartridge
      will be recorded on a data collection sheet by a research resident, listed as an associative
      investigator on this protocol. The subject's post-operative course will follow the bariatric
      protocol. During follow-up, they will be monitored for weight loss, post-operative
      complications, and any other required interventions. This information will be obtained by
      reviewing the subject's medical record after follow-up appointments. Per the institutional
      bariatric protocol, subjects will follow-up at 3 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and
      annually. If a subject withdraws consent for the study prior to surgery, they will still
      receive surgery and perioperative treatment in line with institutional protocol, and they
      will be withdrawn and create a vacancy for a new subject. If a subject withdraws consent
      after surgery, data collection will cease for that subject. The investigators will clarify
      whether they want all data to be removed from the study or if they simply want no more data
      to be entered into the study and abide by their wishes, and they will remain in the original
      randomized group in accordance with intention-to-treat principles.
    
  