
    
      The Pulmonx Zephyr Endobronchial Valve (EBV) is an implantable bronchial valve intended to
      decrease volume in targeted regions of the lung. It is indicated for the treatment of
      patients with severe emphysema. The EBV are placed in the diseased region of the lung using
      bronchoscopy. Bronchoscopy is a way to access the lungs using a small tube with a camera on
      the end. As the diseased region of the lung shrinks in size, healthier regions may expand and
      function more efficiently, resulting in improved breathing.

      The LIBERATE Study is a clinical trial with two groups. Participants are assigned at random
      to the 'Treatment' group or to the 'Control' group. The 'Treatment' group will receive the
      Zephyr Endobronchial Valve (EBV) in combination with optimal medical therapy. The 'Control'
      group will receive optimal medical therapy alone. For every three participants in the study,
      two will go into the 'Treatment' group and one will go into the 'Control' group.

      It is hypothesized that after placement of the EBV, lung function will be improved as
      compared to standard medical therapy alone.

      Based on the 12-month follow up data from the LIBERATE Study, the Zephyr Endobronchial Valve
      System was approved by the FDA for the treatment of severe emphysema in June 2018. Following
      this PMA approval, and in agreement with the FDA, the ongoing long term follow-up (out to 5
      years) of patients in the LIBERATE Study will now be conducted as a Post-approval study under
      the auspices of the "LIBERATE Extension Study". This is an administrative change with
      absolutely no change to the design or conduct of the study and, therefore has no material
      impact to the study participants or the study sites. All annual follow-up visits and
      evaluations are per the original LIBERATE Study protocol. Reporting to the FDA will be as the
      LIBERATE Extension Study.
    
  