
    
      The objective of the project is to determine whether prazosin, an alpha-1 adrenergic receptor
      antagonist, decreases alcohol consumption and/or the subjective experience of alcohol craving
      in individuals without post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) who are seeking treatment for
      alcohol dependence.

      The study hypotheses are: (1) Subjects treated with prazosin will report fewer drinking days
      and fewer drinks per drinking day than subjects treated with placebo, (2) subjects treated
      with prazosin will report decreased craving for alcohol as compared to subjects in the
      placebo condition, and (3) prazosin will be well-tolerated at the proposed dosage by subjects
      in the prazosin condition compared to subjects in the placebo condition.

      This project is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of prazosin in subjects
      who are dependent on alcohol and have used alcohol within the last 30 days prior to
      randomization. The treatment phase will last 6 weeks and will include 40 subjects; 20
      randomized to each experimental condition (prazosin and placebo). Participants in both the
      groups will be provided the same behavioral treatment for alcohol dependence throughout the
      course of the study. Participants in both groups will also use daily Interactive Voice
      Response (IVR) symptom monitoring technology to track daily fluctuations in alcohol use and
      craving, as well as medication compliance.

      The study will be conducted at the Addiction Treatment Center (ATC) at VAPSHCS, Seattle
      division.

      Participants will include 40 alcohol-dependent adults presenting for chemical dependency
      treatment at the VA Puget Sound Health Care System (VAPSHCS) Addiction Treatment Center as
      well as subjects recruited from the general public via advertisements in local weekly
      newspapers.

      Study Procedures: Once potential study participants have undergone an initial screen to
      insure basic eligibility they will provide informed consent and will undergo a 2-hour
      baseline assessment that will include completing a diagnostic interview, paper-and-pencil
      packet of measures, and providing urine and blood specimens. After completion of these
      assessments, a final determination will be made within three business days as to whether the
      potential participant meets inclusion but not exclusion criteria. Eligible participants will
      then be randomized to one of the two treatment groups. The participants will be prompted
      three times each day by text messaging pages reminding them to take their study medications.

      The behavioral treatment to be used in this study is the Medication Management protocol
      adapted from the procedure used in Project COMBINE. A clinical rescue strategy will be in
      place such that any participants who evidence severe clinical deterioration including
      consuming more than 140 standard equivalent drinks in any 7 day period will be removed from
      the protocol and offered inpatient treatment at VA PSHCS.

      During the first two weeks of the study, participants will have twice-weekly orthostatic
      vital sign and adverse events monitoring by the study nurse or physician, then weekly
      thereafter. All serious or unexpected adverse events will be reported to the FDA and UW Human
      Subjects Committee in accordance with requirements. When participants have completed their
      medication treatment at 6 weeks post-randomization, they will repeat all the baseline
      measures and laboratory tests (urine and blood samples will be requested) except for the PCL
      and the California Verbal Learning Test.
    
  