
    
      The participants are evaluated before surgery and one month, two months, three months and
      three months plus one day after surgery. At each evaluation point a MRI of the brain with
      volumetric sequences is performed and clinical data is collected (Walking speed and steps for
      Time up and go, 10m walking and 3m walking backwards. Mini Mental State Examination, balance,
      gait, self rating of incontinence, Epworth Sleepiness Scale).

      At surgery, all patients are given a ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt (Strata ® ) with an
      opening pressure setting of 1.5. After the first evaluation, one month postoperatively,
      participants are randomized to either a higher (2.5) or a lower (1.0) opening pressure, ratio
      1:1. The opening pressure setting is blinded both for patients and the clinician during the
      subsequent clinical evaluations. At two months, the opening pressure is crossed over to the
      alternative setting (2.5 or 1.0). At three months, all participants receive the lowest shunt
      opening pressure (0.5) with the final evaluation the next day.

      Semiautomatic measurement of the lateral as well as the third cerebral ventricles will be
      performed using the MRI scans and volumetric software: SyMRI (SyntheticMR AB, Linköping,
      Sweden)

      CSF is collected at three times for each participant, from the lumbar spine pre- and 3 months
      postoperatively and intracranially during surgery. Further, intracranial CSF is taken through
      the Rickham Reservoir at the 3 months postoperative evaluation. After CSF from the
      participants has been collected, a single batch mass spectrometry will be performed with all
      the samples simultaneously.

      Sample size was determined to achieve 80% power for a two tailed paired t-test for a mean
      change in ventricular volume of 8ml, estimated from postoperative change in ventricular
      volume in a previous study.

      Hypotheses:

        -  The volume of the ventricular system in the brain decreases significantly after
           shunt-surgery.

        -  The ventricular volume is larger at high opening pressures compared to low opening
           pressures of the shunt.

        -  The decrease in ventricular volume is related to clinical outcome.
    
  