
    
      Approximately one in ten women undergoes surgery for prolapse or incontinence in her
      lifetime. Of these, up to thirty percent require a re-operation for recurrence of their
      prolapse or incontinence symptoms. It has been estimated one in nine women will undergo a
      hysterectomy in her lifetime, and up to 10% of these women will require surgery for
      symptomatic vaginal vault prolapse. The search for the ideal repair for pelvic organ prolapse
      has led to the invention of several approaches to this problem.

      Abdominal sacrocolpopexy (ASC) with synthetic mesh is considered the gold standard in the
      surgical management of pelvic organ prolapse with anatomic success rates ranging from 90 to
      100%. Randomized comparative effectiveness trials and systematic literature reviews
      demonstrated the anatomic superiority of open ASC compared to vaginal sacrospinous ligament
      suspension.

      Although ASC has the highest anatomic success rates for correcting apical prolapse, it is
      traditionally done via a laparotomy requiring an abdominal incision. Open technique is
      associated with more frequent short-term complications, including gastrointestinal.

      Minimally invasive approaches to ASC using laparoscopy or robotic assisted laparoscopy
      demonstrate shorter hospital stays, decreased blood loss, and similar short-term anatomic
      outcomes when compared to open ASC. Increasing numbers of surgeons and patients choose
      minimally invasive ASC to maximize the benefits of abdominal placed mesh and the
      shorter-recovery associated with minimally invasive surgery. Few studies have compared
      laparoscopy to robotic assisted-laparoscopy in pelvic reconstructive surgery.

      Like many techniques in pelvic surgery, trends in the management of pelvic organ prolapse
      continue to evolve. Unfortunately, such trends are not supported by robust data, specifically
      that provided by randomized clinical trials. Although robotic technology is new and rapidly
      spreading throughout the urologic and gynecologic communities, there are no randomized trials
      comparing outcomes of robotic to more traditional laparoscopic techniques for reconstructive
      pelvic surgery. Retrospective series indicate comparable efficacy with respect to cure of
      prolapse. However, to date is it unknown how robotic surgery compares to laparoscopic
      techniques with respect to cost, patient safety, pain, and ability to return to normal
      activities.

      The use of the robot in laparoscopic surgery is costly. The costs of purchasing a robot has
      been estimated at $1.5 million dollars with annual maintenance costs of $112,0007. In
      addition, additional costs exist for the robotic equipment utilized with each case. It is
      arguable that the maintenance and operative equipment costs may overshadow any potential
      savings in length of hospital stay and patient convalescence. However, if robotic
      sacrocolpopexy can provide better immediate quality of life, less pain, and faster recovery
      compared to laparoscopic techniques, the investment in robotic techniques may very well be
      cost effective when a societal perspective is taken.
    
  