
    
      The study will consist of 3 phases: an initial screening phase which must be completed 7 to
      14 days prior to randomization; an 8-week double-blind treatment phase; and a 2-week
      double-blind dose-tapering follow-up phase. After obtaining written informed consent the
      investigator will initiate washout of prior psychotropic medications. After the washout of
      prior psychotropic medications has been completed the investigator must ensure that the
      subject is no longer taking psychotropic medication for at least 14 days prior to the
      randomization visit. In addition the investigator must ensure that screening visit procedures
      (with the exception of obtaining informed consent) are completed within 14 days of the
      randomization visit.

      Potential subjects will be approached during a regularly scheduled clinic visit, upon
      referral from another physician, or in response to research advertisements. Those who call in
      will participate in a short phone pre-screen. This allows us to determine if the person fits
      the most limiting inclusion/exclusion criteria before requesting they dedicate a longer
      period of time for an in-person screen. Additionally it gives interested individuals the
      opportunity to learn more about the study and to review the consent form with family,
      friends, and other physicians prior to coming in for the screen and making a final decision
      regarding study enrollment. Once the subject has given informed consent, the screening
      process for the study will commence.

      Subjects who fulfill entry criteria will be randomized to receive ONE of the following 4
      treatments in a double-blind fashion: PD 0332334 225 mg twice a day, PD 0332334 300 mg twice
      a day, placebo, and paroxetine 20 mg once in the morning. PD 0332334 will be titrated up in
      the PD 0332334 225 mg twice a day and PD 0332334 300 mg twice daily treatment groups. The
      titration of PD 0332334 will be from 125 mg in the beginning of the study. In addition the PD
      0332334 225 mg twice a day and PD 0332334 300 mg twice a day treatment groups will be
      titrated down at the end of the study. The 20 mg daily dose of paroxetine used in this study
      is based on the approved label for the use of paroxetine in patients with generalized anxiety
      disorder. Doses were selected for this Phase 3 study based on safety and efficacy information
      known about PD 0332334 and pregabalin, an α2δ ligand approved for the treatment of
      generalized anxiety disorder in Europe

      The subjects enrolled will be men and women ages 18 to 65 who meet DSM-IV criteria for
      generalized anxiety disorder with a preponderance of anxious symptoms over depressive
      symptoms.

      De-identified blood samples will be collected from study subjects at Screening (Visit 1)
      according to the standard Molecular Profiling supplement to the protocol. Participation in
      this component is optional for study subjects. Samples may be utilized in the future to
      investigate generalized anxiety disorder genetics, expression metabonomics and protein
      biomarker profiles, drug-response, or other genetic or biomarker questions. [Metabonomics:
      The study of metabolic responses to drugs, environmental changes and diseases. Metabonomics
      is an extension of genomics (concerned with DNA) and proteomics (concerned with proteins). ]

      Additionally, partners of male participants who become pregnant during the course of the
      study, will be requested to participate in order for the sponsor to collect safety
      information and understand the effects, if any, that PD 0332334 may have on her pregnancy or
      the fetus. Details of the this sub-study are described in the separate 'pregnant partner'
      consent form. Pregnant partners will be be asked to sign a separate HIPAA and consent form in
      order to participate.

      The investigators have recently received notification of an serious adverse event at another
      site that has already begun recruitment for this study. The MediWatch report for that serious
      adverse event is included as a Supporting document on WEBRIDGE. Additionally, a protocol
      change clarifying the procedures to collect lab information to calculate the estimate
      Creatinine Clearance has been submitted. This document has been added as a supporting
      document on WEBRIDGE (IRB web-based management portal).
    
  