
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of vaccination with autologous monocyte-derived
           dendritic cells (DC) transfected with RNAs encoding Melan-A, MAGE-3, and survivin
           antigens in patients with stage IV cutaneous melanoma.

        -  Determine whether tumor antigen-specific T-cell responses are induced in patients
           treated with this vaccine.

        -  Determine whether simultaneous loading of DC with keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH)
           significantly enhances induction of the Melan-A, MAGE-3, and survivin antigens in these
           patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine clinical antitumor activity (e.g., objective tumor response, time to tumor
           progression, progression-free interval, and overall survival) in patients treated with
           this vaccine.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, nonrandomized study.

        -  Phase I: Beginning 9-11 days before vaccination, patients undergo leukapheresis for
           collection of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). PBMCs are processed for the
           generation of dendritic cells (DC) to be used for vaccinations. PBMCs are transfected
           with RNAs encoding for Melan-A, MAGE-3, and survivin antigens. DC are pulsed with
           keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) for some patients.

      Patients receive antigen-pulsed (with or without KLH) DC vaccination subcutaneously (SC) on
      days 1, 15, 43, and 71 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients with stable or responding disease may proceed to the phase II portion of the study.

        -  Phase II: Patients undergo leukapheresis as in phase I on days 102, 354, and 690.
           Patients receive up to 6 additional booster vaccinations SC as in phase I on days 127,
           185, 269, 356, 521, and 692.

      Patients are followed for 10 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 8-30 patients will be accrued for this study within 6-12
      months.
    
  