
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the time to treatment failure in patients with previously untreated mantle
           cell lymphoma treated with rituximab and CHOP chemotherapy comprising prednisone,
           cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and vincristine followed by yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab
           tiuxetan (IDEC-Y2B8; yttrium Y 90 Zevalin®).

        -  Determine the response rate in patients at the completion of rituximab and CHOP and the
           incremental response rate after IDEC-Y2B8.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Correlate serum rituximab levels with response in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  CHOP chemotherapy and rituximab: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin IV,
           vincristine IV, and rituximab IV on day 1 and oral prednisone on days 1-5 (R + CHOP).
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients who have responding or stable disease proceed to radioimmunotherapy.

        -  Radioimmunotherapy: Within 4-7 weeks after the completion of R + CHOP chemotherapy,
           patients receive rituximab IV and an imaging dose of indium In 111 ibritumomab tiuxetan
           IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Patients then undergo whole body gamma imaging scans during
           the first day (2-24 hours) and the second or third day (48-72 hours) after injection. In
           the absence of altered biodistribution, patients receive rituximab IV followed by
           yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan (IDEC-Y2B8; yttrium Y 90 Zevalin®) IV over 10 minutes
           on day 8.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 57 patients will be accrued for this study within 2.8 years.
    
  