
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety of the combination of intravenous (i.v.) rintatolimod administered
      with or without i.v. IFN alpha (recombinant interferon alfa-2b in patients with cancer with
      mild or moderate COVID-19.

      II. To determine the kinetics of viral load in nasopharyngeal swabs in the course of
      treatment and days 7, 14 and 30.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  I. To assess the efficacy of the treatment combination in patients with cancer with mild
           or moderate COVID-19

        -  II.Determine the kinetics of viral load in the peripheral blood in the course of
           treatment and days 7,14 and 30

        -  III. Determine the kinetics of changes of the immune subsets and circulating
           inflammatory mediators (including C-reactive protein [CRP], cytokines, chemokines,
           interferons) in peripheral blood in the course of treatment and days 7,14 and 30.

        -  IV. Determine the induction of known mediators of antiviral immunity that include
           (myxovirus resistance gene, MxA; protein Kinase R (PKR); oligoadenylate synthetase-2
           (OAS2); RNAse-L, IFN-stimulated gene-15 (ISG15); IFN-induced proteins with
           tetratricopeptide repeats (IFIT1) and IFN-inducible transmembrane protein 3 (IFITM3),
           TLR3, RIG-I, MDA5, IRF3, IRF7, in nasopharyngeal swabs material and blood cells of
           patients on all tiers of treatment. Expression of ACE2 (receptor for SARS-Cov-2 entry)
           and potentially other genes involved in SARS-CoV-2 infection will be tested in
           nasopharyngeal samples

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of recombinant interferon alfa-2b.

      Patients receive rintatolimod IV over 2.5-3 hours and recombinant interferon alfa-2b IV over
      20 minutes on day 1, and Day 3 (or 4) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients are followed up at days 7,14 and 30 after initiation of the study regimen.
    
  