
    
      To develop and test a technology-based sleep self-management intervention delivered to
      9-to-11 year-old children with JIA and their parents. The initial feasibility, acceptability,
      and efficacy of the newly developed sleep self-management intervention will be tested in a
      pilot randomized controlled trial comparing the active intervention against standard care
      with a sample of 60 children with JIA and their parents. Sleep will be measured using
      actigraphy, sleep diaries, & self-report measures. Problem-solving skills, motivation,
      beliefs about sleep, and sleep self-efficacy will be measured before and after the
      intervention. The long-term goal is to develop effective and low cost treatments to reduce
      sleep deficiency and the sleep-related health consequences among children with JIA. The
      specific aims are to:

      Aim 1. Apply a user-centered design approach to develop and refine a technology-based sleep
      self-management intervention (SLEEPSMART). Direct stakeholder input will be obtained from
      children and parents about their needs for sleep shared-management as well as intervention
      material from our prior Web-based interventions for youth with chronic pain that includes
      sleep hygiene education, and a self-management focus (motivation, self-efficacy, patient
      activation) to develop content for the SLEEPSMART. Qualitative methods (iterative cycles of
      semi-structured audiotaped sessions with children and parents and think-aloud observation
      sessions by a trained observer) will be used to evaluate the usability of the SLEEPSMART
      prototype. Results of these analyses will guide program finalization.

      Aim 2. Determine feasibility and initial efficacy of the SLEEPSMART with children with JIA in
      a pilot RCT. Study accrual and dropout rates will be assessed, as well as, levels of patient
      acceptability and engagement in a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing usual
      care to SLEEPSMART intervention. Preliminary effect sizes of the SLEEPSMART will be
      determined in youth receiving treatment compared to usual care on primary outcomes of
      actigraphy sleep duration, sleep quality, and feasibility/acceptability, and secondary
      outcomes of child and parent self-management(activation, motivation, self-efficacy),
      technology use, recommendations for innovative sleep monitoring
    
  