
    
      This is a single-center study conducted at the Cleveland Clinic. The target population for
      this study is very broad and goes beyond any specific cohort or community. Participants will
      be mainly recruited from the greater Cleveland/Akron area, but any volunteer meeting the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria is eligible for participation.

      The overall goal of the Cleveland Heart And Metabolic Prevention Study (CHAMPS) is to
      determine the role of nitrative stress in the development and progression of heart failure
      (HF) and left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVSD). The investigators have previously
      developed and performed preliminary clinical validation studies on multiple specific
      molecular footprints of known pathways of nitric oxide (NO) pathobiology that affect
      substrate availability for NO production or generation of NO-derived oxidants as a result of
      nitrative stress. For each these molecular markers and indices, mechanistic links to
      cardiovascular diseases have been demonstrated. However, these processes may be
      differentially expressed in different proportions at different stages of LVSD/HF disease
      progression, and certainly may vary among different individuals. It is the investigators'
      hypothesis that the interplay of many of these processes contribute to development of
      subclinical myocardial dysfunction (SMD), and the progression to overt LVSD and HF.

      In order to help determine the role of nitrative stress in the development and progression of
      heart failure and left ventricular systolic dysfunction study participants will receive many
      non-invasive, research only, procedures as well as a blood draw and urine collection. The
      procedures performed may include electrocardiogram (ECG), echocardiogram, carotid
      intima-medial thickness measurements, ankle-brachial index, bioelectrical impedance analysis,
      pulse wave velocity analysis, spirometry, exhaled nitric oxide analysis, and venous occlusion
      strain-gauge plethysmography. The specific tests performed on each participant will be at the
      description of the primary investigator and not all participants will receive all tests. All
      participants will have blood and urine collections and all participants will be asked to fill
      out questionnaires pertaining to family history, personal medical history and estimates of
      functional capacity.

      Specific aims include:

      Aim 1: To test the hypothesis that levels of specific nitric oxide (NO)-mediated processes
      are associated with the presence of SMD and LVSD/HF.

      Aim 2: To test the hypothesis that levels of specific NO-mediated processes are associated
      with prospective risks for development of adverse cardiovascular events and overt HF in
      stable patients without LVSD/HF at baseline.
    
  