
    
      Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible blindness in the world. It is estimated that by
      2040, the number of glaucoma patients in the world's population aged 40-80 will exceed 110
      million [1]. As a chronic progressive blindness disease, glaucoma can seriously damage visual
      function such as visual acuity, visual field and contrast sensitivity, restrict patients'
      daily life activities and leads to a serious decline in vision-related quality of life
      (VRQOL) and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) [2-5]. Comprehensive evaluation of the
      visual function of glaucoma patients can not only educate the impact of glaucoma, but also
      reflect the effect of clinical treatment or rehabilitation interventions. However, the
      objective testing methods commonly used in clinic, such as visual acuity, visual field and
      contrast sensitivity, can only be used to evaluate part of the visual function of patients,
      which can not reflect the impact of disease and corresponding interventions from the point of
      view of patients. The use of patient defined measures of vision function in ophthalmic
      assessment and treatment evaluation is now well accepted and a number of questionnaires have
      been developed, such as NEI VFQ-25, LVQOL and SF-36, which mostly focus on investigating
      VRQOL or HRQOL[6-10]. There are comparatively few vision function questionnaires developed to
      measure the visual ability for glaucoma patients. The objective of this study is to develop
      and test the psychometric properties of a self-report questionaire, the Glaucoma Visual
      Functioning Questionnaire-40 (GVFQ-40), which was designed to measure the difficulty of daily
      activities of glaucoma patients and evaluate the effectiveness of clinical treatment or
      rehabilitation interventions.

      The GVFQ-40 consists of 40 items and measures the impact of glaucoma on restriction of
      participation in daily activities in five domains of functioning (mobility, visual tracking,
      reading, identification and night vision ). Each item has six answer options, that is, no
      difficulty (score = 1), mild difficulty (score = 2), moderate difficulty (score = 3),
      extremely difficult (score = 4), completely unable to complete (score = 5), and do not
      performed for nonvisual reasons (no score).
    
  