
    
      The majority of insulin resistant individuals (predominantly individuals with type 2 diabetes
      - T2DM) develop a disproportionate incidence of cardiovascular disease burden including
      hypertension, coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease and heart failure. The
      underlying pathophysiology is multifactorial but is primarily driven by insulin-resistance
      mediated regulatory events. These include augmented oxidative stress, upregulation of
      pro-inflammatory and anti-thrombotic signaling pathways, detrimental effects of advanced
      glycosylation end-products and perturbations in lipid and fatty acid metabolism. Evidence is
      emerging to support a role of perturbed mitochondrial respiratory regulation and subsequent
      endothelial dysfunction as early events in the insulin-resistance syndrome. These in turn,
      are proposed to result in the subsequent development of the cardiovascular clinical sequelae.

      In the last few years, pharmacologic compounds have been developed that directly modulate
      insulin resistance/sensitivity. Activation of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor
      (PPAR) family of transcription factors has been shown to augment insulin sensitivity. Agents
      that activate numerous PPAR family members, i.e. pan-PPAR agonists and PPAR gamma (PPAR
      gamma) specific agonists, promote improved insulin sensitivity. Whether these compounds
      modify the underlying mitochondrial and endothelial pathophysiology, with the potential of
      preventing progression of cardiovascular disease in insulin-resistant subjects has not been
      systematically investigated.

      The hypothesis intrinsic to this proposal is that PPAR activation will improve mitochondrial
      respiratory and endothelial cell function in parallel with improved insulin sensitization in
      insulin-resistant and T2DM subjects. The primary objective of this study is to establish the
      effects of the PPAR gamma agonist (rosiglitazone) on exercise-modulated
      cardiopulmonary-metabolic function (functional measures of mitochrondrial respiratory
      function) in insulin resistant and T2DM subjects that are either naive to hypoglycemic
      therapy or are on current therapy with other established classes on anti-diabetic agents with
      or without associated cardiovascular disease. As secondary end points we will evaluate
      numerous biological assays of skeletal muscle mitochondrial function, endothelial function
      and changes in parameters of insulin sensitivity. These include: 1) skeletal muscle
      mitochondrial respiration, 2) skeletal muscle expression profiles of genes encoding
      mitochondrial biogenesis program and mitochondrial respiratory control, 3) brachial artery
      reactivity, 4) endothelial progenitor cell number and colony-forming capacity, 5) monocyte
      gene expression profiling to evaluate insulin and inflammatory-mediator regulatory events and
      6) serological evaluation in change in insulin sensitivity and inflammation. The study is
      designed as a phase II clinical trial where subjects will receive rosiglitazone for three
      months duration. Baseline and 3 month laboratory studies will include: 1) rest and exercise
      cardiopulmonary metabolic testing; 2) skeletal muscle biopsy for mitochondrial function and
      gene expression profiling analysis, 3) brachial artery reactivity testing and 4) serological
      and blood cell sampling to determine biochemical, cellular and genomic perturbations in
      response to insulin-sensitization therapy in this cohort.
    
  