
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare overall survival in patients with locally advanced gastric cancer treated with
           surgery alone or in combination with neoadjuvant cisplatin, leucovorin calcium and
           fluorouracil.

        -  Compare these two regimens in terms of the rate of complete resection, time to
           progression, and morbidity in these patients.

        -  Evaluate toxicity of and disease response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in these patients.

        -  Evaluate quality of life and performance status in these patients pre- and post-surgery
           and compare quality of life for both regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to center, primary tumor category (cT3 or cT4), localization of tumor (upper third
      including cardia II or III vs middle and lower third), gender, and histological subtype
      (intestinal vs nonintestinal). Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 15, and 29. Patients also
           receive leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours followed by fluorouracil IV over 24 hours on
           days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36. A second course is administered beginning 2 weeks later
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo resection and lymphadenectomy on days 57-63 of the second course of
      chemotherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo resection and lymphadenectomy within 14 days of randomization.

      Quality of life is assessed before randomization, every 3 months for 1 year and at 2 years
      after randomization.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, then every 3
      months thereafter until death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 360 patients (180 per arm) will be accrued for this study over
      4 years.
    
  