
    
      All of the below items are research-related unless marked as 'standard of care':

      Screening Visit:

        -  Obtain and document signed Informed Consent document and HIPAA Authorization.

        -  Review past medical history in Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
           (AHLTA) to verify the inclusion/exclusion criteria including previous encounter, vital
           signs review, medication list, co-morbidities, demographics, and problems list.

        -  Record: Date of birth, age, gender, race, ethnicity, DOD ID#, name of standard of care
           medications (over-the-counter and prescription), current email address (to be used for
           scheduling), height (in inches), weight (in pounds), tobacco-use status, duration of
           current shin splints, history of shin splints, and note any prior acupuncture received.

        -  Investigators will ask what the subjects expectations are regarding acupuncture's
           effectiveness for medial tibial stress syndrome.

        -  If the subject is an active duty member, investigators will ask:

             -  Have you or are you currently on a fitness restriction for medial tibial stress
                syndrome.

             -  If so, what are the dates of the restriction?

        -  There are several standard of care treatments and physical therapy options for the
           treatment of medial tibial stress syndrome which include physical therapy and a home
           exercise program. Investigators will standardize what patients in this study are
           receiving by having all subjects follow the standard of care prescribed home exercise
           program and discontinue any formal physical therapy when entering this study (regular
           physical activity such as exercise is allowed, as tolerated by pain level).

      Randomization: Subjects will be randomized into 1 of 2 equal groups, using a random number
      generator:

        -  Group 1: Acupuncture plus the prescribed home exercise program

        -  Group 2: The prescribed home exercise program alone

      Encounter 1--Day 1 (may be same day as screening visit):

        -  Subjects will be given a study diary to document the number of times they performed the
           standard of care prescribed home exercise program. Subjects will be advised to complete
           the stretching exercises daily and the strengthening exercises every other day.

        -  Self-reported pain severity pre-intervention (0 for no pain to 10 being the worst pain)

        -  Research treatment intervention according to their randomization group:

             -  Group 1:

      Acupuncturist will be given a copy of the Protocol for Needle Insertion. Acupuncture will be
      performed. The name of the physician performing the acupuncture and also the number of
      acupuncture needles placed for each treatment.

      The prescribed home exercise program will be reviewed. o Group 2: The prescribed home
      exercise program will be reviewed.

        -  Self-reported pain severity post-intervention (0 for no pain to 10 being the worst pain)

        -  Administer the Pain Disability Index (PDI), Medial Tibial Stress Syndrome Score (MTSS
           Score) electronically

        -  Subjects will be instructed to perform the stretching exercises daily and the
           strengthening exercises every other day.

      Encounter 2-- Week 2 Survey:

      • Electronic completion of PDI, MTSS Score, pain scale, and patient reported frequency of
      home exercise program diary

      Encounter 3-- Week 4 Survey:

        -  Electronic completion of PDI, MTSS Score, pain scale, and patient reported frequency of
           home exercise program diary.

        -  Subjects in the non-acupuncture treatment group, with failure of pain scale to decrease
           by 2 points on 0-10 point pain scale, will be given the option to crossover to the
           acupuncture treatment group, receive acupuncture, and continue scheduled follow-up at 2,
           4, and 12 weeks.

      Encounter 4-- Week 12 Survey:

        -  Electronic completion of PDI, MTSS Score, pain scale, and patient reported frequency of
           home exercise program diary

        -  Investigators will ask if the subject's expectations regarding acupuncture's
           effectiveness for medial tibial stress syndrome were met.

      Acupuncture: For purposes of this study, acupuncture will be considered a research-related
      intervention and all acupuncturists performing the procedure will be considered engaged
      investigators for research purposes. For this study, all physician acupuncturists are deemed
      engaged research investigators, since the acupuncture procedure is research-related for the
      study. Unless the acupuncturist is added to the study, they will not be permitted to perform
      the acupuncture procedure s on the research subjects. Acupuncture treatments will be
      utilizing the KB-2 points with manual manipulation accomplished by vigorously running the
      acupuncturists thumb nail up and down the handle until a perceived sensation change is noted
      in the subject's posteromedial tibia. A single, sterile 100mm needle will be inserted into
      the upper third of the medial tibiofibular ligament, followed by a second needle
      approximately 2-4 cm below the second needle. The needles will be manipulated as detailed
      above to achieve the sensation change along the posteromedial tibia. The needles will then be
      irregularly stimulated over the course of 5-7 minutes. The needles will be removed after the
      treatment is complete, which will last approximately 5-10 minutes (standard care).

      Acupuncture treatments will be as defined: KB-2 are generally not defined specific points,
      but are referred to the placement of the needle into the lateral leg and advanced through the
      medial tibiofibular ligament (interosseous membrane). The initial KB-2 point will be placed
      in the upper 1/3 of the leg distal to the tibial tuberosity. The second needle will be placed
      2-4 cm below the first needle, still within the upper 1/3 of the leg.

      This study will follow all FDA requirements for the safe use of these devices.

      The acupuncture being performed in this study is a standard acupuncture technique for the
      treatment of medial tibial stress syndrome. However, for this study, the research-related
      acupuncture procedure being performed is considered research-related. The physicians
      performing the treatment are trained in this acupuncture technique and added to the study as
      engaged research investigators. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulates acupuncture
      needles as a class II medical device, because they are intended for use in the cure,
      mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in man or are intended to affect the
      structure or function of the body of man. The FDA regulates the acupuncture needles (see 21
      CFR 880.5580). The needles being used are Hwato 0.30X100mm Acupuncture needles, which are
      exempt from premarket notification by the FDA for use in acupuncture and will be used in
      accordance with their FDA approved labeling.
    
  