
    
      Diverticulosis affects 60% of people over 60 and roughly 10-25% of individuals will have
      symptoms, ranging from acute diverticulitis requiring emergent intervention to symptomatic
      diverticular disease with persistent lower abdominal pain and altered bowel habits. Up to 5%
      of patients with acute diverticulitis will die while hospitalized. In spite of the prevalence
      and severity of its manifestations, fundamental questions remain about the nature of
      diverticulitis and diverticulosis.

      The human colon contains 100 trillion bacteria, including hundreds of species and 10 times as
      many genes as the human genome. While alterations in the microbiome have been implicated in
      disease states such as Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) or Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD),
      the microbiome has not been adequately described in relation to colonic diverticula. As
      King's College Hospital has the only known dedicated Diverticular Disease clinic, we have a
      uniquely large patient population in which to learn about this condition.

      When colonic diverticula become inflamed or perforate, patients have diverticulitis. Inciting
      factors for episodes of acute diverticulitis are not well characterized, but include age,
      lifestyle factors and certain medications. Clinicians have no way to predict which patients
      will get diverticulitis, nor how severe its presentation will be. In some cases of
      pericolonic diverticulitis (known as Hinchey I), inflammation may resolve even without
      antibiotics, while in other cases, perforated diverticulitis will include feculent
      peritonitis (Hinchey IV) and require emergent colon resection. Diverticulitis may be caused
      by alterations in the microbiome, but this has not been sufficiently addressed.

      The majority of patients with asymptomatic diverticulosis, that is, the presence of colonic
      diverticula in the absence of symptoms, will never experience an episode of diverticulitis.
      There has been, however, some limited evidence that the microbiome in diverticulosis is
      altered, and similar to that in acute diverticulitis. If that is so, then predicting which
      patients will develop acute diverticulitis will remain impossible. It will also mean that
      research which did not assess or control for the presence of diverticula in patient
      populations will need to be revisited.

      Currently, clinicians have no basis to predict (1) which patients will develop severe acute
      diverticulitis requiring surgery or (2) which patients will develop acute diverticulitis
      which will resolve with antibiotics. We believe that further insights into the gut microbiome
      will allow for better diagnostics and treatments in the future.

      There have been a few, limited studies of the microbiome in diverticulitis, but not full
      pyrosequencing. This is because research costs have fallen 5 orders of magnitude in the past
      decade while computational capacity has increased. Studies have looked at the individual
      strains of bacteria within stool or mucosal samples, which does not suffice to understand the
      complex microbiome.

      As the gut microbiome has not been thoroughly investigated in diverticular disease, this is
      an exploratory study. However, we do wish to test the hypotheses that patients with
      asymptomatic diverticulosis have a microbiome more similar to patients with acute
      diverticulitis, than to that of normal controls.

      14. Methodology Setting: King's College Hospital, a tertiary referral hospital in south
      London. King's is a referral centre for the work up of two-week wait for colorectal cancer
      (2ww) assessments, with 900 new patient referrals assessed per year. Also, the Accident &
      Emergency Department at King's admits up to 250 patients per year with acute diverticulitis.

      Patients: 4 sets of patients will be recruited. 25 patients per group will be recruited:

      Groups A and B. Patients with acute diverticulitis will be recruited from the A&E department
      at King's, prior to commencement of antibiotics. Rectal swabs will be obtained from patients
      with a chief complaint of acute abdominal pain upon initial assessment, prior to initial
      antibiotics. All specimens will be initially frozen, but only patients specimens with an
      admitting diagnosis of acute diverticulitis and colonic imaging (CT imaging or visualization
      at surgery) will be analysed. Patients with acute diverticulitis will be assessed in 2
      groups, those patients with perforated diverticulitis (i.e., Hinchey III or IV) and those
      patients with unperforated diverticulitis (Hinchey I or II).

      Group C. Patients with asymptomatic diverticulosis will be recruited from the 2-week wait
      (2ww) colorectal cancer pathway. Patients presenting with a chief complaint of fresh rectal
      bleeding, with no other complaints, will be recruited prior to diagnostic imaging, either by
      CT, CT colonography, or endoscopy. They will provide a stool sample or rectal swab prior to
      bowel cleansing, if required for their evaluation, as that may alter the microbiome. Those
      patient samples with diverticulosis (and or haemorrhoids, as the other most common cause of
      fresh PR bleeding) will be analysed.

      Group D. Patients with or without haemorrhoids, and no other colonic pathology will be
      recruited from the 2ww colorectal cancer pathway. These will be the normal controls. Patients
      presenting with a chief complaint of fresh PR bleeding, with no other complaints, will be
      recruited prior to diagnostic imaging, either by CT, CT colonography, or endoscopy. They will
      provide a stool sample or rectal swab prior to bowel cleansing, if required for their
      evaluation, as that may alter the microbiome. Those patient samples with diverticulosis (and
      or haemorrhoids, as the other most common cause of fresh PR bleeding) will be analysed.

      Stool analysis: Stool samples will be analysed for faecal microbiome composition by 16S
      ribosomal RNA gene pyrosequencing, through a cooperative agreement with the Bruce lab at
      King's College London.

      In brief, gene targeted 16S rRNA sequencing examines a structural component of the bacterial
      ribosome through targeted primers. Constant portions of the ribosomal RNA are amplified,
      which allows for identification of the variable portions. Sequences are then clustered in to
      OTUs, operational taxonomic units and may be assigned to lineages from genus all the way to
      phyla.

      Planned statistical analyses: Microbiome composition will be assessed in several different
      ways. Alpha diversity will be measured, which is a measure of the average diversity within a
      sample. Multiple assessments of alpha diversity will be made, including Chaol richness
      estimate, OTU richness, and Shannon index. Alpha diversity has been shown to be reduced in
      patients with active IBD as compared to patients with quiescent disease, but has not been
      described in diverticular disease. Beta diversity is a comparison of diversity between
      samples (that is, the separation of the phylogenetic structure of the OTUs in one sample as
      compared to all other samples) will be calculated through Unifrac distances.

      Power calculation: Metabonomic studies of the gut microbiome at this time are necessarily
      exploratory. As such power calculations have not been performed in the field. However, in
      this instance analysing 25 samples per group should be sufficient to discriminate between
      groups and assess their diversity.

      Existing infrastructure: All infrastructure needed is currently in place. The study team
      (Professor Bjarnason and Mr Papagrigoriadis) currently manage the 2ww clinics, as well as
      attend to acute admissions in A&E at King's College Hospital. A materials transfer agreement
      is in place with the Bruce lab at King's College London for transfer of other faecal samples,
      and would only need to be amended.
    
  