
    
      Kidneys remove excess fluid and waste from the blood. When kidneys lose their filtering
      ability, dangerous levels of fluid and waste accumulate in the body - a condition known as
      kidney failure. There are two ways to treat kidney failure. One way is to get dialysis
      indefinitely. The second way is to get a kidney transplant. A kidney transplant is often the
      best treatment for kidney failure. A kidney transplant is a surgical procedure to place a
      healthy kidney from a donor into a person whose kidneys no longer function properly. This
      study is for people who will receive a kidney transplant from a very well matched, living
      blood relative. The immune system is the body's defense system against illness. After
      transplant, the immune system will think that the new kidney is a foreign invader and will
      try to attack or reject the transplanted kidney. Immunosuppressive drugs protect the
      transplanted kidney by suppressing the immune system. People who have kidney transplants must
      take immunosuppressive drug for the rest of their lives. If they stop, their immune system
      may reject the transplanted kidney. Immunosuppressive drugs make it hard for the body to
      fight off infections. In addition, they can cause high blood pressure, kidney damage, plaque
      build-up in the blood vessels, high cholesterol, diabetes and bone disease. They may also
      make the body more likely to get some types of cancer (mainly cancer of the white blood cells
      and/or skin) and other serious side effects.

      Because of the side effects of immunosuppressive drugs, an important goal of transplant
      research is to allow people to accept their transplanted organ without always having to take
      immunosuppressive drugs. This is called tolerance. The RESTARRT study is testing a
      combination of two medications, rituximab and anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG), to see if they
      can help people reduce or eliminate the need for life-long immunosuppressive medications. ATG
      has been used for over 10 years to treat transplant rejection; rituximab is used to treat
      rheumatoid arthritis and two types of cancer. ATG works on immune cells called 'T cells' that
      are involved in transplant rejection, while rituximab works on a different type of cell
      called 'B cells.' Researchers hope that targeting both these cell types at the same time will
      help reset the immune system so that it accepts the transplanted kidney.

      Frequent visits are required during the first two months of the study. Then, study visits
      take place about every 4 weeks, but more often (every 2 weeks) when reducing medication
      doses. After two years, participants will be asked to return for check-ups every 3 months.
      Study visits may include consultations with the transplant doctors, physical exam, blood
      and/or urine samples and kidney biopsies at several times during the study. In all,
      participation could last up to 4 years. All study-related medications and tests are provided
      at no charge to the patient.
    
  