
    
      The trial is carried out at the Psychosis Center of the Department of Psychiatry and
      Psychotherapy at the University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), which has the
      responsibility to treat all adult psychosis patients within its catchment area of
      approximately 300.000 habitants.

      The IC model was implemented into a network of the Psychosis Center of the University
      hospital (UKE), private psychiatrists of the UKE catchment area and other outpatient
      facilities. As such, following health care structures are part of the model and could be used
      by each patients and its relatives according to need:

        -  Specialized inpatient unit with attached day-clinic for psychotic disorders;

        -  Acute inpatient unit of the Department;

        -  Specialized psychosis outpatient center separated into a schizophrenia-spectrum and
           bipolar outpatient teams with a variety of diagnosis-specific evidence-based individual-
           and group therapies, low-threshold offers to promote day structure (e.g., cooking, sport
           or art groups), an early detection and intervention service with a mobile early
           detection team with professionals from the child- and youth and adult psychiatry,
           possibility of peer-to-peer and relatives-to-relatives counseling, relative groups,
           etc.;

        -  A multidisciplinary assertive community treatment (ACT) team, which was basically
           implemented according to guidelines of the Assertive Community Treatment Association and
           according to the Dartmouth Assertive Community Treatment Scale (DACTS). However,
           compared to the traditional ACT model there are two important differences: (1) While
           traditional ACT models have a responsibility for SPMI patients independent from the
           underlying diagnosis, the present model solely focus on patients with psychotic
           disorders; (2) The fidelity of the ACT team was further increased by composing a team of
           highly educated psychosis experts (i.e. consultant psychiatrists, psychiatrists,
           psychologists, nurses, social worker). Members of the ACT team received
           diagnosis-specific training in pharmacotherapy, cognitive behavioral (CBT), dynamic,
           and/or family psychotherapy.

        -  A specialized day-clinic for first-episode psychosis patients in the age range of 15-29
           years managed by the child- and youth and adult psychiatry;

        -  A working support outpatient center with outpatient and day-clinic treatment facilities;

        -  20 private psychiatrists participate in the treatment network of the IC model (their
           duties and responsibilities are described below).

        -  Further participants of the network are: a psychiatric nursing service, a specialized
           housing support service and a specialized psychosis living unit.

      Within this network, the main responsibility for the individual patient and his relatives is
      generally allocated according to need and preferences to two specific members of the ACT
      team, of which one has to be a psychiatrist responsible for pharmacotherapy. However, when
      pharmacotherapy is stable and adherence assured, private psychiatrists are allowed to take
      over this responsibility. In this case, the specific IC contract with the private
      psychiatrists includes several quality assurance guidelines.

      Briefly, the staff/client caseload ratio of a single full time employed ACT team member is
      1:15-25. In any case, the first responsibility of the network is a broad assessment of the
      psychotic disorder, comorbid psychiatric and somatic disorders, traumatic events, previous
      service engagement and medication adherence, social problems, etc. Thereby, a need-adapted
      treatment plan will be developed together with the patient, relatives and other caregivers.
      If the patient starts IC during inpatient, transition from in- to outpatient care will be
      organized. Participant, relatives and other caregiver receive two telephone numbers: one of
      the ACT therapists for all contacts within office hours (Monday to Friday from 8 am to 6 pm)
      and a 24 hours crisis number for all emergencies or questions outside office hours. The
      primary ACT/private psychiatrists subteam is responsible for high-frequent face-to-face
      treatment contacts fostering "open-end" continuity of care, coordinating treatment and social
      support (case management), promoting and ensuring service engagement and medication
      adherence, and offering intensive need-adapted individual psychotherapy at the earliest
      possible time point. Crisis intervention is offered at any time and is always conducted by
      two ACT members of which one is the primary ACT therapist. Access to other need-adapted and
      diagnosis-specific evidence-based interventions is organized within the specialized psychosis
      outpatient center or the work support center, e.g. psychoeducation groups, social skills
      training, meta-cognitive training, bipolar psychotherapy groups, etc. Further, all
      low-threshold interventions in the outpatient center could be used at any time. Thereby
      day-clinic equivalent program could be organized while being in outpatient status. As many of
      these patients are at risk for service disengagement and medication non-adherence, a strict
      'no-drop-out' policy is implemented including all admissions out of the catchment area.

      Managed Care Briefly, the UKE is the managed care organization for the IC model and has full
      financial responsibility. The UKE receives a yearly per-patient rate, which was calculated
      according to real direct health care costs of the individual patient including inpatient-,
      day-clinic- and outpatient treatment. More then 20% of this rate is caused by 'hospital
      hopping' and repeated emergency room visits. Within one year the calculated yearly
      per-patient rate now includes: (1) all inpatient days, (2) all day-clinic, (3) all
      interventions by the ACT team, (4) all interventions in the Specialized psychosis outpatient
      center, (5) all interventions by private psychiatrists (they receive 4-times higher finances
      per-patient per-year from the overall yearly per-patient rate), (6) all psychotherapeutic
      interventions, (7) all assessments to insure quality of outcome, and (8) all managed care
      facilities. There two specific arrangements: (1) the IC model starts financially at the first
      day of admission to hospital. This arrangement supports a quick enter into the new IC model
      and reduced the financial risks for the health insurances. (2) One specific guideline within
      the model is to stop hospital hopping. To foster this guideline, the UKE has to pay from the
      yearly per-patient rate every admission in a hospital outside the network from the 4th day.

      Assessments and measures Assessments are carried out at baseline, and at 6 weeks, 3, 6, 12,
      18, 24, 30, 36, 42, and 48 months follow-ups. At baseline, following variables were assessed:
      1) Diagnosis of the psychotic disorder and co-morbid AXIS I disorder(s) with the Structured
      Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I disorders (SCID-I). In case of clinical evidence for a
      co-morbid AXIS II disorder, a SCID-II interview for DSM-IV Personality Disorder was
      applied40; 2) demographic and illness characteristics were assessed with the German version
      of Early Psychosis File Questionnaire (EPFQ) including age, gender, marital status, years of
      school education, completed professional education, employment/occupation at entry, ability
      of independent living, traumatic events, family history of psychiatric illness, previous
      suicide attempts, previous hospital admissions including involuntary admissions, insight into
      illness and forensic history. Duration of untreated prodrome, psychosis (DUP) and untreated
      illness (DUI) will be assessed with the DUP scale). Medication non-adherence was defined
      according to Robinson et al. as failure to take medication for 1 week or longer. This
      definition was chosen because stopping medication for a week clearly indicates a problem with
      acceptance of pharmacological treatment (as opposed of just forgetting a dose).

      At baseline and all follow-up time points following structured assessment are applied: 1)
      Psychopathology with the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS); 2) severity of illness with
      the Clinical Global Impression Scale (CGI); severity of illness of affective psychosis with
      the Clinical Global Impression Scale-Bipolar version (CGI-BP); 3) level of functioning with
      the Global Assessment of Functioning Scale (GAF), 4) Quality of life with the Quality of Life
      Enjoyment and Satisfaction Questionnaire (Q-LES-Q-18). The Q-LES-Q-18 is a self-report
      instrument scored on a 5-point scale ('not at all or never' to 'frequently or all the time')
      with higher scores indicating better enjoyment and satisfaction with specific life domains.
      The global QOL index is the average score of all 18 items; a score of 4.1 points characterize
      a quality of life comparable with healthy controls; 5) Patients' satisfaction with care with
      the Client Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ-8). The CSQ-8 is a 8-item instrument that is
      scored from 1 to 4. The total score ranges from 8 to 32; the mean satisfaction score is
      computed with a minimum score of 1 and a maximum of 4.

      Service disengagement was present, if a patient repeatedly refuses further treatment despite
      need and several attempts of reengagement (phone calls of patient and potentially home visits
      of the ACT team). Service used data were assessed from the official IC database, which covers
      inpatient admissions, day-clinic admissions, and treatment contacts by the ACT team, in the
      psychosis outpatient center or by the private psychiatrists.
    
  