
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Cardiovascular disease remains the leading cause of death in the U.S. Despite an encouraging
      decline in age-adjusted coronary heart disease (CHD) mortality, prevalent CHD continues to
      represent a major health burden, particularly in the elderly population. Most community
      surveillance programs, however, cannot fully characterize this problem because they are
      restricted to an upper age limit of 74 years and thus do not include the events occurring in
      an increasingly growing part of the population. Observational studies have questioned the
      existence of a change over time in the prevalence of anatomic coronary disease either at
      post-mortem examination or at coronary angiography. This remains to be further examined in a
      population-based setting. In addition, the natural history of myocardial infarction (MI) in
      the reperfusion area is unknown; in particular, there are no population-based data on the
      incidence of post-MI heart failure.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The records of all Olmsted County residents with a hospital discharge diagnosis of MI between
      1979 and 1999 were reviewed, and standard epidemiologic MI validation criteria were applied;
      post-MI outcome over time was determined, including post-MI heart failure, angina, 30 day
      case fatality and long-term survival. In parallel with the analysis of time trends in CHD
      mortality, the autopsy reports were reviewed to examine whether the prevalence of coronary
      disease at autopsy has changed over time. These studies provided an assessment of the
      clinical and anatomical manifestations of CHD, including the outcome of acute MI, over a time
      period characterized by intensified primary prevention efforts and major changes in the
      treatment of acute CHD.

      The study was renewed in July 2002 to continue surveillance of acute coronary heart disease
      events in order to address issues surrounding the diagnostic precision and risk
      stratification potential of troponin and high sensitivity C reactive protein (CRP) and to
      monitor secular trends in severity and treatment modalities. Novel approaches to the
      procurement of carefully timed blood samples allow direct measurement of the increase in
      number of cases of myocardial infarction using the new biomarker, troponin. An examination
      will be made of the prognostic value of quantitative peak troponin measured at 24 to 36 hours
      and high sensitivity C reactive protein measured early after symptom onset in the myocardial
      infarction cohort.
    
  