
    
      Goals:

        1. Determine the necessary contents to include the usual counseling to improve the
           adherence to HAART of patients with HIV according to their different levels of alcohol
           consumption.

        2. To compare the prevalence of alcohol consumption in the last month and last six months
           between patients who receive and do not receive differentiated nursing counseling
           according to the level of alcohol consumption.

        3. Determine if the intervention is sustainable and scalable.

      Material and methods:

      Type of study and research design It is an experimental study with three phases, which are
      detailed below.

      First phase The study will start with a formative research to define the content of the
      intervention strategy, the extension of it, the duration of each session and the approach to
      be used for each subgroup.

      To do this, the level of alcohol consumption of HIV patients receiving HAART and their levels
      of adherence will first be identified.

      Alcohol consumption will be evaluated through the measurement of the prevalence of
      consumption and the application of the AUDIT (see annex 2) that identifies, alcohol risk
      consumption, harmful alcohol consumption and dependence. Adherence to HAART will be
      identified mainly through the SMAQ instrument recommended by the Ministry of Health (see
      annex 3) for the patients of the strategy and the consistency of this measurement will be
      sought with the record of the delivery of medications, the treatment card.

      Subsequently, the design of the differentiated counseling protocol for the levels of
      consumption presented by the patients will be concluded. For each component, contents with
      scientific evidence will be refined. The contrast with the scientific evidence, the available
      theory and the reality of consumption will consolidate the proposal of counseling.

      The elaborated protocol will be submitted to the opinion of focal groups with patients and
      nurses (see annexes 4 and 5) to validate the proposed counseling and evaluate its usefulness,
      acceptability, adaptability, feasibility (cost / time), sustainability and possible
      effectiveness of the proposal. Differentiated counseling for alcohol users according to their
      consumption levels. Focus groups will be recorded with the prior authorization of the
      participants.

      Finally, the counseling proposal with the feedback received from the focus group will be
      submitted to the opinion of experts on the subject of HIV, alcohol consumption and nursing
      counseling. With these tools we will have a counseling protocol (including initial session
      and follow-up sessions) that will be applied in a pilot test to 10 volunteer patients in
      order to complete its validation and identify difficulties in its application: 05 patients
      (for the initial session ) and 05 patients (follow-up session).

      Finally, a training program for nurses will be designed in order to have the required profile
      in the professionals for the application of the counseling.

      Second stage Subsequently, the experimentation period will start with a randomized trial type
      design with concurrent control. The experimental group will receive the counseling and the
      control group will be constituted by a group of patients randomly selected from the
      population of patients who started HAART in the last three months in the Strategy who will
      receive the usual counseling.

      Patients will have a baseline measurement of alcohol consumption, adherence to HAART; then
      monthly evaluations until six months of intervention.

      Third phase This final phase will be the analysis of the opinion of patients and nurses on
      the sustainability (cost / time) scalability of the proposal of differentiated counseling for
      patients consuming alcohol according to their levels of consumption post experimental
      evaluation. This phase will be carried out using focus groups: of patients and nurses.

      In this phase, the economic evaluation of the intervention will also be carried out. For this
      purpose, the costs at the market value of all the resources, services or supplies required to
      carry out the counseling will have been recorded. The cost for each counseling session
      provided to each patient will also be calculated to then obtain the simple average cost per
      session for each subgroup according to consumption levels.
    
  