
    
      Individuals will arrive at the Risk Factor Modification Centre, St. Michael's Hospital
      between the hours of 8:00 and 10:00am after a 10 to 12-hour fast on seven separate mornings.
      They will not have consumed any antihypertensive medications on the study mornings. Each
      visit will be separated by a minimum of a week. Since the half-life of ginsenosides in humans
      is less than 24-hours, to allow for a washout of approximately seven half-lives.

      In each of the four studies, when individuals arrive at our clinic on a test day they will
      first have their weight measured and subsequently rest in the seated position. They will then
      have a catheter inserted into a forearm vein, which will be kept patent by saline. From this
      device, a registered intravenous nurse will obtain a series of 7ml blood samples. Blood will
      be taken at 30-min intervals. Subsequently, individuals will fill out forms detailing their
      pharmacological regimen for the previous 24-hours and their diet (dinner) and activity
      (sleep, urination, morning routine) regimen for the previous 12-hours. As well, they will
      detail any adverse events that they experienced since their previous visit. Individuals will
      then have their office BP measured with a mercury sphygmomanometer until three consecutive
      measurements of both SBP and DBP <5 mmHg different are obtained. At this point, BP should be
      steady and subjects will be fitted with an ABPM. Measurements will be taken every 5-min for
      30-min, for a total of seven measurements. After the seventh measurement (time 0-min),
      measurements will be taken automatically every 10-min for 180-min. At time 0-min, treatment
      or placebo capsules will be consumed. At time 60-min a 360-calorie Ensure® breakfast will be
      consumed within 5-min. Blood samples will be drawn at 30-min intervals, starting at time
      0-min. For 24-hours after the ingestion of treatment, a record of any side effects will be
      detailed by the participants and then provided to us.
    
  