
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Many patients with advanced B-cell malignancies that cannot be cured by chemotherapy and
      monoclonal antibodies have prolonged relapse-free survival after allogeneic hematopoietic
      stem cell transplantation (alloHSCT); however, a substantial fraction of patients with B-cell
      malignancies relapse following alloHSCT.

      The first therapeutic maneuver attempted when patients without graft-versus-host disease
      (GVHD) relapse after alloHSCT is usually withdraw of immunosuppressive drugs. If a remission
      does not occur after withdraw of immunosuppression, patients are often treated with donor
      lymphocyte infusions (DLI). Withdraw of immunosuppression and DLI can lead to complete
      remissions in patients with B-cell malignancies that relapse after alloHSCT. Unfortunately, a
      substantial fraction of patients do not enter a complete remission after withdraw of
      immunosuppression followed by DLI, and these therapies are often complicated by GVHD.

      The outcomes of alloHSCT might be improved if T cells could be manipulated so that they
      generate a more potent graft-versus-malignancy (GVM) effect than unmanipulated T cells.

      We hypothesize that the GVM effect against B-cell malignancies can be augmented by
      genetically engineering donor T cells to express receptors that specifically recognize
      antigens expressed by malignant B cells.

      Chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) consist of an antigen recognition moiety combined with
      T-cell signaling domains. CARs are capable of activating T cells in an antigen-specific
      manner.

      Expression of the CD19 antigen is limited to B cells and perhaps follicular dendritic cells.
      Most malignant B cells express CD19.

      We have constructed a retroviral vector encoding an anti-CD19 CAR. Large numbers of T cells
      that have been transduced with this retroviral vector can be generated in vitro for clinical
      adoptive T cell therapy. These anti-CD19-CAR-transduced T cells specifically recognize a
      variety of CD19+ target cells and kill primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells in
      vitro.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      To assess the safety of administering allogeneic anti-CD19-CAR-transduced T cells to patients
      with B-cell malignancies that are persistent or relapsed after alloHSCT. The allogeneic
      anti-CD19-CAR-transduced T cells will be derived from the original allogeneic transplant
      donor.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Patients with any CD19-expressing malignancy that is persistent or recurrent following
           successful T-cell engraftment after HLA-identical or 9/10 matched sibling, 1-antigen
           mismatched related, or greater than or equal to 9/10-matched unrelated donor (URD)
           alloHSCT and withdrawal of immunosuppression.

        -  The same donor that provided cells for the alloHSCT must be willing and able to undergo
           leukapheresis so that cells can be obtained to prepare the anti-CD19-CAR-transduced T
           cells.

        -  The recipient must have at most grade I acute GVHD or chronic GVHD with no organ site
           with a score exceeding 1, except for the skin, for which a score of 1 or 2 will be
           allowable. The recipient must not have received systemic immunosuppressive drugs given
           for

      graft versus host disease for at least 28 days at the time of study enrollment. Patients must
      be on a dose of corticosteroids of an equivalent of 5 mg/day or less of prednisone.
      Corticosteroid creams, ointments, and eye drops are allowed.

      DESIGN:

        -  The alloHSCT donor will undergo leukapheresis.

        -  Patients will undergo apheresis to obtain peripheral blood mononuclear cells. These
           cells will be processed to produce anti-CD19 CAR stem memory T cells (anti-CD19 CAR
           Tscm). This process involves sorting the cells and then culturing the cells in vitro for
           9 days. During the 9-day culture period, the cells will be transduced with
           gammaretroviruses encoding the FMC63-28Z.

        -  CAR recipients will be monitored for development of acute treatment-related toxicities
           for at least 9 days after cell infusion as inpatients. Dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs)
           will include severe acute GVHD and Grade 4 toxicities not associated with GVHD.

        -  A maximum of 126 evaluable patients (donors plus recipients) will be treated.

        -  Assessment of safety is a primary objective of this clinical trial. Safety will be
           defined as a lack of severe acute post-infusional toxicities and an incidence of GVHD
           that is not higher than historical rates of GVHD occurring after standard DCI.

        -  Anti-CD19-CAR-transduced T-cell persistence in the peripheral blood will be measured at
           multiple time points from 1 week to 1 year after anti-CD19-CARtransduced T cell infusion
           by flow cytometry.

        -  To assess for an anti-malignancy effect of the infused cells, patients will be staged
           using standard staging systems.
    
  