
    
      The objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of bone cement injection (PVP) for
      patients with acute painful osteoporotic compression fractures, as compared with a simulated
      procedure with injection of Lidocaine. Our hypothesis is, that patients who had undergone PVP
      would report less pain during the first 1-12 weeks and at 12 months (primary outcomes) than
      those in the sham control group.

      The study design of VOPE is a single center double blinded RCT concerning the treatment of
      patients with a painful osteoporotic VCF. Patients are referred to the principal investigator
      at Middelfart hospital from the emergency rooms, orthopedics departments, GP's and
      chiropractors from the Region of Southern Denmark. Prior to enrolling patients
      randomization-envelopes are constructed in blocks of 20. Upon obtaining informed consent, a
      study-number is assigned to each patient. The final randomization for each patient, takes
      place in the operation room upon opening the sealed envelope deciding which of the two
      operations are to be performed. A total of 80 patients will be enrolled, 40 in each group.
      This is based on the assumption of a 2.0 point difference in pain relief (VAS Score) and a
      maximum of 35% withdrawal rate (α=0.05 and β=0.20). The enrolment of patients will take place
      in a single center, the spine surgery department of Middelfart hospital in Denmark.
      Randomization will start February 2012 with an expected completion of enrolment by May 2013.
      There is a one-year follow-up, with the possibility of an extended follow-up at two years.

      The overall Institutional Review Board approval is obtained at Middelfart Hospital.

      Osteoporosis- and pain medication:

      All patients are, in cooperation with the osteoporosis clinic at Odense University Hospital
      (OUH), DXA-scanned 3 times during the follow-up period, and receives, regarding these
      results, the correct antiosteoporotic treatment determined by a endocrinology senior
      consultant. Analgesics are classified following the WHO classification: (1) Paracetamol
      (acetaminophen), (2) Tramadol, (3) Tramadol and Paracetamol, (4) Morphine.

      Clinical follow-up:

      An experienced nurse-practitioner and research consultant requests patients to fill out a
      standard questionnaire before and at 1 day, 1-11 weeks, and 3 and 12 months after the
      procedure. The patients will receive a folder including questionnaires for each of the first
      11 weeks and will be contacted by telephone once every week and asked to fill out the
      questionnaires. The questionnaire consist of the VAS and NRS score and questions about use of
      pain medication. The VAS score is a 10 cm line pain score ranging from "no pain" to "worst
      pain ever", the NRS is a similar tool where patients are asked in 3 different ways to
      describe their pain between 0 and 10 where 10 is the worst pain ever. Other medical treatment
      is registered at 0, 3 and 12 months.

      Secondary outcomes are back pain related disability and QOL as measured with the SF-36
      Questionnaire and the EuroQol 5D Questionnaire. The EQ5D score ranges from 0 (worst quality
      of life) to 1 (best quality of life). This questionnaire will be completed at three
      measurement moments (before and at 3, and 12 months after the procedure). SF-36 scores from
      0-100, (100 as the best outcome), 4 domains describing tghe physical function and 4
      describing mental health. The lung capacity will be measured by the principal investigator
      with a spirometer at before and at 3 and 12 months.

      Statistical analysis:

      The data will be analysed according to the intention-to-treat principle. Standard statistical
      techniques will be used to describe characteristics of patients in both groups using the
      STATA programme. If incomparability appears at baseline, we will in secondary analysis adjust
      for differences. The primary outcome, significant pain relief will be compared with the
      analysis of variance for repeated measures. If adjustment for possible baseline
      incomparability is needed, analysis of covariance will be done.
    
  