
    
      In this study, joint aspirate of patients that undergo joint aspiration in the context of
      routine pre- and intra-operative clinical diagnosis of a hip, knee or shoulder joint is
      collected. Routine joint punctures at our clinic are regularly performed in the emergency
      room, in the outpatient clinic and intra-operatively during diagnostic and revision surgery.
      A minimum of 5 ml aspiration fluid was required for inclusion in this study. Empty or diluted
      aspirations were excluded.

      Joint aspirations are performed by orthopaedic surgeons with an 18-gauge needle according to
      standardized aseptic technique. Intraoperative punctures are performed prior to arthrotomy. A
      minimum of 1ml of joint aspirate is immediately transferred to a native study vial for our
      study, a native vial for gram stain and culture and a native vial for polarization
      microscopy, respectively. A minimum of 1 ml joint aspirate is transferred to an
      ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) vial for the determination of leucocyte count.
      Finally, a minimum of 1 ml is inoculated into a paediatric blood culture bottle.

      Standard microbiological methods are performed in an external laboratory that routinely
      collaborates with our clinic. Leucocyte count is performed automatically with the mentioned
      EDTA vial. Polarization microscopy is performed at our pathohistological department in order
      to detect crystals and signs of infection in joint aspirate.

      If written informational consent has been signed by the patient, the study vial is
      immediately transported to our internal laboratory for analysis with new diagnostic methods
      (microcalorimetry, PCR, etc.). When an immediate transportation was not feasible, the vial is
      stored in a cooling fridge at +3° C until transportation was possible.

      Each case is individually reviewed and classified by an experienced infectiologist taking the
      case's clinical history and laboratory results into account.
    
  