
    
      Background:

      Clinical practice guidelines consistently endorse exercise therapy for the treatment of low
      back pain (LBP). While exercise is more effective than no intervention, the effect size of
      exercise, like other treatments for LBP, is relatively small. While there are many forms of
      exercise therapies available (e.g. general exercise, pilates), there is no clear evidence of
      superiority of one exercise over another. A widely held belief is that the small effect for
      exercise is due to the heterogeneity of people presenting with LBP and if individual patients
      could be better matched to the optimal types of exercise, then the effects of treatment would
      be greater.A recently published study conducted by the study investigators provided
      preliminary evidence supporting the hypothesis of better outcomes when patients are matched
      to the appropriate exercise. The study demonstrated that a simple 15-item questionnaire, the
      Lumbar Spine Instability Questionnaire (LSIQ), could identify patients who responded best to
      either of the most common exercise approaches for LBP. Participants who had low scores on the
      LSIQ had better outcomes with graded activity while those with higher scores had better
      outcomes with motor control exercise. Theoretically, motor control would work best on those
      that have poor coordination and control of the trunk muscles and graded activity would work
      best on those with unhelpful beliefs and attitudes towards back pain. Although the results of
      this study have the potential to transform exercise treatment for LBP, validation and
      confirmation off the results in a fully powered study using an independent sample is
      essential before recommending implementation in clinical practice. Validation and impact
      analysis are crucial steps in the investigation of effect modification models.

      Research aims:

      The primary aim of this study is to evaluate whether pre-identified baseline characteristics,
      including the LSIQ, can modify the response to two of the most prominent exercise therapies
      (graded activity and motor control) for non-specific LBP.

      The secondary aims include a cost-effectiveness analysis of a potential stratified care
      model.

      Exploratory aims include the evaluation of potential new effect modifiers that may strengthen
      the initial prediction model. This include measures of central pain mechanisms to
      differentiate nociceptive, neuropatic and nociplastic pain.

      Methods:

      Participants (414) will be recruited by primary care professionals and will be randomized
      (1:1) to receive either motor control exercises or graded activity. Participants will receive
      12 sessions of exercise therapy,delivered by a physiotherapist, over an 8-week period. The
      primary outcome will be disability at 2 months measured using the Oswestry Disability Index.
      Secondary outcomes will be pain, function and quality of life measured at 2, 6 and 12 months.

      Potential effect modifiers will be the LSIQ, self-efficacy, coping strategies, kinesiophobia
      and measures of nociceptive pain and central sensitization. The study will follow specific
      guidelines for the conduction of effect modification studies.

      Expected outcomes:

      The results of this study will provide the foundation for the implementation of the study
      results in large scale which would significantly improve the effects of exercise for LBP.
      Furthermore, it will provide cost-effectiveness information to guide clinical decision
      making. Implementation of this approach would be simple as both treatments are already widely
      used and the method to identify subgroups of responders to each approach is straight forward,
      quick and at no cost.
    
  