
    
      The study will consist of 3 phases: a screening phase, treatment phase, and follow-up phase.

      Screening Phase: Screening assessments will be conducted within 28 days prior to the
      eligibility date to determine each patient's overall eligibility and baseline
      characteristics. These assessments will include medical history, physical examination,
      Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status (PS), 12 lead electrocardiogram
      (ECG), echocardiogram (ECHO), vital signs, full hematology and biochemistry, Quality of Life
      questionnaire, radiologic assessments of baseline disease status and concomitant medications.

      For patients with a history of liver surgery or major vasculature surgery, an angiogram
      evaluation of their vasculature will be performed for compatibility for Percutaneous Hepatic
      Perfusion (PHP) prior to confirming eligibility.

      Eligibility date: This is the date on which all screening assessments have been completed and
      the patient is determined to be eligible for the trial.

      Treatment Phase: Eligible patients will be treated with Melphalan/HDS 3.0 mg/kg Ideal Body
      Weight (IBW) and must begin treatment within 14 days being eligible. Melphalan/HDS treatment,
      patients will receive up to 6 treatments. Each treatment cycle consists of 6 weeks with an
      acceptable delay for another 2 weeks before the next planned treatment to allow for recovery
      of melphalan-related toxicity, if needed. Tumor response will be assessed every 12 weeks (+ 2
      weeks) until disease progression. If the patient receives only 1 treatment, the disease
      assessment scans will be conducted 12 weeks after the date of the first treatment. The
      assessment scans will be reviewed by an Independent Review Committee (IRC), also referred to
      as Independent Central Review. At any time when progressive disease (PD) is observed, the
      patient will be removed from further study treatment and followed until death. Melphalan/HDS
      treatment will also be discontinued in the event that recovery from treatment related
      toxicity requires more than 8 weeks from last treatment. An end-of-treatment visit will be
      conducted approximately 6 to 8 weeks following the final study treatment. Ongoing treatment
      related adverse events (AEs) at the end-of-treatment visit will be followed until the
      severity is within one of the following parameters (1) Symptoms are resolved or return to
      baseline; (2) CTCAE Grade < 1 or can be explained; (3) patient death. The maximum possible
      duration of the study treatment for any patient will be 12 months.

      NOTE: Active Melphalan/HDS patients (currently in treatment) on PHP-OCM-301 will continue
      treatment on PHP-OCM-301A following the re-consenting process.

      NOTE: Patients on PHP-OCM-301 that have completed treatment and are entering or are already
      in the follow-up phase will be followed-up for survival and disease progression (as
      applicable) on PHP-OCM-301A following the re-consenting process.

      Follow-up Phase: Once the patient has completed the end-of-treatment (EOT) visit in
      accordance with the schedule of events they will enter the follow-up phase. If the disease
      has not progressed at the EOT (Section 6.2), the patient will need to continue with disease
      assessment visits every 12 weeks (+ 2 weeks) until disease progression is documented. If the
      disease has progressed before or at the EOT their follow-up is to be by phone every 3 months
      for survival status until death.

      Patients will be monitored, following the completion of study treatment, for the development
      of myelodysplasia and secondary leukemia.
    
  