
    
      Use of Electronic Feedback on Diet and Physical Activity to Enhance Weight Management
      Research Summary Steven N. Blair, PED, Principal Investigator

      Primary Aim

      Dr. Blair and the investigative team will evaluate the contribution of the BodyMedia
      metabolic monitoring system to weight loss within the context of a standard behavioral weight
      loss program, and also as a stand alone system. The BodyMedia system consists of a metabolic
      monitor (armband) and computer software that analyzes energy expenditure, duration and level
      of physical activity, and other metabolic processes in free-living conditions. The proposed
      study will test the following hypotheses:

        1. The standard behavioral weight loss program (Standard), BodyMedia augmented program
           (Armband), and the Armband Alone will produce more weight loss and reduction in waist
           circumference over 4 months and maintain greater weight loss and reduction in waist
           circumference than does a usual care self-help program (Usual Care).

        2. The Armband program will produce weight loss and reduction in waist circumference
           comparable to the Standard program over 4 months.

        3. The Armband Alone program will produce weight loss and reduction in waist circumference
           comparable to the Standard program after 9 months.

        4. The Armband program will produce weight loss and reduction in waist circumference
           greater than the Standard program after 9 months.

      Primary Outcomes

        1. Body weight

        2. Waist circumference

      Secondary Outcomes

        1. Weekly energy expenditure in physical activity.

        2. Weekly caloric intake.

        3. Percent of participants losing ≥5% of baseline body weight.

        4. Stages of Motivational Readiness for physical activity and diet changes.

      Tertiary Outcomes

        1. Blood pressure.

        2. Fasting lipid profile.

        3. Fasting blood glucose.

        4. Fasting blood insulin

        5. Quality of life.

      Study Design

      The design will be a randomized controlled trial with four arms:

        1. Standard behavioral weight loss intervention program.

        2. Armband (standard behavioral weight loss intervention program augmented by using the
           BodyMedia armband and monitoring system to reinforce and support making changes in these
           behaviors).

        3. Armband Alone that includes a one-hour orientation at baseline on how to use the
           armband, with a one week follow-up telephone call to answer questions.

        4. Usual care (self-help with a diet and physical activity manual that provides guidance on
           changing these behaviors).

      Fifty participants will be assigned to each of the study arms. The Standard and Armband
      groups will participate in weekly group counseling sessions for four months. During months
      5-7 study staff will contact participants weekly via email or telephone to monitor their
      reports of dietary and physical activity logging, and to provide counseling support as
      necessary. During months 8 and 9, these contacts will be monthly. For the Armband Alone
      group, study staff will make monthly contact by telephone or email to answer questions and
      provide encouragement.

      Data collection for outcomes will occur at baseline, 4 months (no blood chemistry analyses
      will be performed at 4 months), and 9 months. Participants will be recruited into the study
      over several months, and all participants will have completed the follow-up (month 9) data
      collection by the end of the 18-month study period.
    
  