
    
      Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) is a safe and non-invasive method of high resolution
      cross-sectional imaging of tissue microstructures using infra-red radiation. It was first
      described by Huang et al in 1991.

      The principle of OCT imaging is similar to ultrasound; infra-red light is shone at a tissue
      of interest and the reflectivity of each layer within the tissue gives rise to a signal that
      enables a cross-sectional picture of the tissue to be constructed. In contrast to ultrasound
      however, it is not possible to use the timing of reflected pulses of light to infer the
      distance of the reflecting surface. This is because of the extremely high velocity of light
      (3x10^8 ms^-1), which would require the detector to have a temporal resolution of a few tens
      of femtoseconds in order to provide a spatial resolution of 10 microns within the tissue
      under observation. therefore, interferometry is applied to the infra-red light source in
      order to determine the distance that reflected light has travelled.

      OCT currently has a wide range of applications including imaging the retina, the anterior
      chamber of the eye and the endothelium of the coronary arteries (when used intravascularly).
      It has also been used in preclinical cancer research to image tumours. IT has a resolution of
      1-20µm and can penetrate approximately 1-2mm into tissue.

      Dry Eye Syndrome:

      Sjögren's is a common cause of dry eye syndrome. Currently a biopsy of the lacrimal gland is
      required to establish the diagnosis. In this study the investigators explore whether it is
      possible to distinguish the lacrimal gland in Sjögren's patients from the normal lacrimal
      gland using OCT imaging. The investigators will also image the buccal mucosa of suspected
      Sjögren's patients and compare the results to previously published images of the normal
      mucosa.

      Epiphora:

      Punctal anatomy is clinically relevant in the management of epiphora because punctal stenosis
      is one of the many causes of this condition. However, there are currently no routinely used
      imaging modalities or objective quantitative assessment systems for the proximal lacrimal
      system.

      OCT seems to be ideally suited to imaging the punctum due to its high resolution and
      non-invasive nature. The investigators have recently completed a study demonstrating the
      feasibility of OCT imaging of the proximal lacrimal system in a cohort of subjects with
      normal ocular anatomy and no symptoms of epiphora. In this study the investigators will
      examine the practical clinical applications of OCT imaging pre and post-operatively in
      patients undergoing punctoplasty or conjunctivoplasty to treat epiphora.

      Asymptomatic Patients:

      The investigators aim to establish the normal OCT appearance of the conjunctiva and cornea;
      and also aim to establish the normal appearance of the lacrimal gland and the buccal mucosa.
    
  