
    
      Current standard treatment for WG involves various medications and is based on disease
      severity. Unfortunately, more than 50% of people experience a relapse after remission,
      placing them at risk for additional organ damage and medication toxicity. To prevent this,
      safer and more effective treatments for mild relapses are needed. Several studies have shown
      that activated T cells, a type of white blood cell important in regulating immune responses,
      play a role in WG. Abatacept, an immunoglobulin-based medication approved by the FDA to treat
      rheumatoid arthritis, acts by preventing T-cell activation and may be useful in treating mild
      relapses of WG. The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and effectiveness of
      abatacept in treating adults with mild relapsing WG.

      Participants will receive abatacept intravenously at study visits on Days 1, 15, and 29, and
      then once a month thereafter. A participant's abatacept dose is based on body weight and will
      remain the same throughout the study. Participants who are receiving maintenance
      immunosuppressive medications consisting of methotrexate, azathioprine, or mycophenolate
      mofetil at the time of enrollment will remain on these medications without dosage increase or
      reduction. Eligible participants may be on up to prednisone 15mg daily at the time of
      relapse. Following the development of relapse, participants may be treated with up to
      prednisone 30mg daily if necessary, but must to be back to the same dose that they had been
      on prior to relapse by Month 2. All study visits include medication review, physical exam,
      blood and urine collection, and questionnaires. A chest x-ray, computed tomography (CT) scan
      of the chest and sinuses, and lung function testing will occur at some study visits.
      Participants whose symptoms did not improved by Month 2 will be taken off abatacept. Any
      participants undergoing early termination or, after common closing, will undergo three
      follow-up study visits at 1, 3, and 6 months after the end of treatment.
    
  