
    
      Despite few studies on Asian American breast cancer survivors, it is well known that these
      women shoulder unnecessary burden of breast cancer because they rarely complain about
      symptoms or pain, delay seeking help, and rarely ask or get support due to their cultural
      values and beliefs and language barriers. This demonstrates a definite need for support in
      this specific population. However, survivorship programs that are increasingly instituted at
      cancer centers have serious impediments to providing information and coaching/support because
      of the lack of staff time and insurance reimbursement. Furthermore, the pressure of
      fast-paced clinical patient-provider interactions leaves little time for health care
      providers to provide up-to-date information and coaching or support for these women based on
      their cultural attitudes. All these circumstances necessitate an innovative and creative
      delivery method of information and coaching/support. A technology- based approach using
      computers and mobile devices (smart phones and tablets) promises to meet this necessity with
      high flexibility and accessibility, and minimizes the cost of the intervention in busy and
      costly health care settings. Also, a technology-based intervention that does not involve
      face-to-face interactions could work better for many women from cultures where breast cancer
      is still a stigmatizing experience. Therefore, based on Preliminary Studies (PSs), the
      research team has developed and pilot-tested a theory-driven technology-based information and
      coaching/support program that is culturally tailored to Asian American breast cancer
      survivors using multiple features. The purpose of the proposed randomized intervention study
      is to test the efficacy of the technology-based information and coaching/support program for
      Asian American breast cancer survivors (TICAA) in enhancing the women's breast cancer
      survivorship experience. The specific aims are to: a) determine whether the intervention
      group will show significantly greater improvements than the control group in primary outcomes
      (needs for help, physical and psychological symptoms, and quality of life) from baseline
      (pre-test) to Time Points 1 (post 1-month) and 2 (post 3-months); b) identify theory-based
      variables (attitudes, self-efficacy, perceived barriers, and social influences related to
      breast cancer survivorship) that mediate the intervention effects of the TICAA on the primary
      outcomes at the three time points (pre-test, post 1-month and post 3-months); and c)
      determine whether the effects of the TICAA on the primary outcomes are moderated by
      background characteristics and disease factors. The proposed study will be guided by the
      Bandura's Theory of Behavioral Change. This study adopts a randomized repeated measures
      pretest/posttest control group design in 330 Asian American breast cancer survivors. The
      long-term goals are to: (a) implement the program into various health care settings; (b)
      determine if the TICAA will lead to long-term improved health outcomes; and (c) fundamentally
      enhance the methodology/paradigm of culturally tailored technology-based interventions for
      ethnic minority groups of breast cancer survivors.
    
  