
    
      The proposed methodology is based on use of a computer tablet and modified pen. While these
      instrumental elements are common-place and widely accepted in modern life, they are not so in
      the context of formal clinical assessment of motor function in psychiatric patients. They are
      also novel to clinicians. The first stage will involve recruitment of 20 patients i) under
      the age of 50 (to reduce the likelihood of idiopathic Parkinson's disease): ii) of mixed,
      balanced genders: iii) right-handed: iv) basic writing competence: v) English as first
      language: vi) suffering from an acute psychotic episode. These subjects will have been on
      stable doses of antipsychotic medication of any sort for at least 2 weeks. Patients will be
      seated in a comfortable writing position at a table and presented with a graphic tablet and a
      modified digitizer pen with a wired connection to an operator computer. The assessor will sit
      slightly behind and to one side out of the subject's view. To familiarise subjects with the
      technique, they will be asked to a) draw repetitive overlaid circles b) write their name and
      address, at a speed comfortable to them. They will then be asked to produce the 8 character
      'el' text sequence ('elelelel') 10 times and to write a short, standard sentence : "Today is
      a nice day for the time of year". The examiner will then say to the subject the nursery
      rhyme, 'Mary had a little lamb...etc" and ask the subject to write it spontaneously from
      memory. Finally, they will be asked to copy a standard short paragraph from a written page.
      On conclusion, they will be asked to complete a brief 10cm line, Likert scale of
      satisfaction, assessing the test situation as 'easy/difficult:
      'pleasurable/non-pleasurable':'acceptable/non-acceptable'.

      PREDICTION : participants will find the procedures easy, pleasurable and acceptable

      2 groups of 10 patients, complying with criteria i)-vi) above, but who have not been exposed
      to antipsychotic medication for at least 3 months (oral formulations) or 6 months (depot
      formulations) but in whom antipsychotic medication is now indicated. Groups will comprise
      consecutive consenting patients prescribed one of two commonly utilised antipsychotics : the
      high potency, risperidone, and the low potency, quetiapine. Dosages will be determined
      clinically by the responsible medical officers who will be asked to maintain a standard
      pattern of escalations : twice weekly and within the first 2 weeks of exposure (but not dose
      restricted). They will also be asked to avoid additional medications for drug-induced
      parkinsonism though these may be used on an as required 'rescue' basis. Other medications can
      be utilised as clinical need determines. Following informed consent, and prior to initiation
      of treatment, subjects will undertake baseline clinical assessments comprising : a
      standardised assessment of mental state (Positive and Negative Symptom Scale - PANSS); a
      standard clinical evaluation of extrapyramidal neurological status (the Extrapyramidal
      Symptom Rating Scale - ESRS); a standard questionnaire of subjective state (the Subjective
      Well-Being on Neuroleptics Scale - SWNS - designed to pick up later potential medication
      effects). They will then complete the instrumental component as above. Assessments will be
      completed twice weekly during the escalation phase (2 weeks) and weekly thereafter (up to 4
      weeks) on the day before increases are implemented.

      PREDICTION : instrumental methods will prove highly sensitive to the development of
      extrapyramidal side-effects and significantly more so than the standard clinical examination:
      AND : extrapyramidal effects will significantly precede the onset of antipsychotic efficacy
    
  