
    
      Diabetic Retinopathy (DR) is the single leading cause of blindness in people of working age.
      The total number of people living with diabetes in Canada is well over 2 million. The WHO
      estimates that around 12% of people with diabetes are blind or will develop severe vision
      loss. The two most common treatments of DR are: Laser Photocoagulation and anti-VEGF
      intravitreal injection. Clinical evidence demonstrates that these treatments lead to
      morphological and vascular retinal changes, however the actual mechanism and nature of post
      treatment changes is not fully understood. It is only recently that objective and
      quantitative imaging and hemodynamic technologies with previously unachievable resolution
      have become available that enable us to evaluate and to compare various effects of these
      treatments on vital eye structures.

      We are proposing to take advantage of these state-of-the-art technologies in order to explore
      unknown effects of treatments on vital eye structures. We hypothesize that: 1) Laser
      Photocoagulation and anti-VEGF treatments will result in vessel constriction and hence
      reduction in posterior (retinal and choroidal) and anterior (conjunctival) ocular blood flow;
      2) Changes in anterior segment ocular morphology and blood flow will positively correlate
      with changes in posterior segment morphology and blood flow; 3) Combined treatments will
      result in a greater reduction in posterior and anterior blood flow than any single treatment;
      4) There will be differences in anterior and posterior blood flow outcomes and in anterior
      segment oxygen saturation when compared to healthy controls.

      The study will include four groups of participants: Laser treatment group; Intravitreal
      injection of Bevacizumab treatment group; Intravitreal injection of Ranibizumab treatment
      group; Healthy age matched controls. The administration of ranibizumab and bevacizumab will
      be randomized across participants. Randomization number will be assigned to each participant
      and recorded in a Master Randomization Assignment List. All patients will be recruited from
      the Retina Clinics of the Toronto Western Hospital.

      Every type 2 diabetic patient with Diabetic Macular Edema will be assessed prior to treatment
      and followed-up on the 3rd, 7th,30th day and 3 months after the initial treatment.
    
  