
    
      Background: Only a small proportion of those who have a problematic alcohol use receive
      treatment and compliance is low among the few that undergo treatment. If treatment more
      easily can be combined with everyday life and break with some of the barriers related to
      stigma by having a broader appeal, more people with a problematic alcohol use may seek and
      complete treatment. Alcohol therapy conducted via video conference may be an attractive
      treatment option and effective in reducing alcohol intake among people with a problematic
      alcohol use who do not seek traditional treatment.

      Objective: The aim of this trial is to evaluate whether people with a problematic alcohol use
      (Alcohol Use Disorder Test score ≥ 8), who enroll in alcohol therapy delivered via video
      conference to a greater extent initiate as well as comply with treatment and reduce their
      alcohol intake compared to people allocated to standard alcohol treatment.

      Design: Randomized controlled trial

      Participants: 375 Danish citizens above 18 years with a problematic alcohol use (Alcohol Use
      Disorder Test (AUDIT) score >8).

      Intervention: Participants are randomized to one of two groups:

        1. Conversational therapy via video conference where participants are contacted by an
           alcohol therapist for the purpose of initiating a course of treatment where participants
           are not required to show up at a clinic.

        2. Treatment as usual where participants receive contact information on their local alcohol
           treatment facility for the purpose of contacting the facility to initiate a face-to-face
           course of treatment at the clinic.

      The allocation of participants to the intervention will be 1:1 to the intervention and the
      control group.

      Methods: Data will be collected by questionnaire at baseline, 3 months and 12 months post
      randomization. Analyses will be intention to treat. Subgroup analysis will be conducted in
      relation to personal and demographic characteristics.

      Process evaluation will be performed using a combination of questionnaires and qualitative
      interviews with participants, therapists and management at the clinics.
    
  