
    
      BACKGROUND AND JUSTIFICATION The occurrence of portal vein thrombosis (PVT) radically changes
      the prognosis of cirrhotic patients, particularly those awaiting liver transplantation. If
      this happens, it occurs in about 8-10% / year in patients with cirrhosis awaiting liver
      transplantation. Some studies have suggested the involvement of various risk factors for the
      development of PVT in cirrhotic patients, including the classic congenital and acquired
      thrombophilic conditions [1-6], although contributions of our research group have shown that
      a key element in the development of PVT in these patients is the decreased velocity of portal
      blood flow [7, 8]. The possible contribution of the von Willebrand factor (VWF) and
      ADAMTS-13, produced by the liver stellate cells [9], for the development of PVT is rather
      poorly documented. In a recent observational study of the proponent [10], conducted on 84
      patients with liver cirrhosis, it was found that the level of circulating ADAMTS-13 is
      significantly lower in the group with PVT (median = 16.8% vs. 69.1%, p = 0.0047) and
      independently associated with the presence of portal thrombosis (p = 0.007). However, given
      the non-longitudinal nature of the study, it is possible that the decreased level of
      ADAMTS-13 observed is the consequence and not the cause of PVT. It is also yet to investigate
      the association of ADAMTS-13 level with the specific etiology of cirrhosis (viral, alcoholic,
      idiopathic, etc.) and the resulting inflammation during the course of the disease.

      Duration of Study Period(s) and Subject Participation Two hundred (200) patients,
      consecutively enrolled in a period of about 6 months, will be followed for 18 months from the
      enrolment. As a result, in the subsequent 18 months about 20-25 cases of PVT will be
      expected. All patients will sign an informed consent. The severity of liver function failure
      will be assessed using the Child-Pugh score [11].

      Primary Endpoint To describe in a prospective way the association of both basal ADAMTS-13
      level and portal vein flow with development of PVT in cirrhotic patients during 18 months
      from the enrolment. Secondary Endpoints To describe prospectively the modification of
      ADAMTS-13 level as a function of the etiology of cirrhosis Coagulation and biochemical
      parameters

      The prospective study will measure the following biochemical and coagulation parameters at
      each follow-up visit, scheduled at interval of 4 months according to routine controls:

      Coagulation and thrombophilia factors All blood samples will be drawn under fasting
      conditions in the morning. Determinations of PT, APTT, fibrinogen, antithrombin, protein C,
      protein S, lupus anticoagulant, FVIII (two-stage chromogenic assay) and D-dimer will be
      carried out on an automatic coagulometer (ACL Top 700, IL). VWF-antigen VWF:activity will be
      measured in plasma samples by chemiluminescence assays. VWF multimer (VWFm) pattern was
      measured as previously reported [10]. FV Leiden R506Q and prothrombin G20210A genotyping of
      these polymorphisms was performed by using commercial kits based on PCR-RT-based method (from
      EliTechGroup S.p.A., Torino, Italy) on an automatic instrument (Model 7300, Applied
      Biosystem, Foster City, CA, USA).

      Measurement of ADAMTS-13 activity. ADAMTS-13 activity was measured in citrated plasma samples
      by a fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET)-based assay using a VWF86 amino-acid
      peptide substrate contained in a commercial kit from Instrumentation Laboratory (ADAMTS-13
      activity, Werfen Group, Milano, Italy) and a Varian Eclipse spectrofluorometer, as previously
      detailed [10, 13] and expressed as % of normal plasma.

      Clinical Chemistry assays. All clinical chemistry assays (plasma albumin, creatinine,
      alanine-leucine-amino-transferase (ALT) and total bilirubin) will be performed as a part of
      routine diagnostic work-up within 24 hours of clinical observation in the central laboratory
      of the "A. Gemelli" Hospital, using heparinized plasma samples and commercial reagents from
      Siemens.

      Secondary objectives. The secondary objectives of analyzing the levels of ADAMTS-13 and VWF
      as a function of the etiology of cirrhosis will be further assessed only after a certified
      diagnosis of the particular etiologic of cirrhosis. In the case of HCV-associated cirrhosis
      also the genotype of HCV will be analyzed.

      Informed Consent and Enrollment Any patient who will provide informed consent (i.e., signs
      and dates the informed consent form and assent form, if applicable) and will meet all other
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be considered enrolled in the study.

      Subject Identification Code. The following series of numbers will comprise the subject
      identification code (SIC): protocol acronym (ADAPTHRO), and 2-digit subject number (e.g.,
      01….02) reflecting the order of enrollment (i.e., signing the informed consent form). For
      example, the third subject who signed an informed consent form will be identified as
      ADAPTHRO-03. All study documents (e.g., CRFs, clinical documentation, etc.) will be
      identified with the SIC.

      Screening and Study Visits The study site is responsible for maintaining an
      enrollment/screening log that includes all subjects enrolled. The log also will serve to
      document the reason for screening failure. All screening data will be collected and reported
      in CRFs, regardless of screening outcome.

      Subject Completion/Discontinuation A subject is considered to have completed the study when
      he/she ceases active participation in the study because the subject has, or is presumed to
      have, completed the study according to the protocol, participated for the specified
      observational time and when the study exit form has been completed. Reasons for
      completion/discontinuation will be reported on the Completion/ Discontinuation CRF page,
      including: completed, screen failure, adverse event (e.g., death), discontinuation by subject
      (e.g., lost to follow-up [defined as 3 documented unsuccessful attempts to contact the
      subject], dropout), physician decision (e.g., pregnancy, progressive disease, protocol
      violation(s)), Vital Signs Vital signs will include height (cm) and weight (kg). Height and
      weight will be collected, if available, at screening visit, each annual interval visit, and
      study completion/termination.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS. Planned Statistical Analysis Continuous variables will be expressed as
      means ± standard deviations. Categorical variables will be expressed as frequencies and
      percentages. Fisher's exact tests and/or Chi-Square tests will be mainly used to compare
      qualitative variables and Student's t-test for quantitative unpaired data. A p-value < 0.05
      will be considered statistically significant in an exploratory sense. In addition to
      descriptive statistics (location parameters), and univariate analysis, multivariate analyses
      are planned. Independent variables that will be found associated with PVT in univariate
      analysis with p<0.05 will be used as independent covariates associated with PVT in the next
      18 months in the multivariable logistic regression analysis. A two-sided p <0.05 was defined
      as statistically significant. Analyses will be performed using SPSS software (version 21,
      Chicago, IL, USA) and GraphPad Prism software (GraphPad Software, Inc, La Jolla, CA, USA).

      Informed Consent. Investigators will choose patients for enrollment based on the study
      eligibility criteria.The investigator will exercise no selectivity so that no bias is
      introduced from this source. All patients must sign an informed consent form before entering
      into the study according to applicable regulatory requirements. Before use, the informed
      consent form will be reviewed by the EC. By signing the informed consent form, patients agree
      to take part in the study.

      Confidentiality Policy The investigator will comply with the confidentiality policy as
      described in the Non- Interventional Trial Agreement.

      Study Documents and Case Report Forms The investigator will maintain complete and accurate
      study documentation in a separate file. Documentation may include medical records, records
      detailing the progress of the study for each subject, signed informed consent forms,
      correspondence with the EC, enrollment and screening information, CRFs and laboratory
      reports. The investigator will comply with the procedures for data recording and reporting.

      Document and Data Retention The investigator will retain study documentation and data in
      accordance with applicable regulatory requirements and the document and data retention
      policy, as described in the Non-Interventional Study Agreement.
    
  