
    
      This Phase II, multi-arm, multi-stage, open label, prospectively randomized, controlled
      clinical trial will compare the efficacy and safety of four experimental regimens with the
      control, standard treatment regimen in patients with smear positive, pulmonary tuberculosis
      (TB). There will be four experimental regimens. Participants will be randomly allocated to
      control or one of the four experimental intensive phase regimens in the ratio 2:1:1:1:1. The
      control and 4 experimental regimens are:

      Control: HRZE isoniazid, rifampicin standard, pyrazinamide, ethambutol Arm 1: HRZQlow
      isoniazid, rifampicin standard, pyrazinamide, SQ109 150 mg Arm 2: HRZQhigh isoniazid,
      rifampicin standard, pyrazinamide, SQ109 300 mg Arm 3: HR20ZQhigh isoniazid, rifampicin 20
      mg/kg, pyrazinamide, SQ109 300 mg Arm 4: HR20ZM isoniazid, rifampicin 20 mg/kg, pyrazinamide,
      moxifloxacin 400mg

      Up to 372 participants will be randomized into this study, with 124 participants being
      randomized to the control arm and 62 participants to each experimental arm. With an expected
      loss to follow-up of 5%, the final power of the study to detect a hazard ratio of 1.8 for
      culture conversion to negative will be 90%, at the 5% significance level.

      Participants will be randomised using a probabilistic minimisation algorithm based on site,
      baseline bacterial load as measured by GeneXpert MTB/RIF®, and HIV status. The allocated
      intensive phase of the four experimental arms will be administered daily for twelve weeks.
      During this time, participants will visit the study clinic on a weekly basis for sputum
      collection, safety monitoring and receipt of study medication. After the completion of the
      experimental treatment, participants in the experimental arms will receive daily standard
      continuation phase treatment for 14 weeks containing standard-dose RIF and INH to complete
      their TB treatment course. Participants in the control arm will receive eight weeks of
      intensive four-drug treatment (HRZE, followed by 18 weeks of the HR continuation phase
      treatment in line with the current WHO recommendations.

      All participants will receive 25mg of Vitamin B6 (pyridoxine) with every dose of treatment in
      order to prevent INH-related neuropathy.

      Interim analyses will be conducted during the trial for efficacy at predetermined times, with
      the aim of identifying experimental arms that perform below a pre-specified efficacy
      threshold. There will be no further recruitment to these arms.
    
  