
    
      Lungs are made up of individual lobes. When a lung cancer tumour is found in one of these
      lobes, the surgeon often performs a Lobectomy. A Lobectomy is the surgery most commonly done
      to treat early-stage lung cancer and requires removal of an entire lobe of the lung, which
      removes a large amount of lung tissue

      For patients with small tumours saving as much healthy lung tissue as possible is important.
      Each lobe of the lung has smaller sections called segments. When a lung cancer is in one of
      these segments, it is possible to remove that segment, without removing the entire lobe. This
      surgery is called a Segmentectomy. Compared to a lobectomy, a segmentectomy saves a larger
      amount of healthy lung tissue. Research shows that a segmentectomy can result in less blood
      loss, shorter operation time, less days of having a chest tube, and a shorter hospital stay,
      compared to a lobectomy.

      With the advances in screening technology for lung cancer tumours, an increasing amount of
      very small lung cancer tumours are being found, and the demand for segmentectomy is
      increasing. A segmentectomy is a hard surgery to perform robotically because it is difficult
      to view the tissue lines that separate each segment within the lobe. As a result, it is
      difficult for the surgeon to see exactly which pieces of tissue should be removed in order to
      safely complete the segmentectomy. Because of these challenges, many patients having robotic
      surgery will have a lobectomy, even if a full lobectomy is not needed.

      In response to these challenges, our surgical group has developed the technique of using
      Near-Infrared Fluorescence (NIF) mapping with intravascular indocyanine green (ICG) dye
      injection. With the aid of an infrared camera the surgeon is able to see the segment within a
      lobe of lung after injection of the ICG dye, allowing for a more accurate segmentectomy. We
      recently reported a 60% success rate of segmental resections with the use of ICG and
      NIF-guided surgical resection. However, a limitation to this technique is that the segmental
      anatomy can only be seen during the operation and only after cutting the blood vessels.

      The introduction of 3D reconstruction and virtual modeling provides a new way to locate
      lesions accurately within a segment and plan the appropriate operation before the actual
      surgery occurs. Visible Patient™ (Strasbourg, France) is a 3D modelling technology that is
      capable of producing a detailed 3D virtual model of a patient's lung based on Computed
      Tomography (CT) scans. It has been shown to be safe and feasible in performing segmental
      pulmonary resections on a robotic platform. In this study, we propose a new operation that
      uses 3D anatomical planning before the surgery (Visible Patient™) and real-time NIF-mapping
      at the time of surgery using ICG dye, which we believe will greatly increase the likelihood
      of a successful segmentectomy. If this new operation is successful, it will help patients
      save more of their healthy lung tissue when they are undergoing surgery for lung cancer.
    
  