
    
      The objective of this project is to investigate the outcomes of intermittent versus
      continuous stimulation in patients treated with sacral neuromodulation (SNM) for refractory
      overactive bladder (OAB) syndrome. In addition, the potential for an improved battery life
      with intermittent stimulation will be quantified. Manufacturers recommended settings for
      newly implanted impulse generators (IPG); however, no standardized recommendations exist for
      further adjustments. Quality studies examining IPG parameters are lacking, partly due to the
      numerous setting variables, which can result in a multitude of permutations. When programming
      an IPG, an option for cycling simulation (16 seconds on, 8 seconds off) is available. It is
      theorized that because of a "carryover" effect, symptom relief will continue despite the
      stimulator being off. The potential benefit of the intermittent stimulation is an improved
      battery life, which may translate into a less frequent need for reimplantation with less
      morbidity. Participants receiving neuromodulation treatment for overactive bladder symptoms
      will be routinely fitted with an impulse generator in a pre-study phase. Patients who
      experience significant symptomatic improvement will receive a full bilateral sacral
      neuromodulator implantation and will be randomized to either intermittent or continuous
      stimulation. Participants will fill out voiding logs and surveys over a 12 week period. At
      that point, a one-week washout period during which the neuromodulator will be turned off. The
      impulse generator will then be turned to the alternate setting (intermittent or continuous)
      and the 12 week period will be repeated. Questionnaires and voiding diaries will be collected
      at each clinic visit. In total, subject participation will last approximately 25 weeks after
      full implantation of the bilateral leads and pulse generator.
    
  