
    
      he therapeutic problem of obesity is weight control, a major difficulty, involving a
      significant change in eating behavior. A number of studies show that there are many factors
      of resistance to weight loss whether they are physiological, genetic, environmental pressure
      related, or psychological and behavioral. For some patients, the surgical approach seems the
      best alternative. Indeed, bariatric surgery is an effective therapeutic weapon in patients
      with morbid obesity. However, it has been shown that approximately 25% of patients are
      failing at two years of this surgery (Reinhold's index). Some of the failed subjects may
      benefit from surgical revision. As for the others, no intervention is currently proposed to
      them. Studies have shown that the psychological profile of patients who are candidates for
      bariatric surgery is predominantly impulsive, very anxious with a tendency to depression. The
      stress level of these patients would be important, and they would have low self-esteem. This
      study hypothesize that, in these patients, the establishment of hypnotherapeutic management
      associated with the usual dietary monitoring could modify eating habits thus promoting weight
      loss and an improvement in self-esteem , stress and anxiety compared to dietary monitoring
      alone.

      There are still no studies assessing the impact of hypnotherapeutic management and
      self-hypnosis on the weight curve, self-esteem, stress, anxiety, or the quality of life of
      patients Obese in failure of bariatric surgery.

      It is an Interventional, prospective, multi-center, controlled, randomized, open-label study
      with 2 parallel arms, evaluating the efficacy of hypnotherapeutic management in patients with
      bariatric surgery failure, compared to dietary monitoring alone.

      Number of visits: 13 visits are planned: 1 visit of inclusion, a visit ensuring the first
      dietary follow-up, 9 hypnosis sessions (for the experimental group), two visits dedicated to
      the collection of the judgment criteria. Each patient is followed for 12 months.

      The estimated duration of recruitment is 18 months.
    
  