
    
      Methods: In this study, adult patients postoperative 48 hours suture not opened the line and
      remove the drainage tube of the wound (clean or clean contaminated wounds; the wound category
      1,2), single-blind randomized control study. Hospital Research Ethics Committee reviewed and
      approved, it is expected enrolled 102/04/22-102/12/30, a total of 444 cases, obtained in all
      cases informed consent form before operation, the case from the hospital Thoracic Surgery,
      General Surgery , thyroid surgery and orthopedic wards, outpatient closing the case.

      Research situations and objects: the subjects conditions: adult (minimum age> 20 years;
      maximum age are not limit) 48 hours after surgery suture not opened the line and remove the
      drainage tube wound, closing the case exclusion conditions include: surgical procedure
      contamination or have been infected wounds, chronic wounds, burns,wounds, trauma wounds,
      immune function insufficiency or use of immunosuppressive agents can not sign a consent form
      by the end of the severe and pregnancy.

      Research steps: meet the requirements of the subjects to obtain informed consent, by the
      number of computer random number table, randomly assigned into the shower group or non-shower
      group, n = 222, shower group will given leaflets before surgery about the wound care
      guidelines after surgery, (48 hours after surgery, shower not a bath so that your wounds will
      not be immersed in water, as this may reopen your wounds. please avoid the area of the wound.
      And gently on your stitches shower, do not vigorously rubbing the wound because it may cause
      pain,and might delayed wound healing after a rubbing, then with a clean towel and gently pat
      dry the wound.It can also be allowed to naturally dry or cool air from a hair dryer to dry,
      do no cover any dressing and maintain open and dry, do not use sanitizer. If shower during
      hospitalization advised and instructed by researchers. If shower during home, researchers
      advised and instructed by telephone interviews.The tap water single-use only, unlimited
      shower time and water amount. Non-shower group were given the current wound care guidance
      after surgery by the researchers before surgery (without dressing, after 48 hours use sterile
      normal saline solution clean the wound and cover with gauze, two days to be replaced once,
      but if sweating or other wet wound, can be replaced at any time.). All subjects returned to
      the clinic after 7-14 days, the researcher who do not know group will do the wound bacterial
      culture (if the wound appear red, swelling, heat, pain or purulent exudate or the original
      physician to determine the need),and the researcher also do outpatient surgical wound
      photographic archive for all subjects, photographic archive will be sent to an unknown group,
      MD, Department of Infectious Diseases to determine wound infection (1) or (2) or (3 ): (1)
      red, swelling, heat, pain (2) purulent exudate (3) bacterial culture (+) the wound track
      track record with experts validity postoperative.The collected data will Including basic
      information, the surgical site, surgical start and end times, the use of antibiotics
      situation, shower time, frequency, cost of water, pain conditions, Comfort, uncomfortable
      symptoms, surgical wound infection status assessment (skin around the wound redness,
      swelling, heat, pain, wound pus, exudate type and culture results), wound care costs and
      frequency. The version SPSS15.0 statistical software for archiving, and T-test ANOVA variance
      analysis, linear correlation analysis to analyze the data. Outcome measures: wound infection,
      pain condition, comfort, cost analysis.
    
  