
    
      The specific aim of this pilot study is to determine if metabolomics profiles differ in
      patients who develop CIN after contrast administration for coronary angiography versus those
      who do not. Additionally, our goal was to identify specific urinary metabolites that warrant
      further investigation.This is a pilot study of prospectively identified patients undergoing a
      coronary intervention with intraarterial contrast during their evaluation. The study was
      approved by the University of Shahid Beheshti, Medical institutional review boards.

      100 number of patients were enrolled. To be eligible for the study, patients had to be >18
      years old, undergoing coronary angiography and have at least 1 of the following high risk
      features for CIN: diabetes, coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure. Past medical
      history was confirmed by chart review if available, or patient report.

      Patients were excluded from the study if they had an estimated glomerular filtration rate <15
      mL/min/1.73 m2, a history of organ transplantation, were currently on immunosuppressive
      medications, were septic or on antibiotic therapy, had a history of or were currently
      receiving dialysis of any type, had an exposure to iodinated contrast within 3 days prior to
      the study, or had multiple doses of contrast given.

      Patients were managed according to the treating provider recommendations. No intervention was
      requested as part of this study. There was no institutional standard for mandatory fluid
      administration or use of N-acetylcysteine prior to elective coronary angiography.All patients
      received approximately 60 mili Liter of intravenous iodinated contrast material that was
      administered via computer-controlled automated power injector at 4 mL per second.

      data were collected prospectively after patients were identified as fulfilling inclusion and
      exclusion criteria, and informed consent was obtained. Data collection included ,
      demographics, dietary history, medical history, physical examination, and electrocardiogram
      findings, as documented by the treating emergency physician. Medical history was confirmed
      through patient self-report and review of the medical record when available. Medications
      administered before arrival were also recorded. No additional laboratory tests were mandated
      as a part of the trial study and the treating physician ordered all tests, except urinary
      metabolomics analysis, according to their clinical judgment. Urine samples were collected as
      a midstream sample or via a foley bag prior to angiography and 12 hours post imaging. Samples
      were aliquoted into 2 mL samples and frozen at -80˚C.

      Serum creatinine levels were recorded at presentation, and at 24 and 72 hours. The outcome
      measure was the presence CIN, which was defined as an increase in serum creatinine level of
      ≥0.5 mg/dL above baseline within 72 hours after contrast administration.
    
  