
    
      Our specific aim is to develop and pilot test two interventions that lead to at least 30% of
      individuals with depression presenting to primary care engaging with an Internet-based
      depression support group. We will identify primary care patients with depression who state
      they have access to the Internet and are willing to consider treatment or are currently in
      treatment for depression. In the primary care office they will be given one of three
      interventions introducing them to the Internet depression support group site. Patients will
      be randomized to three experimental groups: 1) simple card with only the name of the web
      address; 2) 8"x11" paper with screen shots of the Internet site home page, a list of features
      provided by the site, and two patient stories describing how the Internet site helped them;
      and 3) the 8"x11" announcement (from intervention 2) plus endorsement of the site by the
      primary care provider. The last two interventions will also ask patients to provide an email
      address so one email reminder can be sent to them. The major outcome will be accessing the
      depression Internet support group at least once in the following four weeks.

      The results of this study will provide important information on whether it is possible to
      recruit a substantial proportion of primary care patients to engage in a potentially useful
      and inexpensive addition to standard depression care. If this is not possible, the likelihood
      of successfully completing a RCT of the effectiveness of depression Internet support groups
      utilizing primary care patients would be low. Researchers trying to assess the effectiveness
      of depression Internet support groups would have to go to alternative designs such as
      recruiting patients with depression as they try to join the depression Internet support
      groups and randomizing some to a delay in joining the group. We will also use this study to
      learn more about what patient characteristics are associated with engaging with an internet
      depression support group. While the focus of this study is Psychobabble, the intent of the
      study is to explore ease of referral, predictors of use and participant experiences as may
      relate to the general concept of Internet-based social support.

      Specific AIM 1: We believe that participants randomized to the either that 8 x 11" brochure
      or the recommendation by the primary care physician will be more likely to visit and use the
      site than those who receive only a recommendation card (50% versus 35% versus 10%). We
      hypothesize that greater levels of encouragement/recommendation will be associated with
      higher levels of internet site usage. A sample size of 225 (N-110 at University of Chicago
      and N=115 at Johns Hopkins) will have power of 0.8 to detect the difference between either
      the card group or the brochure or physician recommendation group.

      Specific Aim 2: We believe that those with higher self-efficacy and greater levels of trust
      in their primary care physician will be more likely to visit the site one time. We will
      conduct a logistic regression analysis to determine whether base self-efficacy and greater
      levels of trust predict use of the internet site after adjusting for group assignment. We
      hypothesize that higher levels of self-efficacy and physician trust will be associated with
      greater internet site use. Will believe a total N=225 will be sufficient to evaluate the
      relationship between 10 independent variables and the outcome of site usage (<15
      cells/variable).

      Specific Aim 3: We will determine if an internet based social support group is acceptable and
      feasible for primary care patients. Specifically, we will evaluate whether the internet site
      increased their knowledge of, or motivation for, depression treatment (Change in level of
      agreement to with regard to "accepting my doctors diagnosis of depression", strongly disagree
      1, strongly agree 5). We hypothesize that levels of agreement will increase pre to
      post-study. A sample size of 225 (N=110 at University of Chicago and N=115 at Johns Hopkins)
      will have power of 0.8 to detect the difference of agree (4) pre-study to (5) strongly agree
      post study.

      Specific Aim 4: We believe that social support and knowledge gained on the internet may
      influence subsequent care seeking or coping behaviors. Specifically, we will evaluate whether
      they have sought care or adopted coping skills 6 weeks after study entry. We hypothesize that
      both these behaviors will increase from pre to post study. A sample size of 225 (N=110 at
      University of Chicago and N=115 at Johns Hopkins) will have power of 0.8 to detect the
      difference of treatment participation pre-study of 0.4 versus 0.65 post study.

      Specific Aim 5: We believe that social support or knowledge gained on the internet site
      leading to changed behaviors may results in lower levels of depressed mood. Specifically, we
      will compare levels of depressed mood at baseline and at 6 week follow-up. We hypothesize
      that their will be modest decline in depressed mood from pre study baseline to post study. A
      sample size of 225 (N=110 at University of Chicago and N=115 at Johns Hopkins) will have
      power of 0.8 to detect the difference of treatment participation pre study CES-D score of 24
      post study score of 20.
    
  