
    
      Purpose:

      A nearly universal aspect of hospitalization is a loss of physical activity due to
      confinement to bed, deconditioning, respiratory compromise, and pain with recovery comprising
      multifactorial components such as the return to activity, adequate pain control, and overall
      neurologic function. Assessment of recovery from surgery and the ability to return to full,
      normal activity has previously been dependent upon subjective clinical evaluation that are
      subject to observer-to-observer variability, selection bias, or variable interpretation of
      the qualitative description of movement. Bedside assessments utilizing an accelerometer could
      change clinical practice by having readily available, quantifiable, reliable and highly
      accurate data for healthcare providers when they make day-to-day decisions of medical care,
      as. The present study aims to establish the feasibility of the clinical use of 3-axis
      accelerometers to measure physical activity in the hospitalized children after abdominal
      surgery.

      Methods:

      Participants:

      The target study population will be 25 English- or Spanish-speaking children ages 3-18
      undergoing elective abdominal surgery with anticipated overnight hospitalization of at least
      one day. Children must be freely ambulatory without any pre-existing mobility-limitations.
      Study enrollment and recruitment will occur in Lurie outpatient urology and pediatric surgery
      clinics over a 6 month period. Parental/guardian consent will be obtained at the preoperative
      clinical visit.

      Accelerometers Actigraph accelerometers (model GT3X; Pensacola, FL) will be obtained from
      Lurie Consortium to Lower Obesity in Chicago Children (CLOCC). Study participants will be
      asked to wear accelerometers at the same location throughout the study period unless there is
      a contraindication to maintain the same location and requires relocation (e.g. interference
      by IV access). Location preference is the wrist. Patients will wear accelerometers
      continuously (except for when bathing) for 7 days prior to surgery, the accelerometer will be
      removed for the operation and placed back on the patient immediately after the operation
      through 14 days postoperative. Accelerometers will be mailed to children 10 days
      preoperatively for those whose surgeries are scheduled >2 weeks from preoperative clinic
      visit along with a return envelop for return of the accelerometer postoperatively; those
      children who are scheduled for surgery within 2 weeks of their preoperative clinic visit will
      be provided accelerometers at that clinic visit. Accelerometers will be returned at
      postoperative clinic visit if within 8 days after surgery or mailed back if postoperative
      clinic visit is more than 8 days postoperative. Actigraph software will be purchased and will
      allow preprogramming of accelerometers to begin collection of data 1 week prior to planned
      surgery date. Reminder phone calls will be placed remind patients to start wearing
      accelerometers 1 week prior to surgery. Accelerometer movement count data epoch will be
      measured at 5-second intervals.
    
  