
    
      The heart is an endocrine organ. The natriuretic peptides are hormones produced in the heart
      and are secreted in response to increased wall stress in atria and ventricles. The principal
      circulating NPs are Atrial Natriuretic Peptide (ANP) and B-type Natriuretic Peptide (BNP).
      The endocrine actions of NPs are natriuresis and dilatation of peripheral arteries.

      The NPs concentrations are elevated in heart failure (HF) and hypertension (HTN) due to
      volume and pressure overload. Therefore, NPs are used as diagnostic and prognostic markers in
      heart failure. However, NPs role in healthy individuals is not known.

      Previous studies have shown that reduced NP levels are associated with a greater risk of HTN.
      Moreover, African-Americans have lower resting NP levels than Caucasians. We hypothesize that
      relative NP deficiency in African American compared to Caucasian has the potential to
      contribute to increase risk of all-cause mortality, HTN, HF and its sequelae.

      Evidence from multiple clinical trials has positioned beta-blockers as a standard heart
      failure therapy. Beta-blocker therapy leads to increased NP levels and suppression of
      Renin-aldosterone-angiotensin system (RAAS) system. Suppression of renin levels by
      beta-blockers has been shown as a potential mechanism of benefit in HF. However, study shows
      that beta-blockers are less effective in African-Americans compared to Caucasians in HF
      treatment. So, the investigators have proposed a pilot study to look for race-based
      differences in the NP and RAAS response to metoprolol in healthy individuals.

      Additionally, exercise has been reported to increase NP levels. ANP increases more than BNP
      with exercise. But there is no data of NP changes in African-American with exercise. So the
      investigators have proposed a sub-study of race-based difference in ANP and BNP response to
      exercise.

      40 African-American and 40 Caucasians normotensive or pre-hypertensive (healthy) individuals
      will be enrolled.
    
  