
    
      Study Design The investigation will be conducted as a prospective, randomized controlled
      study performed by the Department of Anaesthesia, General Intensive Care and Pain Management,
      Medical University of Vienna, Austria, according to the Good Scientific Practise guidelines
      of the Medical University of Vienna. The data collection will be conducted in cooperation
      with the Training Centre of St. John Ambulance, Vienna, Austria.

      Study Population Eligible are all volunteers of ≥18 years of age of non-medical profession,
      irrespective of gender. Exclusion criteria are professional medical training (nurses, medical
      doctors, physiotherapists, ergotherepeuts, emergency medical technician or equivalent),
      pregnancy (as by verbal response at the time of recruitment), and parallel participation in a
      clinical trial, or physical impairment or illness prohibiting physical effort.

      Withdrawal and replacement of subjects

      Subjects must be withdrawn under the following circumstances:

        -  at their own request

        -  if the subject violates the conditions laid out in the consent form/information sheet or
           disregards instructions by the study personnel

      In all cases, the reasons why subjects are withdrawn must be recorded in detail in the case
      report form. Should the study be discontinued prematurely, all study materials (completed,
      partially completed and empty case report forms) will be retained.

      Subjects who do not complete the study according to protocol will be replaced. The data from
      the replaced subjects will be eligible for analysis of the conducted trial periods and for
      safety variables.

      Methodology

      Sample Size In order to detect a clinically important difference of 20% in compression depth
      with a power of 0.8 and a significance level set at 0.05, the sample size calculation yielded
      a total needed number of participants at 74. Since a drop out rate of approx. 10% must be
      expected 84 participants will be recruited. Data regarding compression depth utilizing
      standard CPR techniques in a manikin model (43±12mm) were provided by a previous publication
      and used to estimate the sample size [Rössler et al. 2013]

      Statistical Methods

      Outcome parameters:

      The primary outcome is total number of CC achieving the correct depth of 50-60mm in five
      minutes of manikin CPR. With this the authors want to test the hypothesis that chest
      compressions are delivered more correctly regarding the depth when utilizing the standard BLS
      algorithm with the aid of a flowchart as compared to the CC only algorithm utilizing an
      adapted BLS flowchart in a manikin resuscitation model. The secondary outcome parameter is
      hands-off time (HOT), which is defined as the sum of total time elapsed during the 300sec. of
      BLS in which no chest compressions are provided. This includes the pre-compression interval
      where the initial steps of BLS are performed as well as all interruptions of the CC, e.g. in
      order to ventilate or pause due to any other reason including exhaustion. Furthermore, the
      total number of CC, and the compression rate will be evaluated. The total number of delivered
      rescue breaths, tidal volume, and time to deliver these will also be evaluated.

      Furthermore, questions regarding following points will be raised: "During CPR and without
      stopping your actions, please tell us "NOW" when you perceive your fatigue is affecting the
      quality of the life support performed", "How exhausted are you now (question raised directly
      after discontinuing the CPR) [McDonald et al. 2013] (Lickert Like Scale 1-10). If a
      participant choses to abort resuscitation attempts the open ended question "Why did you
      discontinue the resuscitation attempts?" will be raised.

      Data management and calculations Data will be described as absolute frequencies and
      percentages for categorical data and using mean and standard deviations (SD) for normally
      distributed data. All tests for p-values are two-sided and p≤0.05 will be regarded to be
      statistically significant. Students t-test and chi-sqare test will be used as appropriate. As
      it is common practice, results of Likert-like scales will be treated as interval-measures and
      thereby analysed by using parametric tests [Norman et al. 2010, Cariio et al. 2008]. Local
      data management will be done using Microsoft Excel for Mac (Microsoft Corporation, USA) and R
      for Mac (R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria) for statistical analysis.
      [R_Development_Core_Team 2009] Graphics will be created using PraphPad Prism for Mac
      (GraphPad Software Inc., La Jolla, USA).

      Description of study days Volunteers will be invited to participate in the trial by the study
      personnel. Recruitment will be conducted at a Training Centre of St. John ambulance, Vienna,
      Austria, before the starts of the lessons. After giving written informed consent,
      participants will be randomized using a web based randomization program (www.random.org) and
      allocated to perform standard CPR or CC only. The randomization for group allocation will be
      kept in opaque and sealed envelopes.

      The evaluation will be performed with an independent investigator using a computer attached
      Resusci-Anne Skillreporter by Laerdal-Medical® and the Laerdal Skillreporter Software with
      Segstat (Version 2.3.0, Laerdal Medical, Stavanger, Norway).

      The participants will be asked to perform BLS for five minutes on a manikin. The participants
      will then be asked to undertake any action they deem necessary to rescue the person simulated
      by the resuscitation manikin. Participants will not be informed about the underlying
      hypothesis or the outcome parameters. The room will be prepared to minimise outside
      interruptions.

      Additionally, participants will be instructed to indicate the point in time during CPR when
      they feel that their fatigue is affecting the quality of the life support performed. ("During
      CPR and without stopping your actions, please tell us "NOW" when you perceive your fatigue is
      affecting the quality of the life support performed.)

      Participants in both groups will receive one of the charts right at the beginning of the
      scenario with the information that "this chart will provide information on how to perform
      CPR" and with the start of the clock further instructions regarding is content. Both groups
      will not receive any further introduction or support. At the beginning of the scenario, the
      manikin will be positioned in a supine position on the floor. There will be no clock visible
      for the participant while performing CPR. An investigator is acting as bystander able to call
      the emergency medical service or to be sent to look for an automated external defibrillator
      (which will not be available in the scenario). Nonetheless, the investigator is instructed
      not to provide any information on how to perform CPR and does not physically take part in the
      primary check, CC, or mouth-to-mouth ventilations.

      Data of steps performed or left out will be documented in hardcopy on the case report form by
      an investigator and the exact times and details of chest compressions and ventilations will
      be documented electronically (Laerdal Skillreporter Software with Segstat (Version 2.3.0,
      Laerdal Medical, Stavanger, Norway)). Checklists of necessary steps will be created based on
      the ERC BLS Guidelines 2010 in the same manner as published previously [Roessler et al. 2007,
      Koster et al. 2010].

      After the five-minute period has ended, the participants will be informed that the emergency
      medical service is now taking over and that they can stop performing CPR. Directly
      thereafter, they will be asked the following questions "How exhausted are you now on a scale
      from 1 to 10, where 1 indicates no exhaustion at all and 10 maximum exhaustion?" (Lickert
      Like 1-10). If a participant choses to abort resuscitation attempts before the five minutes
      are over, the open-ended question "Why did you discontinue the resuscitation attempts?" will
      be raised.

      Risk/benefit assessment:

      Apart from physical strain such as muscle pain or abrasion on the palm of the hand or knee
      after delivering chest compressions, there is no direct risk as the consequence of
      participation in the trial. To ensure participants added value, detailed information about
      the ERC CPR algorithm will be given after data collection. This information included written
      material on the 2010 CPR guidelines, or the 2015 CPR guidelines when available.
    
  