
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the symptomatic skeletal event (SSE)-free survival of metastatic renal cell
      cancer (mRCC) patients with bone metastases treated with cabozantinib S-malate (cabozantinib)
      + radium Ra 223 dichloride (radium-223 dichloride) compared to cabozantinib alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate the safety, toxicity and tolerability as defined by Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 in patients treated with cabozantinib +
      radium-223 dichloride compared to cabozantinib alone.

      II. To assess SSE-free survival of each treatment arm in predefined sub-groups. III. To
      assess progression-free survival (PFS) in each treatment arm. IV. To assess overall survival
      (OS) in each treatment arm. V. To assess time to first SSE (defined as first use of radiation
      therapy to relieve skeletal symptoms, new symptomatic pathologic vertebral or non-vertebral
      bone fractures, spinal cord compression, or symptomatic tumor-related orthopaedic surgical
      intervention) in each treatment arm.

      VI. To assess the objective response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) version 1.1.

      EXPLORATORY QUALITY OF LIFE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare patient-reported pain as assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory questionnaire
      (BPI) between patients randomized to cabozantinib versus cabozantinib + radium-223 dichloride
      at 6 months.

      II. To compare patient-reported pain as assessed by the BPI between patients randomized to
      cabozantinib versus cabozantinib + radium-223 dichloride at other timepoints.

      III. To compare overall health-related quality of life as assessed by the Patient-Reported
      Outcomes Measurement Information Systems (PROMIS) Global Health 10 between patients
      randomized to cabozantinib versus cabozantinib + radium-223 dichloride.

      IV. To compare quality-adjusted survival (overall survival x utility score assessed by
      European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level Scale [EQ5D-5L]) between patients
      randomized to cabozantinib + radium-223 dichloride.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate changes in the following bone turnover markers between arms:

      Ia. Marker of bone formation: P1NP, BSAP. Ib. Marker of bone resorption: CTX, NTX. II. To
      correlate changes in bone turnover markers with SSE-free survival. III. To assess the
      immunomodulatory properties of cabozantinib with or without radium-223 dichloride at
      baseline, during treatment, and at progression.

      IV. To identify prognostic and predictive genomic biomarkers of response to cabozantinib and
      radium-223 dichloride via assessment of tissue, circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and
      circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA).

      V. To assess the association between bone response according to MD Anderson response criteria
      and SSE-free survival (FS).

      VI. To correlate change in level of total alkaline phosphatase and bone-specific alkaline
      phosphatase to overall response to cabozantinib + radium-223 dichloride compared to
      cabozantinib alone.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive radium Ra 223 dichloride intravenously (IV) over 1 minute on day 1 of
      cycles 1-6 and cabozantinib S-malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 of every cycle.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive cabozantinib S-malate PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 5
      years from study registration.
    
  