
    
      The delivery of aerosols has a two fold appeal as it is distributed direct to the tracheo-
      bronchial tree and alveolar epithelium. The drug is then rapidly absorbed by the circulation
      avoiding the first pass entero-hepatic metabolic effect.

      The systemic effects may be regarded as a side effect in the case were the primary
      therapeutic target is aimed at the bronchial tree as is the case with broncho-active drugs,
      such as β2-stimulants.

      The ability of particles to remain suspended in a gas can be predicted from their size, shape
      and density, coupled with the density and viscosity of the gas. The properties of an aerosol
      is commonly expressed as the Mass Median Aerosol Diameter MMAD, a measure of the average
      particle size and the geometric standard deviation. It is calculated from the cumulative
      particle size curve1. The MMAD will give a reliable estimate of the likely deposition of the
      drug along the tracheo-bronchial tree. A particle size >5 will likely deposit in the upper
      airways, while particles with an MMAD of 2-5 is likely to deposit in the tracheo-bronchial
      tree2.

      Jet nebulizers are the most commonly used devices for aerosol therapy. However, the MMAD
      generated by this device is unpredictable, often leading to the drug being deposited in the
      ventilator circuit or endotracheal tube3.

      An alternative is the vibrating mesh nebulizer, which is based on a high frequency vibrating
      piezoelectric crystal. The crystal will vibrate a micron mesh at a very high frequency. A
      micro pump will deliver a small volume of liquid from a reservoir into the vibrating mesh
      resulting in a very precise aerosol generation3.

      Nebulizer therapy is often prescribed without proven effects or proper evaluation of result.
      Indeed, two large multicenter trial in acute lung injury patients were discontinued at
      interim analyses due to lack of effect4,5. This lack of effect may be due to the nebulizer
      technology (Jet nebulizer), the indication (ARDS), or primary outcome.

      The investigators would like to compare the difference in therapeutic effect between these
      two devices as this has not been published previously. It is well known that the physical
      properties of the generated aerosol may differ widely, depending on device and technology
      used. Hence, even if the same amount of drug is administered, distribution and uptake will
      not be the same. It can further be expected that the therapeutic response will be different.
    
  