
    
      RESEARCH GAPS IDENTIFIED:

      Only a couple of registry studies in India have followed patients for not more than one year
      and therefore long-term data on disease management and healthcare resource utilization and
      health economics has never addressed adequately. Typically, these studies have focused
      primarily upon inpatient HF clinical profiles, where detailed long-term documentation of
      cardiac function, treatment patterns, and outcomes is lacking.

      HYPOTHESES:

      Long term follow up of heart failure patients can identify the disease characteristics,
      clinical outcomes and help in the development of a disease progression model, thereby
      eventually improving the practice standards. Proper utilization of healthcare resources
      decrease in-hospital and follow up mortality in heart failure patients.

      The study team also hypothesize that the commonest cause of acute heart failure in our
      population in present era is myocardial infarction.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS:

      This proposed observational study is a single center HF-disease registry that will document
      the routine patterns of diagnosis and medical care for heart failure as well as treatment
      type, long-term HF-related clinical events, and re-admission rates following the acute
      admission index event. In addition to the long-term data collection, the study will also link
      treatment plans and clinical outcomes, to identify best practice in the HF treatment, as well
      as extent of healthcare resources use. The registry will also collect data on health-related
      quality of life.

      Eligible patients and caregivers may only be included in the study after providing written
      (witnessed, where required by law or regulation), IRB/IEC-approved informed consent, or, if
      incapable of doing so, after such consent has been provided by a legally acceptable
      representative of the patient.

      RISKS AND BENEFITS There are no risks to patients participating in the registry study, as
      standard of care quality will not be affected. It is unlikely that there will be any direct
      benefit as a result of participation in the HF-disease registry. However, the information
      contained within this non-interventional registry study will be used for research studies
      directed at improving the knowledge and treatment of acute heart failure as well as improving
      patients' treatment in the future.
    
  