
    
      Acute burn and donor site dressing changes are among the most traumatic and painful
      procedures performed on awake children and adults (7, 8). As a result, it is important to
      utilize dressings that: 1) stabilize open burn wounds and donor sites; 2) limit the frequency
      of dressing changes; 3) optimize burn wound and donor site healing; and 4) minimize scarring.
      Anecdotal evidence and a growing body of literature suggest that Suprathel may offer superior
      pain control and a decreased frequency of dressing changes, when compared to Xeroform.

      At Children's Hospital Colorado, the standard of care is to use Xeroform to dress split
      thickness skin grafts and donor sites. Xeroform is an inexpensive, bacteriostatic,
      non-adherent petroleum gauze dressing that is supplied in strips, sheets and rolls. It is
      used to protect freshly skin grafted areas and donor sites, it is then covered with gauze
      followed by BandNet. When Xeroform is applied to a split thickness donor site, it adheres to
      the open wound bed, where it is allowed to dry out. As the donor site heals, the Xeroform
      begins to separate from the wound bed, until the Xeroform eventually sloughs off.

      Suprathel is a biosynthetic dressing developed by PolyMedics Innovations in Germany.
      Potential advantages to the use of Suprathel include its water solubility, elongation
      capacity, and porosity, which prevents fluid accumulation at the burn site. In a prior study,
      Suprathel was associated with favorable burn scar formation (improved Vancouver Scar Scale
      Scores) and decreased pain with dressing changes. In another study, adolescent and adult burn
      patients dressed in Suprathel reported significantly less pain than those who were dressed in
      Mepilex dressings. In post-treatment surveys, patients preferred the use of Suprathel when
      compared to Mepitel. In a study that compared Suprathel to other standard burn dressings,
      there was no statistical difference in wound healing, scar formation, and epithelization.
      Given the limitations in sample size and scarce pediatric data in prior studies, further
      research is necessary to determine the efficacy of Suprathel in the pediatric population and
      whether this is a dressing material that should be offered to hospital patients.

      New outpatients and inpatients who meet study inclusion criteria and require split-thickness
      skin grafting, will be randomized into the Suprathel group or the control group on the day of
      surgery. The investigators will use even calendar operative days for Suprathel and odd
      calendar operative days for Xeroform. Parental consent and/or patient assent will be obtained
      prior to the operative procedure.
    
  