
    
      Background. People with psychosocial disabilities are commonly exposed to human rights
      violations within the mental health care system and in the general community. Such violations
      occur in all countries and are not only a problem from an ethical point of view but
      additionally have profound repercussions on the health of persons with psychosocial
      disabilities. Although psychiatric facilities are the very institutions responsible for the
      care and support of people with psychosocial disabilities, they are also often places in
      which persons with psychosocial disabilities are victims of inhumane treatments, including
      psychological, physical, and sexual abuse or violence. To stop these human rights violations,
      there is a need to reform mental health systems and thus change mental health professionals'
      practices leading to violations of people with psychosocial disabilities' rights. However,
      for this to happen, two main barriers need to be addressed. One barrier is the lack of human
      rights literacy among mental health professionals. The second barrier is that many mental
      health professionals hold negative attitudes towards people with psychosocial disabilities.

      Recently, the World Health Organization (WHO) has developed the QualityRights (QR) online
      training. This training includes modules to increase knowledge about the rights of people
      with psychosocial disabilities and change the negative attitudes towards them and their role
      as rights holders. Furthermore, the training provides mental health providers with the skills
      necessary to advocate for a human rights-based approach in mental health. Currently, there is
      a growing interest in the QualityRights training, and the WHO is implementing it in different
      countries. However, the efficacy of this intervention has not been rigorously evaluated.

      Objectives. To determine the efficacy of the QR online training compared with a placebo
      intervention (online training on Coronavirus Disease - 2019) in improving the knowledge about
      human rights, the attitudes towards people with psychosocial disabilities, and the practices
      related to substitute-decision making and coercion among mental health professionals.

      Methods. This is a cluster randomized controlled trial (cRCT) being conducted in Ghana. An
      estimated sample of 216 mental health professionals will be recruited from across 30 clusters
      within three psychiatric hospitals. Participants will be divided in two arms to receive
      either the WHO QR online training on human rights issues in mental health or the WHO
      Coronavirus online training for health professionals. The primary outcomes, assessed
      post-training, at 3 months, and at 6 months are increase in the knowledge about human rights
      and mental health and improvement on the attitudes towards persons with psychosocial
      disabilities. Secondary outcomes, assessed at 3 and 6 months, consist of improvements in the
      mental health professionals' practices, burn-out levels, and well-being. All data will be
      collected online.

      Discussion. Given the impact human rights violations have on the health of persons with
      psychosocial disabilities, an effort is needed to carry out methodologically strong research
      in this area. The study proposed will provide robust evidence to support further investment
      in interventions such as the WHO QualityRights training and make steps forward promoting the
      rights of people with psychosocial disabilities.
    
  