
    
      While only 1% to 2% of people following cataract surgery develop visual acuity loss from
      chronic post-surgical cystoid macular edema (CME), this represents approximately 20,000
      individuals in the U.S. each year, and many more throughout the world. No current drug or
      surgical treatment is very effective in the management of chronic post-surgical CME. Topical
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications, such as ketorolac drops 4 times a day (qid) for
      3 months, have been shown to reduce the extent of fluorescein leakage on angiography in
      patients with this condition; however, compliance can be difficult, not all cases resolve
      following this treatment, the drop is not approved for this indication, and it is unknown if
      this treatment has an effect that lasts beyond 3 to 6 months. The fluorescein angiographic
      findings and the effects of ketorolac drops suggest that the condition is a result of
      increased permeability from inflammation and might resolve with a therapy that decreases
      abnormal vessel permeability. Recent studies have shown that vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF) plays a major role in vessel permeability. Pegaptanib (Macugen) is an
      FDA-approved drug for wet AMD. Pegaptanib is a selective VEGF antagonist that blocks the
      effects of VEGF; therefore,pegaptanib may decrease vessel permeability and possibly decrease
      CME. Pegaptanib has been shown to have some activity in reducing retinal blood vessel leakage
      in diabetic patients with chronic macular edema (Macugen Diabetic Retinopathy Study Group. A
      phase II randomized double-masked trial of pegaptanib, an anti-vascular endothelial growth
      factor aptamer, for diabetic macular edema. Ophthalmology 2005;112:1747-57.), further
      supporting the hypothesis that it might be effective in other causes of chronic macular
      edema. We plan to conduct a pilot study of the effects of pegaptanib (up to 3 treatments of
      pegaptanib given as often as every 6 weeks for up to 12 weeks) in subjects with chronic
      post-surgical CME. If pegaptanib treatment is shown to be beneficial for this condition,
      additional studies could be performed to prove long-term effectiveness in patients with
      chronic CME or even for prophylaxis for patients known to be at high risk of developing CME
      following ocular surgery.
    
  