
    
      Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is well known to be the knee's primary stabilizer which
      would be compromised by ligamentous injury, causing various functional deficits. Currently,
      ACL reconstruction is the common management focus on restoration of stability. Beside joint
      stabilization, proprioception, defined as the system of joint position sense and movement, is
      another function of the ACL which has also been widely studied.

      The proprioceptive function of human ACL has been recognized since the 1980's. The first
      study by described the presence of mechanoreceptors in human ACL fibres. Study further proved
      that ACL is extensively innervated with neural elements.

      Numerous studies reported ACL is rich in mechanoreceptors which contribute in proprioceptive
      function. One study on 29 ACL remnant reported that there are mechanoreceptors including
      Ruffini, Pacini receptors, Golgi tendon organ-like receptors and free nerves endings in the
      remnant and showed the numbers of mechanoreceptors is significantly related to joint sense
      accuracy. Another study performed by same group of researchers reported that a somatosensory
      evoked potential could be recorded in ACL remnants after electrical stimulation, confirmed
      original sensory neurons are preserved to certain extent, which may help graft neuralization
      and restoration of knee function. This further echos with various studies that, in
      ACL-deficit knee, loss of proprioceptive function is reported with corelation to the number
      of mechanoreceptors. At a result, it comes up with an idea that preserving the ACL remnant
      should help maintaining or facilitating proprioceptive function, by the operation technique
      of ACL augmentation.

      ACL augmentation is a relatively new technique which preserves and augments the ACL remnant
      using extra graft. Under arthroscopic examination, if any of the ACL bundles, anteromedial
      (AM) and posterolateral (PL), shows a partial tear remnant of reasonable size, thickness and
      tension, augmentation may be performed instead of reconstruct the whole ligament. Instead of
      removing the remaining stump, it would be preserved as much as possible, and a formal ACL
      reconstruction would be performed. A commonly used graft is single-bundle autogenous
      semitendinosus gracilis tendon. As the retaining ACL fiber contains mechanoreceptor
      responsible for proprioception, it is believed that better knee proprioception and postural
      sense could be achieved by preserving the ACL remnant. Also, better vascularization and
      stronger mechanical protection is expected as native ACL fiber is retained.

      The current management of partial tear ACL injury are mainly conservative treatment and
      surgical treatment, including reconstruction and augmentation. For augmentation, the common
      practise is to perform a "Selective Bundle Reconstruction", that is to reconstruct the torn
      bundle, either AM or PL reconstruction, and preserve the remaining intact one.

      The clinical benefits of ACL augmentation had been reported by several studies. A study had
      demonstrated good clinical results in International Knee Documentation Commitee (IKDC) knee
      evaluation score, Cincinnati Knee Score and KT1000 in augmentation using autologous doubled
      and tripled semitendinosus (selective AM or PL) reconstruction at 1 year post-operatively.

      An other comparison study between ACL augmentation (selective AM or PL reconstruction) and
      reconstruction showed superior result in knee anterior stability in clinical tests, KT2000
      and knee joint position sense in augmentation group at a 2-year follow-up period. This study
      has demonstrated the post-operation comparison only and allogenic fascia lata graft was also
      used in the control reconstruction group, which is not a common graft to be used in ACL
      surgery in local setting. Moreover, as the assessment is performed at 2 years
      post-operatively, the more immediate and early post-operative effect of this surgical
      technique is still questionable.

      As mentioned above, ACL augmentation may has potential clinical advantages including better
      knee stability, mechanical strength and proprioceptive function, yet evidence of the earlier
      effect of this technique is still lacking, with joint position sense was demonstrated by one
      study only. With the relatively new technique's popularity and potential benefit on
      proprioception, it deserves more research on studying the difference in both the clinical and
      proprioception outcome from reconstruction. Therefore, a comparative study on the difference
      in knee proprioception and postural stability between ACL augmentation and reconstruction,
      including early post-operative assessment is performed.

      In local setting, if the ACL injury is noted to be partially torn from pre-operative Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (MRI), surgeons would try to preserve the remaining stump as much as
      possible with a single bundle ACL reconstruction performed intra-operatively. In order to
      make the current study result meaningful and could be generalized in local setting, ACL
      augmentation is renamed as ACL stump-preserving surgery, which is the common practice in
      local setting.
    
  