
    
      Since the description of the concept of balanced analgesia in the early 90's, the combination
      of different analgesic drugs and/or analgesia techniques is part of the standard management
      of postoperative analgesia. A recent survey conducted in France by Fletcher et al. showed
      that patients often received one or more NOA associated with an opioid. The benefit and risk
      of the use of opioids associated with NOA were recently reassessed as part of a formal
      recommendation of experts and detailed in a recent review. The analysis of the literature
      reveals a lack of comparison of the combinations of NOA with morphine for postoperative
      analgesia. For example, paracetamol and morphine in combination does not always allow a
      significant morphine-sparing effect compared with morphine alone and does not reduce the
      incidence of morphine side effects. A number of definitive answers has therefore yet to be
      found: Does NOA -morphine association allow an effective morphine-sparing effect? Is there an
      interest in prescribing several NOAs in association? If yes, what are the most interesting
      combinations in terms of morphine-sparing effect and safety?

      Another question concerns the effects of NOA on postoperative hyperalgesia. This
      hyperalgesia, which results from surgery-related inflammation, is increased by consumption of
      morphine and not only contributes to the overall experience of postoperative pain but also to
      the chronicisation of postoperative pain. Since in clinical practice, hyperalgesia can be
      measured using specific tools (Von Frey filament type), our study will evaluate the
      anti-hyperalgesic effects of NOA on a subgroup of patients enrolled in the centers used to
      evaluate nociceptive thresholds.

      The objectives of this study are :

        -  comparing the morphine sparing effect of different combination of 3 NOA (paracetamol,
           nefopam, ketoprofen) for postoperative analgesia.

        -  determining whether the morphine-sparing effect is associated with or without a
           reduction in the incidence of morphine side effects.

        -  evaluating the effects of NOA on postoperative hyperalgesia.
    
  