
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second most frequent malignant disease in Norway (Cancer in
      Norway 2017). About 50% of the patients will have metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis
      or develop metastatic disease later on. Liver metastases are the most frequent presentation
      of metastatic disease. Liver resection is considered the only curative treatment option in
      CRC patients with liver metastases, however only about 20% of the patients are candidates for
      liver resection. The treatment option for the majority of the patients is palliative
      chemotherapy with a median overall survival from start of chemotherapy of about 2 years, and
      only 10-12 months from starting 2nd line chemotherapy.

      While high-quality data (randomized trials) is wanting, it is generally accepted that the
      only curative treatment for colorectal liver metastases (CRLM) is surgery. Liver resections
      are generally well tolerated and safe 1, but some patients recur early and probably have no
      benefit from surgery, or even a net loss of quality-of-life (QoL). These are hard to identify
      beforehand, but patients with multiple tumours that progress on 1st line chemotherapy are at
      high risk of early recurrence following resection2, 3. These patients are in a grey zone:
      their metastases may be technically resectable, but the aggressive biology of their disease
      makes overall outcome of surgery highly uncertain. The decision to offer resection to some of
      these patients primarily results from want of better alternatives and from lack of
      sufficiently precise prognostication.

      As resections are generally well tolerated and adequate prognostication is wanting, there is
      a tendency to offer resections to patients who have borderline resectable CRLM or who exhibit
      other non-favourable traits like large or multiple metastases, or progression on 1st line
      chemotherapy. Resections followed by early recurrence represent a net loss of quality-of-life
      and an unwanted expenditure for society. Exploring the optimal treatment modality for
      patients in this grey zone, i.e. with uncertain benefit from surgery, is important to provide
      optimal treatment for patients in a critical situation.

      Palliative chemotherapy is in general the only treatment option for the vast majority of
      non-resectable patients. The expected median overall survival (OS) from start of first line
      chemotherapy is about 2 years and the 5 years OS is about 10%, although longer median OS has
      been obtained in selected patients with good performance status (ECOG 0-1), no (K)RAS or BRAF
      mutations and left-sided tumours 4-8. The OS from start of second line chemotherapy however
      is only 10-12 months 9. This places the prognosis for this group of cancer patients on par
      with those having pancreatic cancer.

      This trial targets a group of patients that are not eligible for the Excalibur 1 and 2 trials
      but still have as dismal or even worse prognosis. They will - according to the inclusion
      criteria - have a large tumour burden and have shown progression on 1st line systemic
      chemotherapy treatment. Based on previous trials, only 30 % of this patient group are
      estimated to be alive after two years. These patients have today only one treatment modality
      available: 2nd line systemic chemotherapy. Response can, however, only be expected in a small
      minority.

      With such a dismal outcome for these patients, almost any attempt to improve survival would
      be warranted and anecdotal evidence shows that some appear to benefit substantially. This
      may, however, be a result of biased selection and the benefit of surgery in this grey zone is
      unproven.
    
  