
    
      Every year in Italy more than 100,000 persons aged > 65 incur in a hip fracture. The direct
      costs sustained by National Health System both for hospitalization and rehabilitation
      following hip fracture in elderly people were estimated in more than one billion euro.
      Despite incidence rate is decreasing in the last years, the number of hospitalizations for
      hip fractures is still increasing due to the population aging. Some estimates assume that the
      number of fractures per year will double by 2050. Observational studies suggest that
      following hip fracture, only 40-60% of people who survive are likely to reach their
      prefracture level of mobility. Up to 70% may recover their level of independence for basic
      activities of daily living and less than half of all people experiencing hip fracture may
      regain their ability to perform instrumental ADLs.

      In Italy, as in Western nations, approximately 10-20% of patients are institutionalized after
      a hip fracture, which imposes a large cost burden on society.Then, it is widely recognised
      that a vicious cycle can occur after a hip fracture where pain and hospitalization result in
      disuse atrophy of muscles and general low level of aerobic fitness which increases the risk
      of immobility and new fractures. The aerobic fitness level of older adults is a primary
      determinant of health and morbidity and thus serves as a powerful predictor of quality of
      life and independent living. Moreover, a number of guidelines recommend that older people,
      aged over 65, perform at least 150 minutes per week of medium-intensity aerobic activity
      (where aerobic activity refers to different activities, such as example: walking, cycling,
      etc.). Elderly subjects undergoing rehabilitation should be physically active to the extent
      granted by disability and health status.

      Contrary to this, patients post-surgery of femur fracture perform low levels of physical
      activity. In fact patients spend at least 98% of the day during the rehabilitation period in
      a sitting or lying down position in the bed. On average, these patients take 36 steps a day,
      which results in less than the 2,000-9,000 steps needed to stay healthy. Indeed
      deconditioning can be consider a major determining factor for the unsatisfactory recovery of
      motor skills for patients undergoing femoral surgery during rehabilitation.

      There is irrefutable evidence showing the beneficial effects of exercise in both prevention
      and treatment of several diseases. A lot of studies have shown that both men and women who
      report increased levels of physical activity and fitness have reductions in relative risk of
      death (by about 20%-35%). The benefits of exercise are evident, not only in healthy persons
      but also in patients.

      Unfortunately, it is hardly conceivable that these patients could reach, in a hospitalization
      regime, activity levels equal to those recommended by the guidelines. For all these reasons,
      the investigators have introduced aerobic training performed with an arm cycle ergometer, in
      patients hospitalized and subjected to conventional rehabilitation.

      The primary purpose of this randomized controlled clinical trial is to verify the feasibility
      of an aerobic exercise program in subjects with recent proximal femur fracture treated
      surgically.

      The secondary purpose is to verify whether the addition of aerobic activity can increase
      motor performance compared to a program in which no aerobic activity is foreseen. In
      particular, the investigators expect the patients belonging to the intervention group to walk
      faster than those who have performed only conventional physiotherapy treatment.
    
  