
    
      International research shows that untreated or under treated pain among cancer patients after
      completion of therapy is a common problem with substantial negative impact on the patients'
      quality of life and mental and physical function.These challenges have increased interest in
      psychological pain therapy and among the available methods of psychological intervention,
      mindfulness-based interventions (MBI) are of particular interest. MBI appears to be
      particularly relevant for pain, as mindfulness focuses, through different meditation
      exercises, on concentrating attention on here-and-now experiences and supporting new ways of
      addressing physical sensations and emotional discomfort, characterized by greater acceptance
      and openness. MBI has been shown effective in treatment of nonmalignant chronic pain. .
      Patients seen by all four diagnosis teams at the Oncology Department at AUH are screened for
      pain (0-10 NRS) in connection with their final consultation with the oncologist. Patients
      with a pain score of ≥ 4 on one or more of the four pain dimensions questions receive a
      folder describing MBCT and the treatment plan and are encouraged to contact the MBCT team for
      more information and scheduling of an interview. If the patient, after initial information
      either by phone or after the first interview decline the offer to participate, but are
      willing to be contacted for the purpose of gathering more information about their reasons for
      not participating, we will send them a brief questionnaire concerning their pain and their
      reasons for choosing to decline the offer, to complete online. They are also asked to give
      their permission to collect the same information after three months. All data are collected
      and registered with REDCap, a high data security project administration system administered
      by Aarhus University's Clinical Trial Unit. The patients will participate in eight weekly two
      hour group sessions and will be asked to do an additional 45 minutes of daily training at
      home. The participants will be asked to record their home training to allow assessment of
      their adherence to the intervention. The program corresponds to the manualized MBCT program,
      but with adaptations that take into account the special needs of cancer patients, including
      somewhat shorter sessions, shorter yoga exercises, and the omission of the all-day session.
      The sessions include psychoeducation and formalized mindfulness exercises with focus on the
      participants' here-and-now experience of their pain. The aim of the present project is to
      evaluate the practical implementation of MBCT, with focus on: 1) the observed effects on pain
      (primary outcome parameter), 2) effects on quality-of-life (QoL) and on other cancer and
      cancer-treatment-related late effects associated with pain (secondary outcome parameter), 3)
      possible barriers for continued participation in the program (drop-out), 4) patient
      experience and satisfaction with the intervention and its organizational/practical
      implementation, 5) staff's experience of screening procedure and implementation, and 6)
      collection of data for use in the evaluation of effects, costs, and savings. For use in the
      evaluation, the patients complete questionnaires prior to the first session (T1), immediately
      after the last session (T2), and at a six-month follow-up (T3).
    
  