
    
      1. Newly diagnosed and pre-therapeutic patients with primary lung cancer

        2. Study sample: the optimal study sample is expected to be >50 cases

        3. Inclusion criteria: age 30-80 years old; newly diagnosis of primary lung cancer with
           radiological or pathological evidence; SPECT/CT scan was performed before surgery;
           written and informed consent with signature before the study

        4. Exclusion criteria: with other tumor in addition to primary lung caner; receive surgery
           prior to SPECT/CT scan; failed to complete preoperative and postoperative pulmonary
           function tests; failed to perform scans; pregnancy, lactation, and impaired renal or
           liver function; poorly controlled diabetes; poor compliance; contrary to the standard
           operating procedures; not suitable for clinical trials (for example with mental
           illness);

      Study protocol:

      1. Examination time

        1. Preoperative lung function test was performed within a month prior to surgery

        2. Preoperative pulmonary ventilation/perfusion SPECT/CT were performed within a month
           prior to surgery

        3. Postoperative pulmonary function test as well as follow-up were performed within three
           months after surgery 2. Pulmonary function test including but not limited to: forced
           expiratory volume in 1s(FEV1), diffusing capacity carbon monoxide(DLCO), forced vital
           capacity(FVC), maximal voluntary ventilation (MVV), peak expiratory flow(PEFR), vital
           capacity(VC), total lung capacity(TLC) 3. Pulmonary ventilation/perfusion SPECT/CT
           imaging: acquisition protocol according to EANM guidelines for ventilation/perfusion
           scintigraphy. Part 1. Using Technegas for ventilation imaging and 99mTc-MAA for
           perfusion imaging.

      4. Image analysis：

        1. Ventilation / perfusion SPECT/CT data were registered, processed and reconstructed in GE
           Xeleris Workstation, quantitative measurements were using Q.lung software.

        2. Results including ventilation / perfusion uptake and volume (in counts and mL and
           respective percentage) of each pulmonary lobar.

      5. Data analysis:

        1. Predicted postoperative FEV1 (as well as other pulmonary function values) were
           calculated according to the following formula:

           FEV1 fore-v = FEV1 pre × (1- Volume%); FEV1 fore-cv = FEV1 pre × (1- Counts%v); FEV1
           fore-cp = FEV1 pre × (1- Counts%p).

           *fore-v represents predicted postoperative value using volume; fore-cv represents
           predicted postoperative value using ventilation uptake; fore-cp represents predicted
           postoperative value using perfusion uptake; pre represents preoperative pulmonary test
           value.

        2. A graphical method of the Bland-Altman plot was used to compare FEV1 (as well as other
           pulmonary function values) obtained from predictions and post-operative measurements
           (with certain systematic and random errors). Intervals of agreement were drawn as the
           mean difference between predicted and measured values plus and minus 1.96 times the
           standard deviation of the differences. Strength of linear relationship between predicted
           and measured FEV1 values was quantified by the Pearson correlation coefficients with
           significance based on t-statistics. P < 0.05 is statistically significant.
    
  