
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Many investigators have identified "gaps" in the quality of care delivered in routine
      practice in the U.S. According to the Institute of Medicine (IOM) report "Crossing the
      Quality Chasm: A New Health System for the 21st Century," the "gap" between evidence and
      practice might be better termed a "chasm". High blood cholesterol was identified as one of 15
      high priority conditions for Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) initial focus. In
      addition, the report stresses the importance of increased use of information technology to
      support clinical and administrative processes. Six major aims are spelled out in the IOM
      report "health care should be safe, effective, patient-centered, timely, efficient and
      equitable." We have developed an intervention that is grounded in this philosophy.
      Specifically, we are focusing on a guideline that promotes the timely use of safe and
      effective interventions in a patient-tailored manner. A hand-held computerized decision
      support tool will be a core component of the intervention to support consistent and efficient
      medical decision-making. Although our goal is to improve overall adherence with the chosen
      guideline, we expect that the quality improvement process will result in increased equity,
      reflected in reduced disparities with respect to appropriate treatment between patient
      subgroups defined by gender, race/ethnicity, and age.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      GLAD Heart is a randomized trial. The study intervention (academic detailing on ATPIII and a
      hand-held computerized decision support tool that provides patient-specific, ATPIII-based
      risk stratification and treatment recommendations for cholesterol management) and an
      attention control intervention (academic detailing on JNC7 and automated blood pressure
      devices) will be delivered at the level of randomization which is the practice. All practices
      (N=64) will receive usual care, consisting of guideline dissemination, baseline performance
      feedback, continuing education, and patient education materials. Outcomes will be assessed
      based on patient level data from chart reviews (N 20,000) of adult patients eligible for
      cholesterol measurement. To assess ATPIII-related outcomes, we will compare changes in
      baseline and follow-up chart abstraction between the two arms. To assess JNC7-related
      outcomes, we will compare differences in follow-up chart abstraction only between the two
      arms. Appropriate analytic methods will be used to analyze these correlated data. Impact
      evaluation for both arms will be conducted via baseline and follow-up surveys of
      participating providers. Process evaluation will be conducted by tracking use of the
      PDA-based tool and monitoring appropriate use of the automated blood pressure devices. Other
      tracking information will be collected to ensure intervention and data collection success.
    
  