
    
      In this Phase 1/2 study, the investigators will conduct a safety and efficacy study of the
      combination of BMX-001 with standard radiation therapy (RT) and concurrent 5-fluorouracil
      (5FU)/mitomycin in newly diagnosed Anal Squamous Cell Carcinoma (ASCC) patients. At the time
      of writing of this protocol amendment, another Phase 1 study using BMX-001 with concurrent
      chemotherapy and radiation therapy in patient with newly diagnosed high-grade gliomas
      (BMX-HGG-001) has completed. This clinical trial has demonstrated no adverse effects in
      subcutaneous dosing up to 28 mg/subject load with half the loading dose (14 mg/subject) given
      biweekly for 8 weeks in 12 subjects. Three subjects were enrolled and dosed with 42
      mg/subject load with half the loading dose given biweekly for 8 weeks. Of these three
      subjects, there was one dose-limiting toxicity of grade 3 tachycardia and grade 3
      hypotension. The DLT in this subject occurred with the loading dose (42 mg sc). The patient
      was treated with fluids and hospital admitted for observation for 24 hours during which time
      the hypotension and tachycardia resolved. The cardiac rhythm was a sinus tachycardia and no
      other cardiac toxicity was observed. The tachycardia was assumed to have resulted from
      hypotension occurring following the sub-cutaneous injection of BMX-001 (42 mg). After the
      loading dose of BMX-001 and the described DLT, the subject continued on study and experienced
      no tachycardia or hypotension following administration of the subsequent 16 maintenance doses
      (20 mg sc). The sponsor determined that the Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of BMX-001 is 28
      mg/subject load followed by 14 mg/subject twice a week for up to eight weeks. This is the
      maximum dose that was tolerated with no adverse effects.

      The most common related toxicity seen in the Phase 1 BMX-HGG-001 trial was grade 1 injection
      site reaction. There is no apparent toxicity to end organ tissues or bone marrow.

      The completion of a Phase 1 clinical trial in patients with high-grade glioma undergoing
      brain radiation therapy plus chemotherapy with temozolomide has established the RP2D for
      BMX-001. The RP2D by sub-cutaneous injection is 28 mg/subject load followed by a maintenance
      dose of 14 mg/subject b.i.w. At the RP2D, there have been no BMX-001 dose limiting toxicities
      observed.

      Based on the completion of Phase 1 and establishment of a RP2D for this treatment regimen in
      patients undergoing radiation therapy and chemotherapy, the clinical trial described in this
      protocol of patients with newly diagnosed ASCC will proceed to Dose Level 3, after completion
      of Dose Level 1 and Dose Level 2, enrolling up to 20 subjects with a safety lead-in of 6
      subjects. The reason for the safety lead-in is to confirm safety in subjects in this cohort
      receiving radiation therapy and 5FU/mitomycin.

      In order to evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of BMX-001 in combination with current
      chemoradiation, blood samples will be drawn for analysis in the a minimum of three and up to
      6 patients in enrolled in the safety lead-in.

      In this trial, the first dose of BMX-001 will be administered subcutaneously from 4 days up
      to 1 hour prior to the start of radiation treatment.

      Blood will be drawn for PK on the following days: Day 1 (before and after loading dose), Day
      8, Day 22 and Day 36. Measures will be obtained at approximately the following times: -1 to 0
      hour (before loading dose), 30 minutes after the drug is given, 4 hours post-dose, and 24
      hours post-dose. This is described in Appendix A. Samples will be analyzed for BMX-001 using
      validated analytical methods at Dr. Ivan Spasojevic's laboratory at Duke University.

      Skin, GI, and GU symptoms will be measured on the day of screening, weekly during RT, 1
      months, 4 months and 10 months after the completion of RT. Perianal skin will be assessed
      weekly during RT, 1 month, 4 months, and 10 months after completion of RT. Further follow up
      will be per standard of care.
    
  