
    
      Aging is associated with the changes in the sleep structure, continuity, and timing while it
      also affects the elderly's physiological and psychological health statuses. Despite the fact
      that hypnotics are beneficial for the short-term management of insomnia, it is inconclusive
      about the risk and benefit ratios of long-term use for the elderly. The objectives of this
      study are to (1)examine the medication use patterns of prescribed hypnotics and the factors
      that were associated with the use patterns among the elderly population; (2)investigate the
      associations of using prescribed hypnotics with the elderly patients' disease statuses,
      efficacy and safety, as well as their pharmacokinetic and pharmacogenetic
      characteristics;(3)determine the clinical, economic and humanistic outcomes and corresponding
      factors of using hypnotics for long-term and short-term use in Taiwanese elderly.

      This proposed study is the second part of a larger project that consists of two main phases
      across four years. The first part will include a retrospective database analysis to examine
      the medication use patterns for sleep disorders and corresponding outcomes using three data
      sets. Elderly patients aged 65 or older and who received hypnotics for insomnia will be
      selected from Taiwan's National Health Insurance Research Database, National Health Interview
      Survey and China Medical University Hospital (CMUH) in-house databases. Focus will be placed
      on benzodiazepines (BZD) and BZD-receptor specific non-BZD agents (Z-drugs), but Chinese
      traditional medication used for insomnia will also be examined.

      This study is the second part of the larger project. The investigators will conduct a
      longitudinal, prospective, observational cohort study over a period of two years. The focus
      of this study is the use of hypnotic BZD and Z-drugs on elderly insomnia patients. The study
      cohorts include elderly patients, aged 65 years or older, who have received services in the
      outpatient departments of China Medical University Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan, and who have
      been prescribed with a selected BZD or Z-drug for insomnia for at least one week. A control
      group cohort will also be recruited. Each recruited patient will be monitored and evaluated
      periodically for at least one year. Economic, clinical, and humanistic outcomes, as well as
      adherence to the hypnotics will be assessed and monitored. Safety and tolerability will be
      assessed by occurrence of adverse drug reactions. Pharmacokinetic properties and genotyping
      patterns will be also be evaluated using snapshot blood sampling after the 6th month of
      enrollment in the study. The clinical and humanistic outcomes measures will include changes
      in insomnia status, functional status changes, depression status, as well as over-all
      well-being using EuroQol 5D. Economic evaluation will compare total insurance and
      out-of-pocket expenses at baseline and at 12 months follow up.
    
  