
    
      This study is a prospective, observational study designed to evaluate the use of the Geneva
      Healthcare Patient Population Management platform to detect AF (atrial fibrillation) in
      patients with CIEDs (cardiovascular implantable electronic devices) in the emergency room
      setting, and assess the feasibility of sub-specialty cardiac electrophysiology (EP) care of
      these patients. This is a PI-initiated study and there are currently no plans to conduct this
      study at any other sites.

      The investigators plan to use the Geneva Healthcare Patient Population Management platform to
      detect AF in patients with CIEDs and will utilize a clinical excellence team of nurse
      practitioners and research assistants to ensure that appropriate treatment of AF is pursued.
      UCSD (University of California, San Diego) has used the Geneva Patient Population Management
      Platform for clinical purposes since September, 2012 at both emergency room sites at
      Hillcrest and Thornton. The platform is not an experimental device.

      After the patient's device is interrogated in the usual fashion by placing a wand over the
      patient, with downloading of information to each device manufacturers interrogator, the
      information is uploaded to the Geneva platform, where it is organized for a physician to
      interpret. After the data has been processed and organized on the password protected system,
      the data retrieved from the CIED will be uploaded to UCSD's electronic medical record system,
      EPIC, by the hospital personnel. For the purposes of this study, the Geneva Healthcare PPM
      (Patient Population Management) platform is simply a tool used to collect relevant device
      data in the ER setting.

      The investigators plan to clinically screen all patients who are evaluated in either of two
      UCSD emergency departments who have any cardiac rhythm device. This ER screening will be
      incorporated into standard clinical practice and will be conducted by EP staff. The goal will
      be to detect all patients with AF and to refer them for direct electrophysiology evaluation.
      Patients with AF will have data captured from physiologic and arrhythmia data collected by
      the Geneva Healthcare PPM platform from the point-of-care interrogation in the ER (emergency
      room) or by home monitoring.

      A Clinical Excellence Team of physicians, nurse practitioners, and nurses will direct
      identified patients with AF to appropriate treatment by referral to an EP subspecialist for
      treatment considerations including rate control, rhythm control, stroke prophylaxis therapy,
      and ablation therapy. The patient will be offered a clinic appointment with an EP
      subspecialist. Patients who have been identified with atrial fibrillation will be referred to
      research staff. If the patient is interested in participation in the main trial, informed
      consent will be obtained by one of the study investigators or research coordinators. Patients
      who are enrolled in the trial will be followed through their course of standard clinical
      treatment for atrial fibrillation for 12 months, including both ablation and medication
      therapy. Outcomes including morbidity, mortality, hospitalization, healthcare utilization,
      and recurrent AF will be evaluated in all patients (including those who are taken to ablation
      vs. those who are not). If a patient refuses to be referred to an EP subspecialist, the
      patient will not be approached for research. The patient will be encouraged to follow-up with
      any previous physician they have recently seen, including a primary care physician and/or
      cardiologist for standard clinical care.

      The investigators propose a pilot clinical excellence study leveraging innovative healthcare
      information technology tools to capture patients with AF and CIEDs, and efficiently route
      these patients for guideline-based treatment with a goal for appropriate radiofrequency
      catheter ablation of AF and/or medical therapy. The investigators' mission is to evaluate the
      ability to detect AF in patients with cardiac rhythm devices with this novel healthcare
      technology, increase access to proper medical and procedural therapy for AF, and evaluate a
      centralized repository for follow-up of clinical results and outcomes in this patient
      population.
    
  