
    
      Randomised, phase II/III 3 stage trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the addition of
      olaparib to platinum-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer patients with TNBC
      and/or gBRCA.

      Disease under investigation: Breast Cancer

      Purpose of clinical trial: To establish if the addition of olaparib to neoadjuvant
      platinum-based chemotherapy for Triple Negative Breast Cancer (TNBC) and/or germline BRCA
      (gBRCA) breast cancer is safe and improves efficacy.

      Trial Design: Open label, randomised, 3-stage Phase II/III

      Sample Size: Minimum of 527 patients (including at least 220 gBRCA patients equally allocated
      to the control and the selected research arm).

      Non Investigational Medicinal Products: Prophylactic granulocyte-colony stimulating factor
      (G-CSF) to be given as per local practice and 3 cycles of anthracyclines as per local
      practice.

      Treatment period: A minimum of 21 weeks of chemotherapy followed by surgery.

      Procedures: Screening & enrolment

      Eligible patients with early breast cancer will be registered and consented for screening:

      BRCA mutation test Tumour Infiltrating Lymphocytes(TILs) score Cytokeratin 5/6 (CK5/6),
      Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) +/-, Androgen Receptor (AR) status by
      Immunohistochemistry (IHC).

      Standard assessment prior to chemotherapy Standard staging to exclude metastatic disease.
      When eligibility is confirmed, patients will be randomised via a web-based central system
      which will allocate each patient a unique randomisation number associated with one of the
      treatment arms.

      End of Trial: For patients, the end of trial is after the last follow-up visit or contact
      with the research team planned 10 years after surgery.

      Procedures for safety monitoring during trial: Pharmacovigilance will be performed by the
      PARTNER Trial Office. Also, the Trial Management Group and the Independent Data and Safety
      Monitoring Committee will regularly review the patient safety data.

      Criteria for discontinuation of trial treatment on safety grounds:

      Severe toxicity or inter-current illness, requiring cessation in the judgement of patient's
      clinician.

      Patient within 4 weeks has not recovered from toxicity to an extent that allows further
      treatment.

      Patient unable to comply with trial procedures. Disease progression while on trial treatment.
      Patient becomes pregnant.
    
  