
    
      This is a single centre window of opportunity trial. A total of 44 patients with a diagnosis
      of invasive bladder cancer diagnosed by pathologic evaluation of transurethral resection of
      bladder tumor (TURBT) specimens and meeting all eligibility criteria will be enrolled in the
      study. Study participants will receive Metformin 850mg twice daily and simvastatin 20mg once
      daily until the night before of their scheduled cystectomy, which is a time period which will
      last approximately 12 weeks or less. Pre-treatment TURBT tissue samples and the Cystectomy
      post-therapy tissue samples will be analyzed and compared. Samples will be analyzed for cell
      proliferation markers and to determine whether or not the combination of metformin and
      simvastatin is able to produce a synergistic effect that will result in the decrease of the
      growth of these aggressive cancer cells. The anticipated recruitment period will be
      approximately 18 months. Participants in this study will be asked to attend the following
      clinic visits for this study:

      Baseline Visit:

      During this visit, the study doctor will conduct a physical exam and take vital signs as well
      as height and weight measurements. Blood will also be drawn for analysis and research
      purposes. Females that are of child bearing potential will have a pregnancy test to confirm
      that they are not pregnant. Pregnant women will be removed from the study. We will also be
      collecting blood samples.

      Clinic Visits Participants will have follow-up clinic visits or phone interviews scheduled
      every 4 weeks until the time of their surgery. At least 1 visit will be in person before
      surgery. At these times they will have blood drawn for analysis, have their medication
      reviewed, and confirm that they are taking the medication in adherence with the study
      protocol.

      Day of Surgery On the day of surgery, the participants will have their height and weight
      measured, have blood drawn for analysis and research purposes, and drug compliance will be
      assessed.

      This is a feasibility study, and an interim analysis of enrollment is planned at 12 months
      after the first patient is enrolled. The trial will be prematurely closed if it fails to
      enroll 10 patients by the 12 month time point. A preliminary pathological analysis will be
      performed following the completion of 12 months from the time of study initiation.

      In the event that the enrolled patient underwent a TURBT for diagnosis prior to referral,
      either tissue will be obtained from the peripheral center where the TURBT was performed or
      they will be consented for repeat TURBT, or withdrawn from the study.

      Based upon the documentation at the time of TURBT, an attempt will be made, where possible,
      to obtain tissue sections from the same tumor contained in the cystectomy sections. Where
      this is not possible, representative slides will be obtained from another tumor, if
      available.

      Study Objectives The aim of this study is to evaluate feasibility of window of opportunity
      neoadjuvant trials for invasive bladder cancer in our center, and to determine the effect of
      the combination of metformin and simvastatin on clinicopathologic markers of drug activity in
      our patient cohort.

      Primary Objectives - Feasibility and Tumor Proliferation Rate The primary endpoint of this
      trial will be the assessment of the tumor proliferation rate. This will be investigated
      through the analysis of the change in Ki67 tissue staining between the TURBT tissue samples
      and the cystectomy tissue.

      Marker of cell proliferation;

        1. Ki67 staining

           This trial is also designed to establish the framework and evaluate the feasibility of
           performing neoadjuvant window of opportunity trials using drugs with potential
           bioactivity against invasive bladder cancer at the London Health Sciences Center. The
           goal is to accrue 44 patients within 18 months to the trial. A midterm analysis at 12
           months will be performed, at which time the trial will be prematurely closed if there
           have been fewer than 10 patients enrolled.

        2. Feasibility - goal to accrue 44 patients in 18 months.

      Secondary Objectives This study will assess the rate of grade 3 or higher toxicity as defined
      by the CTCAE 4.03 (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events). If 41 patients are
      enrolled and complete the study, the study will have an 85% power at an of 0.05 to detect if
      the toxicity rate is >20% with an assumed baseline of ≤5%.

        1. Toxicity

           The following parameters will be investigated through the analysis of any differences in
           their tissue staining between the TURBT tissue samples and the cystectomy tissue. This
           should aid in the delineation of any therapeutic effects of the combination of metformin
           and simvastatin therapy on urothelial carcinoma (UC).

           Marker of Apoptosis;

        2. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl Transferase-mediated deoxy uridine triphosphate (dUTP) nick
           end labeling (TUNEL) staining

           Phosphoinositide-3 kinase/protein kinase B/mammalian target of rapamycin (PI3K/Akt/mTOR)
           pathway readouts;

        3. p-mTOR staining

        4. p-Akt staining

        5. survivin

           Metformin stimulates activation;

        6. phosphorylated adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (p-AMPK)

           The following parameters will be investigated through the analysis of their tissue
           staining in the cystectomy sample, as they are assumed to be dependent on the underlying
           tumor biology and will not be affected by metformin therapy:

           PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway regulator, frequently mutated in UC, could affect metformin
           response;

        7. Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) staining

           Cell cycle regulator, frequently inactivated in invasive UC, affects metformin response;

        8. p53 staining

      Tertiary Endpoints The following parameters will be investigated through the analysis of any
      differences in either their values between the time of enrollment and the day of surgery or
      differences in the frequency between the treatment and control groups.

      Between time of enrollment and date of surgery;

        1. Serum Insulin

        2. Fasting glucose levels

        3. Body mass index

        4. Changes in serum prostate specific antigen (PSA)

           Clinical Marker of efficacy, has been shown to affect prognosis:

        5. Pathologic T0 rate at cystectomy vs. historical rates

           Potential Novel Biomarkers:

        6. Number of circulating tumor cells or tumor microparticles before and after treatment
           with metformin

           The following additional stratification analyses of the data will be performed in order
           to assess our results in light of prior research findings:

           Stratification of Pathologic Markers;

        7. Stratification of pAKT and Survivin expression levels by the presence or absence of PTEN
           expression

        8. Stratification of TUNEL and Ki67 by the status of p53 staining

        9. Stratification of pathologic markers by the use or absence of administration of
           neoadjuvant chemotherapy
    
  