
    
      Patients indicated for rotator cuff repair surgery will be offered participation within the
      study and consented accordingly. A copy of the consent will be provided to the participant. A
      preoperative ultrasonographic assessment will occur by Dr. Onishi. A randomization process by
      computer program will determine patients who have Rotium augmented repairs, or not. The
      patients will not be blinded.

      The surgery will be carried out by a single surgeon making all aspects uniform, except if
      there is or is not a Rotium patch. The Rotium patch will be implanted in accordance to
      standards of handling sterile implants and placed in a manner that is consistent to its FDA
      approval. The patch will be furnished by the institution where the surgery is being
      performed. Digital photography will document pertinent arthroscopic operative findings per
      standard of care.

      Participant assessment will commence preoperatively in an outpatient clinic then continue in
      postoperative period, occurring at 2, 4, 6 weeks and 3, 6 and 12 month intervals. During each
      visit, the participants will be assessed by two clinicians: the principal investigator and a
      blinded ultrasonographer.

      Preoperative assessment will include obtaining baseline patient reported outcomes (UCLA,
      Rowe, Constant, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) score and SANE (Single Alpha
      Numeric Evaluation)scores) by paper questionnaire. A medical history will document NSAID use,
      cortisone injections about the shoulder, tobacco usage, narcotic medicine consumption, and
      pregnancy status. Due to their deleterious effects on healing, all patients will be
      instructed to not take NSAIDs in the first 6 weeks postoperative. Noncompliance will be
      noted, but not disqualify the participant from study. Smoking cessation will be strongly
      encouraged. A shoulder physical examination will be performed; specifically range of motion
      assessment in multiple planes (frontal flexion, internal and external rotation at 90 degrees
      of abduction and at side), rotator cuff muscle strength testing with the scapula stabilized,
      scapula posture observed, and provocative tests for impingement syndrome. Medical records
      will be reviewed. This evaluation will be performed by the principal investigator and will
      take 45-60 minutes. The participant will undergo a separate diagnostic ultrasonographic
      assessment of the rotator cuff tendons by blinded ultrasonographer. This will take 15-30
      minutes.

      Aftercare of each population will be identical and will include a 6-week period of sling
      immobilization, brief perioperative narcotic medicine, and physical therapy. Physical therapy
      protocols will be identical. The participants will be treated by a variety of physical
      therapists. All physical therapy will occur out of the home at a PT clinic. Additional home
      exercises will be furnished and will be independently performed by the participants.

      Specifically, at the 2-week postoperative visit a history will be obtained to quantify
      narcotic usage, NSAID usage, VAS pain score, and assess for any complications. The surgical
      site and sling will be inspected, passive range of motion of the shoulder assessed (frontal
      flexion and external rotation at the side), and the examine will exclude any complications.
      Physical therapy for shoulder passive range of motion and periscapular strengthening will be
      prescribed, home exercise sheet provided, and the abduction portion of the sling will be
      discontinued. Shoulder radiographs will be performed. This visit will take 15-30 minutes. In
      addition and separate to this,blinded ultrasonographer will perform ultrasound assessment of
      the repaired rotator cuff. Vascularity using superb microvascular imaging and standard
      ultrasound techniques will assess vascularity and rotator cuff repair integrity. If possible,
      elastography will be performed. These images will be stored in de-identified manner within
      University of Pittsburgh HIPPA-compliant cloud. This will take 15-30 minutes and may be done
      at a separate time.

      At the 4-week postoperative visit a history will be obtained to quantify narcotic usage,
      NSAID usage, pain score, and assess for any complications. The surgical site and sling will
      be inspected, passive range of motion of the shoulder (frontal flexion and external rotation
      at the side) assessed, and the examine will exclude any complications. The prior physical
      therapy and home exercises will be continued. This visit will take 15-30 minutes. In addition
      and separate to this, blinded ultrasonographer will perform ultrasound assessment of the
      repaired rotator cuff. This will take 15-30 minutes and may be done at a separate time.

      At the 6-week postoperative visit a history will be obtained to quantify narcotic usage,
      NSAID usage, pain score, and assess for any complications. The surgical site and sling will
      be inspected, passive range of motion of the shoulder (frontal flexion, internal and external
      rotation at 90 degrees of abduction and at side) assessed, and the examine will exclude any
      complications. The sling will be discontinued and new physical therapy and home exercises
      will be provided; therapy will include shoulder passive range of motion and periscapular
      strengthening and include rotator cuff strengthening progressing from isometric to concentric
      then to eccentric with the pace being determined by a physical therapist, but done in a pain
      free manner. Additionally, patient reported outcomes (UCLA, Rowe, Constant, ASES and SANE
      scores) will be collected. This visit will take 30-45 minutes. In addition and separate to
      this, blinded ultrasonographer will perform ultrasound assessment of the repaired rotator
      cuff. This will take 15-30 minutes and may be done at a separate time.

      At the 3-, 6- and 12-month postoperative visits a history will be obtained to assess shoulder
      functionality/limitations, quantify NSAID usage, pain score, and assess for any
      complications. The examination will be similar to the 6-week evaluation, except rotator cuff
      specific strength will be assessed similar to the preoperative testing. Necessity of ongoing
      physical therapy will be considered and ordered appropriately. Home exercises will be
      continued. These visits will take 30-45 minutes. In addition and separate to this, blinded
      ultrasonographer will perform ultrasound assessment of the repaired rotator cuff. This will
      take 15-30 minutes and may be done at a separate time.
    
  