
    
      Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), secondary to infection by severe acute respiratory
      syndrome coronavirus type 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused a global pandemic with significant
      adverse effects on the health, social and economic systems in different countries of the
      world.

      The entry receptor utilized by SARS-CoV-2 is Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2 (ACE-2),
      localized at the membrane of epithelial and endothelial cells and muscle cells of blood
      vessels. Hypothetically, this interaction of SARS-CoV-2 with essential elements of the blood
      vessels may conduct to endothelial dysfunction. In fact, it has been demonstrated several
      degrees of endothelial compromise in the kidney, small bowel and lungs from histological
      analysis in fatidic cases.

      The pathophysiological mechanisms by which vascular endothelial dysfunction can complicate
      the evolutionary course of viral infections are of two types:

        1. On the one hand, acute endothelial dysfunction can produce ischemic events as a
           consequence of thrombotic or vasomotor processes. Some of these events are acute
           coronary syndromes, pulmonary thromboembolism and peripheral angiopathy, all of which
           have been reported in COVID-19 patients.

        2. On the other hand, vascular endothelial dysfunction can trigger or amplify systemic
           inflammatory reactions leading to multi-organ failure. Vascular hyperpermeability
           generated by vascular endothelial dysfunction is key in the processes of infiltration of
           immune cells and in the amplification of the inflammatory response that occurs in the
           context of the cytokine storm associated with the viral infection. This process
           contributes to release large amounts of IL 6, IL-1B and TNF alpha by vascular
           endothelial cells, thus the expression of vascular adhesion molecules.

      In this study, the investigators sought to evaluate the status of vascular endothelial
      function in COVID-19 patients from a non-invasive approach.

      The evaluation of systemic vascular endothelial function will be performed non-invasively
      using peripheral arterial tonometry with EndoPat system (Itamar). It is a technique that
      determines the endothelial-dependent changes in arterial tone of the vascular network of the
      index finger of both hands. Using bio-sensors placed on the pad of the index finger of both
      hands, an assessment of arterial tone is carried out at three stages: 1) at baseline; 2)
      during an ischemia caused by the inflation of a pressure cuff in one of the arms to occlude
      the brachial artery for 5 minutes; 3) and in a situation of reactive hyperemia during the
      recovery of arterial irrigation after deflating the pressure cuff. The arterial tone signals
      detected by plethysmography at the three described times are converted into digital signals
      for each arm explored, and the EndoPat software automatically determines the hyperemic
      vascular response.

      To avoid biases in the analysis of systemic vascular endothelial function in COVID-19
      patients, the research team led by Dr. Amir Lerman from the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, USA will
      blindly carry out the analysis of the EndoPat results. For this, the EndoPat study reports
      will be sent in an analyzable format for each patient included in the study, completely
      anonymized and at blind fashion with respect to the group that patient belongs, the moment in
      which EndoPat assessment was made (days from the onset of symptoms in the case of the study
      group), blinded for the results of blood tests related to inflammation, and for the clinical
      evolution of the patient.
    
  