
    
      Preeclampsia (PE) is a serious complication of third trimester pregnancy manifested by high
      blood pressure, proteinuria, edema, encephalopathy sometimes with seizures, and hepatic
      failure. There is no known specific treatment, although palliative measures such as
      antihypertensive drugs, magnesium, steroids and early delivery improve outcomes. Multiple
      abnormalities have been demonstrated in PE but the relation of these abnormalities to the
      cause, pathophysiology and treatment is unknown. One of these abnormalities is elevation in
      the circulating level of a "digoxin-like" factor (EDLF), an unknown substance that cross
      reacts with digoxin antibodies and inhibits Na,K ATPase. An extensive literature supports the
      hypothesis that increased levels of EDLF may be a causative factor in the pathogenesis of
      hypertension. Increased levels of this factor are found both in maternal and fetal blood,
      both in normal pregnancy, and in pregnancy complicated by PE. Levels of this factor are
      higher in PE than in normal pregnancy suggesting it might play a role in the pathophysiology
      of PE.

      Digibind (Glaxo Smith Kline) is a commercially available FAB fragment, antidigoxin antibody
      approved for the treatment of digoxin intoxication. In experimental models of hypertension
      with elevated EDLF levels, Digibind has been shown to lower blood pressure, suggesting that
      the antibody cross reacts with EDLF. These observations have led to the hypothesis that
      Digibind might ameliorate some of the manifestations of PE, especially the hypertension.
      Based on an extensive pre-clinical literature supporting that hypothesis, and encouraging
      results in 8 cases, a clinical trial is planned to test the effect of Digibind in severe PE.
      The study is a multi- site, parallel, double blind, placebo controlled, randomized trial.
      After randomization, 50 patients will be given the usual treatment for severe PE, plus study
      drug (Digibind or placebo) every six hours, for 48 hours. The study may be terminated during
      the treatment period for standard indications for early delivery.

      Data collection will include: delivery latency, maternal blood pressure, antihypertensive
      use, renal function, hepatic function, CBC and platelet count, and umbilical artery blood
      flow by color doppler. Standard maternal and fetal monitoring will be followed. Newborn
      assessment will include: status at birth, APGAR score, NICU length of stay, respirator use
      and duration, and any medical complications. Adverse events will be recorded.
    
  