
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease that affects one in every
      hundred people over the age of 55. It is estimated that there are seven to ten million people
      with PD worldwide. It is disabling, incurable and gradually progressive. Progressive
      Supranuclear Palsy (PSP) is a related condition that presents initially with very similar
      features to PD. Eventually other features appear that are not part of idiopathic PD, such as
      paralysis of voluntary upgaze. Currently available treatments for both PD and PSP are
      symptomatic only, and while they may be effective for a number of years, they do not have any
      preventive or disease-slowing effect.

      One of the problems with these conditions is that presently, there is a lack of completely
      reliable means of measuring their severity. The investigators use "clinical rating scales"
      which are points-based systems in which a doctor or nurse has to score how badly the person
      with PD or PSP is affected by various aspects of their condition. This is a subjective
      process, in other words it depends on the impression of the person making the assessment, and
      two doctors may sometimes disagree about the score. The scale is also sometimes difficult to
      interpret, for example the difference between scores of 20 and 30 may not be the same size as
      the difference between scores of 30 and 40. In contrast, most medical conditions nowadays can
      be very accurately and reliably measured using special equipment, for example the level of a
      patient's blood pressure, or the difficulty of breathing in asthma.

      The need for accurate measures is particularly great when conducting trials of new drugs.
      Accurate evaluation of whether they work or not depends on precise measures of disease
      symptoms for each patient both before and after treatment. Drug trials may take years, and an
      accurate early measure of effect would allow interim results to guide decisions at which
      point resources can be focussed on those drugs that look most promising.

      The aim of this study is to develop and validate sensitive tests to measure the symptoms of
      PD and PSP.
    
  