
    
      The study will be conducted in 2 Countries, Korea and Thailand. About 750 subjects will be
      enrolled to this study.

      This clinical trial consists of Part 1 to compare the efficacy and safety between the study
      group and the active control group and Part 2 for the final safety assessment. Subject
      enrollment for Part 1 and Part 2 will occur at the same time, and subjects who meet the final
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be randomized to Part 1 or Part 2 via the IWRS.

      When the legally acceptable representative of the subject within 4 weeks after birth consents
      to participate in the clinical study in writing at Visit 1, the protocol-mandated examination
      and tests will be performed at each visit, and only the subjects who meet the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be assigned randomization numbers and receive a single
      intradermal injection of the investigational product. However, the informed consent of the
      subject's legally acceptable representative for participation in the clinical trial may be
      obtained between 36 weeks of pregnancy of a subject's mother and Visit 1.

      The investigator will instruct the subject's legally acceptable representative to record any
      adverse events (AEs) occurring after administration of the investigational product to assess
      the safety of the subject during the study period.

      The subjects participating in Part 1 will have the tuberculin skin test at Visit 4 for the
      efficacy assessment and receive an intradermal injection of 0.1 mL purified protein
      derivatives (PPD) reagent. Visit 5 will occur within 48 to 72 hours of the PPD reagent
      injection to check the tuberculin skin test results.

      Also, Visit 6 will be conducted as an on-site visit to check for any solicited local AEs
      (abscess, ulcer, scar, and BCG lymphadenitis) and unsolicited AEs occurring until 6 months
      (168 days) after administration of the investigational product.
    
  