
    
      Rationale : At hospital admission, patients with an acute or chronically impaired nutritional
      balance are at nutritional risk. These patients can be identified by the Nutritional Risk
      Score 2002 (NRS 2002). Oral Nutritive Supplements (ONS) represent the first line of nutrition
      intervention. ONS are frequently prescribed during the hospital stay, and should be continued
      or discontinued after the hospital discharge. This latter decision should be based on
      officials criteria, defined by the Swiss Society for Clinical Nutrition (SSNC). To allow ONS
      reimbursement according to the legal regulations, all required administrative actions should
      be completed at the time of ONS prescription until the end of the treatment.

      Center : Geneva University Hospital (HUG), site of Cluse-Roseraie.

      Design : Quality control prospective observational survey.

      Population : Hospitalized adults patients with Oral Nutritive Supplements (ONS). Four hundred
      patients to be included.

      Duration : Inclusion from April to December 2015 (9 months).

      Hypothesis : At hospital discharge for home, the medical prescription of ONS according to the
      official criteria of SSNC and the legal regulations (completed prescription according to
      health's insurance and homecare delivery) dictates the compliance of the patient and the
      reimbursement of the ONS.

      Aims : The primary aim is to document the existence of an ONS medical prescription during the
      hospitalization and at hospital discharge for home.

      The secondary aims are to describe :

        -  NRS 2002 score when prescribing ONS during the hospitalization, at hospital discharge
           for home and one month after hospital discharge for home

        -  Indications for ONS prescription at hospital discharge for home according to the
           official criteria of SSNC

        -  Type of ONS prescription at hospital discharge for home

        -  Number of ONS consumed one month after hospital discharge compared to prescription at
           hospital discharge

        -  Timing of the discontinuation of the ONS treatment

        -  Reasons for stopping the ONS intake.

      Methods : Included are all hospitalized adults patients with ONS prescription at the HUG.
      Excluded are patients with ONS delivery by a homecare before the admission at the HUG or
      patients refusing to consume ONS or patients with major disorders of consciousness (ex :
      dementia) or patients unable to consume ONS (ex : dysphagia, dysfunction of upper limbs,
      etc.) or patients refusing to participate to the survey.

      At inclusion, the comorbidities will be assessed by the Charlson Comorbidity Index. ONS
      prescription and nutritional risk by the NRS 2002 score will be described at hospital and at
      hospital discharge for home. One month after hospital discharge for home, patient's
      compliance to ONS will be assessed as nutritional risk by the NRS 2002 score.

      Statistics : Data will be presented as mean ± standard deviation or as numbers and
      percentages according to the relevance, and analyzed using Chi-squared test or unpaired
      t-test as required.
    
  