
    
      The main objective of this study is to assess the emotional impact of the separation of women
      from their spouses following childbirth and their family isolation when returning home within
      the context of quarantine due to the COVID epidemic.

      The secondary objectives are:

        1. To identify the factors of greatest vulnerability or resilience of the patients in the
           immediate postpartum period (6-8 weeks after delivery).

        2. To evaluate the impact of quarantine on the couples (DAS-16 scale), the experience of
           childbirth (PPQ scale), mother-child interactions (MIBS) at D10-D12 postpartum and at
           6-8 weeks postpartum.

        3. Recording of all interviews allowing a qualitative study of the verbatim by the use of
           N-Vivo software allowing the analysis of unstructured and qualitative data.

      The primary endpoint will be the proportion of patients with postpartum depression defined by
      EPDS score >12 at D10-12 and 6-8 weeks postpartum. The EPDS relies on 10 specific items which
      allows the calculation of a depression score. A threshold > 12 is used in research to define
      the existence of depressive symptoms. For research, the score can be used as a continuous
      variable or in class with the threshold value 12.

      The secondary end points will be:

        1. to study factors of greatest vulnerability or resilience of the patients will be
           studied:

             -  Socio-economic data

             -  maternal or fetal pathology during previous pregnancies

             -  associated pregnancy pathology

             -  Maternal psychologic history

        2. to describe the impact on the couple (DAS-16 scale), the experience of childbirth (PPQ
           scale), mother-child interactions (MIBS):

             -  Dyadic Adjustment scale 16 (DAS-16). Revised scale was developed to assess dyadic
                adjustment in marriage.

             -  Perinatal Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Questionnaire (PPQ). This
                self-questionnaire makes it possible to assess the post-traumatic reactions of
                parents faced with the birth of a child presenting a high perinatal risk.

             -  Mother-to-Infant Bonding Scale (MIBS): Auto questionnaire, initially developed with
                a view to researching disturbances in maternal feelings towards the newborn. The
                scores range from 0 to 24, a high score being in favor of a mother-child bond
                disorder.

        3. Automated psycho-linguistic analysis of the interviews using the N Vivo software. This
           software allows an automated study of the verbatim allowing a qualitative analysis of
           prosody and to identify emotional profiles and thus to identify situations of anxiety,
           stress and depression.

      The study population will consist of patients with delivery of a child and:

        -  Singleton pregnancy

        -  Alive child without hospitalization of the child in NICU

        -  Patient speaking and understanding French

        -  Major patient

      Duration of inclusion will be 2 months The Inclusion visit will take place during
      hospitalization in post-partum units, signed consent informed will be collected by a
      qualified person (medical doctor or midwife) before inclusion. Each week, these forms will be
      sent to the study psychologist referent in each of the 3 Maternity units.

      Research follow-up visits:

      Scheduled telephone interview using the assessment scales described above on D10-D12 and 6-8
      weeks postpartum with a psychologist or an M2 psychology student under the responsibility of
      a maternity psychologist. A reminder system is provided by sending an SMS / email 48 hours
      before the scheduled call. In the event of a missed call, a re-call is scheduled on the same
      day or the next day (the SMS / email sent to patients indicates this reminder mode in the
      event of unavailability during the first call).

      During this call, a semi-structured interview is carried out with EPDS score, DAS-16 scale,
      PPQ and MIBS questionnaire, and a recording for analysis of unstructured and qualitative
      data.

      When EPDS score> 12: proposal for psychological follow-up in accordance with current standard
      of care in the event of postpartum depression.

      For scores <12, the possibility of a further interview with a psychologist, apart from the
      study, is formulated.

      Telephone interview at 6-8 weeks with psychologist including, as previously described, a
      semi-structured interview with EPDS score, DAS-16 scale and MIBS questionnaire and a
      recording for analysis of unstructured and qualitative data When EPDS score> 12: proposal for
      psychological follow-up in accordance with current standard of care in the event of
      postpartum depression.

      For scores <12, the possibility of a further interview with a psychologist is formulated.

      The patients were informed of the recording of the calls. In case of refusal, the calls are
      not recorded and only the semi-structured interview is carried out with EPDS score and DAS-16
      scale and PPQ and MIBS questionnaire.

      Sample size justification The inclusion of 452 women will allow to detect at least a 5 points
      change in the proportion of postpartum depression during COVID pandemic period compared to
      the expected/usual proportion of 15% (15 vs. 20%) with 80% of power, considering two-sided
      alpha risk of 5% and 5% of dropout.
    
  