
    
      In a previous study, the investigators demonstrated that triglyceride-rich lipoproteins
      (TRL), which transport dietary lipid components, are able of activating microglia, which
      could be associated with the state of neuroinflammation in patients of Alzheimer's disease.
      In addition, the investigators also demonstrated that some of the minor fat-soluble
      components of olive pomace oil simultaneously modulate oxidative stress and the inflammatory
      response in microglia, so that these components could have the ability to protect the brain
      from microglial overactivation when transported in TRL.

      In that study, the investigators used artificial TRL that were manufactured ad-hoc in the
      laboratory, in order to be able to test the effect of the compounds both individually and
      together. Now is the time to consolidate the results using human TRL, obtained after the
      consumption of olive pomace oil. The investigators expect that the results of this study will
      reveal that the intake of olive pomace oil can prevent the release of inflammatory markers
      caused by the overactivation of microglia, which could be associated to a reduction in the
      risk of development and progression of Alzheimer's disease.

      Objectives and design

      To test this hypothesis, two specific objectives will be addressed:

        1. To obtain and characterize human TRL obtained after the intake of olive pomace oil.

        2. To evaluate the mitigating effect of the microglial activation by TRL obtained after the
           intake of olive pomace oil.

      The study has been designed as a randomized and crossover trial in the postprandial phase in
      healthy subjects, which will be divided into two groups to which a pomace oil and high-oleic
      sunflower oil will be administered.

      Activities

      The specific objectives set out in the project will be addressed through the execution of the
      activities that are detailed below:

        1. Selection of volunteers and administration of olive pomace oil. 1.1. Obtaining and
           characterizing the experimental oils. 1.2. Recruitment and selection of volunteers. 1.3.
           Clinical trial in the postprandial phase.

        2. Isolation and characterization of human TRL. 2.1. General determinations in blood serum.
           2.2. Characterization of TRL.

        3. Microglial activation in cells treated with human TRL. 3.1. Assays in cell cultures.
           3.2. Analytical determinations. 3.3. Data processing and reporting.
    
  