
    
      Study design:

      This is a prospective study that evaluates normal fetal brain cortex development from 14 to
      34 WG using 2D and 3D ultrasound in singleton low risk pregnancies with unknown obstetrical
      complications. The clinical and obstetrical data will be obtained prior to the US evaluation;
      and will include maternal medical and obstetrical data and confirmation of fetal gestational
      age based on first day of the last menstrual cycle (LMP) supported by well documented CRL
      from first trimester US. Brain biometric and sulcation analysis includes:

        1. Routine measurement of BPD, HC, OFD, cisterna magna, cerebellum, lateral ventricle(1).

        2. Parietoccipital fissures will be measured in an axial slice above the transthalamic
           plane used for the BPD assessment tracing a perpendicular line from the longitudinal
           fissure to the apex of the parietoccipital fissures (4).

        3. Insular depths will be measured in the axial slice located immediately below the
           anterior commissure and the cavum septum pellucidum, tracing a perpendicular line from
           the median longitudinal fissure to the most external border of the insular cortex(4).

        4. Lateral fissure depths will be measured in the same plane described above, with a
           continuing line starting from the most external border of the insular cortex to the
           interface conformed between the subarachnoid space and the skull(4).

        5. Cingulate fissures will be measured in the mid-coronal plane tracing a perpendicular
           line from the median longitudinal fissure to the apex of the cingulate fissures.

        6. Calcarine fissures will be measured in the coronal transcerebellar plane as described in
           ISOUG, tracing a perpendicular line from the median longitudinal fissure to the apex of
           the calcarine fissures.

      Two measurements will be taken by two examiners in order to evaluate intraobserver and
      interobserver reproducibility.

      In all the cases a maximum effort will be undertake to obtain adequate volumes of the brain
      in order to enable offline evaluation of the different structures.
    
  