
    
      Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) is an integral part of cardiovascular disease management
      incorporating aspects of scientifically constructed appropriate physical exercise, dietary
      intervention, secondary prevention by pharmacotherapy, and psychological intervention.
      Despite proven benefits including reduction in mortality, hospitalizations and marked
      improvement in well-being and function state, the current model is restrictive and requires
      patients' arrival to the hospital twice a week at predetermined hours. Major limitations
      associated with lack of participation in an in-hospital based cardiac rehabilitation program
      in 20-40% of eligible patients include limited transportation, time and social/family
      restraints, and inconvenience. Furthermore, the limited space, even in the largest
      rehabilitation in Israel located at Sheba Medical Center, prohibits wider availability.
      Leading key opinions leaders have designated cardiac-telerehabilitation as the most viable
      solution for the above-mentioned limitations, and several clinical studies have demonstrated
      safety and efficacy of this approach, including a Cochrane review and a recent meta-analysis.
      Nevertheless, tele-cardiac rehabilitation is not guideline recommended yet, and prospective
      randomized trials are necessary to better evaluate its role.

      Study will enroll patients who are eligible to participate in an in-hospital cardiac
      rehabilitation program but are unable to participate due to one of the above-mentioned
      limitations, in a structured exercise and secondary prevention program in their communities.
      Consenting patients will undergo a baseline cardiopulmonary exercise test (CPET) followed by
      randomization to usual care vs. multidisciplinary intervention as described.

      In addition to monitored physical activity, patients will receive nutritional and
      psychological counseling. This is part of a multi-professional rehabilitation program
      accepted by the rehabilitation center.

      The study will enroll and randomize 264subjects to usual care vs. comprehensive tele-cardiac
      rehabilitation (TCR) with disease management services and demonstrate a greater improvement
      in functional capacity (O2 consumption) and improved clinical outcomes (secondary endpoints)
      in the TCR group.

      Concomitant medications and guidelines: As indicated by national guidelines. No limitations

      Study Duration: 12-month intervention period. Primary endpoint (percent change in O2
      consumption) will be assessed following 3 months of intervention. Clinical event adjudication
      (hospitalizations, emergency department visits) will be performed throughout a 12-month
      period from enrollment.

      Study Design: The study is an open-labeled double arm randomized prospective multi-center
      study designed to assess the effects of tele-CR compared to usual care in subjects that are
      unable to attend institution based CR despite compelling indications to CR. The intervention
      will be evaluated against usual care by family physician and cardiologist. The
      multidisciplinary program will include elements of education, nutritional and psychological
      interventions, monitored personalized exercise and medication titration according to the
      relevant national guidelines. The present sample will facilitate an evaluation of the
      hypothesis that tele-rehabilitation will be associated with a significant improvement in
      functional capacity, as assessed by the gold standard of CPET. We also hypothesize that the
      comprehensive intervention will also reduce clinical events, including all-cause
      hospitalization and death.

      All subjects will undergo a detailed evaluation by rehabilitation specialist, nurse case
      manager, trainers and exercise physiologists. Both research arms will receive a dedicated
      application with a built-in pedometer and the ability to answer questionnaires.
    
  