
    
      The study will proceed as follows:

      Run-in Period:

      A total of up to 150 subjects (age 14 - 75) will be enrolled at up to 10 investigational
      centers (9 in the US, 1 in the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region) in order to
      reach 100 subjects who will complete the HCL study. The 2-week run-in period will be used to
      allow subjects to become familiar with new study devices. During the two week run-in period
      subjects will be using the Study Pump (670G) with the Sensor Augmented Pump function only
      activated (i.e. SmartGuard OFF and HCL OFF).

      Study Period - At Home:

      Following the two week run-in period using the Study Pump (670G), all subjects will
      participate in a 3-month study period.

      Subjects will be required to have a companion with them during the night for the duration of
      the study period. Companions will need to be under the same roof, but not necessarily in the
      same bedroom. During the Hotel stay where subjects are monitored closely, the presence of a
      companion is not necessary.

      Study Period - Hotel Study Subjects will participate in a Hotel study (6 days, 5 nights),
      with the remainder of the study period to be spent at home.

      All subjects will undergo daytime and nighttime Frequent Sample Testing (FST) for
      approximately 24 hours during the Hotel study with YSI or i-STAT® used as a reference value.

      With respect to meals, subjects will be allowed to eat as they normally do.

      Continued Access Program Subjects will be given the opportunity to extend use of their study
      devices for a period of 3 years. If subjects choose to participate in the continuation
      period, they will retain the study devices at the end of study period visit or receive them
      back in the event they have been returned to study staff already. During the continuation
      period, subjects will come in for office visits every 3 months. At each of the quarterly
      visits, subjects will be asked about the occurrence of adverse events and device complaints.
    
  