
    
      Young adolescence is a critical time of development. Middle school youth (ages 11-14)
      experience biological, social, psychological, and cognitive changes and are exposed to a
      variety of risk factors that are mediated through their home and school environments and
      adult and peer relationships. It can be a time for positive growth and development, but also
      for both poor developmental outcomes (defined as limited social competency and poor academic
      achievement) and problem behaviors, including alcohol use, bullying, and school disciplinary
      referrals. Many programs that are delivered in schools, unfortunately, focus only on specific
      negative behaviors and deficits, like poor communication and decision making skills, and
      label adolescents as problems in need of fixing without leveraging the strengths and
      resiliency of youth. While many prevention programs can be effective at reducing or
      preventing negative behaviors-mostly in the short term-they do not tend to improve key
      developmental outcomes.This is in part because these programs are usually delivered as a
      stand-alone curriculum inserted into the school day and do not address the whole environment
      of a school. Also, these programs compete for time and resources with school priorities to
      meet academic standards. Transitions from elementary to middle and middle to high school,
      place adolescents at even greater risk for engaging in problem behaviors, underscoring the
      need for programs in the middle school years that promote positive developmental outcomes via
      programming that addresses the whole school environment.

      Positive youth development (PYD) programs by contrast were developed to provide support,
      opportunities, and positive challenges for youth, to improve their developmental outcomes
      through leveraging youth's innate potential for positive growth and development (e.g., see
      articles). Comprehensive PYD programs (C-PYDs) address multiple dimensions shown to influence
      youth development (e.g., peers, school environment). Thus, these programs show promise in
      being able to mitigate negative behaviors like alcohol use and bullying, and promote
      developmental outcomes of social competency and academic achievement.

      One C-PYD, the Restorative Practices Intervention (RPI), shows particular promise because it
      is a two-year, whole school environment intervention which is integrated into existing school
      practice (rather than 'added on') so does not compete with academic priorities; it is
      grounded in a strong theoretical basis (psychology of affect theory and ecological systems
      theory); and it has quasi-experimental evidence supporting its effectiveness at improving
      school environment and promoting positive peer relationships. Despite this evidence,
      questions remain about the exact mechanisms by which the results were achieved and whether
      results persist. Thus, more rigorous research is needed to assess RPI's impacts on academic
      achievement, social competencies, and problem behaviors; and the underlying program
      mechanisms that achieve positive outcomes across these areas. To improve the science of C-PYD
      evaluation, the goal for this 5-year study is to conduct a longitudinal randomized controlled
      trial of RPI in 16 schools to assess whether it impacts youth problem behaviors AND
      developmental outcomes. The study would be conducted under PA-08-241: Reducing Risk Behaviors
      by Promoting Positive Youth Development. The specific aims of this investigator initiated R01
      are to:

        1. Assess the mechanisms of how RPI implementation influences the school environment;

        2. Assess the effects of RPI on school staff perceptions of school climate and adolescents'
           reports of school connectedness, peer relationships, developmental outcomes (academic
           achievement and social competency) and problem behaviors (alcohol use, bullying,
           disciplinary referrals);

        3. Assess the extent to which the positive effects of RPI on adolescents persist over time
           during the transition between middle and high school.

      For the first time utilizing rigorous scientific methods, this study has the potential to
      document whether a C-PYD like RPI, that can be integrated into existing school practice, can
      affect both developmental outcomes and problem behaviors and whether the effects persist
      during the transition from middle to high school. This information is critical as states are
      cutting funding to implement typical, stand-alone prevention programs and limiting the amount
      of time spent on non-academic prevention programs. This study will determine whether
      efficiencies can be gained by implementing C-PYD programs that have the potential to
      influence multiple outcome areas by influencing adolescents' developmental trajectory. As
      such, the study proposed here will impact the on-going debate about how to maximize
      federal/state resources devoted to middle school programming, and minimize the competition
      in-school prevention programs usually face with academic offerings. Findings also have the
      potential to advance the theory of PYD by empirically validating for the first time that
      restorative principles based on psychology of affect theory can be applied as an approach to
      promote PYD targeting a school environment.
    
  