
    
      Peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCLs) comprise a heterogeneous group of neoplasms that are
      derived from post-thymic lymphoid cells at different stages of differentiation with different
      morphological patterns, phenotypes, and clinical presentations. Although a number of
      case-control studies on non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) have identified various risk factors for
      disease, including autoimmune conditions, family history of hematopoietic malignancies,
      smoking, hepatitis C infection, and host susceptibility, these risk factors largely pertain
      to B-cell lymphoma subtypes as they comprise well over 90 percent of all NHLs. At present,
      there are no known epidemiologic risk factors for PTCL or its subtypes. This is largely due
      to the lack of sample size of PTCL in any one epidemiologic study. The aim of this proposal
      is to implement a standardized epidemiologic risk factor questionnaire into the on-going
      T-Cell Project. Briefly, the T-Cell Project is an international consortium of on-going
      clinical trials on peripheral PTCL. It serves as a prospective collection of patients
      (greater than 18 years) worldwide with PTCL who are enrolled at participating medical
      institutions for treatment in a clinical trial. The overall goal of the T-Cell Project is to
      improve current T-cell subtype classifications and to evaluate different treatment strategies
      for each T-cell subtype. The specific goal of our proposal is to implement, within the T-Cell
      Project, a 20-minute standardized epidemiologic questionnaire to allow evaluation of various
      potential risk factors for T-cell lymphomas. Importantly, there are currently no known
      epidemiologic risk factors for PTCL. We plan to administer questionnaires to 800 PTCL
      patients; if successful this collection would be the largest database of PTCLs to date with
      epidemiologic data. If the questionnaire implementation of assessing epidemiological risk
      factors for PTCL among patients in the T-Cell Project is found logistically feasible, then
      descriptive and analytic epidemiologic analyses of the collected data to understand the
      etiology of PTCL would be pursued at the NCI in collaboration with members of the T-Cell
      Project. For such analyses, NCI would receive only fully anonymized and de-linked data with
      no identifiers.
    
  