
    
      Primary objective of the study includes:

        1. To determine the effect of Shortwave Diathermy on Medial Tibial Stress Syndrome among
           military cadets.

        2. To determine the effect of Therapeutic Ultrasound on Medial Tibial Stress Syndrome among
           military cadets.

        3. To compare the effects of Shortwave Diathermy and Therapeutic Ultrasound on Medial
           Tibial Stress Syndrome among military cadets.

      study hypothesis is "Shortwave diathermy and Therapeutic Ultrasound are equally effective in
      Medial Tibial Stress Syndrome among military cadets.".

      Study Design : Randomized Control trial Study Settings is Pakistan Military Academy
      Abbottabad. Sample Size: The sample size calculation is done through epitool to obtain a
      sample size ratio 1:1 for both treatment groups with Power of 0.8, Confidence interval of
      0.95 and Variance = 5.

      Mean of experimental group was 2.17 and mean of control group was 4.26 taken from the parent
      article.

      Results obtained from epitool:

      Total sample size: 36 Sample size per group: 18(each group) Sampling Technique:
      Non-probability Purposive Sampling- subjects will be recurited into the groups through sealed
      enveloped method.

      Work Plan/Timeline for Participants:

      Timeline for the participants will be one month after the approval of IRB form.

      Follow ups:

      There will be 2 follow ups per week for a period of 4 weeks.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Data will be analyzed on Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) version 21.

      Descriptive Results:

        -  Quantitative data will be interpreted in terms of means and standard deviation whereas
           qualitative data will be presented in the form of frequencies and percentages.

        -  Quantitative data will be represented in form of histogram whereas qualitative data is
           shown in the form of bar charts and graphs.

      Interferential Results:

        -  Data will be assessed for its normality by applying Shapiro-Wilk test and its value of
           0.05 or lesser than that shows that the data is normally distributed at baseline and at
           the end of treatment.

        -  Parametric test will be used for normally distributed data whereas non parametric test
           would be applied for skewed sample or away from normality data.

        -  For comparison between two groups, Independent T Test (parametric) or Mann-Whitney
           Test(non-parametric) will be used both a baseline and at the end of sessions.

        -  For within the group comparison at intervals (baseline and post treatment), Pared T test
           (parametric) or Wilcoxon Rank Test (non-parametric) will be applied.

      ADVERSE/SERIOUS ADVERSE EFFECTS / POTENTIAL HAZARDS:

      No adverse effects are present in this study. Onsite clinical arrangements will be made
      available for subjective and objective assessment and for the treatment protocol as well. For
      this purpose portable modalities will be used which will be easy to transfer and operate. The
      total expenses required will be provided by the students themselves

      No potential risk present to the participants or community as a whole

      POTENTIAL BENEFIT TO THE PARTICIPANTS OR COMMUNITY AS WHOLE

        1. Awareness will be provided regarding MTSS among community.

        2. Long term complications leading to physical limitations and disability will be
           prevented.

        3. Awareness regarding Physical Therapy treatment for MTSS will be provided
    
  