
    
      - Clinical and scientific background:

      Community acquired pneumonia is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Despite
      recent improvement in acute management (specifically for administration of antibiotics),
      severe pneumonia can worsen and ultimately progressing to Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome
      (ARDS), a clinical entity with an inacceptable 40% hospital mortality. From a
      pathophysiological point of view, ARDS is characterized by a deregulation of pulmonary
      inflammation initially triggered by the local aggression, which is, in two-third of the
      cases, a pneumonia. Alteration of tissue repair is another major characteristic of this
      entity. So far, the scientific knowledge on this pathophysiology did not translate into
      specific therapy that could modulate efficiently the inflammatory response and to control the
      progression from pneumonia to ARDS, and/or to improve tissue repair. Thus, a complete
      reconsideration of the pathophysiological mechanisms is mandatory. Recent progresses in
      mucosal biology and innate immunity give interesting new opportunities. Specifically,
      recently discovered unconventional T cells have shown to be major actors in shaping and
      modulating early immune responses in the lung mucosa during microbial aggressions and for
      secondary tissue repair. However, these evidences are limited to pre-clinical models. In many
      other human diseases (oncology, immune diseases), these sub-populations are already being
      explored as potential targets for immune therapies.

      - Objective of the study:

      The aim of this study is to explore potential implications of unconventional T cells during
      human severe pneumonia and ARDS.

      This translational study will complement experimental approaches currently undertaken in the
      laboratory exploring the role of unconventional T cells in murine models of severe pneumonia
      and ARDS.

      - Design:

      This is a prospective single-center study including participants admitted in Intensive Care
      Department of the university hospital of Tours for community-acquired pneumonia. Given the
      exploratory nature of the study, we designed a "control" group of participants admitted to
      ICU without evident signs of pneumonia and shock.

      Number of participants: 100 for "pneumonia" group, and 50 for "control" group

      - Interventions and analysis:

      Blood samples will be collected at inclusion, day 3, 8 and 15 during patient's stay in ICU.
      For mechanically ventilated participants, tracheal aspirates will be also collected at the
      same timing. If available, broncho-alveolar lavages will be also collected. If ARDS or
      Ventilator Associated Pneumonia (VAP) are subsequently diagnosed, supplemental blood and
      tracheal aspirates samples will be collected.

      Blood samples and airway fluid samples will be treated to perform flow cytometry analysis for
      immunophenotypage (cellular content). In some cases, intra-cellular staining will be
      performed to assess cytokine production and/or transcription factor expression. Functions of
      unconventional T cells will also be performed after ex vivo stimulation on purified
      population (cell sorting). Cytokine level sand transcriptomic analyses will also be performed
      on blood samples.

      Clinical characteristics (including respiratory parameters, blood gas, organ dysfunctions,
      survival at day 28 and day 90) will also be collected. Thus, frequency, activation status and
      functions of unconventional T cells will be dynamically analyzed in regard of clinical
      evolution within-individuals and across pneumonia vs control groups. A particular focus will
      be made on respiratory parameters (ventilation mode, and for participants with ARDS, P/F
      ratio, driving pressure), organ dysfunctions (as measured by SOFA score), and microbial
      documentation of the pneumonia.

      Moreover, participants treated for ARDS are usually followed in a post-ICU follow-up clinic
      program in the ICU where the research is conducted. Thus, investigators will perform analysis
      of the unconventional T cell compartment (blood samples) in the participants firstly enrolled
      in the study. This will allow exploration of long-term imprinting on the innate immune
      response after the initial trigger.
    
  