
    
      Unlike adjuvant chemotherapy, primary (preoperative) chemotherapy will shrink tumor and allow
      some patients to become candidates for conservative surgery and avoid mastectomy. It also is
      an in vivo chemosensitivity test and the result is a predictive marker for clinical outcomes.
      Paclitaxel is a highly active antitumor agent that promotes microtubule assembly by binding
      to tubulin and inhibiting depolymerization. Paclitaxel has been shown to be an effective
      agent in the treatment of breast cancer. Gemcitabine is a cytosine arabinoside prodrug analog
      and shows response rates of 15% to 46% as a single agent with very low toxicity. The
      combination of gemcitabine and paclitaxel is valuable because of the different mechanisms of
      action of each drug and their non-overlapping toxicities. Phase II studies of paclitaxel plus
      gemcitabine in anthracycline-pretreated metastatic breast cancer showed good tolerance and
      encouraging response rates (40%-55%). Paclitaxel plus gemcitabine combination showed overall
      survival benefit compared to paclitaxel alone in patients with metastatic breast cancer in an
      interim overall survival report. A phase II study with preoperative paclitaxel and
      gemcitabine in stage II/III showed 18 % pCR rate at NCC (ASCO 2007 abstract #11080) In HER2
      positive breast cancer, HER2 targeted therapies with trastuzumab and lapatinib have shown
      much improved clinical response in palliative setting. It also showed that adding trastuzumab
      to sequential paclitaxel and FEC chemotherapy significantly increased pCR (25% vs 66.7%) in
      preoperative setting for HER2 positive disease. Recently, paclitaxel, gemcitabine, and
      trastuzumab combination (PGH) for 6 cycles in patients with HER2 positive and node positive
      operable breast cancer observed a strikingly high pCR rate in both tumor and LN in an interim
      analysis of multicenter phase II preoperative study in Korea (28 of 47 (61%)). Lapatinib
      (Tykerb®), a dual tyrosine kinase inhibitor of ErbB1 and HER2 signaling pathways and it has
      shown to inhibit the growth of HER2 overexpressing breast cancer cells that do not respond to
      trastuzumab after long-term conditioning. We will examine the hypothesis that paclitaxel,
      gemcitabine, and lapatinib (Tykerb®) (PGT) combination could improve the pathological
      complete response rate of HER2 positive breast cancer when applied as a preoperative
      chemotherapy.
    
  