
    
      1. Randomisation and Blinding Teeth will be randomised to receive either SCR or Pulpotomy
           blindly, with 50 teeth in each group. Teeth allocated to Pulpotomy that do not
           subsequently have caries extending deep to reach the pulp will be excluded from the
           Study. Recruitment will continue until the target sample size in each group is attained
           , up to a maximum of 120 teeth (surplus to account for teeth that are not able to
           complete the allocated treatment).

           Investigators trained in SCR and Pulpotomy will perform both treatment procedures.

           For patients with multiple teeth with deep carious lesions suitable for this study, the
           unit of randomisation will be the individual tooth and not the patient. If it is not
           possible to perform treatment on all the teeth in the same visit, the operator will
           start on the tooth which displays the deepest lesion measured radiographically and
           according to clinically exigencies.

           In the event of emergency/unscheduled return visits due to pain, the patient's treatment
           notes will be made available to the attending dentist and emergency treatment rendered
           as appropriate (e.g. root canal treatment). This tooth and its relevant research data
           will be included as an event in the survival analysis but the tooth will be discontinued
           from the Trial.

        2. Study Visits and Procedures Dental clinicians at National University Polyclinic (NUP)
           Dental Clinics and NUCOHS will follow a case selection template for patient referral.
           Timeframe for recruitment is up to 6months after referral to NUCOHS. The patients will
           be provided standard of care by their dentists according to the respective Institutional
           Practice, which may include Oral Health Education, Oral Health Instruction and/or
           scaling and polishing.

           Consent: Patients will be informed of the Study at their first visit to NUCOHS and given
           time to consider participation and ask questions. Written informed consent will be
           obtained before proceeding to Screening.

           Screening and Enrolment: Clinical and radiographic examination in line with current
           clinical practice to save teeth with deep caries will be conducted. When inclusion and
           exclusion criteria are fulfilled, the tooth will be enrolled into the study. One patient
           may contribute more than one tooth.

           Randomisation: This will be performed after tooth is enrolled.

           Treatment - SCR or Pulpotomy: After allocation to SCR or Pulpotomy, in both groups,
           interventions will be performed in a single visit under local anaesthesia and rubber dam
           isolation. Caries will be removed using high speed burs with water coolant starting from
           the periphery.

           In the SCR group, selective caries are removed only for secure sealing with a direct
           restoration, without removing deep caries next to the pulp.

           In the Pulpotomy group, complete caries removal and excision of the coronal pulp to the
           level of the root canal orifices will be performed. After haemostasis, sealing with
           Biodentine® and restoration.

           In either group, if the tooth is unable to complete the allocated treatment, this tooth
           will be excluded from the study.

           In both groups, direct restoration (e.g. composite resin or amalgam) or crowns will be
           provided based on remaining tooth structure, number of remaining functioning units,
           location of the tooth and its opposing counterpart.

           Review Appointments: Four Review visits will be conducted at the following time points:

             -  6-7 months post treatment

             -  12- 13 months post treatment

             -  36-37 months post treatment

             -  60-61 months post treatment

           Data Collection:

           Baseline data will include:

             -  Relevant pain history

             -  Clinical examination of the tooth, pulp and surrounding bone and mucosa

             -  Routine dental radiographic examination for tooth restoration

           After treatment is completed, the following treatment data will include:

             -  Time to achieve haemostasis for teeth in the pulpotomy group

             -  Time taken for the procedure

             -  Type of restoration placed

             -  Cost of treatment

             -  Cumulative time spent at the dental clinic to complete treatment

           At follow-up appointments, the review data will include:

             -  Relevant pain history since the last visit

             -  Clinical examination of the tooth, pulp and surrounding bone and mucosa

             -  Routine dental radiographic examination to evaluate supporting bone response to the
                preserved pulp

             -  Relevant additional procedures for teeth during review period if needed (e.g.
                replacement of restoration)

             -  Cumulative treatment fees charged to preserve teeth (since enrolment)

             -  Cumulative number of treatment visits (including any additional procedures during
                the review period, if any)

        3. Statistical and Analytical Plans Unit of analysis is per tooth level. Descriptive
           analysis (mean & standard deviation and frequency and proportion, where appropriate)
           will be performed to summarize the baseline characteristics of recruited subjects
           between the two treatment groups. To study the primary objective - comparing the tooth
           survival without pulp pathosis between the two treatment groups at 6 months, 1 year, 3
           years and 5 years, proportional z-test will be performed.

      Generalized estimating equation (GEE) with binomial family distribution and log link function
      will be employed to study the change in tooth survival over the study follow-up period.
      Potential confounders and clinical predictors will be adjusted in the model.

      Significance level for all statistical test is set at p-value<0.05. SPSS Statistical Package
      (IBM SPSS Statistics) will be used for all statistical analysis.
    
  