
    
      Purpose:

      To explore the potential effects of Narrow-Band Ultra Violet B (NB-UVB) radiation on the
      intestinal microbiota composition in humans and confirm a regulatory skin-to-gut axis during
      baseline conditions.

      Hypothesis:

      Humans exposed to UVB-NB light will show changes in the intestinal microbiota composition
      with the selection of certain phyla of bacteria.

      Justification:

      To date, there is no data that describes a biological response to UVB light in the body that
      affects the intestinal microbiota. Changes in the intestinal microbiota composition caused by
      NB-UVB phototherapy could be beneficial for patients with chronic/auto-inflammatory diseases
      like IBD by removing dangerous bacteria, increasing beneficial bacteria, and ultimately
      modulating immune responses.

      Objectives:

        1. Establish if there is a skin regulatory response towards NB-UVB light in humans.

        2. Examine what changes in the microbiota composition can be observed on bacterial phyla
           and class level.

        3. Determine if this research is worth pursuing in a larger cohort.

      Research design:

      During the first visit, the skin type will be assessed by using the Fitzpatrick skin type
      questionnaire.

      Subsequently, subjects will be exposed three times within one week to full body NB-UVB light
      in The Skin Care Centre to a sub erythemic dose (cause slight redness of the skin but not
      burning). The exposures will happen during the winter months to prevent UVB exposure from the
      sun during daily activities to interfere with our observations. Stool samples will be
      collected before the first exposure (2x) and after the last exposure (2x) to analyze the
      microbiota composition. Also, serum vitamin D (25-hydroxy vitamin D) will be measured before
      and after the UVB exposure as a marker of previous UVB exposure before the experiment.
    
  