
    
      The Renew™ anal insert is a new single-use anal device, CE marked and widely used in the UK
      and Europe. It is indicated for the management of faecal incontinence and designed to seal
      and prevent the involuntary passage of stool from the rectum. The device is intended for
      self-insertion aided by a fingertip applicator.

      Percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation (PTNS) is a form of electrical stimulation that offers
      a simple minimally invasive outpatient treatment for faecal incontinence. A fine needle is
      inserted next to the tibial nerve above the ankle, a ground pad is attached to the heel and
      electric current just strong enough to cause minor tingling is passed between these two
      points. The treatment requires 12 outpatients sessions that are 30 minutes long each time and
      the treatment may be repeated.

      Patients will be randomly allocated to either receive PTNS therapy or the Renew™ device. This
      will be done by the investigators randomly selecting a sealed envelope that is not
      see-through from a large number of identical envelopes. Each of these envelopes will contain
      either the word PTNS or the word Renew, which will then determine patients' treatment. There
      will be an equal number of PTNS and Renew envelopes to make this decision truly random. The
      principal investigator of this study will not know which treatment patients have been
      allocated to until after the study is complete. Patients who wish to change treatment before
      the study ends will be withdrawn from the study.

      During the study the investigators will ask patients to complete some standard questionnaires
      that are normally used to score the degree of the incontinence and to assess bowel symptoms.:
      These will be completed at the hospital during the standard clinic consultation, both before
      patients start the treatment and after having completed the treatment course.
    
  