
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the impact of factual information (a fact sheet) about the relative harms of
           smokeless (SL)/nicotine replacement (NR) products on participants' beliefs about
           relative harmfulness.

        -  To assess the impact of trying samples of NR and/or SL products on intentions to use
           such products as alternatives to cigarettes.

      Secondary

        -  To explore the effects of factual information in regard to smoked tobacco on smokers'
           intentions to use such products as alternatives to cigarettes.

        -  To assess potential barriers to use of both NR and SL products as substitutes for
           cigarettes.

        -  To obtain estimates of possible effect sizes for powering a proposed comprehensive test
           of the likely outcomes of using these products in preference to cigarettes (and other
           smoked products).

      OUTLINE:

      Participants undergo a 10-15 minute web-based survey on a computer in the Tobacco Research
      Laboratory to assess basic demographic information; beliefs about the relative harmfulness of
      nicotine replacement (NR) and smokeless (SL) products, including use of relevant questions
      from the International Tobacco Control (ITC) 4 country survey; past experiences with NR and
      SL products and perceptions about them; and willingness to try samples of NR/SL products they
      have not previously used, or, if not willing, reasons for refusal. Participants also receive
      an information sheet while simultaneously hearing an audio recording of it.

      Participants complete questionnaires at 2, 3, and 4 weeks.

      Beginning 2 weeks after study intervention, some participants receive a day's supply of ≤ 4
      smokeless tobacco or nicotine products and periodically undergo a breath CO and saliva and
      buccal cell sample collection. Surveys are completed and samples collected at 3 and 4 weeks.
    
  