
    
      No study thus far has specifically evaluated use of closed-loop insulin delivery in older
      adults with type 1 diabetes. During our previous closed-loop studies, if there is a
      communication failure between the algorithm device and the insulin pump, the pump is set to
      deliver pre-programmed basal insulin rates after about 30 to 60 minutes.The main objective of
      this study is to determine whether automated day and night closed-loop insulin delivery for
      16 weeks under free living conditions is safer and more efficacious compared to sensor
      augmented insulin pump therapy in older adults with type 1 diabetes.

      This is an open-label, multi-centre, randomised, crossover design study, involving a 4-6 week
      run-in period, followed by two 4 months study periods during which glucose levels will be
      controlled either by an automated closed-loop system or by sensor-augmented pump therapy in
      random order. A total of up to 42 adults (aiming for 36 completed subjects) aged 60 years and
      older with T1D on insulin pump therapy will be recruited through diabetes clinics and other
      established methods in participating centres. Subjects who drop out of the study within the
      first 6 weeks of the first intervention period will be replaced.

      Subjects will receive appropriate training in the safe use of closed-loop insulin delivery
      system. Subjects will have regular contact with the study team during the home study phase
      including 24/7 telephone support.

      The primary outcome is time spent in target range between 3.9 and 10.0 mmol/L (70 and
      180mg/dl) as recorded by CGM. Secondary outcomes are the HbA1c, time spent with glucose
      levels above and below target, as recorded by CGM, and other CGM-based metrics. Measures of
      human factor assessments, cardiac arrhythmia and objective sleep quality assessment will also
      be evaluated in this study.
    
  