
    
      The investigators are proposing a study that will specifically and innovatively focus on the
      development of a novel positive psychology intervention that is adapted for patients with HF.
      The MGH inpatient units and MGH Heart Center outpatients will serve as the source of subjects
      for the study, with patients who have a diagnosis of HF serving as potential subjects. The
      investigators will interview 30 HF patients within two weeks of enrollment in the study, and
      again three months later.

      In this project, the investigators hope to do the following:

        1. Identify, through qualitative research, deficits in positive emotional and cognitive
           states in clinically stable patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) class II or
           III HF.

        2. Examine potential links between positive emotional deficits and impaired health
           behaviors (low sodium diet, physical activity, medication adherence), as well as links
           between positive emotional sufficiency and successful health behaviors.

        3. Identify other barriers to health behavior completion.

        4. Explore strategies to enhance positive emotional and cognitive states in HF patients and
           inquire about the utility of potential PP exercises in these patients.

        5. Develop a preliminary PP-based intervention using the above information.

        6. Assess the feasibility of our proposed survey-based measures for adherence,
           psychological health, and physical health in this group of patients.

        7. Explore the feasibility of using methods to objectively measure medication adherence and
           physical activity (via electronic pillcaps and accelerometers, respectively) in this
           population.

      Baseline information about enrolled participants will be obtained from the patients, care
      providers, and the electronic medical record as required for characterization of our
      population. This information will include data regarding medical history (history of prior
      acute coronary syndrome, coronary artery bypass graft, congestive HF, hypertension, diabetes
      mellitus, hyperlipidemia, and current smoking), current medical variables (renal function,
      left ventricular ejection fraction, NYHA class), medications, and sociodemographic data (age,
      gender, race/ethnicity, living alone).

      Participants will undergo an open-ended, semi-structured interview within 2 weeks of
      enrollment. The interview will be approximately 1 hour in length, performed by study staff
      who have been trained in qualitative research methods. Participants will then undergo another
      qualitative interview and repeat the battery of questionnaires again at 12 weeks.

      Participants will wear an Actigraph accelerometer for 2 weeks at Baseline and again at 12
      weeks to measure physical activity, and will also use a MEMSCap electronic pill counter
      throughout the study to measure medication adherence, respectively.
    
  