
    
      The investigator goal is to develop a neuropsychological battery to characterize the
      different aspects of motivation: energizing action, ability to use the clues to assign value,
      ability to anticipate a reward delayed in time, and finally learning by trial / error based
      rewards. In addition, the investigators systematically compare the effect of rewards and
      punishments (losses) in these spots. Such a systematic approach should better understand the
      nature of disrupted in schizophrenia process. It should also highlight the differential
      effects of treatment, including the effects of conventional antipsychotics versus atypical
      antipsychotics, but also the benefits of cognitive remediation.

      In the depression:

      The motivational deficit is at the heart of the depressive symptomatology. Our objective is
      to characterize the motivational processes altered in the depression thanks to the same
      neuropsychological battery. Furthermore, this clinical dimension could influence the answer
      to the antidepressant treatment. A better characterization of the motivational deficit would
      allow to adapt at best the pharmacological treatments used in the depression, in particular
      by targeting the dopaminergic way, involved in the control of the motivation.

      The investigators will recruit 35 patients and 35 control subjects in both populations. The
      investigators will make them pass a battery of motivational tests described above on three
      half-days:

      - Force task: This task tests the energization process, that is to say the ability to
      activate an action in proportion to what is involved.

      It consists of two sessions of 60 trials, which are offset through six levels of monetary
      issue (1, 20, 50 cents, 1, 5, 20 euros), and lasts about 30 minutes. On each trial, patients
      must tighten the grip dynamometer in order to earn a reward proportional to both the level of
      monetary issue and the peak forces occurs, or avoid a financial loss of a magnitude equal.
      The award of this task will be made in subliminal conditions and in supraliminal, and in
      condition of mental effort with the use of a stroop test instead of the dynamometer.

      - Preference task: This task tests the integrity of the "brain recovery system." It includes
      three subtests quotes 24 awards, 24 penalties and 24 efforts, and three subtests of binary
      choices with 48 trials each, and lasts about 30 minutes. Patients should note how various
      awards seem pleasant, how various punishments seem unpleasant, or how various efforts seem
      harsh. Registration vegetative markers (heart rate) compares the implied valuations for
      explicit assessments (notes), and thus to estimate the accuracy of introspection.

      - Discount and effort task: These tasks are used to estimate the parameters of time counting
      efforts and punishments. In the task of counting time effort, patients must choose between
      making a small reward associated with a low time or earn a greater reward associated with a
      significant delay. In the task of temporal punishments count, patients must choose between
      experience low punishment in a short time, or suffer a greater punishment in a larger delay.
      These tasks can capture a form of apathy characterized by an exaggeration of fatigue or pain
      early.

      - Learning task: It can test the overall learning abilities and specific sensitivities
      learning by positive and negative reinforcement. It consists of two sessions, each with 60
      binary choices (24 associated with rewards, punishments associated with 24, 12 associated
      with neutral events), for a period of about 20 minutes. The second session will be provided
      in counterfactual condition.
    
  