
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine pathological complete response (pCR) rates in patients with HER2-negative
           primary operable breast cancer treated with neoadjuvant therapy comprising carboplatin
           and paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation (CP) with vs without
           vorinostat.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the safety of these regimens in these patients.

        -  To estimate clinical complete response (cCR) rates in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  To correlate baseline and change (day 15) in surrogate uptake values (SUV) on FDG-PET
           with pathological and clinical response in patients treated with these regimens, and to
           determine what percent of women with ≥ 25% or ≥ 50% reduction in SUV on day 15 achieve a
           pCR and a cCR to CP with vs without vorinostat.

        -  To correlate baseline and change in markers of proliferation with pathological and
           clinical response in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To evaluate long term outcomes (e.g., recurrence of the breast cancer, development of a
           new cancer, or death) for patients treated with these regimens.

      Tertiary

        -  To evaluate baseline and change in candidate gene methylation and expression profiles.

        -  To evaluate baseline and change in tissue and peripheral blood mononuclear cell histone
           acetylation.

        -  To compare cCR and pCR in women with basal-like features versus other subtypes.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, phase II study (primary study
      portion) with a 6-12 patient run-in portion.

        -  Run-in portion: Patients receive carboplatin IV and paclitaxel albumin-stabilized
           nanoparticle formulation IV on day 1 and oral vorinostat on days 1-3. Treatment repeats
           weekly for 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Once
           safety of the combination of chemotherapy and vorinostat is confirmed, subsequently
           enrolled patients are entered to the primary study portion.

        -  Primary study portion: Patients are stratified by hormone receptor status (estrogen
           receptor [ER]-negative and progesterone receptor [PR]-negative vs ER-positive and/or
           PR-positive). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive carboplatin IV and paclitaxel albumin-stabilized
                nanoparticle formulation IV on day 1 and an oral placebo on days 1-3. Treatment
                repeats weekly for 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                toxicity.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive carboplatin and paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle
                formulation as in arm I and oral vorinostat on days 1-3. Treatment repeats weekly
                for 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Within 2-4 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, patients undergo breast
      conserving surgery or mastectomy at the discretion of the treating physician.

      Patients undergo tumor tissue biopsy at baseline, day 15, and at the time of definitive
      surgery. Samples are analyzed by immunohistochemistry (IHC), RNA extraction, and gene
      expression analysis using RT-PCR to identify candidate markers for response and molecular
      profiles that may be relevant to an understanding of drug mechanisms. Methylation of relevant
      genes (e.g., ERalpha, APC-1, RARbeta, cyclin D2, Twist, RASSF1A, and HIN-1) are evaluated by
      quantitative multiplex methylation-specific PCR. Changes in gene expression as a result of
      treatment are determined by IHC or quantitative RT-PCR. Blood samples are collected at
      baseline, day 15, at the time of definitive surgery, and 4 weeks after surgery for DNA
      methylation studies, pharmacogenomic studies, and histone acetylation assays. Patients also
      undergo fludeoxyglucose F 18-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) or PET/CT at baseline and
      day 15 to assess treatment response as measured by standardized uptake values.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months.
    
  