
    
      Approximately 70% of breast cancer patients have estrogen-receptor-expressing tumors, making
      hormone therapy an attractive option for adjuvant and metastatic treatment. The expression of
      estrogen receptors is modified during the course of treatment. Tumor development, there is a
      discrepancy between primary tumors and metastases from 14.5% to 40% of cases. Biopsies are
      useful for reassessing a patient's "estrogen receptor" status, but it is not always feasible
      especially at the stage of multiple metastases and the gesture remains invasive.

      The sensitivity and specificity of PET FES has been studied in patients with
      "estrogen-positive receptor" breast cancer lesions. Sensitivity was good except for liver
      metastases due to physiological binding of this tracer to the liver. Quantification of FES
      binding was correlated with expression of estrogen receptors visualized in IHC. Metastases
      could be seen with FES in the bone, lung and lymph nodes and more difficult in the liver.

      Clinicians are currently proposing second-line hormonal treatment to a metastatic patient who
      is progressing after first-line hormonal therapy if the initial disease was RH + with an
      increase in survival without recurrence more or less long. The biopsy of the metastatic site
      or sites is rarely performed because of the heaviness of the gesture. Clinicians are waiting
      for imaging, which can replace biopsy before the second-line metastatic hormone treatment in
      breast cancer, which will reveal the metastatic lesion heterogeneity allowing to establish if
      hormone therapy is the best therapeutic option for these patients and therefore lead to a
      personalized medicine driven by PET FES. This imaging approach seems all the more interesting
      as ER expression appears to evolve over time under the pressure of treatment or the natural
      evolution of carcinomas.

      Currently, no studies in breast cancer, in an ER + population on the initial tumor and Her2
      negative, are listed for the study of ER expression by PET FES before a second metastatic
      hormone treatment line.
    
  