
    
      Increasingly, upregulation of antiapoptotic proteins have been implicated in the pathogenesis
      and in the development of chemotherapy resistance in multiple myeloma. Therapeutic
      interventions that target the apoptotic pathway in myeloma are attractive targets to treat
      resistant disease. Dexamethasone triggers apoptosis via the release of Smac (second
      mitochondria-derived activator of caspase) leading to the activation of caspase-9 and
      caspase-3.37 The proteasome inhibitor bortezomib blocks signal transduction pathways mediated
      by NF-κB including the regulation of antiapoptotic genes such as TRAF1 and 2 (TNF
      receptor-associated factors) and cIAP (cellular inhibitor of apoptosis) and BCLXL.

      Two independent investigators have established the activity of thymoglobulin in multiple
      myeloma cells from cell lines and patients.38,39 Thymoglobulin has been shown to induce
      apoptosis via distinct mechanisms in multiple myeloma cells.40 This action appears to be
      mediated by interactions with surface markers including CD80, CD38, CD40 and CD45. This
      appears to stimulate apoptosis via cathepsin and caspase pathways.39 By targeting different
      aspects of the apoptotic process, Thymoglobulin may provide a mechanism to overcome drug
      resistance in multiple myeloma.

      Normal bone marrow B-cells, activated B cells and plasma cells have been shown to undergo
      apoptosis in a concentration dependent manner with rATG. The rATG has been shown to bind to B
      cells and this binding competitively inhibits several B cell specific monoclonal antibodies.
      The apoptosis can be inhibited by specific pathway inhibitors to caspases, cathepsin B and
      lysosomal cysteine proteases, indicating that each of these pathways is stimulated by
      thymoglobulin exposure. 18

      Thymoglobulin at high concentrations binds complement resulting in direct cell lysis of
      lymphocytes.22 Anti-thymocyte globulins induce B cell apoptosis and do so preferentially to
      myelomonocytic and T-cell lines.41,42 Both myeloma cell lines and primary myeloma cells from
      patient bone marrow aspirates undergo apoptosis after exposure to thymoglobulin, as might be
      expected based on the apoptotic affect on B-cell lineages.38 Additionally both sets of cells
      undergo opsonization when complement is added in vitro. This demonstrates that thymoglobulin
      can induce myeloma cell kill by a number of methods and thus would be less susceptible to
      tumor resistance. The thymoglobulin binding sites have been assessed by competitive binding
      with monoclonal antibodies. Thymoglobulin binds competitively and specifically to IgG,
      HLA-ABC, HLA-DR, CD16, CD32, CD64, CD19, CD20, CD27, CD30, CD38, CD40, CD52, CD80, CD95,
      CD126, and CD138. Only IgG, CD16, CD64, and CD80 are not competitively bound. The apoptosis
      in primary cells can be inhibited by blocking the caspase, cathepsin D, or cathepsin B & D
      pathways. Zand et al also compared apoptotic response for five different lots of
      thymoglobulin. All lots apoptotic curves were overlapping over the range of 1-120 mcg/ml,
      demonstrating that very little lot to lot variation exists.43 This would be expected since
      each lot is derived from the combined sera of multiple immunized rabbits and thus individual
      differences in response for each rabbit would be mitigated. This may not be the case with
      lots of ATGAM each derived from a single horse. Each lot of thymoglobulin is already depleted
      of antibodies to red blood cells, has viruses inactivated and is tested for
      lymphocytotoxicity prior to release. The consistency demonstrated by Zand et al is consistent
      with the lack of observed variation in potency noticed in the greater than 20 years of
      clinical experience with this medication.

      Together, these data provide a rational for the clinical use of Thymoglobulin in multiple
      myeloma. As a result, we propose a dose escalation, phase I, open-label study of
      Thymoglobulin in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.
    
  