
    
      Adherence to effective cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factor medications is associated
      with improved CVD risk factor control, fewer hospitalizations, and lower mortality in
      patients with diabetes. However, many patients are poorly adherent to medications, and there
      are persistent racial/ethnic and socioeconomic disparities in medication adherence.
      Traditional clinical trials of interventions to improve medication adherence are often
      resource-intensive, and focus exclusively on patient-level barriers to behavior change.
      Unsurprisingly, these trials have not led to sustainable, cost-effective approaches to
      improve adherence. Health system-level medication adherence interventions that can be
      implemented, "scaled up," and sustained across a wide range of health care delivery settings
      are urgently needed. The investigators propose a randomized encouragement trial to encourage
      use of existing mail order pharmacy services among diabetes patients with poor adherence to
      CVD risk factor medications and who only use retail pharmacies in 3 health care systems:
      Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Harvard Pilgrim, and Kaiser Permanente Hawaii. These
      combined systems include approximately 300,000 patients with diabetes with diverse
      racial/ethnic and socioeconomic backgrounds. Patients with no history of mail order pharmacy
      use will be randomized into 2 arms. In addition to examining the impact of the intervention
      on medication adherence and CVD risk factor control, the investigators will examine factors
      affecting the sustainability and dissemination of the intervention, assess the intervention's
      impact on utilization and health care costs, and determine whether the intervention's impact
      differs across racial/ethnic and socioeconomic subgroups. This research will provide a
      foundation for developing sustainable, system-level approaches to addressing medication
      adherence in diabetes patients that can be widely disseminated and implemented across a
      diverse array of health care systems.
    
  