
    
      The proposed study design is a prospective, clinical trial comparing control group patients
      (CG; ncg = 30) that will undergo conventional perioperative management without an ERAS
      protocol and standard bupivacaine intraoperative nerve block to randomized treatment group
      patients that will receive an intraoperative V2 trigeminal nerve block using LB (TG; ntg =
      30). The total study population size (N = 60) was determined by power analysis using a free
      online calculator for continuous variable comparison with two-sided equality. The hypotheses
      for this study is that a trigeminal nerve block LB-ERAS will confer better pain control to
      patients undergoing OGS compared to conventional bupivacaine and no ERAS protocol. We
      speculate that hospital stay, pain scores, duration to first postoperative oral intake,
      opioid pain medication requirements, and ORAE's will all be less in the TG than the CG. We
      postulate that the volume of oral nutrition tolerated in the first 48-hours postoperatively
      will be greater in the TG than the CG. Liposomal bupivacaine will be injected after a minimum
      of 20 minutes have passed since the pre-operative nerve block was administered. The patients'
      subjective pain experienced will be quantified by a traditional 10-point visual analogue
      score (VAS) in the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU), at time of admission to the
      post-operative recovery room, throughout the inpatient recovery period, and at time of
      discharge. The time to tolerance of first oral intake will be measured in hours. The amount
      of first-48-hour oral intake will be measured in milliliters (mL). We believe that a LB-ERAS
      protocol will result in lower necessary doses of opioid pain medications. This will be
      measured as first 48-hour total mg/kg dosage of opioid pain medication converted to
      oxycodone-equivalents by standard conversion ratios. The incidence of ORAE's will be tallied
      by the number of necessary prn doses of symptomatic management anti-pyretic and anti-nausea
      medications. We expect this to be lower in the TG. The degree of respiratory suppression will
      be measured by first 48-hour respiratory rate between CG and TG patients, which we expect to
      be lower in the CG relative to higher opioid pain medication totals.
    
  