
    
      This is a cross sectional survey in patients who have had hip resurfacing (MOMHR) and
      subjects who have received a conventional hip replacement (THA) using a metal on plastic or
      ceramic bearing. Participants in this study will be identified by orthopaedic surgeons from
      their operating database. An invitation letter will be sent out to the potential participants
      with an accompanying information sheet and a reply slip. If there is no response then one
      further letter will be sent out. Those patients who respond to say that they are interested
      in taking part in the study will then be telephoned by the study team and screened for
      inclusion/exclusion criteria. If they are eligible and willing to take part after discussions
      with the investigator, an appointment will be made for them to attend to give informed
      consent. Participants will be requested not to eat or drink on the morning that they attend
      for this visit.

      There will be an opportunity at this visit for further discussion and explanation of the
      study requirements with the Investigator before consent is given.

      Once consent has been given, the following procedures will be carried out at this visit
      (Visit 1):

        1. Venous blood will be taken by venepuncture (60 mL, approx 4 tablespoons, will be taken)
           after which the participant will be able to eat breakfast (which will be provided).

        2. A urine based pregnancy test will be used in women of child bearing age to exclude
           pregnant women

        3. Participants will complete the Oxford Hip questionnaire, the EQ5D questionnaire and a
           record of medical history and concomitant medicines under supervision of the student
           investigator or an experienced research nurse.

        4. Whole body bone mineral density assessments will be made using an Hologic Discovery bone
           densitometer. This will take approximately 10 minutes in total and will be carried out
           by an experienced research bone density technician

        5. An electrocardiogram and an echocardiogram will be performed by an experienced
           cardiotechnician and later analysed by a Consultant Cardiologist

        6. Participants will be given a container and instructions to collect a 24 hour urine
           sample. This will be returned at the second visit

        7. An appointment will be made for the participant to attend for a second visit to the
           Royal Hallamshire Hospital.

      At visit 2 the following procedures will be carried out:

        1. Neuropsychological assessments and questionnaires and visual acuity measurement using a
           Snellen chart.

        2. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain using a 3.0T Phillips Intera MRI scanner.

        3. MRI of the liver spleen and kidneys using the 3.0T Phillips Intera MRI scanner. Clinical
           reports will be prepared for all clinical investigations and normal findings will be
           related to the patient by letter.

      Abnormal findings will be reported to the GP and patient with advice for any action as
      necessary.
    
  