
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is a heterogeneous pathology characterized by degeneration of the
      posterior focal cartilage and the formation of new bone around the subchondral bone and
      joint, which is the disruption of the balance between the processes of destruction and repair
      of the joint cartilage and subchondral region. Radiologically, OA was reported in the
      majority of people over 65 years old and in 80% of those over 75 years old. OA is the most
      common joint disease in the world. Knee OA is an important health problem due to pain,
      functional disability and reduced quality of life in patients. Studies have shown that knee
      OA is associated with inadequacy and pain associated with decreased quadriceps muscle
      strength. Strengthening education has been shown to have positive effects on OA.

      Knee OA is a significant disability cause and is present in 3% of all disability causes. OA
      causes disability and consequent labor loss and economic loss. Therefore, OA therapy gains
      importance. OA therapy is classified under three headings as pharmacological methods,
      non-pharmacological methods and surgical methods. In non-pharmacological methods, there are a
      number of studies showing the effectiveness of exercise in particular. Because it is an easy
      method, the cost is low and it is applicable for a long time, the exercises are more
      important than other methods. The literature on exercise programs with optimal gains for knee
      osteoarthritis has not yet been established, with numerous studies reporting the importance
      of different types of exercise for the treatment of knee OA in the literature. Open kinetic
      chain exercises are frequently used to strengthen the quadriceps muscle. Closed kinetic chain
      exercises have been shown to increase muscle strength and improve proprioceptive function by
      activating more muscle spindle and joint proprioceptors. In literature, there are researches
      that compare closed and open kinetic chain exercises. However, these studies mostly focus on
      exercises after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. The aim of this study was to
      compare the effects of open and closed kinetic chain exercises on pain, functional level,
      quality of life and muscle strength in patients with knee osteoarthritis.
    
  