
    
      Purpose The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of aerobic and resistance
      exercise training relative to usual care during taxane-containing chemotherapy treatment for
      breast cancer.

      Hypotheses

      Relative to usual care, aerobic and resistance exercise training during taxane-containing
      chemotherapy treatment for breast cancer will:

        1. mitigate the experience of patient reported outcomes

        2. reduce medical management of taxane side effects and adverse events

        3. attenuate autonomic dysfunction and maintain resting cardiovascular function and
           cardiovascular response to exercise

      4) Objectives The primary aim of this study is to determine whether aerobic and resistance
      exercise training during taxane-containing chemotherapy treatment reduces patient-reported
      side effects, medical management and clinical adverse events reported relative to usual care.
      The secondary aim is to determine the whether aerobic and resistance exercise training during
      taxane-containing chemotherapy attenuates the occurrence of indices of autonomic dysfunction
      relative to usual care.

      5) Research methods This study is a randomized control trial with crossover. The intervention
      consists of aerobic, resistance and balance training three times a week. Forty-three women
      with a stage I-III breast cancer diagnosis who are scheduled to receive taxane-containing
      chemotherapy will be randomized to immediate or delayed exercise (stratified by treatment
      protocol). Potential participants will be referred by oncologist referral, or will be
      self-referred by recruitment posters, social media or word of mouth.

      6) Statistical analysis The primary outcome measure is the EORTC CIPN subscale of
      patient-reported symptoms related to neurotoxic chemotherapy. Secondary outcome measures
      include measures of autonomic dysfunction including heart rate and blood pressure
      variability, and medical management of taxane-related side effects, and clinical adverse
      events related to treatment.

      The chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) sub-scale of the EORTC Quality of life
      Questionnaire is used as the primary outcome measure to determine sample size. G*Power 3.0.10
      was used to estimate sample size for independent t-tests between the two groups (at the
      2-week post chemotherapy time point). At thirty-six participants, we will have 80% power to
      detect a medium (d=0.6) effect size in the EORTC CIPN-20 subscale at an alpha of 0.05
      (one-tailed) . An additional 20% will be recruited to allow for dropout or non-adherence,
      making the final total sample size goal 43 participants.

      Baseline characteristics and outcome measures of the two groups will be compared with
      independent t-tests. To assess the effect of the exercise intervention during treatment,
      independent t-tests will be used to compare the outcome measures at two weeks post completion
      of taxane chemotherapy if no difference exists between groups baseline measures. For the
      exercise group, all outcome measures at time point 2 will be compared to time point 3 using
      paired t-tests to assess maintenance over time. Independent t-tests will first be used to
      determine whether significant differences exists between groups for the three exploratory
      measure time points. If no differences exist, all data will be combined, and analyzed with a
      repeated measures analysis of variance to determine whether differences exist.
    
  