
    
      The objective of the study is to determine the level of serum expression of the HSP70 protein
      in individuals at risk of atherosclerotic peripheral arterial disease, after an intervention
      of moderate exercise.

      Atherosclerotic Peripheral Arterial Disease (PAD) is a systemic disease that causes
      obstruction of arterial blood flow and is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality
      worldwide 1.

      Patients with PAD have a three times greater risk of myocardial infarction, stroke and death
      than those without the disease. However, more than 50% of patients are asymptomatic; so the
      disease remains underdiagnosed. 2 It is estimated that 202 million people in the world are
      affected with PAD, 45 million of them die from coronary or cerebrovascular disease in a range
      of ten years. The current prevalence of PAD in Mexico is 10% of the general population.3 The
      disease is strongly related to modifiable risk factors (blood pressure, sedentary lifestyle,
      baseline glycemia, cholesterol, and obesity) and unhealthy lifestyle (tobacco, physical
      inactivity, food and psychosocial stress), which increases the risk of acquiring the disease
      up to 17.2 times 4, 5, 6 Increased membrane permeability leads to the accumulation and
      modification of proteins, lipids and lipoproteins in the endothelium. The accumulation of
      pro-inflammatory molecules such as chemo-tactical monocyte protein 1 (MCP-1), intracellular
      adhesion molecules (ICAM-1), vascular cell adhesion (VCAM-1) and higher nitro-tyrosine
      content are also generated. 7 Macrophages are active in response to the spread of the
      inflammatory response and bind to low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors that had
      internalized.

      Macrophages secrete pro-inflammatory cytokines resulting in the recruitment and activation of
      additional immune cells at the site of the lesion, amplifying the immune response and
      promoting the development of complex and advanced plaques that become mature atherosclerotic
      plaques.8 The Ankle Arm Index (ABI) is the non-invasive gold standard accepted for both the
      diagnosis and evaluation of the severity of this disease. The cut-off point for the diagnosis
      of PAD is an ABI of less than 0.90 at rest, regardless of the Framingham Risk Score, being
      95% sensitive in the detection of PAD. 9, 10 To maintain homeostasis on the vessel wall,
      vascular cells produce a high level of heat shock proteins (HSP) 11. These types of stress
      proteins are cytoprotective agents that promote cell survival during stressors. 12 The
      reduction of HSP intracellular expression is also related to PAD, cardiovascular diseases and
      metabolic syndrome, where they are greatly diminished. 10 HSP are normally intracellular
      proteins, but when released at an extracellular level, they exert an immune response.13 The
      most thermo-sensitive and highly inducible HSP belongs to the 70 kilodalton (kDa) family, as
      established by Mizzen et al., In 1998 (figure 1). It is believed that extracellular Hsp70
      (eHsp70) stimulates innate immunity and acts as a danger signal. Serum Hsp70 has been
      detected in the peripheral circulation of apparently healthy individuals and increases in
      response to different stressors, including exercise. 12, 14

      Figure 1. Schematic representation of the molecular structure of HSP70. Adapted from Carrasco
      L. et al. 15 Exercise increases HSP levels primarily through reactive oxygen species (ROS),
      elevated temperature, hormones, calcium fluxes or mechanical tissue deformation.16 It has
      been shown that the concentration of Hsp70 increases after performing both acute and
      long-term exercises, reaching levels that remain high, but once its protective action
      decreases both at intra and extra-cellular levels.17 Exercise exerts beneficial effects
      against atherosclerosis by increasing circulating endostatin, which inhibits the development
      of atherosclerotic plaque by blocking angiogenesis in plaque tissue.18 Isotonic contractions
      of the type of resistance exercise (aerobic) tend to lead to increases in Hsp70 levels, as
      opposed to eccentric exercise. With repetitive exercise, an induced increase in this protein
      is maintained, while the initial response of other HSPs to exercise decreases as training
      progresses.16 Regular exercise initiates long-term processes of adaptation of muscle
      metabolism, cardiovascular system and immuno-modulatory effects that are largely considered
      beneficial; There is evidence that during exercise, Hsp70 is released into human circulation
      in association with exosomes, specifically with aerobic exercise.19, 20 It has been shown
      that Hsp70 directly inhibits inflammatory processes through the suppression of oxidative
      stress, directly reduces apoptosis, hyperplasia, as well as decreasing the expression of
      adhesion molecules that lead to leukocyte extravasation and the manifestation of inflammatory
      cytokines.16 Higher serum levels of Hsp70 are associated with reduced thickening of the
      atherosclerotic intima and a lower risk of coronary artery disease.21
    
  