
    
      While the introduction of antiretroviral therapy for HIV/AIDS has transformed HIV disease
      into a chronic infection for many, the use of antiretroviral therapy is also often associated
      with metabolic abnormalities including insulin resistance, central fat accumulation and
      peripheral fat atrophy. Fatty infiltration of the liver or hepatic steatosis may be an
      important consequence of these metabolic derangements or may represent a direct toxicity
      associated with HIV infection and/or antiretroviral medications. Preliminary data suggests
      that hepatic steatosis may be very common and perhaps present in up to 50 percent of
      HIV-infected patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. Hepatic steatosis represents one step
      in the potential progression towards hepatocellular injury, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
      (NASH), and, in a small percentage of patients, subsequent fibrosis and cirrhosis. In
      addition, hepatic fat content is closely associated with impaired insulin resistance and type
      2 diabetes, conditions increasingly recognized among HIV-infected patients. In the setting of
      type 2 diabetes mellitus and NASH, thiazolidinediones such as pioglitazone, have been shown
      to reduce hepatic steatosis, lower transaminase levels and improve insulin sensitivity.

      In order to determine the potential benefits of pioglitazone therapy in the setting of HIV
      infection and hepatic steatosis, we will conduct a 96-week, double-blind, randomized placebo
      controlled trial of pioglitazone (45 mg/day) in 50 HIV-infected men and women, with 48 weeks
      of active treatment and 48 weeks of observational follow-up after study treatment ends. We
      anticipate needing to screen 100 subjects to identify a sufficient number of eligible
      participants to enroll in the study. The primary outcome variable of interest in this trial
      will be the change in hepatic fat score, liver-to-spleen ratio, which is calculated from CT
      scan of the abdomen. Important secondary outcomes will be histologic improvement on liver
      biopsy performed at baseline and 48 weeks, as well as improvements in transaminase levels and
      insulin sensitivity measured by hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp. All participants will be
      followed for 48 weeks after discontinuing study treatment to evaluate the short-term natural
      history of steatosis in those who received placebo and to assess the durability of any
      potential benefits of pioglitazone upon withdrawal. In this way, important information about
      the efficacy of pioglitazone to treat hepatic steatosis and improve the metabolic profile in
      HIV-infected patients will be obtained, as well as preliminary data on whether benefits of
      pioglitazone are sustained after treatment is discontinued.
    
  