
    
      Pediatric Acute Liver Failure (PALF) is a rare, devastating condition that affects an
      estimated 250 children per year in North America, causing death in approximately 15% and the
      need for liver transplantation in an additional 20-30%. In the majority of cases, a specific
      cause of the liver injury is never determined. Recent research supports the theory that many
      of these patients have liver injury related to a hyperinflammatory immune response to
      everyday infections or environmental exposures. There is strong evidence to show that equine
      anti-thymocyte globulin and methylprednisolone slow the body's response to inflammation and
      improve the recovery of patients with other immune disorders and thus, may help patients with
      acute liver failure.

      This is a phase 2b, double-blind, three arm, randomized, placebo controlled trial with
      restricted response adaptive randomization. The primary objective is to determine the
      efficacy and safety of high-dose methylprednisolone or equine anti-thymocyte globulin (eATG
      or ATGAM®) as compared to supportive care alone (placebo) for the treatment of acute liver
      failure in pediatric patients.

      Approximately 160 patients who are equal to or greater than ≥ 1 and less than ≤ 18 years of
      age with pediatric acute liver failure (PALF) of undetermined etiology will be randomized to
      receive either high-dose methylprednisolone (Treatment 1) or eATG (ATGAM®) (Treatment 2) or
      supportive care alone (Treatment 3) on days 1 to 4 after study enrollment, followed by a
      gradual prednisolone taper (for the two active treatment arms 1 and 2) or a placebo taper
      (for treatment arm 3) on days 5 to 42.

      The follow-up period includes visits at 1 week (Day 7), 2 weeks (Day 14), and 3 weeks (Day
      21) after the day the participant started in the study. Early follow-up assessments will be
      performed either in the inpatient or ambulatory setting since some participants may be
      discharged before Day 7. In addition, families will be contacted by phone or email to
      schedule each follow-up at the study site for the 6 week, 3 month, 6 month and 12 month study
      visits.

      The findings of this trial have the potential to shift the treatment paradigm in PALF and
      advance the basic understanding of immune dysregulation disorders in childhood. The network
      includes 20 of the largest and most active pediatric liver centers in the US who have
      organized to support rigorous testing of the efficacy and safety of immunosuppressive therapy
      for these patients.
    
  