
    
      The standard treatment for locally advanced rectal cancer (T3 -T4 and / or N+) is neoadjuvant
      (pre-operative) chemo-radiotherapy (nCRT) followed by radical surgery. In patients after
      complete response following nCRT, surgery may not add any survival benefit but it is still
      performed.

      Since clinical complete response has only partial concordance with pathological complete
      response, an additional method that helps identify those patients with a true complete
      response is needed to avoid unnecessary surgery and its associated potential complications..

      The hypothesis underlying this study is that the quantitative and qualitative evaluation of
      circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) of liquid biopsy, based on the amount of ctDNA or on the
      detection of specific gene alterations respectively, may be directly correlated to the
      clinical, histopathological and radiological response of the tumor to nCRT.

      This study will not interfere with the patient's routine treatment pathway and there will be
      no deviation from the standard of care. The only additional study intervention will be the
      collection of blood samples at 6 different time points which can be combined with the regular
      blood examination performed during the treatment.

      At the time of diagnosis, tumor staging and histopathology on tumor biopsy will be performed.
      Patients will receive standardized neoadjuvant therapy and will be operated after an
      observational period of 10 weeks. Peripheral blood sample will be collected at 6 time points:
      pre-nCRT, at the end of the nCRT, at 4th and 7th week post-CRT, on the day of the surgery
      (before surgical resection), on the post-operative day 5 (in hospital). Mesenteric blood
      sample will be collected intra-operatively on the day of the surgery. Tumor sampling will be
      performed during tumor staging, as standard of care, and on the resection specimen. A
      combined qualitative and quantitative approach for the molecular characterization of tissue
      and liquid biopsy using next-generation sequencing will be carried out.
    
  