
    
      Rationale: Docetaxel has some efficacy against non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). This drug
      is Food and Drug Administration approved in combination with cisplatin (Platinol) for the
      treatment of unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC in patients who have not
      previously had chemotherapy for this condition. Docetaxel is also approved for second line
      treatment of metastatic NSCLC. Research indicates that capecitabine, in combination with
      docetaxel, has efficacy against NSCLC. Capecitabine appears to have anti-cancer activity
      through several enzymes. This drug is metabolized in the body to another agent called 5-FU.
      During this conversion process, 5-FU requires thymidine phosphorylase (TP), a cellular
      characteristic associated with tumor growth. There are higher levels of TP expression in
      tumors as compared to normal tissue. The drug administration schedule in this study is
      designed to optimize efficacy against the TP target through both docetaxel and capecitabine.
      This study will measure biological changes to TP and other enzymes to help researchers gain
      more information about how capecitabine and docetaxel works against NSCLC.

      Purpose: This study will evaluate the efficacy of docetaxel and capecitabine in patients with
      previously untreated advanced NSCLC. Tests related to tumor biology will be conducted before
      and during study treatments and correlated with patient responses to therapies.

      Treatment: Patients in this study will receive docetaxel and capecitabine. Docetaxel will be
      administered through intravenous infusions. Capecitabine will be provided through oral pills.
      A four-week period constitutes one cycle. Docetaxel will be given weekly for three weeks
      followed by one week of rest. Capecitabine will be taken twice daily on days 5 through 14 of
      the treatment cycle. Several tests and exams will be given throughout the study to closely
      monitor patients. Treatments will be discontinued due to disease growth or unacceptable side
      effects.
    
  