
    
      This project aims to develop and evaluate a behavioral intervention for adolescent cannabis
      use disorder that emphasizes adaptive responding to negative affective symptoms (e.g.,
      depression, anxiety). Maladaptive cognitive, behavioral, and emotional reactions to negative
      affect are associated with substance use and substance use problems (including cannabis).
      Adolescence and young adulthood represents a developmental period in which the regulation of
      negative emotions is still being developed, as well as a time when cannabis use is prevalent
      and cannabis use disorders onset. Thus, developing and evaluating cannabis use disorder
      interventions that emphasize the improvement of responding to negative affect may be
      particularly important for this developmental period. First, the investigators developed an
      intervention that weaves skills and strategies for responding adaptively to negative affect,
      particularly as it relates to high-risk times for cannabis craving and use, into an
      evidence-based substance use disorder intervention for individuals in late adolescence and
      early adulthood. After delivering it to a small sample of participants, the investigators
      will gather feedback to guide refinements to the intervention. After refining the
      intervention, which will be a 12-session individual treatment, we will conduct the pilot
      randomized clinical trial. Participants (N = 80) aged 18-25 with cannabis use disorder and
      elevations in constructs representing maladaptive reactivity to negative affect (i.e., high
      anxiety sensitivity, low distress tolerance, or facets of emotion dysregulation including
      high emotional suppression and low cognitive reappraisal ability) will be randomized to
      receive either: (a) standard cognitive behavioral therapy for adolescent substance use
      disorders (SUD-CBT) or (b) the novel intervention we develop, affective management training
      for cannabis use disorders (CUD-AMT). Participants will be assessed at baseline,
      post-treatment, and a 6-month follow-up assessment on self-report and behavioral indices of
      the targeted mechanisms, as well as on substance use outcomes (both cannabis-specific and
      substances more broadly defined). A sub-set of participants (n = 50) will also undergo pre-
      and post-treatment fMRI assessment to evaluate whether neural indices of emotion regulation
      are improved to a greater extent in CUD-AMT compared to SUD-CBT. Cannabis use disorder is the
      most prevalent substance use disorder among adolescents and young adults, and often leads to
      the use of other substances. Negative affect and disorders associated with high negative
      affect (i.e., anxiety and unipolar mood disorders) are highly prevalent and associated with
      significant substance use disorder comorbidity. Targeting a process that is still malleable
      in late adolescence and young adulthood and that is associated with the maintenance of
      substance use disorders has the potential to reduce the burden of substance use disorders in
      this population, thus making a significant public health impact.
    
  