
    
      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a powerful technique to modulate brain
      activity:

      TDCS is based on the application of a weak direct current to the scalp that flows between two
      relatively large electrodes-anode and cathode. During tDCS, low amplitude (1-2 mA), constant
      currents are applied via the scalp electrodes and penetrate the skull to enter the brain.
      Although there is substantial shunting of current in the scalp, sufficient current penetrates
      the brain to modify the trans-membrane neuronal potential as shown by two recent modeling
      studies (Miranda et al. 2006; Wagner et al. 2007a), and thus influence the level of
      excitability and modulate the firing rate of individual neurons. When tDCS is applied for a
      sufficient duration, cortical function can be altered beyond the stimulation period (Nitsche
      and Paulus 2001) and the direction of the cortical excitability changes depends on current
      orientation.

      Several well-conducted animal studies on the effects of tDCS dating back to the 1950s and 60s
      showed that tDCS is a powerful technique to modulate brain function. These studies
      demonstrated that polarizing currents applied to the surface of the brain result in a
      modulation of the cortical activity. Surface anodal polarization of the cortex increases
      spontaneous unit discharges (Burns 1954; Creutzfeld et al. 1962) and initiates paroxysmal
      activity (Goldring and O'Leary 1951), whereas cathodal polarization generally depresses these
      events. Furthermore, low-level surface polarization facilitates acquisition of learned motor
      responses and induces prolonged changes in patterns of evoked cortical unit discharges
      (Bindman et al. 1964). Finally, Purpura et al. (1964), studying pyramidal tract cells from
      cats, showed that prolonged periods of polarization may produce progressive membrane and
      post-synaptic potential changes as well as after-effects (Purpura and McMurtry 1965).

      Based on this evidence, recent human studies have been performed and collectively have shown
      that motor cortex (M1) stimulation with tDCS changes motor cortex excitability depending on
      the stimulation polarity: while anodal stimulation increases cortical excitability, cathodal
      stimulation decreases it (Nitsche et al. 2003; Nitsche and Paulus 2000; Nitsche and Paulus
      2001). Similar modulatory effects have also been described in the visual cortex (Antal et al.
      2004; Antal et al. 2001). A recent tDCS study has shown that anodal tDCS of the primary motor
      cortex not only affects cortical activity, but induces significant changes on thalamic
      activity (Lang et al. 2005). It should be noted that application of tDCS in humans has
      advanced significantly in the last 10 years and it is therefore different from the human
      application used in the '60s and '70s (Wagner et al. 2007b)

      Furthermore, tDCS offers several advantages as compared with other techniques of noninvasive
      brain stimulation (i.e., repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS)): (1) small size
      of the electrodes and stimulator, thus allowing portable use for instance to be used at home,
      (2) simple and non-expensive technique that can easily be translated for use in clinical
      practice, (3) long-lasting effects - the modulatory effects of tDCS last longer as compared
      to rTMS - for instance, 13 minutes of stimulation changes brain excitability for up to 2
      hours (Nitsche and Paulus 2001), and (4) more easily blinded with sham tDCS in the setting of
      clinical trials (Gandiga et al 2006)

      Prefrontal stimulation has been shown to enhance cognitive function:

      There have been several recently published studies demonstrating the enhancement of working
      memory when tDCS stimulation is applied to the dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex. Fregni et al
      (2005) studied 15 normal subjects. The patients performed a three -back working memory task
      during active anodal (stimulatory) tDCS of the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (left
      DLPFC), sham stimulation over the left DLPFC, cathodal (inhibitory) stimulation of the left
      DLPFC, or anodal stimulation over the primary motor cortex (M1). The results of this study
      showed a significant improvement in working memory as indexed by task accuracy after active
      anodal tDCS of the left DLPFC. The other conditions of stimulation-including sham tDCS,
      anodal tDCS of left DLPFC, or anodal tDCS of M1-did not result in a significant task
      performance change. Similarly, Boggio et al (2007) have also found significant improvement in
      affective go-no-go task performance in patients with severe depression after treatment with
      anodal tDCS to the left DLPFC independent of the degree of mood enhancement after 10
      consecutive days of tDCS.

      Conversely, there has been some evidence that cathodal inhibition of the right DLPFC enhances
      working memory performance in the same task in depressed patients (Bermpohl et al 2006).
      Together these studies suggest that the increased activity of the left DLPFC-whether directly
      through anodal stimulation or indirectly through cathodal inhibition of the right DLPFC-is
      responsible for improvement in working memory performance.

      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) has a significant antidepressant effect:
      Modulation of prefrontal cortex with anodal tDCS is associated with a significant improvement
      in depression. Initially a preliminary, randomized, controlled and double blind trial in
      which the effects of five days of anodal stimulation of the left DLPFC in 10 patients with
      major depression was investigated. All patients tolerated tDCS without complications. At the
      end of treatment, there were 4 treatment responders in the active group versus no responders
      in the sham group. The patients who received active stimulation had a significant decrease in
      the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) and Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) scores
      compared to baseline which was not observed in patients that received sham stimulation
      (Fregni et al. 2006b).

      In a follow-up, parallel-group, double-blind clinical trial with 40 patients with major
      depression, patients were washed-out of their medications and randomized into three groups of
      treatment: anodal tDCS of the left DLPFC (active group); anodal tDCS of the occipital cortex
      (active control group) and sham tDCS (placebo control group). tDCS was applied for 10
      sessions during a 2-week period. Mood was evaluated by a blinded rater using the HDRS and
      BDI. The treatment was well tolerated with minimal side effects that were distributed equally
      across all treatment groups. This study showed significantly larger reductions in depression
      scores after left DLPFC tDCS (HDRS reduction of 40.4% (±25.8%)) as compared to occipital
      (HDRS reduction of 21.3% (±12.9%)) and sham tDCS (HDRS reduction of 10.4% (±36.6%)). The
      beneficial effects of tDCS in the DLPFC group persisted for 1 month after the end of
      treatment (Boggio et al. 2008).

      Similarly, in another longitudinal study on depression by Rigonatti et al (2008), serial
      applications of anodal (stimulatory) tDCS applied to the prefrontal cortex (10 sessions of 2
      mA each) had a similar effect on reducing depressive symptoms as measured by Beck Depression
      Inventory scores as fluoxetine even 6 weeks after treatment. However, the effects of tDCS
      were more immediate than that of fluoxetine19.

      In summary, tDCS of the left DLPFC seems to be able to induce significant positive affective
      and cognitive improvements in normal patients and patients with significant depression. We
      will therefore in this proposal test whether prolonged prefrontal stimulation is associated
      with clinically meaningful changes in affective and cognitive function without worsening
      epileptiform activity or seizure frequency. The results of this pilot study will have a
      significant clinical impact for the treatment of the neuropsychiatric comorbidities of
      patients with temporal lobe epilepsy.
    
  