
    
      Currently, the issue of patient safety has been hotly debated both nationally and
      internationally, because this is a relevant issue for the health professionals' practice and
      to improve the quality of patient care. According to the Institute of Medicine (IOM) report
      released in 2000, a significant number of deaths in hospitals every year were related to
      preventable causes and medical errors. These deaths were equal to mortality numbers due to
      diseases such as cancer and HIV and car acidentes.

      In this scenario, death due to errors in the process of care achieved world relevance and in
      2002, the World Health Organization (WHO) released the World Health Assembly (WHA) Resolution
      55.18, addressing the priorities related to patient safety in the quality of care. In 2004,
      was created the World Alliance for Patient Safety on the occasion of the 57th World Health
      Assembly. The World Alliance has defined programs for patient safety that must be adopted by
      all member countries and therefore, by Brazil.

      The general actions proposed by the WHO World Alliance for Patient Safety are oriented in
      five activities among which, the efforts to strengthen the training in patient safety
      worldwide. It stimulates the inclusion of a curriculum guide for patient safety in health
      professional training courses .

      Aspects of patient safety in medicine administration involve many health professionals.
      However, nurses have an important role because they are responsible for administration and
      thus, occupy the last stage between the medication and the error. For all these reasons,
      safety in medication administration is a compulsory and transversal theme in the training of
      nursing professionals.

      In this context of search for improvements in health care planning, a new practice concept of
      teaching and learning has been developed, aiming at training professionals and training the
      health professionals who have already graduated.

      Interests in using realistic simulation techniques have emerged lately with the objective to
      encourage improvements in safety on patient care. The simulation technique amplifies the
      experience of health professionals through educational actions guided by experiences that
      happen in the real world, therefore, interactions must happen in a way that preserves the
      most realistic aspects as possible. The adoption of simulation in health comes from
      successful references of using this technique for industrial purposes and in the armed
      forces. It is considered an innovative technique in health.

      In high fidelity simulation, students and professionals experience clinical cases that
      replicate real-world scenarios. This strategy enables teaching innovations, improves clinical
      thinking in stressful situations, and prevents the exposure of patients to risks.

      The realistic simulation has been integrated in the education of nurses and doctors over the
      last years, but is not fully implemented yet. Despite the recommendations for using
      simulation, its increasing integration in education, and the concrete evidence that its use
      promotes a better prepare of health professionals for performance in clinical practice, the
      empirical evidences of its impact on patient outcomes are still under developed.

      Besides the realistic manikin-based simulation, virtual simulation is another way of
      simulation that has been proven effective in learning strategies, contributing to the
      retention of knowledge and improvement of nursing students' clinical performance.

      From the increasing use of technology in health and the complexity of patients, new ways of
      learning have been shaped and developed as innovative teaching methods in health care . All
      these alternatives have the promising intention of reducing the deterioration of learning and
      of clinical performance over time, making professionals and students able to monitor patients
      in the best possible way, establish goals, priorities and better treatments.

      An advantage is the possibility of students practicing their skills in an environment where
      mistakes can be made and corrected without causing damages and risks to patient safety. In
      addition, the construction of knowledge is established through representative situations of
      day-to-day reality in professional practice, when students themselves participate as
      patient-actors in a totally controlled environment, as well as protected from risks. At the
      end of the activity, students and/or professionals involved in the simulation can give
      feedback of their learning and, from group discussions and those with the teacher, is formed
      knowledge based on self-knowledge and confidence .

      PURPOSE

      Primary purpose

      To compare the use of high fidelity simulation with traditional education as innovative
      method in the process of teaching and learning.

      Secondary purpose

      To propose the creation of a high fidelity scenario related to nursing care in medication
      administration;

      To identify the gains in theoretical and practical learning and in self-confidence of nursing
      undergraduate students after undergoing high fidelity simulation in medication
      administration;

      To assess the effectiveness and efficiency of using high fidelity simulation in the process
      of teaching and learning.
    
  