
    
      Background: Overweight or obesity is an established negative prognostic factor in both
      premenopausal and postmenopausal breast cancer. Adverse effects of adiposity on prognosis may
      be explained by effects on gonadal hormones, insulin, insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I, IGF
      binding proteins (IGFBPs), and leptin.

      Objective/Hypothesis: This study tests whether a multifaceted approach can achieve weight
      loss and maintenance in overweight or obese breast cancer survivors. The intervention
      incorporates cognitive-behavioral therapy, increased physical activity, diet modification,
      and strategies to improve body image and self-acceptance. This approach and intervention were
      developed and pilot-tested with support from a previous peer-reviewed grant. Weight change
      from baseline to one year in the pilot study (n=85) was -5.2 (6.3) kg (mean [SD]) in the
      intervention group vs. -0.1 (6.5) kg in the control group (P < 0.05), using intent to treat
      analysis with baseline values carried forward for dropouts.

      Specific aims: (1) To test whether the intervention promotes weight loss and maintenance of
      that loss over an 18-month time period in a larger group; (2) To describe the effect of the
      intervention on hormonal factors (insulin, leptin, IGF-I, IGFBP-1, IGFBP-3, sex-hormone
      binding globulin, and serum estrogens); and (3) To describe the relationships between body
      weight and weight reduction and measures of psychosocial factors (health-related quality of
      life, fatigue, depression, eating attitudes, and weight and shape concerns).

      Study design: The study targets 253 overweight or obese women previously treated for early
      stage breast cancer and utilizes a randomized study design with subjects assigned to the
      group-based healthy weight management program (with individualized telephone counseling
      support) or a wait-list control group. Data collection includes anthropometric and
      psychosocial measures, body composition (dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry), cardiopulmonary
      fitness testing, and hormonal measures at baseline and six and 18 months.
    
  