
    
      INTRODUCTION

      In ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) timely coronary reperfusion is the
      primary therapeutic goal to improve patients' outcome and to reduce left ventricular (LV)
      infarct size (IS). Unfortunately, despite successful reperfusion of the epicardial blood flow
      an impairment of microvascular perfusion persists in a significant number of patients, a
      phenomenon referred to as microvascular obstruction (MVO). This is a multifactorial process
      caused, among other factors, by microembolization, vasospasm and cells plugging. Cell
      reperfusion injury related to inflammation as well as to mitochondrial damage provoked by a
      rapid normalization of the acidotic myocardial environment do play a key role in the
      pathophysiology of MVO. In recent years MVO has been demonstrated to be a powerful and
      independent predictor of adverse outcome and larger IS. Cardiovascular magnetic resonance
      imaging (CMR) has become the state of the art technique for an early non-invasive
      comprehensive assessment of the structural consequences of STEMI, this including MVO.

      Availability of inexpensive and easy-to-implement therapies that could solidly reduce MVO and
      subsequently optimize the beneficial effects of prompt primary percutaneous intervention
      would be of utmost importance. In recent years ischemic postconditioning (PCON) has appeared
      as a promising option. It permits a progressive, rather than brisk, restoration of blood flow
      to the jeopardized myocardium by means of consecutive cycles of inflation and deflation of
      the angioplasty balloon used to open the acute coronary occlusion. Previous experimental
      evidence and preliminary clinical data suggest that this simple strategy exerts, in
      comparison with the traditional rapid reperfusion using single balloon inflations, a number
      of protective myocardial effects.

      During the last two years the effect of PCON on CMR-derived infarct size in STEMI patients
      has been evaluated but the results have been controversial. In routine practice, the time
      window to achieve any additional reduction in IS beyond that derived from timely coronary
      reperfusion is extremely tight. To the contrary, MVO owing to its pathophysiology and more
      progressive time course, seems a more suitable and realistic objective to explore the impact
      of this complementary therapy. Nevertheless the effect of PCON on MVO in STEMI is unknown so
      far.

      In the present study we aim to analyse the effect of PCON on CMR-derived MVO in a randomized
      series of patients with a first STEMI treated with primary angioplasty.

      METHODS

      Study group in patients:

      Patients of age ≥18 years admitted to two university hospitals for a first STEMI within the
      first 12 h of chest pain onset, with ST-segment elevation of >0.1 mV in at least 2 contiguous
      leads and for whom the clinical decision to treat with percutaneous coronary intervention is
      made, will be considered for inclusion.

      The exclusion criteria will be as follows: documented history of previous infarction; primary
      percutaneous revascularization not attempted; severe clinical or hemodynamic deterioration;
      left main stem disease; Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) 2-3 or Rentrop
      collateral flow grade ≥1 upon patient arrival; death, re-infarction, cardiac surgery or
      severe clinical deterioration before CMR study; patients who deny participation in the
      registry; any contraindications to CMR.

      The institutional ethics committees of the participating institutions has approved the
      research protocol and written informed consent will be obtained from all subjects. The study
      will be conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki.

      Reperfusion therapy in patients:

      STEMI patients admitted to the institutions participating in the present study will be
      randomly allocated to either the PCON or the non-PCON group. Randomization will be performed
      using a computer-generated randomization sequence. In summary, once diagnostic coronary
      angiography has been carried out and the decision to undertake primary angioplasty has been
      made, operators will acceed with their personal codes to a web page specifically developed
      for the present study (Universitat Politecnica, Valencia, Spain) where the patient will be
      recorded and, then, the study group assignment will be obtained.

      Baseline characteristics, clinical data and the TIMI risk score will be prospectively
      recorded in all cases. The percentage of sum ST-segment resolution 90 min after reperfusion
      therapy will be determined. Times over the upper reference limit (xURL) of creatine-kinase MB
      mass will be serially measured upon patient arrival and at 6, 12, 24 and 48 h after
      reperfusion and the peak value will be recorded.

      CMR study in patients:

      CMR (1.5-T, Sonata Magnetom, Siemens, Erlangen, Germany) will be performed 1 week after STEMI
      according to our laboratory protocol. All images will be acquired by a phased-array body
      surface coil during breath-holds and will be ECG-triggered.

      CMR studies will be analyzed in a core lab (INCLIVA, Valencia, Spain) by an experienced
      observer blinded to all patient data using customized software (QMASS MR, 6.1.5, Medis,
      Leiden, The Netherlands).

      In cine imaging, LV ejection fraction (%), end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes indexes
      (ml/m2) and mass (g/m²) will be calculated by manual planimetry of endocardial and epicardial
      borders of all short-axis views (Figure 2).

      MVO will be visually defined as a lack of contrast uptake in the core of tissue showing late
      gadolinium enhancement (Figure 2); the extent of MVO will be manually defined and expressed
      as percentage of LV mass. In order to avoid artifacts and based on the prognostic value
      previously demonstrated by our study group, significant MVO will be considered to be present
      if it is detected in more than one segment using the 17-segment model.

      The intra-observer variability for the quantification of all exposed CMR parameters in our
      core lab has been previously determined and is less than 5%.

      Endpoint:

      The primary endpoint of the present study will be to assess the effect of PCON on the
      occurrence and extent of MVO in STEMI patients treated with primary angioplasty. The
      secondary endpoint will be to explore, in the same scenario, the effect of PCON on IS.

      Statistical analysis:

      The target sample size has been calculated to assess the effect of PCON on the occurrence of
      MVO measured by CMR imaging. The expected effect was a 50% reduction in the occurrence of MVO
      with a statistical power of 80% and a probability of a type I error of 0.05 with a 2-sided
      test. Assuming a drop-out rate of 25%, the total sample consists of 98 patients randomized
      equally to the two groups. For security reasons we will randomized 132 patients.

      Continuous variables will be tested for normal distribution using the one-sample
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Continuous normally distributed data will be expressed as the mean ±
      standard deviation and compared using the Student's t-test. Non-parametric data will be
      expressed as the median with the interquartile range and will be compared with the
      Mann-Whitney U-test. Group percentages will be compared using the chi-square test or Fisher's
      exact test where appropriate.

      Statistical significance will be considered for two-tailed p <0.05. SPSS 11.0 (SPSS Inc,
      Chicago, Illinois, USA) was used throughout.
    
  