
    
      A free monitoring app 'COVID-19 Symptom Tracker' has been developed by health technology
      company Zoe Global Limited in collaboration with scientists at King's College London, Harvard
      Medical School, Massachusetts General Hospital and Stanford University. A web-based
      equivalent is being developed for those unable to download this app. This new app records and
      monitors the symptoms of COVID-19 coronavirus infection; tracking in real time how the
      disease progresses. The app also records how measures aimed at controlling the pandemic
      including self-isolation and distancing affect the mental health and well-being of
      participants. The app also allows self-reporting where no symptoms are experienced such that
      it records any users that feel healthy and normal.

      The app, has been launched in both the UK and the US. Researchers in other countries are
      encouraged to obtain the required approvals from Apple and Google to make the app available
      in their territories.

      The data from the study will reveal important information about the symptoms and progress of
      COVID-19 infection in different people, and why some go on to develop more severe or fatal
      disease while others have only mild symptoms do not.

      It is also hoped that the data generated from this study will help the urgent clinical need
      to distinguish mild coronavirus symptoms from seasonal coughs and colds, which may be leading
      people to unnecessarily self-isolate when they aren't infected or inadvertently go out and
      spread the disease when they are.

      Users download the free app COVID-19 Symptom Tracker and record information about their
      health on a daily basis, including temperature, tiredness and symptoms such as coughing,
      breathing problems or headaches.

      The app is available internationally to the general population and will also be used in two
      large epidemiological cohorts: The TwinsUK cohort (n=15,000) and Nurses Health Study
      (n=280,000).

      The app will allow scientists to study the spread and development of symptoms across whole
      populations, both in the UK and abroad, as well as detailed genetic and other studies,
      particularly with the twins cohort

      Any data gathered from the app and study will be used strictly for public health or academic
      research and will not be used commercially or sold.
    
  