
    
      INTRODUCTION: The Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an infectious disease transmitted
      one person to another mainly from cough and sneeze aerosols as well as from contaminated
      surfaces. The most common respiratory symptoms are dry cough, fever, and dyspnea, but the
      Severe Respiratory Acute Syndrome (SARS) can be installed increasing disease´s mortality. In
      addition, neurological symptoms have been described according the increase of severity and
      age. Changes of intracranial pressure (ICP) can partially explain the Central Nervous System
      (CNS) impairment due to COVID-19. The ICP waveform can bring relevant information about
      intracranial compliance, and, nowadays, it can be measured by non-invasive technology.
      Clinically, non-invasive ICP waveform assessment would help to understand the repercussion of
      Invasive Mechanical Ventilation (IMV) on CNS in COVID-19 persons. AIMS: This study aims to
      evaluate the ICP waveform in intubated and non-intubated COVID-19 persons. Furthermore, the
      association between ICP and IMV parameters, level of sedation, heart rate variability,
      neurological symptoms, neuroimage, and final discharge will be investigated. . METHODS: At
      least 30 COVID-19 individuals will be included within 72h from admission and 14 days from
      symptoms onset. They will be divided into two groups: non-intubated (n=15) and intubated,
      paired with non-COVID-19 ones (non-intubated and intubated non-COVID-19 groups,
      respectively). The non-invasive ICP monitoring will be daily performed for 7 consecutive
      days. The Brain4Care's device and Analytic System will be used to assess the three pulse
      peaks (P1, 2 and 3) at the ICP waveform. The following variables will be investigated: P1 and
      P2 amplitude, P2/P1 ratio, time to peak and time percentage of P2 higher than P1. For
      statistics, all variables will be tested as to their normal or non-normal distribution
      through appropriate statical analyzes. For basic demographic and clinical variables,
      descriptive data analysis will be used. The repetitive measurement Anova will be used for ICP
      outcomes throughout the days. Pearson's or Spearman´s correlations will be applied according
      to data distribution.
    
  