
    
      Background:

      Schizophrenia, a chronic psychiatric disorder, is the second most frequent VA discharge
      diagnosis. Medication management practices for schizophrenia often are not
      guideline-concordant and place patients at risk for adverse outcomes. This project tests a
      new strategy to standard implementation for VHA Schizophrenia Guidelines.

      Objectives:

      Research objectives are: (1) to compare the effectiveness of a conceptually-based, enhanced
      intervention to that of a basic educational strategy with regard to improving guideline
      adherence and patient compliance; (2) to compare the effectiveness of the two strategies with
      regard to improving symptom and side effect outcomes; (3) to determine the effect of the
      enhanced intervention on service utilization for acute exacerbations of schizophrenia; (4) to
      determine the extent to which guideline-concordant medication management improves patient
      outcomes; and (5) to examine providers' knowledge of and attitudes toward guidelines.

      Methods:

      Thirteen VA sites were considered for the study, and VistA data were extracted to assess
      baseline guideline performance. Seven sites were selected and received basic education about
      schizophrenia guidelines. Three of these sites were randomly selected to receive the enhanced
      intervention, employing a nurse coordinator to promote providers' guideline adherence and
      patients' treatment adherence. Subjects with an acute exacerbation of schizophrenia were
      enrolled and were interviewed at baseline and six months using the Positive and Negative
      Syndrome Scale, the Schizophrenia Outcomes Module, and the Barnes Akathisia Scale. Data on
      guideline adherence were collected from medical records and VistA files. When data collection
      is completed, analyses will be conducted to determine the effectiveness of the enhanced
      intervention with regard to improving guideline adherence and patient outcomes.

      Status:

      The project is ongoing. To date, 401 subjects have been enrolled in the intervention study.
      The rate of completed follow-up assessments to date is 86 percent.
    
  