
    
      A skull defect is inevitable in patients with traumatic brain injury undergoing decompression
      treatment, which results in a loss of physiological and functional integrity of the brain
      that makes atmospheric pressure directly act on the brain tissue to induce environmental
      disorders in the brain. Moreover, with the changes in the body position, the contents of the
      brain often move in an unstable position, and with the extension of time, there may be
      compensatory ventricular enlargement and brain atrophy, eventually causing neurological
      dysfunction and cognitive disorders. Therefore, it is imperative to repair the skull defect.

      There are many repair materials for skull defects, including autogenous bone, allogeneic
      bone, nonmetallic materials (plexiglass, bone cement, silicone rubber, etc.) and titanium
      mesh. The performance of different materials have their own advantages and disadvantages, and
      titanium alloy is an ideal repair material and has been widely used in clinical practice
      because of good biocompatibility and strength, no aging, low density, non-iron atoms, ability
      to be not magnetized in magnetic fields, and no influence on CT, MRI, EEG and X-ray
      examination.

      The timing for repair of skull defect after traumatic brain injury is still controversial.
      Some scholars believe that if there is no hydrocephalus and intracranial infection after
      decompression with removal of bone flap, skull repair should be proceeded as soon as possible
      to isolate the scalp from the dura mater and recover the normal intracranial pressure by
      easing the negative effects of the scalp, such as cerebrovascular traction, compression and
      distortions. Most importantly, early skull repair is able to reduce a variety of secondary
      neurological deficits due to skull defects, increase brain surface blood flow, and thus
      reduce epileptic attack. Of course, some scholars recommend late-stage skull repair, and they
      believe hematoma absorption after decompressive surgery is a long process, and in some
      patients, hematoma will be completely absorbed in about 3 months or even longer, which may
      result in secondary brain edema. Moreover, surgical trauma exerts negative effect on the
      brain tissue recovery, which is not conducive to neurologic rehabilitation.

      As there is no unified conclusion on the timing for the repair of skull defects,
      investigators conducted a multi-sample, double-blind, randomized, clinical trial, to collect
      craniocerebral injury patients undergoing decompression with removal of bone graft who were
      randomized into two groups to receive early skull repair in test group and late-stage skull
      repair in control group. CT perfusion technology was used to monitor the blood perfusion in
      the brain before and after skull repair and to compare the changes of blood perfusion in the
      brain tissue and neurological recovery in patients undergoing early or late-stage skull
      repair.
    
  