
    
      Obesity is an important medical problem. The number of obese individuals is increasing
      continuously in response to various environmental and genetic factors. For some morbidly
      obese patients, surgery is the only effective type of therapy. Despite bariatric surgery
      having good outcomes in terms of weight loss, it is associated with some adverse effects:
      several studies have reported subsequent alterations in bone and muscle metabolism, patients
      are getting in risk of sarcopenia. Of the surgical techniques available (laparoscopic gastric
      banding, Roux-en-Y bypass, biliopancreatic diversion), laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG)
      is currently the technique of choice. This type of surgery leads to significant changes in
      body composition. Significant fat loss is followed by unwanted muscle loss. To the algorithm
      of postoperative care the investigators plan to include controlled exercise programs for
      these patients. The investigators do not know what the complexity and time required to keep
      patients in good condition and reduce the risk of sarcopenia is. The investigators want to
      find the adequate amount of physical activity while maintaining long-term compliance of these
      patients.

      The study has been designed as a prospective randomized study, which is in conformity with
      the principles and guidelines of the Helsinki Declaration, good clinical practice and will be
      approved by the Ethical Committee of the Hospital AGEL Ostrava-Vitkovice, Czech Republic.

      Potential study participants will undergo an initial examination at the clinical department
      of the surgical department specializing in obesity. In addition to professional surgical and
      internal examination, the potential patient will be examined by a clinical psychologist for
      the ability to participate in this type of study for a long time. Informed consent will be
      provided to selected study participants.

      50 patients who undergo surgery will be randomized in two cohorts:

        -  Cohort 1: obese patients with LSG: 25 patients with controlled aerobic / anaerobic
           activity

        -  Cohort 2: obese LSG patients 25 patients without controlled physical activity

      The patients enrolled in the study are followed for the period of 24 months. Individual will
      be evaluated before the bariatric procedure and 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after the
      procedure.

      Primary goal of the study is to evaluate the Hypothesis 0 : there is no difference between
      muscle function, volume and morphology between patients after BM operations who are no longer
      controlled by physical activity and between patients who undergo controlled regular exercise
      programs under professional supervision.

      Secondary objectives: Monitoring of knee cartilage during weight reduction after bariatric
      surgery and monitoring of gait biomechanics during weight reduction after bariatric surgery

      Patients undergo the following examinations:

      Weight: body weight will be measured on a calibrated scale. The measurement itself will be
      performed in underwear, without shoes.

      Waist circumference: the circumference will be measured using a fixed tape measure.

      Body composition: measurement of body composition of obese individuals will be performed
      using DXA (Dual-emission X-ray absorptiometry, Discovery A, Hologic).

      Examination of muscle mass and muscle strength:

        -  Muscle mass: measurement of the composition and structure of skeletal muscles and fat in
           the thigh will be performed using MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging)

        -  Muscle strength: the measurement will be performed using a battery of tests:

      handgrip dynamometer, chair-stand-walk test, test of getting up from a chair, test of 400
      meters walk

      Physical activity:

        -  physical activity questionnaire

        -  controlled regular exercise programs: patients will be divided into two cohorts - with
           and without physical intervention. Patients included in the intervention cohort with
           physical activity will undergo three months of strength endurance training under the
           supervision of a professional physiotherapist.

      Quality of life: calibrated 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) and The Impact of Weight
      on Quality of Life (IWQOL) questionnaire

      Biochemical analyzes:

      Blood samples will be taken from each test subject after 12 hours of fasting by venipuncture
      before the actual bariatric procedure and then repeatedly in the follow-up period after the
      procedure. The samples will be centrifuged under standard conditions and the concentrations
      of the following substances will then be determined in the serum samples:

      • glucose, glycated hemoglobin, alkaline phosphatase, total calcium, phosphates, parathyroid
      hormone, total protein, albumin, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase,
      gamma-glutamyltransferase, creatinine. After determination of these analytes, serum (plasma)
      aliquots will be frozen at -80 ° C until analysis of other selected parameters.

      WITHDRAWAL FROM THE STUDY

      Persons involved in the study may terminate their participation or be excluded from the study
      at any time for the following reasons:

        -  Death of the subject

        -  Voluntary withdrawal from the study: the subject voluntarily decides not to continue in
           the next part of the study.

        -  Loss from follow-up: the subject does not show up for scheduled inspections more than
           one month after the scheduled inspection or examination.

        -  Risk / benefit ratio: while evaluating the results during follow-up, the clinical
           coordinator finds that continuing the study is not in the best interests of the subject
           with respect to the subject.
    
  