
    
      Retinal nonperfusion drives vision-threatening complications such as pathological
      neovascularization, which can lead to neovascular glaucoma, vitreous hemorrhage, or
      tractional retinal detachments and macular edema in various retinal vascular diseases
      including diabetic retinopathy and retinal vein occlusion. Silva et al revealed that retinal
      nonperfusion area was correlated highly with diabetic retinopathy severity in their recent
      paper. It should be clarified that retinal nonperfusion is not synonymous with retinal
      ischemia, which implies tissue hypoxia, but is a useful surrogate.

      Retinal nonperfusion has known to be associated with the production of vascular endothelial
      factor (VEGF). Recently, Campochiaro et al reported that neutralization of VEGF using
      ranibizumab improved macular edema and reversed the worsening of retinal nonperfusion in
      patients with retinal vein occlusion and diabetic macular edema. The precise mechanism for
      improved perfusion in the VEGF treated eye is uncertain. The authors suggested that VEGF
      exacerbates retinal ischemia by increasing leukostasis, and intravitreal anti-VEGF agents may
      break the feedback loop, allowing reperfusion to occur. There might be a portion of
      circulation that is closed but not permanently, and this reversible closure is modulated by
      VEGF.

      The study by Campochiaro et al, however, was limited in that they reviewed retinal
      nonperfusion within a template consisting of the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy
      subfields mainly confined to posterior pole of the fundus. Wide-field retinal imaging is an
      imaging technique that allows a view of almost 200° of the fundus in a single image. It has
      been well shown that wide-field scans allow the detection of peripheral pathology that may be
      missed on 75 degrees of achieved by montaging the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study
      7-standard fields.

      To investigators knowledge, there has been no previous study evaluating the longitudinal
      change of retinal nonperfusion after aflibercept treatment in a larger area of the retina by
      taking advantage of the 200° field of view in diabetic retinopathy. The main purpose of this
      study is to determine the efficacy of intravitreal aflibercept injection in improvement of
      retinal nonperfusion and identify associated factors in patients with nonproliferative
      diabetic retinopathy with moderate retinal nonperfusion.
    
  