
    
      All patients will have preoperative evaluation by gynecologists and anesthetists, with
      history taking and pelvic examination. A TVS scan will be done to determine the number, size
      and location of the myomas, and evaluate the myometrial free margin (the minimum thickness
      between the outer edge of the myoma and inner edge of the uterine serosa), which was found to
      be ideally ≥ 10 mm (11). Prior office diagnostic hysteroscopy will be performed for
      evaluation of the number, location and grade of the submucous myomas, and assessment of the
      endocervical canal and uterine cavity and the position of the tubal ostia in order to aid
      orientation. Preoperative full blood count, serum creatinine, fasting blood glucose, liver
      enzymes, coagulation profile ( INR), and viral markers will be done for all the patients.
      Monopolar resectoscopic myomectomies will be scheduled in the proliferative phase of
      menstrual cycle by a single experienced operator.

      After induction of general anesthesia, immediately before the operation, participants will
      receive either 1 ml of carbetocin (100 mcg/ml) IV over 1 minute (study group) or 1 ml of
      sodium chloride 0.9% IV over 1 minute (control group). The procedure will be done using the
      available standard setup and the distending solution used will be 1.5% glycine. A drape with
      a fluid-collection pouch (Lingeman 3 in 1 Procedure Drape, Lingeman Medical Products, Inc.,
      Indianapolis, IN) placed beneath the woman's buttocks will be used to collect outflow fluid
      escaping between the cervix and sheath to prevent spillage of irrigating fluid onto the
      floor. Fluid inflow and outflow will be monitored every 3-5 minutes. The outflow fluid will
      be measured to the nearest milliliter. The inflow and outflow volumes of the distension
      solution will be carefully monitored continuously during the procedure by nurses not involved
      in the study under the current monitoring protocol at the operating theater. The procedure
      would be terminated if the fluid imbalance reached 1 L.

      After completing the procedure, the surgeon completed a record sheet for rating of bleeding
      amount and the quality of operative view. Postoperative full blood count will be done for all
      patients 24 hours after the procedures. Preoperative and postoperative hemoglobin and
      hematocrit, the need for blood transfusion, the duration of operation, any operative
      complications and medication adverse effects will be recorded.
    
  