
    
      The investigators will study the effect of right cerebellar transcranial direct current
      stimulation (tDCS) stimulation during language therapy for naming in individuals with chronic
      aphasia (>6 months post stroke). Naming difficulties are a persistent and common symptom in
      aphasia after left-hemisphere (LH) stroke. Although the interventions to improve naming can
      have benefits, a massive number of treatment sessions is usually required to show gains,
      particularly in individuals with chronic, large LH stroke. tDCS is a promising adjunct to
      traditional language therapy. tDCS is a safe, non-invasive, non-painful electrical
      stimulation of the brain which modulates cortical excitability by application of weak
      electrical currents in the form of direct current brain polarization. It is usually
      administered via saline-soaked surface sponge electrodes attached to the scalp and connected
      to a direct current stimulator with low intensities. Prior investigators have mainly focused
      on the role of LH in language recovery, wherein the electrode is placed in the left frontal
      or temporal region. However, in individuals with large lesions involving key language areas
      like the frontal and temporal cortex, it may be difficult to find viable tissue to stimulate
      in the LH. This study uses a novel electrode placement for chronic stroke patients with
      aphasia with large LH lesions. Targeting the intact right cerebellum allows for the
      possibility of identifying a single target that can be used across groups of people with
      aphasia with varying lesion sites and size in the LH. Evidence from functional neuroimaging
      and clinical studies indicate that the right cerebellum is important for both language and
      cognitive functions.

      The investigators will utilize a randomized, double-blind, sham controlled, within-subject
      crossover trial design. A random subset (half) of participants will be assigned to the
      "anode" group (Group Anode) and other half will be assigned to the 'cathode' group (Group
      Cathode). Participants will take part in 2 intervention periods of 15 computerized naming
      training sessions (3-5 sessions per week), with either tDCS + naming therapy or sham+ naming
      therapy, separated by 2 months. Detailed language evaluation will take place before,
      immediately after, 2 weeks and 2 months post-intervention for each condition. The
      investigators will test the hypothesis that anodal tDCS or cathodal tDCS over the cerebellum
      and computerized naming therapy is associated with greater gains in accuracy in naming
      pictures, compared to sham combined with the same computerized naming therapy.
    
  