
    
      Introduction

      The most effective anesthetic technique for inguinal hernia repair remains a controversial
      issue; however, paravertebral block (PVB) has resulted in significant postoperative
      analgesia, less postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) and short hospital stay compared to
      general anesthesia (GA), spinal anesthesia (SA) and ilioinguinal nerve block.

      Elderly patients usually have higher risk for developing mental disturbances and
      cardiopulmonary complications following GA. Hence, elderly patients may benefit from PVB.
      Although PVB has shown satisfactory outcome; nevertheless, there is no standardized PVB
      regarding the technique and number of injections.

      Based on this background, the objective of this prospective double-blinded study is to
      compare three nerve stimulator- guided PVB injections versus five injections for elderly
      patients undergoing hernia repair regarding intraoperative hemodynamic stability and
      postoperative pain.

      Methods Following approval of the Institutional Review Board, written informed consent will
      be obtained from 200 patients aged above 65 years with ASA II, III or IV admitted to undergo
      elective unilateral inguinal hernia repair between September 2015 and September 2016.

      The sealed envelope technique is used to divide the patients into two groups. Group III (100
      patients) will receive three PVB injections from T12 to L2 and placebo at T11 and L3. Group V
      (100 patients) will receive five PVB injections between T11 and L3. The anesthetist, surgeon,
      patient and data collector are all blind to the patients' group.

      ECG leads, pulse oximetry and non-invasive oscillometric arterial pressure are attached.
      Patients will be given 1 µg/kg intravenous (IV) fentanyl (Fentanyl Hameln 10 ml, 0.05 mg/ml,
      Hameln Pharmaceuticals, Germany) as premedication. Unilateral PVB will be performed while the
      patient is in the lateral decubitus position with the side to be operated being upwards.
      Sites of injection are marked 2.5-3 cm lateral to the midline of the vertebral column.

      Paravertebral block technique Following aseptic preparation of the skin, the injection sites
      are infiltrated with 0.1 ml of lidocaine 1% each using an 8 mm, 30 G needle (BD Micro-Fine
      Plus, Becton Dickinson and company, USA). PVB injections are done using a 100 mm 22 G nerve
      stimulator needle (Stimuplex, B.Braun, Melsungen, Germany). The injections begin at L3 and
      proceed upwards reaching to T11. The needle is introduced perpendicularly to the skin at the
      site of the injection point using the following nerve stimulator settings: 5mA, 9V and 2Hz.
      The stimulating needle is gently manipulated into a position to allow for an adequate
      muscular response with a stimulating current of 0.4-0.8 mA. Then, the injection is performed.
      Block onset is determined by cold test and pinprick test.

      In order to preserve the double blindness of this clinical trial, two syringes will be used
      for both groups. The first syringe labeled (A) (20 ml) is filled with 15 mL of solution and
      used to perform equal injections at the levels T12, L1, and L2 (5mL each). The second syringe
      labeled (B) (10 ml) is used to inject the solution at the levels T11 and L3 (5 ml each).

      To ensure equal anesthetic dose of 75 mg of bupivacaine for each patient, the syringes are
      prepared as follows:

      For group V, both syringes (A) and (B) contain 3mg of bupivacaine/ml whereas for group III,
      the syringe (A) is prepared with 5 mg bupivacaine/ml while syringe (B) contains placebo.

      To allow for adequate blinding, the solution used for injection (saline or local anesthetic
      mixture) is prepared by an independent nurse outside the operating room.

      If a patient feels pain during the surgery, 50 - 100 µg IV fentanyl will be given and
      followed by 0.4-0.5 mg/kg propofol if needed while keeping the patient responsive to verbal
      stimulation. If the latter is not sufficient, the patient is converted to GA.

      Data Collection Demographic and preoperative variables are collected. Time to perform the
      block, intraoperative hemodynamic monitoring (MAP and HR) are noted during the entire surgery
      and recorded pre-incision, at skin incision, at inguinal hernia sac traction, and upon wound
      closure. Supplemental intraoperative fentanyl and propofol is recorded. Surgery duration,
      incidence of PONV and numbness are noted.

      Patients' satisfaction is also assessed based on their comfort and activity during the
      procedure, intra- and postoperatively. Patient's comfort is determined by: feeling of pain,
      PONV, and negative memory of the procedural experience. The patient's activity is based on
      the ability to sit, move and walk. Patients rate these on a scale of one to three ranging
      from satisfied, partially satisfied, and unsatisfied. Surgeon's satisfaction is based on the
      overall intra- and postoperative status of the patient. It is measured based on the
      following: patient's movement or feeling pain during the operation, self-transportation from
      the surgical table to stretcher, and postoperative pain.

      Postoperative pain is assessed during the first five postoperative days (0 hr, 6 hr, 12 hr,
      and day 1 till day 5) using the Verbal Numeric Rating Scale (VNRS) (0 no pain and 10 worst
      possible pain). Patients will be discharged the same day once they had urinated and
      demonstrated ability to tolerate oral diet. Data will be collected during the hospital stay
      by residents blind to the patient's group. Patients will be contacted by the same resident
      during the follow-up period through daily phone calls.
    
  