
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is 1 of the 5 most common malignancies worldwide and the third
      most common cause of cancer related mortality of 500,000 deaths globally every year. Although
      more common in East Asia, the incidence of HCC is increasing in the Western world. Hepatic
      resection is the first-line therapeutic option and it is accepted as a safe treatment with a
      proven impact on prognosis, with a low operative mortality as the result of advances in
      surgical techniques and perioperative management. Nevertheless, surgical resection is
      applicable in only about 20% to 30% of patients with HCC, since most have poor hepatic
      reserve function caused by underlying chronic liver disease and multifocal hepatic
      distributions of HCC.

      Although hepatic resection is one of the curative treatments for hepatocellular carcinoma,
      the recurrence rate of HCC even after curative resection is quite high, estimated to be
      approximately 50 % during the first 3 years and more than 70 % during the first 5 years after
      curative resection, and so the postoperative long term results remain unsatisfactory. In this
      scenario the role of liver transplantation has been, in the last years, predominant, due to
      the ability of transplant to reduce disease recurrence, because of the treatment of liver
      cirrhosis associate to HCC which represent the most important driver to recurrence. Otherwise
      the scarcity of organ source has been a boost to the spread of liver resection, not only
      confined in the boundary taken into account in the BCLC algorithm (guidelines endorsed by
      EASL and AASLD), but even in patients considered not suitable for curative treatment as well
      as liver resection.

      Although surgical treatment has been adopted in the last years in more patients outside the
      Guidelines with satisfactory results in term of mortality, morbidity and Short term
      oncological outcomes, the limits of this approach remain the long term disease free survival.

      Risk factor for recurrence has been yet identified in the last years as hcc dimension,
      grading, microvascular invasion and satellitosis. The evidence that these two prognostic
      factors could negatively impact on the long term prognosis enhancing the risk of recurrence,
      has led many Author to propose anatomical resection (segmental resection) as the ideal
      surgical treatment to reduce these risks in HCC patients. Otherwise literature results are in
      conflict regarding the real benefit of this approach. In fact in many patients with HCC and
      underlying cirrhosis the anatomical approach is not feasible due to the risk of postoperative
      liver failure. So a parenchyma-sparing technique has been developed and compared to
      anatomical resection in term of oncological outcomes. Even if radiological and clinical
      pictures seems to predict the prognosis of resected HCC, the pathophysiology behind the
      recurrence is still unclear.Currently, data suggests two type of recurrence presentation:
      intrahepatic metastasization (IM) and multicentric occurrence (MO) of de novo HCC based on
      the precancerous status of the remnant diseased liver. Several effort has been done to
      preoperatively identified the 2 pattern of recurrences. Genetical studied has been performed,
      especially in eastern countries to better clarify and understand the impact of the 2
      phenomena. In the japanese guidelines are described histo-pathological hallmarks able, in
      retrospect, to define the type of recurrence, metastases or de novo tumor. Moreover, several
      recent studies including a metanalysis, seems to show that de novo recurrence could have a
      better prognosis when approached surgically, with a significant improvement in overall and
      disease-free survival rates. The model of HCC recurrence is not yet well clarified as well as
      the best treatment of hcc recurrence. On these data is based the proposal to create an
      Italian study project on surgical treatment and surgical outcomes of hepatocellular carcinoma
      in term of disease free survival. The idea growth up from the finding that, although the
      curative intent of surgical approach, results are not so satisfactory and it seems to not
      ameliorate the long term patient's prognosis and long term disease-free outcome without the
      need for therapies, conditioning the real everyday life of patient. In Italy is not yet
      present a study group that draw together the experience of surgical centers with low,medium
      or high volume of surgical procedures on HCC, with the intent to offer radical cure through
      surgery as the first choice treatment. The intent is to collect Big Data through a common
      database, with high power of analysis and high scientific impact, to better understand the
      mechanism which regulate HCC recurrence and to identify the best clinical treatment option
      for these patients.
    
  