
    
      Most types of head and neck cancer develop in the lining of cells found within many parts of
      the head and neck. Each year, more than 40,000 adults are diagnosed with head and neck cancer
      in the United States. The leading cause of this type of cancer is tobacco use. Common signs
      and symptoms of head and neck cancer include blood in saliva; frequent nose bleeds; and
      difficulty chewing, swallowing, or breathing. Effective treatments for head and neck cancer
      are available if the cancer is found in its early stages. However, treatment is difficult,
      causing many people to become depressed within 3 months of being diagnosed. Unfortunately,
      depression can lead to delays in treatment, impair quality of life, and decrease long-term
      survival. The purpose of this study is to determine whether the use of antidepressant
      medication initiated prior to starting treatment will prevent the onset of depression during
      treatment in non-depressed head and neck cancer patients. This study will also determine if
      escitalopram will maintain quality of life during treatment, improve participation in
      treatment, decrease delays and premature discontinuation of treatment, and reduce alcohol and
      tobacco use in patients with head and neck cancer.

      All participants will attend an initial screening, followed by eight clinic visits. The first
      clinic visit will include completion of an interview and brief questionnaires regarding
      depression, mental and emotional health, alcohol and tobacco use, and quality of life.
      Participants will then be randomly assigned to receive 16 weeks of the antidepressant
      escitalopram or a placebo pill. Participants will take 10 mg of their assigned medication
      every day for the first week and then 20 mg of their assigned medication every day for the
      remaining 15 weeks. Participants will visit the clinic every 2 weeks during treatment, at
      which time they will answer questions similar to those asked at the initial visit. Any
      medication side effects will also be recorded at each visit. Once treatment has been
      completed, participants will visit the clinic three more times over a period of 12 weeks.
      Similar questions as those at treatment visits will be asked. Results from this study will be
      used to assess whether depression is preventable in head and neck cancer patients if
      antidepressant medication is initiated before treatment begins.
    
  