
    
      The incidence of crush is one of the important indicators of the quality of health care in
      various medical institutions in the world. The Taiwan Hospital Evaluation and Medical Quality
      Council (referred to as the Medical Policy Council) listed crush as a quality indicator of
      clinical care in 2011 (Taiwan Clinical Effectiveness indicator system, 2011), the incidence
      of crush is also a sensitive indicator of nursing care, reflecting the effectiveness of the
      structure, process and results of nursing care (Cai, Zheng, Liu, 2011). Reducing the
      incidence of crush has been the goal of the joint efforts of health care institutions. In
      2008, the US CMS announced that it would stop paying for the treatment of crushed patients in
      hospitals, allowing medical institutions to pay more attention to the prevention of crushing,
      so many promote the quality of medical care The organizations have put forward relevant
      strategies, including the announcement of evidence-based tools for predicting and evaluating
      crush injuries, guidelines on the classification and prevention of crush injuries, and
      training materials for crush education (Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, 2014;
      Edsberg et al ., 2016; Institute for Healthcare Improvement, 2017). The occurrence of
      pressure injury can be prevented. Many studies have explored the reasons why nursing staff
      cannot implement the behaviors of pressure injury prevention. The results show that the
      common obstacles are the lack of time and manpower of nursing staff, lack of relevant
      education and training, and failure to provide standard operations. Routine, physicians did
      not participate, etc. (Jankowski & Nadzam, 2011; Moore & Price, 2004; Worsley, Clarkson,
      Bader, & Schoonhoven, 2016).

      At the same time, many researchers have explored the impact of various education and training
      methods on nursing staff's cognition, behavior and attitude related to the prevention and
      treatment of crush. They can all prove that education and training measures can significantly
      improve nursing staff's cognition. These important changes must be carefully considered as to
      what learning or training methods should be used to provide first-line nursing staff to
      familiarize them with and correctly perform practical operations. Clinical nurses are faced
      with ever-changing patient situations. The goal of learning is not only to transfer knowledge
      to enhance cognition, but more importantly, how to transform knowledge into clinical practice
      skills and provide clinical decision-making with appropriate care measures in response to
      different situations. Ability, teaching must use multiple strategies to achieve this goal,
      providing a real and interactive learning environment, allowing nurses to participate in
      operational activities in a simulated real environment, repeatedly learning related knowledge
      and techniques, and strengthen the proficiency of clinical applications And to build
      consensus on care can improve the quality of work (Norman, 2012).

      The purpose of this study: based on the nursing of crushed wounds, intervene in education and
      training courses, and add elements of flipped learning, to evaluate the effectiveness of KAP
      (knowledge, attitude, practice) and self efficacy of nursing staff for learning crushed
      nursing.
    
  