
    
      Gait enables individuals to move forward and is considered a natural skill. However, gait
      disturbances are very common in patients with burn injury. Major causes of functional
      impairment are pain and joint contractures. Contractures at the lower extremities such as the
      hip, knee, and ankle significantly limit gait. Recent studies focused on the application of
      robot-assisted gait training (RAGT).

      This single-blinded, randomized, controlled trial involved 40 patients with lower extremity
      burns. Patients were randomized into a RAGT or a CON group.

      SUBAR® (CRETEM, Korea) is a wearable robot with a footplate that assists patients to perform
      voluntary muscle movements. RAGT enables training of automatically programmed normal gait
      pattern. Patients underwent 30 min of RAGT using SUBAR® and conventional exercise
      rehabilitation each for 30 min once a day for 5 days a week for 12 weeks. The CON group
      focused on gait training such as passive ROM exercise, weight bearing training, manual
      lymphatic drainage, and hypertrophic scar care for 60 min once a day for 5 days a week for 12
      weeks.

      A wearable functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) device has been developed for
      studying cortical hemodynamics. Changes in cortical activity has not previously been
      documented in patients with burn injury. Cortical activity was measured by evaluating
      relative changes in oxyhemoglobin level. The NIRST Analysis Tool v2.1 was utilized to analyze
      fNIRS data in a MATLAB environment. Functional scores of functional ambulation category
      (FAC), 6-minute walking test (6MWT) distances, and numeric rating scale (NRS) scores of pain
      before and after 12 weeks RAGT were measured. Numeric rating scale (NRS) was used to rate the
      degree of subjective pain during gait movement: 0 points were assigned when no pain was
      noted, and unbearable pain was assigned 10 points. To evaluate functional recovery, FAC
      scores and 6-minute walking test (6MWT) distances were measured. FAC was evaluated based on
      six scales. Scale 0 means that the patient cannot walk or can only walk with assistance of
      two people. Scale 5 means that the patient can walk independently. We measured
      walking-related cortical activity using an fNIRS device before and after 12 weeks RAGT.
    
  