
    
      Study design: We will conduct a 2x2 factorial design intervention pilot trial including 1500
      men and women aged 16-29-years old and living in the AHRI surveillance area. The study
      duration will be 18 months. We will randomly offer one of four combinations of interventions
      in a factorial trial to 1500 consenting men and women aged 16-29-years old and living in our
      study area.

      Study outcomes: (1) a reduction of the proportion of individuals with infectious HIV (i.e.
      remaining HIV negative or with an undetectable HIV viral load on treatment if positive) and
      (2) uptake of comprehensive HIV prevention services, including Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis
      (PrEP) if negative and antiretroviral (ART) if positive. We will also evaluate uptake of
      contraception, incidence of pregnancy, mental health and quality of life.

      Study Population and Recruitment: Research assistants (RAs) will approach 3000 randomly
      selected 16-29-year old males and females selected from our demographic surveillance area in
      their homes. From our experience we expect that 2000 will still be eligible, i.e. aged 16-29
      and still living in the surveillance area. RAs will provide information about the study to
      all eligible participants and consent (in the case of 16-17-year-olds assent with parental
      consent) them to a) be offered an intervention and b) to be followed up at 12 months to
      measure the outcome. We anticipate that n=1500 [75% (73-77%)] will consent to participate.

      Interventions: a) Standard of Care (SOC): RAs refer participants to adolescent and youth
      friendly services with family planning, HIV testing and ART if positive and PrEP for those
      eligible and negative (according to the South African national Department of Health
      guidelines); b) SRH enhanced arm (Isisekelo Sempilo): Self-collected vaginal and urine
      samples are collected at enrolment. RAs provide clinic appointment for results, treatment and
      sexual health promotion and services. These promote fertility and family planning; HIV
      testing, and benefits of ART including Undetectable=Uninfectious amongst positives and PrEP
      for those eligible and negative; c) Peer-support (Thetha-Nami): RAs refer the participant to
      a peer navigator in their community. Peer navigators will assess their health, social and
      educational needs, provide mentorship, and help them access the services they need. The peer
      navigator will facilitate attendance, adherence and retention at the clinic; or d) SRH +
      peer-support.

      Data Collection: We will measure linkage to clinical services within 60 days of randomisation
      and adverse events. At 12 months from enrolment RAs will approach all those who consented at
      baseline to conduct a tablet-based survey on uptake of HIV prevention and care services,
      uptake of contraception and pregnancy, mental health (using PHQ9), and quality of life. They
      will collect dry blood spot for HIV ELISA and HIV viral load, and offer point of-care HIV
      testing, STI testing and treatment. We will conduct a process evaluation to assess service
      users and providers and the community experience and any social harms. We will establish the
      cost of delivering the intervention in each arm.

      Analysis: With n=1500 we have the power to show an increase in linkage to clinical services
      from 10% in SOC to 22% with peer-support or SRH only and 38% with peer-support and SRH. We
      also have the power to detect a reduction in the proportion of 16-29-year olds with a
      detectable HIV viral load from 7% to 3.5% at 12 months.
    
  