
    
      After enrollment, patients undergo a diagnostic phase (baseline) with nutritional,
      anthropometric and body composition assessment (multifrequency bioelectrical impedance
      analysis and dual X-ray absorptiometry); investigation of clinical history; collecting blood
      samples; carotid artery intima-media thickness, heart rate variability and accelerometry
      assessments; and application of validated questionnaires to evaluate secondary outcomes.
      Patients will be randomized into three different treatment groups. Randomization will be
      stratified according to Body Mass Index (BMI) (BMI between 35 and 39,99 kg/m2 and BMI ≥ 40
      kg/m2), allocation ratio 1:1:1 and parallel intervention. Then, trained nutritionists will
      deliver the intervention according to the patient group and they will be followed-up for 12
      weeks, with visits each 4 weeks.

      Interventions will be provided as follow:

      Olive oil group: in order to evaluate the effect of only the extra virgin olive oil on
      primary and secondary outcomes, patients will be instructed to maintain habitual food
      consumption and consume 52 mL of extra virgin olive oil daily (4 sachets per day, 2 at lunch
      and 2 at dinner).

      Nutritional intervention group: patients assigned to this group will receive nutritional
      intervention consisting of prescription of individualized food plan to reduce 5 to 10% of
      initial body weight, nutritional counseling for comorbidities and promoting healthy eating
      habits and physical activity. Resting Energy Expenditure (REE) will be calculated according
      to Horie-Waitzberg & Gonzalez equation developed for severe obese individual using current
      weight and lean body mass (Horie et al., 2011). Total energy expenditure (TEE) will be
      calculated multiplying REE by activity factor recommended by Institute of Medicine (Trumbo et
      al., 2005) and thermic effect of food (Hill, Wyat, Peters, 2012). Total energy value (TEV) of
      diet will be determined reducing 550 to 1100 kcal from TEE to reach 0.5 to 1.0 weekly weight
      reduction according to the patient's individual goal. Distribution of macronutrients will
      follow Dietary Reference Intake (DRI) recommendation: 45-65% of carbohydrates, 10-35% of
      proteins and 20-35% of lipids (Trumbo et al., 2002). Fat acids (FA) will be distributed as
      recommended by Sociedade Brasileira de Cardiologia (Sposito et al., 2007): ≤ 7% saturated FA,
      ≤ 20% monounsaturated FA and ≤ 7% polyunsaturated FA. Food plan prescription will distribute
      TEV in 4-6 meals. Motivation will be held to changing eating and lifestyle habits.

      Nutritional intervention plus olive oil: this group will receive conventional intervention
      plus supplementation of 52 mL of extra virgin olive oil daily (4 sachets per day, 2 at lunch
      and 2 at dinner).

      At the end of follow-up the same assessments performed at diagnostic phase will be held.

      To detect a reduction of 10 kg, with standard deviation of 30, which is in agreement with the
      study of Rodrigues e Silveira (2011), with a two-sided 5% significance level and a power of
      80%, a sample size of 50 patients per group will be necessary, given an anticipated dropout
      rate of 42,9%.

      This research will be conducted at a capital of center Brazil, at Unidade de Pesquisa Clínica
      of Hospital das Clínica/UFG, Faculty of Medicine/UFG.
    
  