
    
      Walking synchronized to a visual stimulus is commonly used for gait rehabilitation, and has
      been shown to alter gait parameters such as stride length and stride time in a variety of
      patient populations. Typically, the patient is instructed to walk by stepping on lines or
      other markers placed on the ground presented in a fixed, invariant distance with each other.
      Whilst improvements in gait parameters have been observed in these experimental conditions,
      the investigators submit that a fundamentally different approach could lead to much greater
      benefits. The investigators' laboratory has successfully shown that walking to an invariant
      stimulus, with no variability, runs contrary to the natural stride-to-stride fluctuations
      (i.e., gait variability) that are known to exist in human gait. The investigators propose
      that the elimination of variability from gait, as is the case when walking with invariant
      external cueing, will not provide the movement abilities needed by individuals with reduced
      mobility to navigate the real world, unpredictable environments. In this project, the
      investigators propose an alternative approach to rehabilitation of gait disorders with
      respect to external cueing that takes the natural variability of healthy gait into account.
      The investigators have previously shown that young and older adults when walking to an
      invariant stimulus, display diminished natural stride-to-stride fluctuations. Preliminary
      data has also shown that the natural stride-to-stride fluctuations that exist in healthy gait
      are altered with aging, but can also be restored to levels similar to young adults when
      walking to a Variable Visual Stimulus. The investigators proposed solution is then to
      transform the standard invariant visual cueing paradigm by using a Variable Visual Stimulus
      that reflects the variable movement patterns found in healthy gait. This is because the
      presentation of our Stimulus will be variable, but it will not be random. There will be a
      pattern contained within the presentation of our Stimulus that is based upon the patterns
      found in healthy young adults. This project will investigate the long-term effects of viewing
      an invariant, a random and a variable visual stimulus on gait variability in older adults.
      Furthermore, the investigators will investigate the retention effects at 1- and 3-months of
      an 8-week program. The central hypothesis is that older adults who are at risk of falling
      will demonstrate greater improvements in gait variability and adaptive gait tasks when
      walking with a Variable Visual Stimulus that reflects the variable movement patterns found in
      healthy gait. The impact of this project will be transformational regarding gait
      rehabilitation for older adults who are at risk of falls. This simple, cost-effective method
      would be accessible to all gait rehabilitation clinics requiring only ubiquitously available
      glasses.
    
  