
    
      Participants will complete two experimental sessions, in which habituation to chocolate cake
      and dried apricots will be measured, with each session measuring habituation rate to one
      food. Upon arrival to the session, participants will write down what they have consumed and
      the minutes of physical activity they have engaged in during the previous 24 hours.
      Participants will rate their feelings of hunger and fullness using a 100mm VAS. They will
      also rank their liking of the food being used in the session using a 100mm VAS. Participants
      will be given a peanut butter flavored granola bar, containing 190 kcal, and be instructed to
      consume all of the bar.

      Next, participants will complete a computer generated task to measure habituation to a food
      (chocolate cake or apricots). The computer task will be programmed at a variable interval of
      120 ± 42 seconds (VI-120) reinforcement schedule, so that participants will be rewarded one
      point for the first response made after approximately 120s have passed. The computer task
      consists of two squares, one that flashes red every time a mouse button is pressed and
      another square that flashes green when a point is earned. The habituation phase will be 24
      minutes, divided into 12, 2-minute trials, during which participants can earn points towards
      access to 75 kcal portions of the food that is being measured. Participants will receive the
      food immediately after each point is earned to consume and can continue to play the computer
      task while eating. Participants will be instructed that when they no longer want to earn
      access to the food they can go to another table and engage in the activities provided (i.e.,
      reading magazines). After the computer task, participants will rate their feeling of hunger,
      fullness, and liking of the food. During the computer task the number of consecutive
      two-minute time blocks before responding ceases, as well as the overall pattern of
      responding, will be measured.
    
  