
    
      The investigators are interested in the effects of two different diets on asthma health. The
      first, a prudent diet, consists of a high intake of fruits and vegetables, whole grains,
      fiber, omega-3 fatty acids, low-fat dairy products, and overall high levels of antioxidants
      (which may protect the lungs and the body against inflammation in patients with asthma). The
      second, a Western diet, consists of a high intake of processed foods, fast foods, sweets,
      omega-6 fatty acids, and a low intake of fiber (which may promote inflammation in the lungs
      and the body of patients with asthma).

      This pilot study will test the feasibility/acceptability of the study design in providing
      these two diets to participants over a short period of time (6 days per diet), and gather
      preliminary data on asthma health outcomes that will be used to design a larger, definitive
      trial. Each participant will be randomly (by chance, like flipping a coin) assigned to start
      with one of these diets. All foods in each of the diets will be supplied by the study, and
      participants will be expected to eat all of the food provided and only the food provided for
      the next 6 days. The investigators will make sure that each participant gets enough food for
      what their body needs, based on a visit with a nutritionist at the beginning of the study.
      After eating either the Prudent diet or Western diet for 6 days, participants will have a 4-8
      week break (or washout period), during which they will eat their usual diet. Then
      participants will begin the alternate dietary intervention (Prudent or Western) for another 6
      days, depending on which they received first. Before and after each dietary period,
      researchers will ask questions, check lung function, and collect samples from participants to
      determine acceptability of the meals and study design, gather feedback on the intervention
      and overall study structure, assess for changes in lung health and asthma control, measure
      inflammation and oxidative stress in the lungs and systemic circulation, and evaluate changes
      in the airway and gut microbiome associated with the interventions that may influence the
      asthmatic response.
    
  