
    
      Burn injuries represent a major public health problem, requiring medical attention for more
      than one million Americans annually. Despite therapeutic advances, non-healing burn wounds
      and excessive scarring still result in significant long term physical and psychosocial
      morbidity. In this study we propose to perform clinical and research to study the role of
      circulating angiogenic cells (CAC) in promoting burn wound healing.

      CAC's have been shown to contribute to vascularization and tissue repair in a number of
      animal models of tissue injury ischemia and mobilization of CACs into the peripheral blood
      has been demonstrated in burn wound patients.

      We hypothesize that primary healing of burn wounds is dependent on repair of damaged
      vasculature, and that bone marrow derived stem cells, circulating angiogenic cells (CAC),
      play a critical role in the healing process. Furthermore we propose that the transcription
      factor Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1 alpha (HIF 1 alpha) through production of peptide products
      of its downstream target genes directs the "homing" of CAC's to the wound where they
      participate in healing events. The first aim of this study is to correlate mobilization of
      CAC's into the blood stream with the success of burn wound healing.

      CAC's have been shown to contribute to vascularization and tissue repair in a number of
      studies. The relationship between mobilization of CAC's and burn wound healing has not been
      examined. In addition to surveying CAC numbers in the peripheral blood, we will assay levels
      of the putative mediators of CAC mobilization: Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF),
      Placenta Growth Factor (PLGF), and Stromal Cell-Derived Factor (SDF-1). We hypothesize that
      individuals who are able to mount a large and sustained mobilization of CAC's into the
      peripheral blood from the bone marrow, will be more likely to heal the injured vasculature
      and go on to primary healing. Individuals with an inadequate mobilization of CAC's will fail
      to repair the damaged vasculature in the wound and proceed to necrosis and "conversion" to
      third degree, necrotic burn wounds.
    
  