
    
      This is a Phase IV randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose, parallel group
      study to assess the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of 3 doses of GEn (600, 450, and 300
      mg/day) compared with placebo in the treatment of subjects with moderate-to-severe primary
      RLS.

      The study will include 9 visits over approximately 14 weeks for eligible subjects including a
      1-week Screening Period, a 12-week Treatment Period, and a 1 week Follow up Period. Screening
      will occur within 1 week of the first scheduled dose of study medication. The total duration
      of the study, from the first subject enrolled to the last subject completed will be
      approximately 2 years.

      Eligible subjects (at least 18 years of age) must have:

        -  a diagnosis of RLS according to the IRLSSG Diagnostic Criteria

        -  a history of RLS symptoms for at least 15 nights in the prior month or, if on treatment,
           this frequency of symptoms before treatment was started

        -  documented RLS symptoms for at least 4 of the 7 consecutive evenings/nights during the
           Screening Period, and a total RLS severity score of at least 15 on the International
           Restless Legs Syndrome (IRLS) Rating Scale at the screening and baseline visits

      Approximately 498 subjects will be enrolled, randomly assigned to treatment groups, and
      receive study medication once daily for 12 weeks. Subjects will be randomly assigned to
      receive 1 of the 4 following treatment groups in a ratio of 1:1:1:1:

        -  GEn 600 mg/day

        -  GEn 450 mg/day

        -  GEn 300 mg/day

        -  Matching placebo

      Subjects will be instructed to take their study medication once daily with food in the
      evening at approximately 5 PM. Each tablet must be swallowed whole and not divided, crushed,
      or chewed.

      Each subject, regardless of treatment assignment, will take 3 tablets of study medication (1
      tablet from Bottle A, 1 tablet from Bottle B, and 1 tablet from Bottle C) once daily
      continuing through the end of the Treatment Period (Week 12). Subjects will return to the
      study site for a follow-up visit (Visit 9, Week 13) approximately 1 week after the last dose
      of study medication.

      Each subject's participation in the study will be approximately 14 weeks unless they withdraw
      early from the study. For subjects who complete the study, Visit 9 (which can occur between
      Day 86 and 92) will be considered their end-of-study visit.
    
  