
    
      This is a prospective, pilot study of HIV-positive individuals who have been on
      tenofovir-containing antiretroviral therapy for at least 4 months. The overall goal of this
      research is to determine the feasibility of giving patients and their providers monthly
      feedback about Tenofovir-Diphosphate (TFV-DP) drug levels and to examine patient and provider
      behaviors in response to receiving this information. This study will build upon the Aim 1
      observational study and the subsequent patient and provider Feedback Development Workgroups
      (FDWs).

      The study team will consent a sample (N=60) of HIV-positive patients for monthly assessments,
      including blood specimen collections to assess TFV-DP drug levels. Participants enrolled in
      this prospective, pilot study will be randomized to either the intervention arm in which they
      will receive monthly feedback on their TFV-DP drug levels (Feedback Group; N=30) or the
      control arm in which they will receive no feedback on TFV-DP drug levels (No Feedback Group;
      N=30).

      The study will take place at the Gugulethu Research Offices (GRO) of the Desmond Tutu HIV
      Foundation (DTHF) in Gugulethu, 15km outside Cape Town, South Africa (SA). Study participants
      will be recruited from patients attending one of four public-sector ART clinics in the
      Klipfontein Health District, Western Cape, including (1) Hannan Crusaid Treatment Centre, (2)
      Nyanga Clinic, (3) Gugulethu Clinic (NY1), and (4) Vuyani Clinic.

      Enrollment will occur over 3-4 months, during which study staff will recruit an average of
      15-20 participants per month, for a total of 60 participants. Participants will remain in the
      study for 5 months, attending a baseline and 4 subsequent monthly study visits. At each
      monthly visit, study staff will obtain venous blood samples for dried blood spots (DBS) which
      will measure TFV-DP levels and a viral load (VL) assay. ART adherence will also be assessed
      through the Wise Pill electronic monitoring device (EMD) a medication dispenser that sends an
      electronic medication event record to the Wisepill server when medication is taken and
      monthly self-reported medication adherence. Socio-demographic characteristics, medical
      history, mental health, substance use, and other contextual factors will be assessed at
      baseline and at the final study visit. In addition, at each visit, participants randomized to
      the intervention arm will receive feedback on their previous month's TFV-DP drug levels.
      Clinic providers will also receive TFV-DP drug level results for the participants in the
      intervention arm.

      For both intervention and control groups, the study will monitor any changes to ART adherence
      behavior on the part of patients and providers. Potential changes will be monitored by
      reviewing participants' clinic charts to determine if any actions were made to the medical or
      adherence management of patients since the previous visit (e.g., additional VL requests
      beyond those prescribed for a stable patient, referral for intensive counselor-based or group
      adherence counseling, outreach by Health Care Workers (HCWs) for adherence monitoring and
      support, additional doctor-requested patient appointments). The study will also conduct Exit
      Interviews with participants and hold Provider Focus Group Discussions (FGD) to further
      understand whether (and if so, how) TFV-DP drug level feedback influenced medication
      adherence and patient management.
    
  