
    
      Obesity is a significant and growing public health concern, accounting for approximately
      300,000 excess deaths per year and approximately 9% of US health care expenditures.
      Prevalence of obesity has steadily increased, with an estimated rate among middle-aged women
      exceeding 30%. Obesity has a substantial impact on medical morbidity and health-related
      quality of life.

      Public health approaches to the prevention and treatment of obesity must consider the
      substantial overlap with depression. Some data suggest a 50% increase in risk of depression
      among obese women. Women with a history of depression or depression treatment are
      over-represented among those seeking obesity treatment. Current or past depression is also
      associated with less success in losing weight or maintaining weight loss. Because women with
      depressive disorders are typically excluded from clinical trials of weight loss treatments,
      data on the management of comorbid depression and obesity are limited.

      We propose two related studies: A population-based epidemiologic study of the association
      between obesity and depression among women and a longitudinal study of obesity treatment
      among two cohorts (one with comorbid obesity and depression, one with obesity only)
      identified by the epidemiologic study.

      Study 1 - Epidemiologic Study: A population-based sample of approximately 6000 women aged
      40-65 will complete structured telephone assessment of weight, nutrient intake, physical
      activity, depression, functional impairment, and disability. Women with Body Mass Index (BMI)
      >30 will be oversampled. Insurance claims data will be used to measure health care costs.
      Aims of the epidemiologic study include:

        1. Examine the association between obesity and depression among middle-aged women.
           Secondary analyses will examine possible mechanisms for any association.

        2. Examine the specific contributions of obesity and depression to disability, functional
           impairment, and health care utilization and cost.

      Study 2 - Treatment study: A cohort of approximately 100 women with obesity (BMI > 30) and no
      current depressive disorder will be enrolled in a 6-month state-of-the-art group weight loss
      treatment. Approximately 200 women with comorbid obesity and depression will be randomly
      assigned to either the identical weight loss treatment or to a combined cognitive-behavior
      group therapy program focused on both depression and weight loss. Aims of the treatment study
      will include:

        1. Examine the effect of depression on success in weight loss treatment by comparing weight
           loss, nutrient intake, and physical activity in depressed and non-depressed women
           enrolled in the identical weight loss program. Secondary analyses will examine
           mechanisms for any observed difference.

        2. Examine the benefits of a combined weight loss/depression intervention above those of
           weight loss treatment alone by comparing weight loss, nutrient intake, physical
           activity, depressive symptoms, functional impairment, and disability in the two groups
           of women with comorbid obesity and depression randomly assigned to the two different
           intervention programs.
    
  