
    
      In cases of small-pupil cataract surgery and intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS) the
      potential of intraoperative complications is substantial. The risk of posterior lens capsule
      tear, dropped nucleus fragments and vitreous loss increases.

      There are several surgical methods and commercial products designed to deal with small pupil
      diameter in ocular surgery. Among these, pupil viscodilation with ophthalmic viscosurgical
      devices, mechanical dilation of pupil with ocular spatula, radial incisions in pupil's
      sphincter and iris retractors (iris hooks, Malyugin ring, Perfect Pupil ring), are the most
      popular. Each method has its advantages and disadvantages.

      Our group developed an innovative iris retractor device named APX 100. It is a disposable
      stainless steal sterile device designed for mechanical expansion of pupillary diameter during
      intraocular surgery. The device was approved by the FDA (510K exempt) for iris retraction in
      small pupil diameters and in IFIS. It comes in a disposable kit with 2 iris retractors and 2
      forceps.

      The study was designed to help us gain more clinical knowledge about the surgical advantages
      and safety of APX 100 beyond registration data.

      Patients designated for standard phacoemulsification cataract extraction with small pupil
      diameter or with documented IFIS in previous eye will be enrolled to the study. The APX 100
      will be used intraoperatively in order to retract the iris and expand the pupil. All other
      cataract extraction surgical stages will remain unchanged.

      The study includes five study visits: preoperative examination, cataract extraction surgery,
      first postoperative day, 1 week postoperatively, 1 month postoperatively. All data regarding
      the intraoperative use of the device and its effect on ocular tissues and final visual acuity
      will be documented in the patients' files.

      The preoperative visit will include a thorough eye examination, visual acuity test,
      intraocular pressure measurement, subjective refraction, measurements to decide the
      intraocular lens power, endothelial cell counts, corneal topography and anterior segment
      photography. The second visit will be the cataract extraction surgery itself during which the
      APX 100 device will be used. On the first postoperative day visual acuity will be tested,
      intraocular pressure will be measured, a thorough eye examination will be performed and
      treatment with topical third-generation fluoroquinolone antibiotics and corticosteroids drops
      will be initiated. Examination one week postoperatively will be the same as in the previous
      visit, only the topical treatment regimen will be changed - topical antibiotics will be
      stopped and the dosage of the corticosteroids drops will be lowered and maintained for
      additional three weeks. The last study visit, 1 month postoperatively, will include
      subjective refraction, best corrected visual acuity, a thorough eye examination, intraocular
      pressure measurement, endothelial cell counts, corneal topography and anterior segment
      photography.
    
  