
    
      The study of neuromuscular fatigue in children is a recently topic in the field of sport
      sciences. Such knowledge could improve the efficiency and security of training and
      rehabilitation in healthy children and children with diseases like obesity.

      The LENGTH-FATIG study will provide knowledge about the peripheral and central mechanisms of
      the neuromuscular fatigue in children and adults. Fatigue will test for different muscle
      groups (knee extensors and ankle plantar flexors) at different muscle lengths (short, optimal
      and long).

      During high-intensity exercise, prepubertal children are more resistant to fatigue than
      adults. Contributions of the central and peripheral components to the development of
      neuromuscular fatigue are also different between both populations. The reduced children's
      fatigue coud be particularly related to a lower peripheral (i.e. muscular) fatigue. This
      might be attributed to the fact that prepubertal children rely more on oxidative than
      anaerobic metabolism than adults during fatiguing exercise. On the other hand, nervous
      factors could also explain differences in fatigue between children and adults. However, this
      topic is scarcely documented and still controversial. To our knowledge, no study has still
      compared the aetiology of central fatigue (supra-spinal vs. spinal) between children and
      adults. Only the voluntary activation level had been studied in children, conventionally used
      to assess central fatigue. But this factor doesn't differentiate spinal and supra-spinal
      contributions to neuromuscular fatigue development.

      The LENGTH-FATIG research project is a physiological and observational study comparing two
      age groups (adults and children). Subjects will have to perform three randomized fatigue
      protocols at three muscle lengths (short, optimal and long) with the knee extensors and the
      ankle plantar flexors.

      Data will be analyzed using LabChart 7.3 Pro software (ADInstrument, New South Wales,
      Australia) and Statistica 8.0 software (StatSoft, Inc.) and significance will be accepted at
      a two-sided alpha level of p<.05. The normality and homogeneity of the variables will be
      checked respectively from a Shapiro-Wilk test and a Barlett test.

      If normality and homogeneity of the variables are verified, absolute values of variables
      (Force, EMG, NIRS, etc.) will be compared using three factors (age x muscle length x muscle
      group) analyses of variance (ANOVA) with repeated measures. If analyses reveal a significant
      effect of any factor or interaction of factors, post-hoc Newman-Keuls tests will be performed
      to determine differences between the different conditions.

      If, on the contrary, normality and homogeneity of the variables are not verified, the effects
      of muscle length, muscle group and age will be evaluated using a Friedman test. If the tests
      show significant effects, comparisons of the different conditions will be performed using
      Mann-Whitney and Wilcoxon tests.
    
  