
    
      Brain metastases occur in 30-50% of lung adenocarcinoma (LAC) patients and confer a worse
      prognosis and quality of life. A better selection of in-risk patients through a more accurate
      biomarker could improve the benefit of prophylactic therapies. The aim of this prospective
      study was to determine a gene-expression profile of primary tumor associated with brain
      metastasis (BM) and to evaluate the overall survival (OS) in patients with advanced LAC.

      Introduction.Lung cancer is the first cause of cancer death in the world. Eighty five percent
      of patients are diagnosed yearly with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Despite efforts,
      innovations, and progress in diagnosis and treatment of these patients, overall survival (OS)
      at 5 years of diagnosis is only 15%. The central nervous system (CNS) is a devastating and
      frequent site of metastasis development in NSCLC. The reported incidence of CNS metastasis in
      patients with NSCLC is 54% with an OS of <1 year after diagnosis. Age, clinical stage,
      gender, and initial treatment period are some of the reported with CNS metastasis
      development-related factors in patients with NSCLC. We recently described that high
      carcino-embryonic antigen (CEA) serum levels (>40 ng/dL) at diagnosis and adenocarcinoma
      histological type are independently associated with higher risk if brain metastasis
      development. However, due to their lack of specificity of all this reported factors, we are
      required to detect biomarkers to predict brain metastasis in patients with NSCLC with the
      objective to prevent their development.Metastasis process is complex it involves well-defined
      molecular-printed steps, as invasion, vascular intravasation, implantation and growing at the
      new specific organ. Higher motility, capacity for extracellular matrix degradation, immune
      system evasion, and adhesion at the new specific organ are some of the tumoral cell
      characteristics required to metastasize. In particular, molecular events for brain metastasis
      development from primary NSCLC even if no at al described, are currently well understood.
      Gene-expression microarray allow analyzing the expression changes of thousands of genes
      simultaneously, distinguishing the altered expression of neoplastic cell genes from normal
      tissue. Identification of biological patterns, pharmacological molecular targets, and
      biomarkers for prognosis and evaluation for therapeutic response, and even a more specific
      neoplasia classification are some of the results of gene-expression microarray studies in
      hematological, breast and NSCLC cancer. Determination of tobacco-smoke transcriptional
      changes in oncogenes and antioncogenes had been determined by the use microarray data. A
      gene-expression profile of 20 genes differentiates health lung tissue and lung cancer with
      higher specificity than histopathologic evaluation. Furthermore, gene-expression microarray
      studies had been developed for predicting survival and recurrence in early NSCLC stages for
      identification of patients who could have benefit of adjuvant therapy, with promising
      result.The objective of this study was to identify a gene-expression profile from primary
      lung adenocarcinoma related with brain metastasis, and to evaluate in a prospective manner
      their prognostic significance on survival in patients with advanced disease.Experimental
      Design These study used clinical, longitudinal, prospective, observational, and analytical
      cohort s with the selection of a nonprobabalistic-type sample.In a prospective manner, from
      January 2009 to June 2011, patients admitted to our Institute confirmed histologically
      confirmed stage IIIb and IV of LAC were eligible for study inclusion. Analyzed clinical
      variables comprised smoking history, gender, age, general condition and brain metastasis
      development. Primary tumor core-biopsy was performed prior to any treatment and snap-frozen.
      A single pathologist evaluated all tumors. Standard platinum-based chemotherapy was employed
      for all patients. All patients were submitted to Magnetic resonance imaging (RM) to evidence
      the presence or absence of brain metastasis (BM). During follow-up, we carried out Computed
      tomography (CT) of the brain stem for this purpose. Preliminary statistical analysis was
      performed utilizing the Student t, the Mann-Whitney U, the χ2, or the Fisher exact test. Once
      the study ends, we will conduct logistic-regression multivariate analysis. Global survival
      time will be analyzed with the Kaplan-Meier technique, and comparisons among groups will be
      performed with the log-rank test. High Risk characteristics as gender, histology, and age
      related with greater frequency of development of metastasis to CNS were analyzed.The study
      was carried out according to the principles of ClinicalTrials and accepted by the INCan
      Bioethical and Scientific Committees (reference numbers INCAN/CC/067/08). A collaboration
      agreement was signed with the INMEGEN and was approved within the Health Research Sectorial
      Fund (FSIS) CONACyT-México (SALUD-2009-01-115552).

      Selection for obtaining tumor biopsies depended on the characteristics of the patient and of
      the tumor. The biopsy could be taken by means of CT guided tru-cut needle, open thoracoscopy,
      or bronchoscopy with optic fiber. Each tumor sample was divided into two; one sample was
      analyzed by the INCan Pathology Service (by a sole observer blinded to the clinical
      variables) for their histological clinical diagnosis and quantification of neoplastic
      cellularity, and the remaining half was immediately stored at -80°C until processing for RNA
      extraction.RNA Extraction:RNA was extracted from frozen tumor biopsies, weighted and
      cryofractured in liquid nitrogen. Extraction and purification of total RNA from tissue (up to
      5 mg tissue) procedure was done using RNeasy Micro Kit (QIAGEN, Germany) (cat. 217084). RNA
      was analyzed using the Agilent 6000 Chip (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, C.A.). RNA
      quality consisted on the obtention of RNA Integrity Number (RIN) > 8. RNA samples were chosen
      for microarray analysis when quality and concentration were obtained for this purpose.
      Microarray Expression:We are using an Affymetrix platform, which consists of an in situ
      synthesized oligonucleotide microarray. The GeneChip® that we are employing is the Human Gene
      1.0 ST Array, which allows analyzing the expression of 28,869 different genes (each
      transcript is represented by 26 disperse probes along its entire length, present in the human
      genome, which covers 99% of the sequences present in the RefSeq data bank of the GenBank. The
      Two-Cycle Target Labeling protocol is followed as suggested by the manufacturer and described
      succinctly as follows and shown graphically in the figure at the end of this Materials and
      Methods section: Total RNA (100 ng/uL) is retro-transcribed using T7-Oligo(dT) Promoter
      primers in the synthesis reaction of the first complementary DNA chain (cDNA). After
      treatment with RNAase H, the second cDNA chain is synthesized, which will serve as template
      in the Transcription reaction in vitro (TVI). The first TVI reaction is carried out with T7
      polymerase RNA and unmarked ribonucleotides for the amplification of complementary RNA
      (cRNA). These cRNAs are retro-transcribed in the synthesis step of the first cDNA chain of
      the second cycle using random primers. Subsequently, T7-Oligo(dT)-Promoter primers are
      employed for the synthesis of the second chain of cDNA, generating the double-helix cDNA
      template that contains the promoter T7 sequence. This cDNA is amplified and marked in a
      second TVI reaction using the T7 polymerase DNA and a mixture of ribonucleotides/biotinylated
      nucleotide analog. These target biotinylated cDNAs are cleaned, fragmented, and hybridized to
      the GeneChip® expression microarrays. After hybridization, fluorescent marking was performed
      with a streptavidin-phycoerythrin and biotinylated anti-streptavidin antibody amplifier
      system. Fluorescence is detected with a high-resolution laser scanner.Reading and Analysis of
      Expression Microarrays:We will utilize the Expression Console of Affymetrix software to
      evaluate the quality of the microarrays and will correct the background signal with standard
      methods [49,50]. For signal intensity-level normalization, we will employ "non-supervised"
      methods, which use the data of all of the experiment's microarrays; this will allow us to
      render these comparable among themselves, because what a microarray assay evaluates is gene
      expression by means of fluorescence intensities; thus, it is important to establish cut-off
      points from which we can consider under- or overexpression. Once the data are normalized, the
      final stage is to resume the values of all the probes that exist for each gene in the
      microarray in a sole value, which is the gene's expression level. For detection of
      differentially expressed genes, we will construct a linear model that includes all of the
      experiment's microarrays simultaneously; in this manner, we will be able to analyze contrasts
      between group A (patients with metastasis to CNS during the follow-up period) and group B
      (patients without metastasis to CNS during the same period). As internal control, we will
      prove the differential expression of some genes by RT-PCR in real time. Results will be
      represented in blocks of heat maps and in tables, in which the most active genes are listed
      along with their functional description. For risk-profile validation, we will perform
      leave-one-out cross validation method and will postulate a second cohort for this objective.
    
  