
    
      Unmet needs among Adolescents and Young Adults (AYAs) with cancer translate to poor physical
      and psychosocial outcomes. This is particularly true when it comes to AYA sexual health. Our
      team has found that intimate relationships and risky health behaviors are common among AYAs
      during their cancer experience, that oncology clinicians rarely ask about these behaviors,
      and that AYAs rarely volunteer to share these behaviors. As a result, AYAs with cancer are
      deprived of the surveillance, anticipatory guidance, and normative support participants would
      have received if participants were well. Currently there is no standard screening process for
      risk behaviors and the recommended psychosocial screening for AYAs in the SCH oncology clinic
      setting. To address this problem, the investigators propose to adapt a validated AYA-targeted
      electronic health assessment (eHA) screening tool for use in oncology clinics.

      The purpose of this study is to modify an existing Seattle Children's Hospital
      investigator-developed, patient-centered, electronic health assessment (eHA) for AYAs with
      cancer. The investigators will then evaluate the new eHA prototype for feasibility and
      acceptability among AYAs with cancer and their oncology providers.

      AIM 1. To evaluate the modified eHA program prototype for feasibility, acceptability, and
      process measures. The investigators will enroll a cohort of N=25 AYAs with cancer and N=10
      providers from our institution to "beta-test" the program.

      Hypothesis 1: There will be applicable and nonapplicable eHA content for AYAs with cancer in
      the current electronic health assessment (eHA) tool in addition to content relative to AYAs
      with cancer that should be developed and added.

      Hypothesis 2: AYAs will report that the modified AYA oncology specific eHA is both useful and
      easy to use. Additionally, oncology providers will report that the eHA tool was useful and
      positively impacted patient care.
    
  