
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Anastrozole is designed to block the last step in estrogen (a hormone) production. In
      estrogen-dependent tumors, anastrozole may block tumor growth.

      Sorafenib is designed to block the function of a cancer protein as well as tumor blood-vessel
      forming proteins. It may stop the growth of blood vessels in tumors.

      Bevacizumab is designed to block or slow down the growth of cancer cells by blocking the
      growth of blood vessels that supply nutrients for tumor growth.

      Everolimus is designed to block cancer proteins and may block tumor growth.

      Erlotinib is designed to block the activity of a protein found on the surface of many tumor
      cells that may control tumor growth and survival. This may stop tumors from growing.

      Fulvestrant is designed to block estrogen action. In estrogen-dependent tumors, fulvestrant
      may block tumor growth.

      Study Drug Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group. The study staff will tell you the group you will be in.

      Anastrozole Alone:

      If you have not received earlier hormonal treatment, you may receive anastrozole alone.

      Anastrozole Combination Groups:

      If you have benefitted from hormonal treatment in the past, you may receive anastrozole
      combined with either bevacizumab, everolimus, sorafenib, or erlotinib.

      If you are receiving treatment with a combination of drugs, you will be assigned to a dose
      level based on when you joined the study. Every group will receive the same dose level of
      anastrozole. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level of the second
      study drug (bevacizumab, everolimus, sorafenib, or erlotinib). Each new group will receive a
      higher dose of the second study drug than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects
      were seen. This will continue until the highest tolerable dose of the drug combinations are
      found.

      Once the highest tolerated dose of the drug combinations are found, 10 extra participants
      will be enrolled at this dose level for each combination. This is called the expansion group.

      In addition to this expansion, if a particular tumor type has responded to the study drug(s),
      14 more participants with that tumor type will be enrolled at the highest safe dose level
      that has been found.

      If your tumor starts growing again after an initial response to the combination of 2 drugs, a
      third drug may be added to the combination you have been taking. Depending on your current
      treatment one of the following drugs may be added: bevacizumab, everolimus, sorafenib,
      fulvestrant, or erlotinib.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you take anastrozole alone or in combination with sorafenib or erlotinib or everolimus,
      each study "cycle" is 28 days. If you take anastrozole in combination with bevacizumab, each
      study "cycle" is 21 days.

      You will take anastrozole by mouth 1 time every day. You can take this with or without food.

      If you are assigned to take sorafenib, you will take it by mouth 1 or 2 times every day. Your
      doctor will tell you how often to take sorafenib. You should take sorafenib on an empty
      stomach either 1 hour before a meal or 2 hours after a meal.

      If you are assigned to take bevacizumab, you will receive it by vein on Day 1 of every cycle.
      During Day 1 of Cycle 1, you will receive it over 90 minutes. The infusion time may be
      lowered if you tolerate the drug well.

      If you are assigned to take everolimus, you will take it by mouth 1 time every day with food.

      If you are assigned to take erlotinib, you will take it by mouth 1 time every day. You should
      take erlotinib on an empty stomach either 1 hour before eating or 2 hours after eating.

      If you are assigned to receive fulvestrant, you will receive injections about one time every
      month. Depending on your study drug combination, you may receive 2 injections in the first
      month.

      For the first Cycle of any of the assigned combinations you will receive the medication at MD
      Anderson. After the first cycle you may receive the medication with your home physician if
      your study doctor feels it is safe.

      Study Visits:

      At every visit, you will be asked if you have had any side effects.

      If you take anastrozole combinations in a 28 day cycle, you will have the following tests and
      procedures:

      During Weeks 1 and 3 of Cycle 1:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      During Week 1 of Cycles 2 and beyond:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If your study doctor feels it is safe, you may have these follow-up visits with your
           home physician.

      Every 3 cycles, you will have a CT scan, MRI scan, PET scan, and/or PET/CT scan to check the
      status of the disease. If the study doctor thinks more scans are needed, they will be
      performed more often.

      If you take anastrozole combinations in a 21 day cycle, you will have the following tests and
      procedures:

      During Week 1 of Cycle 1:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      During Week 1 of Cycle 2 and beyond:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If your study doctor feels it is safe, you may have these follow-up visits with your
           home physician.

      Every 3 cycles, you will have a CT scan, MRI scan, PET scan, and/or PET/CT scan to check the
      status of the disease. If the study doctor thinks more scans are needed, they will be
      performed more often.

      Length of Study:

      You may take the study drug(s) for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best interest.
      You will be taken off study if you have intolerable side effects or the cancer gets worse.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the end-of-study visit.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      About 30 days after the last dose of study drug(s), you will have an end-of-study visit. At
      this visit, the following tests or procedures may be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a CT scan, MRI scan, PET scan, and/or
           PET/CT to check the status of the disease.

      If you have a serious side effect that lasts after the End-of-Study visit, you will be
      followed as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best interest.

      This is an investigational study. Anastrozole, bevacizumab, everolimus, erlotinib, and
      sorafenib are all commercially available. Anastrozole is FDA approved to treat postmenopausal
      women with hormone receptor-positive early breast cancer. Bevacizumab is FDA approved to
      treat non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), colorectal cancer, breast cancer, and glioblastoma.
      Everolimus is FDA approved to treat advanced renal cell carcinoma. Sorafenib is FDA approved
      to treat advanced renal cell carcinoma, as well as hepatocellular carcinoma that cannot be
      removed by surgery. Erlotinib is FDA approved to treat NSCLC and pancreatic cancer.
      Fulvestrant is approved to treat breast cancer in postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor
      positive cancer.

      The combination of these drugs is considered investigational.

      Up to 281 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  