
    
      Neuroeconomics integrates concepts and methods from psychology, economics, and cognitive
      neuroscience to understand the neurobiological foundations of decision making, and has been
      increasingly applied to understanding alcohol use disorder (AUD). A novel application of
      neuroeconomics is the study of alcohol demand, or the value of alcohol as measured by
      cost-benefit preferences. Alcohol demand paradigms have considerable ecological validity by
      measuring the impact of internal and external influences on alcohol decision-making, such as
      price, environmental cues, affective states, or external contingencies. Behaviorally, alcohol
      demand is elevated among individuals with higher levels of alcohol misuse and predicts
      treatment response. Alcohol demand also exhibits state-like properties, including increases
      following exposure to alcohol-related cues and decreases in the presence of significant
      next-day responsibilities. The overall goal of the proposed studies is to characterize the
      neural activity that subserves these established behavioral findings using a novel functional
      MRI paradigm.

      The first aim is to examine the patterns of neural activation underlying increases in the
      value of alcohol in response to alcohol cues. To do so, the first study will use a
      within-subjects design to identify differences in neural activity associated with demand
      decisions following a validated in-scanner cue exposure protocol consisting of exposure to
      neutral beverage cues and exposure to alcohol beverage cues in a sample of adult heavy
      drinkers.

      The second aim is to investigate the changes in neural activity associated with decreases in
      the value of alcohol in response to next day responsibilities. To do so, a second study will
      use a within-subjects design, comparing demand-related neural activity following a standard
      instructional set and an instructional set that imposes a significant work-related
      responsibility the next day.

      Using a novel neuroeconomics approach, these studies combine a highly ecologically-valid
      alcohol demand paradigm with two experimental manipulations that model clinically-relevant
      influences on drinking decisions. Studying these contextual influences may help clarify the
      neural signatures that underlie drinking moderation vs. unconstrained drinking, and how these
      processes are impacted by AUD. If successful, these studies will provide a foundation for
      examining neural predictors of successful recovery or response to treatment vs. relapse. More
      broadly, findings from these studies have high potential to significantly enhance the
      clinical relevance of alcohol neuroscience.
    
  