
    
      Cardiovascular diseases are major drivers of global disease burden. Heart failure, has a 50%
      mortality at 5 years and is thought to be higher in resource limited settings. Cardiac
      rehabilitation (CR) is a multi-disciplinary intervention which has been demonstrated to
      improve functional status, quality of life, and reduce morbidity and mortality in patients
      with heart failure. In sub-Saharan Africa, despite a significant heart failure disease
      burden, CR is largely non-existent. There is a compelling need for urgent development of
      access to CR in the region. However, feasibility and potential utilization of CR is unknown.
      The investigators aim to conduct a mixed methods study to evaluate feasibility of home based
      and institution based CR.

      Participants will be voluntarily recruited from a convenience sample at the Moi Teaching and
      Referral Hospital (MTRH) outpatient cardiology clinic. Based on a reasonable estimate of
      expected subject recruitment over the time frame of study, 25 patients will be recruited into
      the institution based cardiac rehabilitation (IBCR) arm. In consideration of the potentially
      larger population and a wider geographical spread of home based cardiac rehabilitation
      (HBCR), 36 patients will be recruited to the HBCR arm and 40 patients will be recruited into
      an observational arm. While the study is not designed to make comparative outcome inferences
      between the HBCR and the IBCR groups, the sample size will be large enough to detect a
      clinically significant mean post intervention increase in 6 minute walk time distance in the
      HBCR arm of 50m.

      The participants will be involved in physical exercises, nutritional counseling and
      educational sessions. Upon completion of the rehabilitation protocols, patients from both
      study arms will also be invited to participate in focus group discussions. Data will be
      analyzed and numeric data will be expressed as number (percent), means (standard deviation)
      or median (interquartile range). Wilcoxon rank-sum and Fisher's exact tests for pre - post
      intervention comparisons of continuous and binary variables, respectively. Focus group
      discussions will be transcribed and analyzed to identify discussion themes.
    
  