
    
      External ventricular drainage catheters are widely used in the management of Subjects with
      elevated intra-cranial pressure (ICP) secondary to acute hydrocephalus due to sub-arachnoid
      hemorrhage, intra-cerebral hemorrhage, intra-ventricular hemorrhage and other causes that
      obstruct the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) circulation. However, this mode of treatment could be
      compromised by the increased risk of catheter related CSF infection.

      B-EVD is manufactured using a patented process to impregnate silicone catheters with two
      antibiotics, rifampin and clindamycin. These antibiotics are impregnated throughout the
      silicone matrix. After implantation, slow release of both antibiotics at the extra- and
      intra-luminal catheter surfaces minimizes the likelihood of bacterial colonization. The B-EVD
      Catheter System has, to date, been well accepted by domestic and European customers.
      Currently there exists sound scientific rationale and promising bench-top in vitro data to
      anticipate low levels of ventriculostomy-related infection in Subjects using this system.
      Published BACTISEAL shunt data and direct feedback from U.S. market experience also support
      this notion. There are no published clinical studies reporting infection rates with the use
      of the B-EVD System, making all statements regarding its propensity to minimize clinical risk
      for catheter-related infection mere speculation and anecdotal. Therefore, Codman proposes to
      undertake a controlled clinical evaluation of this product to demonstrate its influence on
      EVD catheter-related infections, using a conventional EVD catheter as a standard of
      reference.

      Immediately following successful screening, the Subject will be randomized to test or control
      group and will have the appropriate EVD system implanted. The Treatment Phase will cover the
      duration of the implanted EVD system. Subjects will be monitored for 2 weeks post-explant.

      This study is expected to enroll 600 evaluable implanted Subjects at up to 15 Investigational
      Sites in US, Europe and Asia-Pacific
    
  