
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of cediranib maleate (cediranib) in combination
      with olaparib in the treatment of recurrent ovarian, fallopian tube, or peritoneal cancer or
      metastatic triple-negative breast cancer. (Phase I) II. Assess the efficacy (as measured by
      progression-free survival [PFS]) of the combination of cediranib and olaparib compared to
      olaparib alone in recurrent grade 2 or 3 platinum-sensitive papillary-serous or endometrioid
      ovarian, fallopian tube, or peritoneal cancer. (Phase II) III. Assess the MTD of cediranib in
      combination with olaparib tablet formulation in the treatment of recurrent ovarian, fallopian
      tube, or peritoneal cancer. (Phase I-T)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the toxicities of the combination of cediranib and olaparib in the treatment of
      recurrent ovarian, fallopian tube, or peritoneal cancer or metastatic triple-negative breast
      cancer. (Phase I) II. Assess clinical benefit, progression-free survival, and overall
      survival for patients treated with cediranib and olaparib. (Phase I) III. Assess tumor
      response, clinical response benefit (response or stable disease as defined by Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] response criteria x 16 weeks), and overall
      survival (OS) for patients treated with cediranib and olaparib at the recommended phase II
      dose (RP2D) as compared with patients receiving olaparib alone. (Phase II) IV. Assess the
      toxicities of the combination of cediranib and olaparib (tablet formulation) in the treatment
      of recurrent ovarian, fallopian tube, or peritoneal cancer. (Phase I-T) V. Assess clinical
      benefit, progression-free survival, and overall survival for patients treated with cediranib
      and olaparib (tablet formulation). (Phase I-T) VI. Assess the pharmacokinetic profile of
      cediranib and olaparib (tablet formulation) when administered in combination. (Phase I-T)

      TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the prognostic and predictive role of measured changes in functional vascular
      imaging using dynamic contrast-enhanced (DCE)-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) between
      pre-study and day 3. (Phase II) II. To evaluate in an exploratory fashion the predictive or
      prognostic value of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in key genes involved in
      angiogenesis and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair. (Phase II) III. To evaluate the
      predictive value of baseline peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) poly adenosine
      diphosphate (ADP) ribose (PAR) incorporation on response to therapy. (Phase II) IV. To
      measure early changes in vascular cytokine production and evaluate in an exploratory fashion
      that these changes may be predictive or prognostic, or differentially affected by the
      combination of agents. (Phase II) V. To evaluate early changes to circulating endothelial
      cells and if these changes are predictive or prognostic. (Phase II) VI. To assess changes in
      measures of DNA damage and repair and angiogenesis in tumor cells (tissue and/or malignant
      effusions) and correlate to drug/drug/combination. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a randomized phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive cediranib maleate orally (PO) once daily (QD) and olaparib PO twice
      daily (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive cediranib maleate PO QD and olaparib PO BID on days 1-28.

      ARM II: Patients receive olaparib PO BID on days 1-28.

      In both arms, cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 3
      years.
    
  