
    
      Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is the most common opportunistic viral pathogen in solid organ
      transplant receptors (SOTR). In the absence of prophylaxis, the frequency of CMV disease in
      high-risk recipients (R- / D +) is 60% and 20% for intermediate-risk patients (R + / D + or
      -). For universal prophylaxis, the antivirals most commonly used are valganciclovir (valGCV)
      and IV ganciclovir. ValGCV, a prodrug of ganciclovir, has a bioavailability of 60%, which
      represents more than 10 times that those obtained with ganciclovir.

      Pharmacokinetic studies of Valganciclovir in SOTR have been demonstrated that insufficient
      doses can diminish its clinical efficacy and the development of viral resistance, while
      excessive doses can increase its toxicity.

      The risk of viremia may be associated with ineffective plasma doses, as described by
      Wiltshire et al., where values of the area under the curve (AUC) between 40 and 50 μg/h/ml
      were associated with a lower incidence of viremia, while lower AUC values are associated with
      an increase 8 times more for viral replication rates. As a result, pharmacokinetic studies in
      SOTR guide the investigators in continuing with the research of their clinical impact.

      A generic drug before their release to the market needs to show that is bioequivalent with
      the innovative drug, assuming that it has the same therapeutic effects.

      The studies for demonstrate bioequivalence are carried out in controlled conditions with
      healthy participants, different of SOTR characteristics as: age, gender, race, comorbidities
      and concomitant medication. In addition, the excipients used in generic drug are different
      from those of the innovative drug, so the properties of the formulation can be modified
      (particle size or half-life), therefore, the efficacy and drug safety.

      The primary outcome will be compare the pharmacokinetic parameters of the innovative versus
      generic formulation of valGCV in renal transplant recipients.
    
  