
    
      The study of pathophysiological mechanisms of cellular penetration of Severe Acute
      Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS CoV-2) allows the understanding of organ failures
      observed in COVID 19. In order to allow its fusion with the cell membrane, SARS-Cov-2 must
      bind the Angiotensin Converting Enzyme 2 (ACE2) via its Spike protein. This process requires
      the priming of the viral S protein by a cellular serine protease TMPRSS2. Thus, any cell
      co-expressing these two receptors is a potential target for the virus. Among all the cells
      for which this co-expression could be observed, endothelial cells and vascular pericytes seem
      to be potential targets, whose infection could lead to the development of an endothelial
      dysfunction responsible for microcirculatory dysfunction. In addition, inappropriate host
      immune system response observed in Covid-19 with massive production of pro-inflammatory
      cytokines as IL-6, TNF α and VEGF could lead to endothelial dysfunction through neutrophils,
      monocytes and macrophages mobilization producing Reactive Oxygen Species that increase
      endothelium and glycocalyx damages. The resulting pro-adhesive, pro-vasoconstricting and
      prothrombotic effects could lead to vascular micro-thrombosis, capillary plugging and
      impairment of capillary flow.

      Whether endothelial dysfunction is caused by direct viral cell infection or pro-inflammatory
      response is uncertain, but various studies have confirmed that endotheliopathy plays a key
      role in pathophysiological mechanisms in Covid 19.

      In the context of critical care, the evaluation of microcirculatory perfusion appears to be a
      diagnostic tool of major importance. Indeed, microcirculatory dysfunction is directly
      associated with increased organ failure and mortality in the ICU. In addition, many clinical
      situations such as sepsis or hemorrhagic shock may be responsible for a loss of hemodynamic
      coherence between macro and microcirculatory parameters. Thus, the correction of
      macrohemodynamic parameters (arterial pressure, cardiac output, plasma lactate, central
      venous oxygen saturation) may be associated with persistent microcirculatory hypoperfusion.
      It thus appears essential to develop systems for assessing the microcirculation in order to
      move towards resuscitation guided by microcirculatory objectives.

      The aim of this study is to describe the sublingual microcirculation and to evaluate
      endothelial dysfunction in critically ill patient with Covid-19, and to determine whether
      there is a correlation between the severity of microcirculatory damage, endothelial
      dysfunction and clinically important outcomes in ICU. The data will serve to develop
      strategies for individualized management of high-risk patients screened with microcirculation
      evaluation.
    
  