
    
      Eligible subjects will be randomly assigned to either BroccoMax® or placebo arm with a 1:1
      randomization. Each subject will be given BroccoMax® equivalent to 4 weeks supply. Following
      randomization, subjects will begin to take four study tablets (BroccoMax® or placebo) in the
      morning with breakfast and four tablets in the evening with dinner. The eight BroccoMax®
      tablets will provide a daily internal dose of 64 mg of SFN.

      Baseline evaluation will be 28 days before scheduled prostatectomy, the same day of study
      drug dispensation, and will include.

        1. Data collection on patient's medical history (which includes age, cancer history, review
           of medications, food intolerances and food habits), and concomitant medications.

        2. Physical exam including height and weight measurements.

        3. Blood (approximately 15 mL) will be collected in Serum Separator Tube-tiger tubes
           (SST)for determination of SFN and its metabolite levels and for biomarker analyses.

        4. Spot urine collection (15 mL) for measuring SFN and its metabolite levels.

        5. Four-week supply of study drug (BroccoMax® or Placebo) dispensation

      Day 28 ± 3 days (End of study evaluation)

        1. Physical exam including height and weight measurements

        2. Blood (approximately 15 mL) will be collected in SST-tiger tubes for determination of
           SFN and its metabolite levels and for biomarker analyses.

        3. Spot urine collection (15 mL) for measuring SFN and its metabolite levels.

        4. Adverse event assessment.

        5. A portion of the prostate tumor after surgical resection will be fresh frozen in liquid
           nitrogen.

        6. After pathological assessment is complete, tumor blocks or slides (6 or more) will be
           requested by the clinical research coordinator from the Health Sciences Tissue Bank of
           the University of Pittsburgh for biomarker analyses.

      Post-Treatment Follow-Up All study participants will have routine follow-up as determined by
      their treating urologist and/ or medical oncologist. This usually occurs 6 ± 2 weeks
      post-surgery and every 3 months thereafter. These are considered standard of care visits. The
      patient chart will be reviewed for their history and physical findings at these visits.
    
  