
    
      1.1 Scientific Background

      Although the health benefits of exercise among the elderly are accepted, there is a need for
      greater accuracy in assessment of a wide range of fitness and mobility parameters, in order
      to provide a comprehensive exercise program delivered in the home environment. Advances in
      smartphone technology may provide useful tools to help address this important area of public
      health.

      1.2 Research Objectives

      Aim: 1) To examine whether an individually prescribed personalized comprehensive physical
      activity program performed at home, based on individual motor and physical evaluation,
      performed by a standard smartphone at home, is more effective than accepted standardized
      recommendations from the World Health Organization for physical activity, among people aged
      65 years and above. The prescribed program will include colorful, clear pictures and videos
      of various exercises, presented in a user-friendly manner on the user's smartphone, TV or
      computer screen.

      Aim: 2) To enable the personalized exercise program to be updated (by the study exercise
      specialists), according to the changes in level of fitness, as measured by home testing using
      the smartphone.

      Aim: 3) The ultimate goal of the program is to improve health of older people by increasing
      the level of physical activity in a safe, enjoyable and effective manner.

      1.3 Research Design and Methods

      We will employ an interventional, prospective randomized control study.

      Ethical Approval: The study has been approved by the Hadassah Hospital Ethics Committee.

      Participants:The study population will include a total of 360 community dwelling adults aged
      ≥65 years, without significant cognitive impairment, (60 adults in the Pilot Study, and a
      subsequent 300 adults in the Phase II main study).

      Recruitment: Recruitment will be by flyers and lectures by the study PI's, at local elderly
      clubs, day centers, and independent living facilities (retirement homes).

      Informed Consent: Informed consent will be attained following a detailed explanation given by
      the study physician experienced in geriatrics/exercise medicine (either the PI Prof Jacobs or
      Co Investigator-to be announced closer to the study initiation) concerning study details and
      any possible medical complications caused either directly (e.g. risk of falls and fractures,
      musculoskeletal pains, strained ligaments) or secondary to the exercise programs (e.g.
      cardiac arrhythmias or angina).

      Study Procedure and design of research tools:

      A. Phase I: Preliminary preparations and a pilot study:

        1. Designing the tests.

        2. Developing a dedicated digital app of the selected tests: 'Montfort Brain Monitor Ltd'
           will provide an app to enable measurement of the test battery using the mobile phone.
           Following testing using the smartphone at home, data will be remotely uploaded to the
           Montfort data bank for subsequent analysis.

        3. Developing the Exercise Program: The photos and videos of the exercises will be
           presented in a user-friendly manner on the user's smartphone, TV or computer screen.
           Throughout the study period, participants will receive regular notifications via the
           smartphone, reminding them to exercise.

        4. Pilot Study: Validation of the study instrument: Older adults (n=60), from the Netanya
           area (close to Wingate College) will be recruited for the pilot study. They will be
           tested using both the smartphone app as well as state of art laboratory tests, will be
           given an exercise program installed on their phone for performing at home, and will be
           tested again after 6 weeks of exercise.

        5. Preparations for the main study: At this point, a study app will be finalized for
           running the smartphone app tests + running the matched exercise programs (provided
           individually by the research exercise specialists), and uploading data to the remote
           data bank for subsequent analysis.

      B. Phase II: Main Study lasting 12 weeks:

      Study participants (n=300) from day care centers, elderly clubs, retirement villages, etc.,
      will be randomly assigned to 3 groups:

        1. The experimental group: (n=100). Intervention-Personalized exercise program focusing
           upon Balance/Upper limb/shoulder flexibility and strength.

        2. An active control group: (n=100). All participants in this group will receive exercise
           counseling and asked to exercise according to the official general guidelines published
           by the World Health Organization.

        3. A control group: (n=100). Advised to continue their normal routine, and if interested,
           will be able use the smart app exercise program after the completion of the main study.

      Participants from all groups will be tested individually by the tests app before (T0), after
      6 weeks (T1), and after 3 months (T2).

      C. Phase III: Follow-up:

      The experimental group and the active control group will be re-assessed 6 weeks (T3) and 3
      months (T4) following the termination of Phase II. The control group will get the treatment
      at that point, if they so desire.

      Sample Size and Power Analysis: Statistical power was calculated using G * Power. Based on a
      2-way ANOVA (3 groups X 5 tests) with repeated measures on the tests factor, 100 participants
      in each subgroup enable detecting group differences in statistical power of >99% for a
      moderate (Cohen's f = .25) and large (Cohen's f = .4) effect size. In addition, the
      statistical power for detecting differences between repeated measures, and in the interaction
      between groups in the repeated measures is higher than 99% in the moderate effect size as
      well as in the high effect size.

      D. Additional Data Collection:

        1. Sociodemographic data

        2. Self-reported medical diagnosis and health related variables, Frailty Index

        3. Level of physical activity

        4. Mini-Cog test validated Hebrew version

        5. Geriatric depression score (short 5 item validated Hebrew version )

        6. Quality of life assessment ( Short Form-36, validated Hebrew version)

      Study hypotheses

        1. Participants in the experimental group (Personalized Balance/strength/flexibility
           exercise programs) will show greater improvement than participants with similar profiles
           in the active-control or control group.

        2. Participants in the experimental group will adhere more to the exercise regime than
           participants in the active control group, thus will exhibit significantly more physical
           and motor improvements.

        3. Both the experimental group and the active control group will gain more improvements in
           fitness than the non-active control.

      Statistics: the selected digital tests for assessing the fitness components are to be
      determined in the first study phase. It is likely that a two-way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA,
      3 groups X 5 measurements) with repeated measures on the measurements factor will be applied
      in most tests. Fisher Least Significant Difference will be used for post-hoc analyses.
      Significance level for all statistical tests will be set at alpha = .05.

      1.4 Equipment and Films of exercises: The new exercises created for the current study will be
      photographed and/or filmed for video at the laboratory of education technology at the Wingate
      College.

      Laboratory testing:

      In order to establish the validity of the new dedicated mobile phone tests, participants of
      the pilot study will be tested on gold standard measurements at the biomechanical,
      physiological and motor control laboratories at the Wingate College. The laboratories are
      equipped with the following devices: Vicon Motion Capture Systems for 3D motion analysis
      (gait analysis and postural control), Biodex Medical Systems for isokinetic force
      measurements (strength of upper and lower extremities), motorized treadmill -Woodway, Germany
      (cardiovascular fitness - predicted VO2), and Balance Tutor (postural control, static and
      dynamic balance).
    
  