
    
      Background Information Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) of the Subthalamic nucleus (STN) is an
      established treatment for patients with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). STN DBS improves
      dopaminergic drug-sensitive motor symptoms, thus allowing a reduction in post-operative drug
      dose. The reduction of antiparkinsonian therapy in turn alleviates L-dopa-induced motor
      fluctuations and dyskinesias. However, a considerable variation in the extent of dopaminergic
      drug reduction has been reported, with values ranging from 20% to 100%. To date the
      management of antiparkinsonian medication after STN DBS mainly rely on neurologist's personal
      experience or patient's preference, as no evidence-based guidelines have been provided so
      far, with the exception of some pragmatic recommendation on postoperative issues promoted by
      the Movement Disorders Society in 2006.

      Rationale for the study, potential risks and benefit In the immediate postoperative period
      following STN DBS, simplification of the medication regimen is advised, given the complexity
      of the interactions between stimulation and medication. Both L-dopa and DAs can be used,
      however, there are no formal studies examining which type of antiparkinsonian medication may
      be more effective and/or better tolerated following STN DBS. In spite of the need of
      simplification of the medication regimen after STN DBS in PD, to date there are no clinical
      trials specifically designed to compare the efficacy (in terms of motor and non-motor
      outcomes) and safety of L-dopa monotherapy versus DAs monotherapy following STN DBS.

      Description of the population to be studied Patients with Parkinson's disease in advanced
      stage who undergo STN DBS. After one months since surgery, during the first programming
      visit, patients will be randomized in two groups receiving either L-dopa monotherapy or DAs
      monotherapy (either with pramipexole or ropirinole) for 2 months.

      Study objectives and hypothesis Aim of our study is to compare the efficacy and the safety of
      L-dopa monotherapy versus DAs monotherapy after STN DBS over a 3-month follow up period. The
      hypothesis is that DAs may be more efficacious than L-dopa in treating non-motor symptoms
      after surgery, thus further improving quality of life following surgery. On the other hand,
      in comparison with L-dopa, DAs might be associated with more side effects (in particular
      impulse control disorders) and less effective motor control.

      Study design This study is a prospective, single blind trial with a randomized-pairs design
      comparing L-dopa monotherapy and DAs monotherapy after STN DBS. The trial will be a
      single-center pilot study, conducted at Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, Canada. The
      protocol meets the Ethical Conduct for Research Involving Humans. All patients will provide
      written informed consent. A total of 40 patients is estimated to be enrolled (20 patients for
      each treatment group). Duration of the study is 15 months. Enrollment will last for 12
      months. The center will enroll patients in pairs, with one patient randomly assigned to
      L-dopa monotherapy and the other to DAs monotherapy after STN DBS. Randomization will be
      performed generating a random sequence of number through block randomization. Treatment
      assignment will be unmasked for the patient but will be blinded for the neurologist
      programming DBS and evaluating the patient. Another neurologist will be in charge of
      medication adjustments. Randomization, monitoring, and data management and analysis will be
      performed at the Toronto Western Hospital.

      Selection of subjects Subjects will be screened while they perform the standard pre-operative
      assessments (including a videotaped L-dopa challenge, a psychiatric evaluation,
      neuropsychological assessment and the visit with the neurosurgeon). If they are treated with
      both L-dopa and DAs (either pramipexole or ropirinole) prior to surgery they will be asked to
      participate in the study. If they accept, they will undergo the first visit (about one month
      before surgery). During the first visit they will be administered scales and questionnaires
      evaluating both your motor and non-motor symptoms (i.e. apathy, mood, sleep) related to
      Parkinson's disease. This evaluation will last about 1 hour. Then, enrolled subjects will
      undergo surgery according to the standard of practice currently adopted at Toronto Western
      Hospital. For the first month after surgery their medication will be unchanged. After one
      month since surgery they will have their first programming visit. During this visit, enrolled
      subjects will be randomized either to join the L-dopa group or the DAs group (receiving
      either pramipexole or ropirinole).

      Study Interventions Bilateral simultaneous STN implants will be performed in all patients
      using the standard stereotactic technique adopted at Toronto Western Hospital. According to
      the standard of practice currently adopted at Toronto Western Hospital, DBS patients will
      undergo a pre-surgical evaluation (including a videotaped L-dopa challenge to verify the
      response of motor symptoms to L-dopa, a neuropsychological evaluation, a psychiatric
      assessment and a visit with the neurosurgeon). Then, they will be seen one month after
      surgery for the first programming visit (when the "microlesional" effect is supposed to be
      gone) and then once a week for the subsequent 8 weeks (in order to slowly adjusts DBS
      parameters). The optimal stimulation settings will be progressively adjusted according to the
      patient's response. The standard pulse setting will be 60 μsec in duration at 130 Hz, with
      voltage adjusted to the individual patient. As regards antiparkinsonian treatment, patients
      will be randomly assigned to L-dopa monotherapy or DAs monotherapy during the first
      programming visit. During the 8-weeks adjustment period, L-dopa or DAs (depending on the
      study arm) will be slowly tapered off and dose of the drug left in monotherapy will be
      adjusted according to the patient's clinical condition. According to the standard of
      practice, the drugs dosage will be adjusted according to the patient's needs and will be
      maintained to the minimum sufficient level to achieve optimal motor control in absence of
      side effects throughout the duration of the study. In keeping with the standard of care at
      Toronto Western, patients will then be seen after 3 months since surgery for the completion
      of the study visit. However, unscheduled visits will be possible in case of unexpected
      clinical conditions (i.e. occurrence of side effects or worsening of motor conditions).

      L-dopa and DAs (both pramipexole and ropirinole) are very well known drugs, commercially
      available and approved for treatment as monotherapy and as adjunct therapy for Parkinson's
      disease in Canada by the Terapeutic Products Directorate of Health Canada. All potential side
      effects will be actively monitored through the study.

      The total length of the study is 15 months. First, the patients will be screened as to your
      suitability for this study. This will happen while the patients are performing the standard
      pre-operative assessments (including a videotaped L-dopa challenge, a psychiatric evaluation,
      neuropsychological assessment and the visit with the neurosurgeon). If the surgical
      candidates are treated with both L-dopa and DAs (either pramipexole or ropirinole) prior to
      surgery they will be asked to participate in the study. If they accept, they will undergo the
      first visit (about one month before surgery). During the first visit they will be
      administered scales and questionnaires evaluating both your motor and non-motor symptoms
      (i.e. apathy, mood, sleep) related to Parkinson's disease. This evaluation will last about 1
      hour. Then, the patients will undergo surgery according to the standard of practice currently
      adopted at Toronto Western Hospital. For the first month after surgery their medication will
      be unchanged. After one month since surgery the patients will have your first programming
      visit. During this visit, the enrolled patients will be randomized either to join the L-dopa
      group or the DAs group (receiving either pramipexole or ropirinole). If they will be assigned
      to the L-dopa group you will gradually discontinue DAs, while if they will be randomized to
      join the DAs group you will gradually discontinue L-dopa. Then, every patient will be seen
      once a week for the subsequent 8 weeks to optimize both the stimulations settings and the
      medical treatment. After 3 month since surgery the enrolled patients will have the last visit
      of the study and will receive the same scales and questionnaires evaluating both your motor
      and non-motor symptoms (i.e. apathy, mood, sleep) related to Parkinson's disease. This
      evaluation will again last about 1 hour.

      Throughout the study the patients will perform approximately 9-11 visits, according to the
      standard of practice currently adopted at Toronto Western Hospital. All evaluations will be
      conducted in the outpatient clinic. The assessments relative to this study will be
      administered to enrolled subjects twice (once during the pre-surgical assessments and again
      during the 3-month follow up visit). Safety and tolerability will be assessed by recording
      the frequency and the severity of reported adverse events during each visit.

      Statistical analysis The impact of STN DBS on non-motor symptoms of PD has not been
      extensively studied and only limited data are available. Based on these data, we anticipate
      that in order to detect a between-group change of the Non-motor Symptoms Scale (NMSS) of at
      least 23.3 points the sample size should be of at least 20 patients per each study arm,
      assuming a power of 0.80 and an alpha value of 0.05. Such a difference is not as large as it
      seems as the NMSS total score ranges from 0 to 360. Furthermore, this estimation was computed
      on a pilot study with a small sample size. Beyond that, the NMSS also includes a subscore for
      each of the 9 domains. Those will be analyzed as well. Presurgical differences between
      treatment groups will be evaluated with parametric or non-parametric tests, as appropriate.
      Mean changes in the continuous variables between baseline and 3-month follow up after STN DBS
      will be compared within and between treatment groups using repeated measures analysis of
      variance with "treatment group" and "time" as independent categorical factors. The
      interactions between dependent variables and any other variable of interest (e.g. age,
      MDS-UPDRS-III, stimulation parameters) will be entered into the model. Given the nature of
      our study, the standard non corrected significance α level of p<0.05 will be used.

      Direct access to Source/Data Documents Reasonable access to study data will be provided to
      the funder (The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's research, MJFF) in a format
      prescribed by it (defined as one or all of the following: the final clinical study report,
      final clinical datasets and listing that have been de-identified according to the HIPAA and
      its implementing regulations). MJFF, its grant assessors, and MJFF consultants will use such
      information only internally to make future funding decisions. MJFF shall have the right to
      audit and review detailed data related to the project.

      Quality control and quality assurance procedures All clinical trial information will be
      recorded, handled, and stored in a way that allows its accurate reporting, interpretation,
      and verification. Systems with procedures that assure the quality of every aspect of the
      trial will be implemented (i.e. check list). Quality control will be applied to each stage of
      data handling to ensure that all data are reliable and have been processed correctly.
    
  