
    
      Traumatic acute subdural haematomas (ASDHs) are common pathological entity in neurosurgical
      practice . The frequency of (ASDHs) has been proposed as approximately 10-20% of patients
      admitted with traumatic brain injury(TBI) .Approximately two -thirds of patient with TBI
      undergoing emergency cranial surgery have an acute subdural haematoma evacuated . Two common
      causes of traumatic ASDH: accumulation of blood around parenchymal laceration , usually
      frontal and temporal lobes and there is usually severe underlying brain injury .The second
      cause is surface or bridging vessel torn from cerebral acceleration - deceleration during
      violent head motion . These haematomas have been historically associated with high mortality
      rate (between 40-60%)(1).This high mortality rate has been attributed to the characteristic
      of haematoma itself , due to the primary insults to the brain like brain parenchymal injury ,
      and to the secondary insults like hypoxia and hypotension in severe head injury patients .

      Theoretically ,intracranial hypertension due to ASDH may lead to transtentorial cerebral
      herniation and secondary ischemic injury of the brain.CT scan is main and most informative
      investigatory aid in diagnosis of traumatic ASDH. The criteria used to select patients for
      non - operative management are clinical stability or improvement during the time from injury
      to evaluation at hospital , haematoma thickness less than 10 mm and mid line shift less than
      5 mm in the initial CT. Surgery is indicated if on CT 1- ASDH with thickness > 10mm. or 2-
      Mid line shift >5mm.on CT 3- ASDH with thickness <10 mm and midline shift <5mm on CT should
      undergo surgical evaluation if (a) GCS drop by >_ 2 point from injury to admission .(b) and
      or pupils are asymmetric or fixed and dilated (7). Time of surgery for ASDH is matter of
      controversy. As general principle ,when surgery for ASDH is indicated it should be done as
      soon as possible . Regarding evacuation of acute subdural haematoma, procedures vary from
      single burrhole evacuation to craniotomies and decompressive procedures .Some advocated ASDH
      evacuations by decompressive craniectomy with dural - slits .
    
  