
    
      Background and rationale: In Switzerland, only 10% of deaths per year occur suddenly and
      unexpectedly and about two thirds of people die from an illness after receiving medium to
      long-term medical care for their life limiting conditions. A large proportion of the
      population has an invested interest in the process of advance care planning (ACP) for
      end-of-life care and the use of anticipated directives (ADs). The purpose of ADs is to give
      people the opportunity to indicate their preferences, beliefs, values or fears to healthcare
      professionals and choose a surrogate, in case of loss of capacity and discernment.

      Despite perceived utility of ADs, interventions to increase rates of legally completed ADs
      have produced few significant increases in their uptake and use. For instance, literature
      shows that in Swiss about 5-14 % of adults have completed ADs. Recent research shows that,
      even when people are informed about ADs, a great majority do not formalise their choices by
      writing their ADs. This raises questions about how best to encourage patients (passively or
      actively) to engage in the process of ADs and how health professionals could support them.

      Current developments in anticipated decision-making shifted from the traditional completion
      of ADs towards Advance Care Planning (ACP). This concept is seen as a continuous development
      of communication between patients, close relatives and health professionals with the aim to
      define a common orientation for care and treatment. ADs are now seen as part of the ACP
      process which focused on preferences, goals of care, life-sustaining treatments, palliative
      options, surrogate decision-making and documentation (as ADs).

      Some recent systematic reviews highlight the heterogeneity of ACP interventions, setting
      stakeholders, designs, measures or outcomes. The efficacy of ACP interventions for different
      populations, and more specifically in the completion of ADs and the occurrence of end-of-life
      discussions was shown in some studies. However, it is not clear which elements of ACP are
      effective and how to best favour the implementation of it in practice. There remains
      nevertheless, a lack of well-conducted RCTs to evaluate ACP intervention irrespective of the
      setting. And this needs to be improved by developing intervention programs in the topic and
      to overcome barriers that might limit engagement in ACP, such as professionals', patients'
      and close relatives' discomfort with end-of-life issues.

      Hospital stays are increasingly being shortened and as a consequence, patients are exposed to
      a multitude of professionals who may not be in a position to adequately discuss the delicate
      subject of end-of-life care, due to the priority of providing acute care for many patients.
      Moreover, when focusing on populations near the end of their lives (life expectancy less than
      six months), for around 40% of patients, it was too late to initiate ADs (and thus ACP) due
      to cognitive impairment.

      Therefore, it may be beneficial to focus on people in 'early stage of palliative care' such
      as those with chronic degenerative conditions reducing life expectancy, who receive care
      outside the hospital setting in their natural environment. Therefore, it is preferable to
      offer a complex ACP intervention at home, considering this setting as a more optimal place to
      initiate conversations about end-of-life issues.

      Recently, a new research avenue uses "card games" to explore end-of-life issues. These tools
      are considered as a non-threatening way to start a conversation on end-of-life, but their
      characteristics, objectives and utilization differ (e.g., "Hello" or "Go Wish").

      The "Go Wish" tool shows promise for our population of interest. It is a patient-centred
      approach to help people to discuss their preferences and options of end-of-life care, to
      formalize them in ADs and to empower self-determination. It promotes collaborative
      partnership and shared decision-making with health professionals. It is classified as a
      serious game and is composed of 36 cards where each card presents a statement that refers to
      personal needs, values, and beliefs about end-of-life care. The statements have been
      identified from the literature as particularly important because they correspond to
      descriptors of "a good death" and they relate to four main dimensions: (a) oneself, (b) care
      (technical, physical, relational, and spiritual), (c) family and close relatives, and (d)
      context and organization of end-of-life. Experience with the cards showed good feasibility
      and acceptability to the different participants it was tested on (nurse, patients and close
      relatives). The advantage of the Go Wish, compared to the previous mentioned ACP's
      interventions, is its accessibility (no literacy barriers) and that it is more centred on the
      needs and wishes of the patient instead of being centred on the disease as the others
      mentioned above. Another major advantage of this intervention is that patient initiates and
      guides discussions on themes she/he wants to develop, meaning the patient's own readiness is
      respected and reflected in her/his engagement in these complex processes such as those
      defined in the Prochaska's Transtheoretical model. This model proposes five steps relevant to
      change and is a frequently used theory in ACP. It offers a framework that specifies the
      different strategies needed at each stage to change attitudes, intentions and behaviours that
      are implicated in the ACP and ADs process.

      Nevertheless this model does not explain the complexity involved with psychological
      mechanisms of defence that are present in end-of-life thinking such as those experienced by
      patients, their closes relatives and carers and health professionals when considering ACPs
      and ADs. Therefore, there is a need to understand people's reluctance to formalize ADs and
      work around this problem. On another hand, a psychosocial model, the Terror Management Theory
      (TMT) could offer an explanation. It is a theoretical framework based on the assumption that
      human individuals, in contrast to all other beings, are confronted with the awareness that
      they will sooner or later inevitably die. This mixture of the inevitability of mortality as a
      reality of their lives, coupled with their striving for survival, can produce a paralyzing
      anxiety or terror that needs to be managed.

      TMT seems a framework in which to explore the occurrence of psychological mechanisms
      described below in end-of-life discussion contexts. A few qualitative studies suggest that
      getting involved in an ACP process can lead people to prematurely think about their death
      creating unnecessary anxiety. Because "being diagnosed with a serious illness, receiving or
      providing medical treatment" reminds people (both professionals and lay people) of their own
      inevitable mortality, the question arises how best to encourage people engaging in health
      preferment activities, such as ACP. From the TMT perspective, it is possible to reduce the
      perceived health-related anxiety by helping people to become aware of their own death by
      facilitating discussions about end-of-life preferences.

      The Go Wish intervention focuses on individual's important life dimensions, which could
      reduce anxiety in the process of ACP and ADs completion and alleviate defensive behaviours
      present in end-of-life care.

      Objectives: Grounded in the TMT, the efficacy of the Go Whish intervention compared to the
      standardized information on ADs commonly used in outpatients with progressive chronic
      illnesses will be assessed.
    
  