
    
      Urea cycle disorders are a group of rare genetic diseases that affect how protein is broken
      down in the body. UCDs are caused by a deficiency in one of six enzymes or two mitochondrial
      membrane transporters responsible for removing ammonia, a waste product of protein
      metabolism, from the bloodstream. Normally, ammonia is converted into urea and then removed
      from the body in the form of urine. In UCDs, however, ammonia accumulates unchecked and is
      not removed from the body. It then reaches the brain through the blood, where it causes
      irreversible brain damage and/or death.

      All UCDs, except for one (ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency), are inherited as recessive
      traits. The purpose of this study is to perform a long-term analysis of a large group of
      individuals with various UCDs. Biochemical status, growth, and cognitive function will be
      assessed. Survival and cognitive outcome of the two most commonly used forms of treatment,
      alternate pathway therapy and transplantation, will be evaluated. In addition, this study
      will identify the biochemical changes that may predict future metabolic imbalances so that
      they may be corrected before clinical symptoms develop.

      This observational study is funded through 2024. All participants will attend an initial
      study visit, which will include a medical and diet history, physical and neurological
      examinations, psychological testing, and blood tests. Participants will then be followed with
      subsequent study visits, which will last 2-3 hours each. Individuals with neonatal onset UCD
      will be assessed every 3 months until age 2 and every 6 months thereafter. Individuals with
      late onset UCD will be evaluated every 6 months. Psychological testing will take place every
      2 years. Psychological testing will take from 30 minutes (for younger children) up to 3
      hours, depending on test battery.
    
  