
    
      Hypothesis:

      The erector spinae plane block will decrease opioid requirements in patients undergoing hip
      arthroplasty as compared to patients that do not receive the block.

      Primary Objective:

      To compare the opioid consumption in the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) and at 24 hours
      postoperative (in morphine equivalents) in patients receiving regional anesthesia with spinal
      vs. spinal alone.

      Secondary Endpoints:

      To evaluate the pain scores at discharge from PACU, at 2 hours post PACU discharge, at 24
      hours and at 48 hours postoperative; to evaluate the sensory distribution of the block
      (T10-L5); to evaluate whether or not patients that receive the block have evidence of
      quadricep muscle weakness

      Design and methods This is a randomized, prospective study in patients receiving hip
      arthroplasty. Patients will be assigned to receive a lumbar erector spinae block versus no
      block. There will be no change in the primary anesthetic technique (spinal anesthesia with
      sedation) since these patients routinely get spinal anesthesia for hip arthroplasty. Consent
      for the study will be obtained in the preoperative area upon arrival for surgery. Patients
      will then be randomized into one of the two groups above. One group will receive a lumbar
      erector spinae block at L4 with 30ml of 0.375% ropivacaine with 50 mcg of dexmedetomidine
      before the procedure using ultrasound guidance. The second group will receive no peripheral
      nerve block to serve as the control. Patients to receive a nerve block will receive mild
      sedation (1-2mg midazolam ± ≤100mcg fentanyl). All patients receiving nerve blocks will have
      a printed image of the block thus to confirm proper spread of local anesthetic both cranially
      and caudally.

      Postoperatively, the PACU nurse will be asked to document pain scores according to the Visual
      Analog Scale (VAS) and total dose of opioids given. The distribution of the sensory block and
      motor weakness will be documented in the anesthesiologist's PACU discharge note. For patients
      that receive the block, the Physical therapist note will be assessed for any report of
      quadriceps muscle weakness (i.e., evidence of buckling while walking).

      For postoperative data collection, opioid consumption totals and the pain scores at 2 hours
      post admission, at 24 hours and 48 hours post-procedure will be collected from the electronic
      medical record (EMR) as documented by nurses on the admitting floor. Additionally, the Acute
      Pain service, who rounds on all patients that receive nerve blocks, will make a note of the
      pain scores of the patient and any residual muscle weakness or decreased sensation at 24- and
      48-hours post-procedure. All data will then be extracted from the EMR by the research
      assistant.
    
  