
    
      Thalassemias are inherited blood disorders that are characterized by low levels of hemoglobin
      and healthy red blood cells. The two major types of thalassemia are alpha thalassemia and
      beta thalassemia, and there are several forms of each type. Symptoms can range from mild to
      severe and may include anemia, delayed growth, bone problems, and an enlarged spleen. People
      with mild forms of the disease may not need any treatment, while people with moderate to
      severe thalassemia may be treated with blood transfusions to refresh the healthy red blood
      cell supply, iron chelation therapy to remove excess iron from the body, and folic acid
      supplements to help build healthy red blood cells. Stem cell transplants can cure the
      disease, but they are not widely used because of the difficulty of finding donors. This study
      will establish a database of people with thalassemia and people who used to have thalassemia
      to examine the prevalence and incidence of complications related to the disease.
      Participants' DNA will be analyzed and plasma will be collected for use in future studies.
      Participants in this study may also be asked if they are interested in enrolling in other
      Thalassemia Clinical Research Network studies.

      This study has enrolled people with thalassemia or people whose thalassemia was cured after
      undergoing a stem cell transplant. At a baseline study visit, participants with thalassemia
      will undergo a medical history interview; a medical record review; blood collection; and
      questionnaires on quality of life, nutritional status, and medication adherence. Follow-up
      visits will occur once a year for at least 3 years or for the duration of the study and will
      include repeat baseline testing. Participants who have undergone a successful stem cell
      transplant will attend only one study visit that will include a medical history interview, a
      medical record review, and quality of life questionnaires.
    
  