
    
      HIV-related disparities in diagnosis and disease outcomes persist among Latinos, and Latinos
      living with HIV show a lower percentage of viral suppression compared to the general
      HIV-positive population. A growing body of work suggests that stigma and discrimination
      contribute to health disparities, especially among people living with HIV, who may experience
      discrimination due to multiple stigmatized identities related to HIV-serostatus,
      race/ethnicity, and sexual orientation. Internalized stigma and discrimination may lead to
      health-related disparities by increasing detrimental physiological stress responses,
      resulting in maladaptive coping and poor health behaviors, including non-adherence to
      treatment. Moreover, the chronic stress of discrimination may weaken immune function, leading
      to worse HIV outcomes, including increased HIV viral load. The proposed research will
      integrate adherence skills-building strategies into a recently developed intervention,
      Siempre Seguiré, an 8-session group cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) intervention for
      HIV-positive Latino men who have sex with men (LMSM) that aims to improve adaptive coping
      responses to discrimination. The specific aims are: (1) To modify and refine Siempre Seguiré,
      a newly developed culturally congruent CBT group intervention for HIV-positive LMSM, to
      include strategies for antiretroviral treatment adherence and retention in HIV care; and (2)
      To conduct a small randomized pilot of Siempre Seguiré to examine feasibility and
      acceptability, as well as to explore preliminary effects on: (a) coping responses to
      discrimination; and (b) antiretroviral treatment adherence, viral load suppression, and HIV
      care retention, among LMSM living with HIV. In Phase 1, HIV treatment adherence intervention
      experts and key stakeholders, including a community advisory board, will help to refine our
      pilot intervention as needed and update our manual to integrate information and skills
      building regarding HIV treatment adherence and retention in care. In Phase 2, a small
      randomized controlled trial of 80 participants (40 intervention participants divided evenly
      over 4 intervention groups vs. 40 wait-list control participants) will be conducted.
      Participants will complete surveys at baseline, and 4- and 6-months post-baseline to assess
      coping and HIV care processes and outcomes. Adherence will be electronically monitored, and
      viral load will be collected from medical providers at baseline and at 6-month follow-up.
      Intervention group sessions will take place once per week for 8 weeks. Sessions will take
      place in a private room at Bienestar (a Latino-serving AIDS service organization in LAC) and
      will last approximately 90 minutes. We hypothesize that the intervention will improve coping
      responses to discrimination and HIV treatment adherence.
    
  