
    
      The prospective randomized controlled trial will be conducted at the Department of
      Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, University Medical Center Ulm, Germany. 20
      patients will be enrolled in the study. Prior to inclusion, informed written consent is
      obtained from each patient. Patients with immunodeficiency are not included, as well as
      patients with an infectious disease or patients with a missing capacity for consent. All
      patients undergo surgery using the fillet technique. To prevent the remaining skin from
      further damage, the meticulous skin preparation is performed either using the microscope or
      magnifying glasses. The keloid is "peeled" out of the excessive skin pocket. If necessary
      skin trimming is performed and non-resorbable monofilament single sutures are placed. The
      first intracutaneous injection of triamcinolone 10mg/ml is given before wound dressing is
      placed. A blanching of the lesion marks the endpoint of injection. Cutaneous sutures are
      removed after approximately 7 days. Injection of triamcinolone is repeated every 4 to 6 weeks
      for a total of 6 months. When removing the sutures, patients are randomized using consecutive
      sampling. Patients in group A are treated according to the protocol outlined above, having
      steroid injections for 6 months after surgical removal of the keloid. Group B involves
      patients who are additionally treated with non-customized pressure devices. The standardized
      clips (K. Egner, Dental Technique, Neu-Ulm, Germany) used in our study are available in two
      different sizes for smaller or larger defects. According to the guidelines of the German
      Society of Dermatology, patients are advised to wear the clip at least 16 hours per day.
      Medically approved transparent acrylate is used so that change in skin color and therefore
      amount of pressure can be observed at all times. Allergic or toxic skin involvement can be
      visualized through the transparent surface. Adjusting of the clip is done with one or two
      screws.
    
  