
    
      Over 30 million Americans have been diagnosed with diabetes and the related complications
      account for the 7th most common cause of death in the United States. Within the
      gastrointestinal system, diabetic enteropathy can manifest in a variety of ways of which
      diarrhea (DD) may be amongst the most debilitating. The prevalence of DD has been estimated
      to approach 20%. Autonomic neuropathy, loss of nitrergic neurons and loss of stimulation of
      alpha adrenergic neurons have all been postulated to have an effect on gut motility and water
      reabsorption. New research may indicate that chronic hyperglycemia damages Interstitial Cells
      of Cajal and other enteric nerves through oxidative stress to cause symptoms. Other areas of
      emerging research have explored the role of enteric hormones, smooth muscle cell
      abnormalities, inflammatory mediators, enteric glial cells, and the patients' microbiome as
      factors in the pathogenesis of DD Globally, symptoms of DD are inversely correlated with
      glycemic control. DD is a diagnosis of exclusion and its associated voluminous, watery stools
      are often unresponsive to conventional therapy.

      Eluxadoline has emerged as an FDA approved drug for the treatment of IBS-D. It is an agonist
      of mu and kappa opioid receptors while also an antagonist at delta receptors in the gut.
      Through these mechanisms, eluxadoline acts to slow peristalsis while at the same time
      prevents constipation and provides pain relief to patients with IBS-D. Given its success in
      the treatment of IBS-D, we hypothesize that eluxadoline will safely bring significant symptom
      relief and improve quality of life for patients with DD.

      Our study is a double blind, placebo controlled cross over design to investigate the safety
      and effectiveness of eluxadoline in relieving the symptoms of DD. Diabetic patients over the
      age of 18 with diarrhea for which an alternative underlying etiology has not been identified
      will be eligible to participate in a pre-randomization phase lasting four weeks to document
      baseline symptoms. At the conclusion of the pre-randomization period, patients will be
      randomized to either Experimental Group A or Experimental Group B. Randomization will be
      performed by a statistician and only the Temple Pharmacist will be aware of the group
      assignment to distribute study drug or placebo. Participants will receive either eluxadoline
      100mg by mouth twice daily or matching placebo for 42 days, complete a washout period of 28
      days when neither placebo or eluxadoline will be given, and then continue on by taking either
      eluxadoline or placebo for an additional 42 days based on which experimental group they have
      been assigned. Throughout the study period, patients will keep a daily stool diary,
      participate in questionnaires administered by a study coordinator and have pre-determined
      follow up office visits with study physicians.

      The primary endpoint compared between eluxadoline and placebo will be proportion of days in
      which all bowel movements for that day have a consistency on the Bristol Stool Scale <5.
      Secondary endpoints will be improvement on the subject's Likert scores for global
      satisfaction, score on the Diabetes-39 and Facit-D questionnaires as well as proportion of
      days with fecal incontinence and nights with nocturnal diarrhea. We hypothesize that compared
      to placebo, eluxadoline will significantly improve the primary and secondary endpoints
      described above.
    
  