
    
      Subjects with recurrent epithelial ovarian carcinoma or recurrent primary peritoneal cancer,
      for whom autologous tumor or malignant effusion has been harvested and is available for
      lysate preparation, are eligible, provided all other eligibility criteria are fulfilled.
      Harvested tumor or malignant effusion will be shipped to Cognate BioServices (Sunnyvale, CA)
      for preparation of lysate. If sufficient amount of lysate for vaccine can be generated,
      subjects will be enrolled to the study.

      Subjects will undergo apheresis on day -35 to -29 to harvest peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells (PBMC). The apheresis product will be shipped to Cognate BioServices, where DC will be
      prepared and pulsed with autologous lysate according to proprietary technology. Following
      apheresis, subjects will receive two cycles of biological antiangiogenesis/immunomodulatory
      therapy comprising intravenous bevacizumab at 10 mg/kg on day -28 and -14, which may be
      followed by 7 days of oral metronomic cyclophosphamide at 50 mg daily (days -28 to -21, and
      -14 to -7, respectively). Subjects will receive three doses of intradermal vaccination with
      ~5-10 x 106 dendritic cells (DCVax-L) on days 0, 14 and 28. Subjects will also receive
      intravenous bevacizumab at 10 mg/kg concurrently with intradermal DCVax-L on day 0 and 14,
      which may be followed by oral cyclophosphamide at 50 mg for 7 days (days 0 to 7, and 14 to
      21, respectively). The last DCVax-L (day 28) may be followed by oral cyclophosphamide at 50
      mg daily x 7 days (days 28 to 35), but no bevacizumab will be given on day 28. Prevnar, an
      FDA approved seven-valent vaccine against Pneumococcus pneumoniae, will be given
      intramuscularly on day 0 as positive control of immune responsiveness. Two weeks following
      third vaccine dose (day 42), patients will undergo immune assessment.

      Subjects will be contacted every 6 months for 5 years and then annually for survival. Subject
      will have the option of enrolling in other combinatorial immunotherapy trials when these are
      available, if they satisfy enrollment criteria. Subjects will have the option of continuing
      vaccination every two months till exhaustion of DCVax-L or disease progression, whichever
      occurs first.
    
  