
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      End-stage renal disease (ESRD) is the crossing point of multiple heterogeneous disease
      pathways that can alter the structure and function of the kidneys irreversibly. Both
      definition and classification of ESRD have been developing over time. However, current
      international guidelines define ESRD as declined kidney function shown by GFR of less than 60
      mL/min per 1•73 m², kidney damage markers or both, for at least 3 months duration, regardless
      of underlying cause.1 Haemodialysis (HD) is a lifeline management for patients with ESRD. A
      critical factor in the survival of renal dialysis patients is the surgical creation of
      vascular access, and international guidelines recommend arteriovenous fistulas (AVF) as the
      gold standard vascular access for haemodialysis. Arteriovenous graft and central vein
      catheters have higher primary patency rates compared to AVF, however native AVFs last longer.
      3 There is conflicting evidence about the impact of various demographic characteristics of
      the patients on the functional maturation of the native AVFs. Certain characteristics such as
      diabetes mellitus, female gender, thrombophilia and various hematological factors, such as
      platelet count and hemoglobin levels, can affect fistula maturation. Also the impact of
      certain operative and anatomical factors, including but not limited to diameter of artery and
      venous limb of the AVF, presence of palpable thrill, audible bruit, and anatomical site of
      fistula may affect outcome.4 Functional fistula maturation is defined as patent fistula,
      ready for cannulation with vein length of at least 10 cm long segment, diameter more than 6
      mm, depth not more than 6 mm and ability of the access to deliver a flow rate of 350 to 400
      ml/min and maintain dialysis for 3.5 to 4 hours.5 Delayed maturation of AVF among patients
      who require hemodialysis can lead to catheter sepsis with its resultant morbidity and
      mortality. Some authors have proposed that sequential BAM may accelerate maturation process
      and shorten the maturation times of these accesses.6 Balloon angioplasty maturation is
      emerging as a surgical technique that could increase utilization and improve function of
      autogenous arteriovenous hemodialysis accesses. This approach includes primary balloon
      angioplasty (PBA) of small veins during AVF creation.9-10 However there are no studies that
      directly compare maturation times for AVF with and without using BAM. There are several
      studies that document the safety and efficacy of the BAM technique. 7 Ultimately, there are
      also studies that report its possible negative consequences such as fibrosis and restenosis
      of venous outflow, leading to malfunctioning AVF. 8 Thus, in an effort to increase the number
      of primary AVFs, shorten maturation times, and reduce the number of indwelling catheters, we
      ascertain the BAM technique within this study to optimize access care and maximize use of
      AVFs.

      Patients and Methods:

      This is a randomized prospective study conducted in the department of vascular surgery,
      Mansoura university hospitals. Between July 2017 and May 2019 Three hundred patients were
      recruited from a total of 648 primary AVF creation cases. Patients had been advised to
      undergo elective surgery for AVF once their renal glomerular filtration rate estimated (eGFR)
      is less than 15 ml/min. Block randomization was the method used for stratification of
      patients' groups.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria: All patients aged 18 years or older who need AVF formation
      in the upper limb were included as a recruitment target. In patients with multiple episodes
      of AVF creation, each episode was considered separately and data from the corresponding
      episode had been recorded in our data sheet. Patients who underwent salvage procedures to
      improve maturation, i.e. secondary maturation, or those who could not give informed consent
      were not included1. A total of 335 patients who needed Autogenous AVF were enrolled in the
      study during that period.

      Patients and methods Table (1) shows the patient's demographics, including underlying medical
      conditions, previous AVF, transplanted kidney and other associated morbidity. Arterial
      assessments included pulse examination, segmental blood pressures in both upper extremities,
      and the modified Allen test for continuity of the palmar arch. Venous assessments include
      gross evaluation of the veins in the dependent position with tourniquet enhancement in the
      upper arm. Table (2) shows patients' workup including blood picture, blood sugar level,
      kidney functions, liver functions and coagulation profile.

      Duplex US examination checked the diameter, compressibility, depth, and continuity of the arm
      veins. Arterial assessment included radial and brachial arterial size, presence or absence of
      calcification, segmental pressure, and velocity wave forms.

      Operative procedure:

      The non dominant upper limb was preferred and saved. AVFs were created at wrist, forearm and
      arm in both male and female patients under local, regional or general anaesthesia. All
      brachiobasilic fistulas were created in one stage.

      Randomization was done through computer generated block serials in sealed envelopes which
      were opened when the patient was on the operating table. During AVF creation and before
      anastomosis, the vein was cannulated through the open end of the venotomy. Intraoperative
      venography was done to assess the vein in the BAM group only. Angioplasty was performed under
      direct vision with or without the use of a guidewire using a 1 mm larger balloon than the
      size of the vein. BAM is performed over the whole length of the vein sparing the spatulated
      end of the vein. Post venoplasty venography was done to reveal any injury and assess the
      dilatation process. All cases were completed as an end to side anastomosis followed by
      assessment of the dilated segment for any spasm which is treated by mechanical compression of
      the vein cephalad to the area of concern. Patients were discharged home on the following day
      with instructions for care of fistula.These instructions included avoidance of any blood
      sampling, using this arm for blood pressure measurement, clothes with constrictive sleeves,
      heavy or tight jewellery, circumferential dressings on wound and sleeping on the operated
      arm. Patients were taught how to feel for the thrill, advised to contact the operating team
      if they developed any numbness in hand, discoloration of fingertips or coldness. All patients
      were instructed to commence active hand ball exercises before discharge from hospital.
      Patients were followed both clinically and radiologically with duplex scan at the 2nd, 4th
      and 6th weeks post-procedure, checking the flow rate, depth and diameter of the target vein.

      Statistical analysis: Data was analysed using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences.
      The numerical outcomes e.g. age was calculated as mean. Chi Square test was used to assess
      the association of various parameters. Results were considered statistically significant if
      the p-value was found to be less than or equal to 0.05. Log rank test (mantel cox) test was
      used to compare AVF maturation in both groups
    
  