
    
      A) Aims and Objectives. Effective antiviral treatments of HBV are available, but treatment is
      lifelong in most so comes at considerable cost and with some toxicity. An effective
      therapeutic strategy to achieve a cure for HBV remains an unmet need. This project examines
      the key steps to HBV cure in the setting of HIV-HBV co-infection. Seroconversion is key to
      the cure. Seroconversion is the process where detectable antibody (specific protective
      protein produced by the immune system) against virus proteins (antigens) are developed in the
      blood. This proposed Asian HIV-HBV co-infection cohort (where treatment initiation is later
      and hence at lower cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) counts) will provide a unique
      opportunity to test our hypothesis that following initiation of antiviral therapy, HB surface
      and "e" antigen loss is more frequent (i) early in treatment and (ii) with lower CD4 cell
      counts, and that predictors of losing HB surface and 'e" antigen (Ag) and gaining antibody
      (Ab) against them are directly associated with B-cell functions.

      B) Key Questions. Primary objective: to determine the rates & clinical determinants of HBsAg
      and HBeAg loss and seroconversion in HIV-HBV co-infected patients commencing HBV-active
      antiretroviral (ART). We will test the hypotheses that: (i) seroconversion occurs
      predominantly in the early phase of treatment (≤12 months) with HBV active ART and (ii)
      seroconversion is more frequent in HIV-HBV co-infected individuals commencing treatment with
      lower CD4+ T cell counts (≤100 cells/mm3) compared to those with higher counts (>100
      cells/mm3).

      Secondary objectives: (i) identify predictive biomarkers of HBsAg loss/seroconversion and
      (ii) examine predictors of HBeAg loss/seroconversion in this setting

      C) Research Design. This is a large prospective, observational cohort study of
      treatment-naïve HIV-HBV co-infected patients (n=150). Clinical sites are - (1)
      HIV-Netherland-Australia-Thailand (HIV-NAT)/Thai Red Cross AIDS Research Centre, Bangkok,
      Thailand; (2) Y.R. Gaitonde Centre for AIDS Research and Education (YRG CARE), Chennai,
      India; and (3) Clinical Investigation Centre (CIC), University of Malaya, Infectious Diseases
      Directorate, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Participants will be followed for 2 years, with study
      visits at baseline (study entry/initiation of treatment), months 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 of
      follow-up. Clinical and laboratory information/data and blood samples will be collected at
      study visits.
    
  