
    
      BACKGROUND:

      With the use of antihypertensive medication increasing steadily over the last 25 years,
      treatment for hypertension is now common. Given the high prevalence of treatment for
      hypertension, researchers can no longer assume that participants in epidemiologic studies
      represent natural blood pressure measures, as opposed to treated blood pressure measures. The
      effect of this high prevalence of treatment, however, has not been fully investigated.
      Although it might seem that studies of "natural history" are no longer relevant, great
      interest currently exists in establishing both environmental and genetic determinants of
      blood pressure. Additionally, there currently is a renewed interest in refining treatment
      guidelines. For example, the need to account for absolute as well as relative risk has been
      hotly debated in recent years. The need will continue to exist, therefore, to analyze
      observational data sets to meet the evolving interest in the determinants of blood pressure
      and to meet the requirements for more refined risk estimates.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      To investigate the effect of blood pressure treatment on the analysis of epidemiologic
      studies, the investigators conducted two interrelated analyses using simulation studies and
      data from five observational studies: The Framingham Heart Study; the NHANES I, II, and III
      cohorts; and The International Collaborative Study of Hypertension in Blacks (ICSHIB). They
      first conducted simulation studies to examine the behavior of different methodologies in each
      of two common analytic settings: relating body mass index to level of systolic blood pressure
      and relating level of systolic blood pressure to coronary heart disease mortality. They
      planned to use the data from the five studies to derive the parameters for use in the
      simulation studies. In these studies they quantified the level of bias that results from
      ignoring the presence of blood pressure treatment in observational data. After conducting
      their simulations studies, they repeated the analysis of the relationship between body mass
      index and systolic blood pressure using available empirical data.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  