
    
      A randomized controlled clinical study that aims to compare success and survival of potassium
      hydrogen difluoride (KHF2) etched zirconium dioxide and lithium disilicate reinforced glass
      ceramic cemented to molars/premolares using dual cure resin cement.

      The null hypothesis for the study is that zirconium dioxide and lithium disilicate reinforced
      glass ceramic will retain equally good tooth substance when cemented with resin cement.

      Participants are recruited from the student clinic at Faculty of Dentistry, University of
      Oslo. Patients who fulfill the inclusion criteria 1) age above 18, 2) require restoration on
      premolar/molar and 3) are able to come to treatment and recall, are informed about the study
      and invited to participate. Consent to participation are signed by the patient. At any time
      and for any reason participants can withdraw from the study.

      Personal information will be registered in Service for Sensitive Data, which is a platform to
      collect, store, analyze and share sensitive data. An encoded research file will be kept
      separate from the patient journal.The content of this file will be patient journal number and
      classification of the restoration on a four level scale (Californian Dental Association -
      CDA) for each recall.

      A randomizing tool will be used to decide which ceramic restoration each participant will
      receive. Treatment will be performed by one clinician. The tooth preparation will be with
      little retention, and preferably supragingival. For cementing the restorations a standardized
      protocol for a dual cure resin cement will be used.

      Participants only have to pay for the dental technician expenses and will be the same amount
      regardless of type of ceramic.

      Each participant will be examined at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months by a clinician different from the
      one who performed the treatment. The 4 level CDA classification will be used to characterise
      each restoration.

      Each of the two treatment groups will consist of 20 participants. Significant results will be
      achieved with the approximate distribution across categories: Category 1: 19,9 %, category 2:
      79,4 %, category 3: 4,6 %, category 4: 2,5 %
    
  