
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the activity of BRAF and MEK inhibitor combination in untreated papillary
      craniopharyngiomas as measured by best response at any time during the first four cycles of
      BRAF and MEK inhibitor treatment.

      II. To determine the activity of BRAF and MEK inhibitor combination in papillary
      craniopharyngiomas that have progressed after prior radiation treatment with or without
      surgical resection as measured by best response at any time during the first four cycles of
      BRAF and MEK inhibitor treatment.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the progression-free survival of patients with papillary craniopharyngiomas
      receiving BRAF and MEK inhibitors.

      II. To determine the toxicity of BRAF/MEK inhibitors in patients with papillary
      craniopharyngiomas.

      III. To determine the activity of BRAF and MEK inhibitor combination in papillary
      craniopharyngiomas as measured by response of enhancing volume of craniopharyngioma.

      IV. To determine the activity of BRAF and MEK inhibitor combination in papillary
      craniopharyngiomas as measured by response of nonenhancing volume of craniopharyngioma.

      V. To determine the overall survival of patients with papillary craniopharyngiomas receiving
      BRAF and MEK inhibitors.

      VI. To determine the duration of response in patients with papillary craniopharyngiomas
      receiving BRAF and MEK inhibitors.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate visual fields in patients with papillary craniopharyngiomas who have received
      BRAF/MEK inhibitors.

      II. To evaluate pituitary hormone replacement over time in patients with papillary
      craniopharyngiomas who have received BRAF/MEK inhibitors.

      III. To evaluate the time to response in patients with papillary craniopharyngiomas receiving
      BRAF and MEK inhibitors.

      IV. To assess toxicity that may be associated with radiotherapy in patients with papillary
      craniopharyngiomas who have received BRAF/MEK inhibitors.

      V. To evaluate molecular biomarkers of response in papillary craniopharyngiomas.

      VI. To evaluate circulating tumor cells and cell-free circulating deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)
      in patients with papillary craniopharyngiomas.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive vemurafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on day 1-28 and cobimetinib PO
      once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 5 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may then receive radiation
      therapy, surgery, or continued treatment with vemurafenib and cobimetinib at the discretion
      of the treating physician.

      After completion of study treatment, patients with disease progression are followed up every
      16 weeks for 2 years and all other patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years.
    
  