
    
      Objective:

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the short term safety and tolerability,
      and the pharmacokinetic properties of 2-IB when administered to adult patients after OHCA.

      Study design:

      A Phase 2, single-centre, open-label, dose-escalation intervention study.

      Study population:

      The study population will constitute of three cohorts of eight evaluable patients admitted to
      the ICU after CPR for OHCA due to a cardiac cause.

      Intervention:

      The first cohort of eight patients will receive 2-IB in a dose of 0,055 mg/kg/dose every 4 h
      iv, 6 times in total (part A). The second cohort of eight patients (cohort B) will receive an
      anticipated dose of 0,165 mg/kg/dose every 4h iv, 6 times in total ,and the third cohort of
      eight patients (cohort C) will receive an anticipated dose of 0,500 mg/kg/dose every 4h iv, 6
      times in total. The first dose has to be given as soon as possible and within 6h after OHCA.
      Escalation to the next dose level will only be done after pharmacokinetic analyses have
      performed, no relevant safety issues have been encountered, and the DSMB approves to move to
      the next dose level.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      The main study parameters used for evaluating the short term safety and tolerability will be
      vital signs (heart frequency, blood pressure, cardiac ischemia) before and until 15 minutes
      after administration of the study drug and the need for intervention. Furthermore ,
      biochemistry and haematology taken as part of standard clinical care will be assessed, and
      the occurrence of (Serious) Adverse Events ((S)AEs) until 7 days on the ICU or until
      discharge from the ICU, whichever occurs earlier.

      For evaluation of the pharmacokinetics profile of 2-IB, 9 plasma samples will be analysed.
      Pharmacokinetic parameters to be determined will include Cmax, AUC, Tmax, t1/2, clearance
      (Cl), and volume of distribution (Vd).

      Secondary parameters:

        1. Short term efficacy as determined by biochemical markers NSE and s100b at 24h and 48h
           after start of first infusion of study drug.

        2. Longer term safety as determined by the occurrence of SAEs until 30 days after OHCA
           including death.

        3. Longer term efficacy as determined by the Cerebral Performance Category (CPC), the
           Computer Assisted Mild Cognitive Impairment (CAMCI) score, the Informant Questionnaire
           on Cognitive Decline in the Elderly (IQCODE) or alternatively the Telefonisch Interview
           Cognitieve Status (TICS) scale (by telephone) at 30 days after OHCA.
    
  