
    
      This is a multisite longitudinal study with NIH as the lead site. The other sites: Texas
      Children s Hospital, Boston Children s Hospital, Geisinger Medical Center, NYU and the
      NHLBI-supported, area specific repository, National Sleep Research Repository (NSRR). This
      study will address the data gap established by two NIMH sponsored intramural/extramural
      workshops (2017 and 2018) in the field of sleep and neurodevelopment by establishing a
      standardized, reliable protocol for real time acquisition of research data on the normal and
      abnormal neuro-maturational changes that are sleep-dependent. It will facilitate data-sharing
      in this area and speed the pace of discovery. Sleep EEG is a highly advantageous modality to
      provide non-invasive, reliable, robust and reproducible imaging of the brain in young and
      neurodevelopmentally disordered populations. Sleep EEG affords data acquisition of functional
      network microstructure with a decreased signal to noise ratio compared to acquisition in the
      awake state. In addition, potential deviations from the natural ultradian and other sleep
      oscillatory patterns of the sleep process have the potential to inform on underlying
      developing neuropathology of various microstructures and neurotransmitter systems prior to
      the emergence of putatively associated behavioral phenomenon. Ideally, these oscillatory
      trajectories will not only map to developmental behavioral phenotypes but also to clinical
      disorders of the sleep state itself, such as the malignant insomnias that are prevalent in
      neuropsychiatric and neurodevelopmental syndromes. The protocol will initiate the
      establishment of a normative database for electrophysiologic sleep data in the developing
      brain. Disorders of particular interest include autism, disorders of social cognition and
      other neurodevelopmental disorders, childhood psychiatric disorders, and unique clinical
      presentations of neurogenetic syndromes, such as those associated with genetic disorders or
      those with a unique family history. The study plans to use a quantitative, dimensional
      approach to outcome measurement with respect to adaptive functioning in children and to
      symptoms of behavioral and/or neurodevelopmental problems, irrespective of diagnosis.

      While specific differences in the architecture of sleep (e.g., stages, movement
      abnormalities, cyclicity, spindles and other bio-signatures that reflect anatomical
      microstructure) may be used to differentiate neurodevelopmental cohorts, the enormous
      potential of this proposed database lies in the ability to track functional connectivity
      (coherence) during sleep in the developing brain in a longitudinal, prospective manner,
      thereby establishing both normal and aberrant trajectories. Predictive relationships can be
      determined once these trajectories are established. Coherence studies would allow for the
      potential recreation of neural circuits that sub-serve various brain functions, such as
      language and attention. Tracking the trajectory of neural development prior to and during the
      developmental window when these circuits are maturing will allow for an understanding of best
      potential windows of intervention.

      Objectives: The long term, primary objective of this protocol is to evaluate the degree to
      which the development and maturation of sleep patterns, with an emphasis on the relationship
      of those patterns to electrophysiologic signals, can predict cognitive and behavioral
      outcomes. Assessing participants over time will allow researchers to gain additional
      knowledge about the role of abnormal sleep, measured both clinically and by polysomnogram, in
      various childhood neuropsychiatric/ neurodevelopmental disorders and behavioral syndromes.

      Study Population: The total number of participants to be enrolled will be set at N = 294 (6
      months to 8 years old) and will include the following:

        1. Pilot: N = 50 children with a clinical referral for a sleep study (10 from each site)

        2. Study 1: N = 90 with no known risk for neurodevelopmental disorders. These include
           children without identified neurodevelopmental problems who score within age-expected
           ranges on cognitive and behavioral screeners.

        3. Study 2: N = 154 children at risk for or known to have selected
           neurodevelopmental/neuropsychiatric disorders, based on any one or more of the following
           criteria:

             1. Enrolled in early intervention

             2. Getting any targeted therapies

             3. Neurodevelopmental or neuropsychiatric disorder

             4. Failed Infant Toddler Checklist (ITC) (ages 6 months - 24 months)

             5. Failed the Early Intervention (EI) screener (>24 months)

      Design: The pilot study is a cross-sectional assessment including history, physical,
      neurodevelopmental assessment, and an overnight polysomnogram (N=50). Study 1 (N = 90) and
      Study 2 (N = 154) use the same accelerated longitudinal design.

      Outcome Measures: The pilot study will demonstrate feasibility of multisite collection of a
      standardized sleep assessment with deposition of sleep, clinical and demographic data into a
      central database at the National Sleep Research Resource. The primary outcome measure in
      Study 1 is sleep spindle activity. Study 2 has an additional primary outcome, the Vineland
      Adaptive Behavior (VABS) Socialization growth scale. In both studies, secondary outcome
      measures will include:other characteristics of sleep spindles, sleep rhythms (ultradian,
      circadian), macroarchitecture (stages and latencies), microarchitecture (measures of
      connectivity and network analyses).

      Predictors include other neurodevelopmental variables, including other domain scores from the
      Vineland, IQ, and quantitative measurement of behavioral problems and social communicative
      development.
    
  