
    
      Patients will have their white blood cells removed and grown in culture under conditions to
      make dendritic cells. Dendritic cells are a small group of cells that belong to the white
      blood cell population. These cells are responsible for letting the immune system know that
      something foreign, like bacteria or a tumor, is in the body. Dendritic cells help the body
      ward off disease by alerting the immune system. In previous clinical trials, brain tumor
      cells called astrocytoma tumor cells and glioblastoma tumor cells were taken from the tumor
      that was removed during surgery. The brain tumor cells were then placed into a solution in
      the laboratory that made them grow. Certain parts of the brain tumor's proteins (peptides)
      were removed from the growing tumor cells and mixed together with the dendritic cells in the
      blood taken from a vein. This combination of dendritic cells and brain tumor peptides were
      injected into the patient's skin, like a vaccination. This process is similar to that used in
      vaccinations. The patients were given three and four injections of dendritic cells mixed with
      the tumor peptides over the course of a twenty-eight day period.

      In this study, the proteins that are manufactured and known to be associated with brain
      cancers will be mixed with the dendritic cells obtained during leukopheresis (a procedure in
      which the dendritic cells are separated from the patients' blood). They will then undergo
      three vaccinations along with follow up clinic visits (which include evaluations and
      laboratory tests) to check their status.

      The investigators learned that it was possible to generate an immune response in a subset of
      patients with malignant glioma. In addition, these cells were able to reach the brain and
      kill brain tumor cells. The survival of patients in this study was prolonged when compared to
      historical controls. Based on clinical data in subjects with brain tumors, the investigators
      believe that peripheral injection of dendritic cells will generate a more potent immune
      response for patients with brain stem gliomas and/or glioblastomas. The investigators hope to
      determine whether this therapy will translate into a longer survival and better quality of
      life in these patients in whom survival is measured in months. Through this study the
      investigators hope to learn more about the role of the body's immune response against cancer
      and about the use of dendritic cells for immunotherapy. This information may prove useful in
      the therapy of patients with glioblastoma and/or brainstem gliomas.
    
  