
    
      Chronic pain is a serious problem in many youths with disabilities. There is a growing body
      of research supporting the efficacy of relaxation training for reducing chronic pain in
      adults. Given this evidence, there has been a growing interest in determining whether these
      findings also generalize to youths with chronic pain. This study will address a significant
      gap in the medical literature by examining the efficacy of relaxation training for providing
      pain relief and improving function in youths with physical disabilities. The study will
      evaluate the effects of relaxation training on global physiological arousal, pain-site
      specific muscle tension, and perceived control over pain. Physiological arousal will be
      assessed via hand temperature and galvanic skin response. Muscle tension will be assessed via
      surface EMG biofeedback recordings before, during, and after each treatment session.
      Self-efficacy concerning pain control will be assessed via a modified Survey of Pain
      Attitudes and modified Coping Strategies Questionnaire.

      Sixty youth (age range 10 to 20 years old) with spastic type cerebral palsy (CP) will be
      randomly assigned to either the relaxation training group or a distraction control group.
      Youths in the relaxation training group will be given eight sessions of autogenic relaxation
      training and will be asked to practice relaxation at home using audio tapes. Youths in the
      distraction control group will receive eight sessions of distracting story-telling and will
      be asked to listen to age-appropriate audio tapes of stories at home. Study visits are
      scheduled weekly for eight weeks. Average pain intensity will be assessed with a numerical
      rating scale. Secondary outcome measures include psychological functioning and pain
      interference with personal activities. Medical services utilization will be assessed by
      asking the parent or guardian about any medications taken by the participant, any illnesses
      or medical complications, any medical treatments received, and the frequency of health care
      visits. Participants will be assessed at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after treatment.
    
  