
    
      In 2016, an estimated 25,700 Canadian women were diagnosed with breast cancer. With advances
      in detection, management and treatment, the 5-year relative survival has improved to 87%.
      Consequently, breast cancer survivors represent a significant proportion of Canadian society.
      Research suggests that 30-60 % of women with breast cancer will experience some form of arm
      morbidity between 6 months and 3 years after breast cancer. Both lymphedema and seroma can
      cause substantial discomfort, chronic pain, mobility issues, and psychological distress, such
      as social isolation, anxiety and depression. The current treatment for seroma and lymphedema
      is drainage, massage, and the use of compression dressings, but these can be ineffective and
      costly and the effects of the treatment do not last over time. This project will provide
      crucial knowledge regarding the utility of a simple, swimming based exercise regimen
      involving the breaststroke in reducing chronic pain related to post-surgical lymphedema or
      seroma in breast cancer patients. The breaststroke uses a full range of motion in the water,
      with the water creating a pressure back onto the seroma/damaged tissues. This study will be a
      randomized, two-arm, pilot study. Patients allocated to the swimming group will participate
      in 8 weeks of the swimming program, which involves three weekly swimming sessions of 30
      minutes minimum. The control group will include patients who receive standard of care. This
      includes the recommendation to undertake exercise and physiotherapy; however, no formal
      exercise program will be provided. Breast cancer survivors represent a significant proportion
      of Canadian society, with most recent data suggesting that at least 157,000 Canadian women
      who had a breast cancer diagnosis in 1999 were still living. Many of these women still suffer
      from long term complications of their cancer and its treatment. Given the high prevalence of
      chronic pain in breast cancer survivors, it is unsurprising that the use of pain medications
      is prevalent as well. A recent U.S. analysis of 10,000 breast cancer patients treated with
      adjuvant endocrine therapy demonstrated a 56.9% crude probability of opioid use. Within the
      context of the current opioid crisis in North America, the opportunity to reduce pain and the
      need for pain medication is absolutely critical.
    
  