
    
      Estimating whether an adnexal mass is malignant or not is essential in the preoperative
      management of adnexal masses. Recognizing cancer means treatment is not delayed and
      appropriate staging or debulking surgery can be carried out after referral to specialized
      surgical centers. Vice versa, benign lesions may be managed conservatively or with minimal
      invasive surgery in non-centre hospitals. This will limit morbidity and will avoid
      unnecessary costs: laparoscopic surgery offers lower estimated blood loss, shorter hospital
      stay, and fewer postoperative complications with an improved quality of life and faster
      return to normal functioning.

      There are several methods to distinguish benign from malignant adnexal masses. The commonly
      used method in clinical practice is the Risk of Malignancy Index (RMI). The RMI is an easy to
      use scoring system recommended by many national guidelines concerning the management of
      ovarian masses, including the national guideline in the Netherlands. The RMI combines
      ultrasound variables, menopausal status and serum CA125 into a score used to predict the risk
      of ovarian cancer before surgery. However, the reported sensitivity and specificity of RMI at
      a cut-off value of 200 are relatively low; 75-80% and 85-90%, respectively.

      Another method called 'simple ultrasound-based rules' (simple rules), uses different
      morphological ultrasound features of adnexal masses (without including menopausal status or
      serum CA125 measurement). It includes five simple ultrasound-based rules to predict
      malignancy (M-rules) and five rules to predict a benign tumor (B-rules). If both or none of
      the M- and B-rules are met (20% of the patients) the test is inconclusive. Recent reports
      show that simple rules might be superior to the RMI. In adnexal masses for which the simple
      ultrasound rules yield an inconclusive result, subjective assessment of Gray-scale and color
      Doppler ultrasound images by an experienced ultrasound examiner can be used as a second stage
      test to achieve an optimal diagnostic performance. Subjective assessment by an expert
      sonographer is superior to any scoring system or mathematical model when classifying adnexal
      masses as benign or malignant. However, it is not feasible and efficient that every patient
      would undergo an expert ultrasonography. Therefore, this method is better used as a second
      stage test.

      Another option is to use Diffusion Weighted - Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DW-MRI) as a second
      stage test, when the simple rules yield an inconclusive result. The use of MRI - when
      interpret by specialized radiologists- also seems to be superior to RMI in the preoperative
      identification of adnexal masses.

      The Risk of Malignancy Index (RMI) is the current standard in differentiating benign from
      malignant adnexal masses. The simple ultrasound-based rules as a first stage triage test
      followed by either subjective assessment by an experienced ultrasound examiner or DW-MRI in
      case the simple rules are inconclusive, is the test of comparison. Both the RMI and the
      simple rules will be performed in the regional hospitals and MUMC+ by general gynaecologists
      during the same ultrasound scan. Only when the simple rules are inconclusive the patient will
      be referred to the MUMC+ for a second stage test. From previous publications it can be
      deducted that this will be in approximately 20% of patients. Approximately 80% of patients
      will not need any additional second stage test.

      The histology of the surgically removed adnexal masses is the clinical reference standard.
    
  