
    
      Chronic postsurgical pain (CPP) following lung cancer surgery is common with an observed
      prevalence of 20-60 %. Causes and health impact have been comprehensively studied. Current
      treatment consists of combination of pain medication, physiotherapy and psychological
      therapy.

      Botulinum Toxin A (BTX-A) has shown promising effects in a variety of chronic postsurgical
      pain syndromes. The use of BTX-A in lung cancer patients has only been presented in few case
      reports. No randomized clinical controlled trials (RCT) has been executed to date.

      Study objectives:

      Primary:

      Determine recruitment potential among cured lung cancer patients with CPP for an RCT and if
      the method of BTX-A administration is feasible and acceptable to the test subjects.

      Secondary:

      Early stage testing of the hypothesis that CPP following thoracic surgery can be treated with
      this novel method.

      Methods:

      Recruitment of test subjects:

      Test subjects are recruited among former lung cancer patients with chronic postsurgical pain,
      who have undergone radical treatment for lung cancer at the Department of Cardiothoracic
      Surgery, Aalborg University Hospital. Potential test subjects are invited by mail / e-mail.

      Randomization and blinding:

      Test subjects are randomized to receive a series of injections with either Onabotulinum Toxin
      A (active agent) or inactive normal saline (Placebo). Neither test subject nor investigator
      will know which treatment is given until the end of the trial.

      Experimental treatment:

      The investigator examines the skin area of the test subject at the operation site and
      performs a sensory examination with pin prick and sensory brush. The area is located and
      marked and divided into quadrants of one square centimeter. An area of maximum 40 square
      centimeters is marked.

      At a single treatment session, test subjects receives either active agent or placebo through
      a series of subcutaneous injections. One injection is given in each marked quadrant of the
      treatment area. The maximal number of injections is 40.

      Follow-up:

      After the treatment, test subjects report pain symptoms and intensity, use of pain medication
      and occurrence of adverse events weekly.

      After 30 and 90 days after treatment more comprehensive and additional data is collected
      concerning neuropathic symptoms, activities of daily life, general health and level of
      function.

      Data collection Data is collected by questionnaires delivered to test subjects by mail or
      digitally.

      Endpoints:

      Primary:

        1. Recruitment of 30 test subjects.

        2. Half of the first half of included test subject must complete the treatment.

        3. Half of test subjects in total mus complete the treatment.

      Secondary:

        1. Pain at rest, coughing and when active Numerical rating score (NRS) for presence of pain
           before and after treatment and course of pain symptoms.

        2. General Health Short form 36 Health Survey on physical, social and mental level of
           function on a score from 0 to 100.

        3. Neuropathic Pain Symptoms Inventory (NPSI) NRS

        4. Activities of daily life Impact and intensity of pain categorically in 16 situations of
           daily life.

        5. Patient's Global Impression of Change (PGIC) Rating of global change perceived by the
           test subject from "More Worse" to "Much better" and a scale from 0 to 10.
    
  