
    
      In 2013, the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) provided a Grade "B"
      recommendation for annual lung cancer screening (LCS) for asymptomatic adults aged 55-80 who
      are or have been heavy smokers (≥30 pack-years of smoking and quit-date < 15 years ago), and
      are able to undergo surgery. In 2015, The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS)
      issued national coverage for LCS requiring that LCS counseling, which must include shared
      decision-making and tobacco cessation counseling, occur prior to LCS. CMS also provides
      reimbursement for LCS counseling to further support providers to engage in meaningful,
      collaborative conversations about LCS with patients. Despite widespread support, uptake and
      implementation of LCS across the United States has been low (estimated 3-5%
      screening-eligible population screened). Locally, since the onset of the Penn Medicine LCS
      Program in 2014, over 3,500 individual patients have received LCS; however, documentation and
      reimbursement of LCS counseling are limited.

      Challenges of implementing LCS include substantial barriers to identifying screening-eligible
      patients, supporting high-quality decision-making, and remaining uncertainties regarding
      risks and benefits. For other types of cancer screening, insights from behavioral science
      have been applied to understand how cognitive biases and beliefs impact screening uptake. Yet
      for LCS, there is limited evidence on how these beliefs may affect screening behaviors in
      routine practice. Given the complexities of LCS, in which the benefits do not clearly
      outweigh the harms, understanding how these biases impact screening can help inform
      development of intervention strategies that both support informed decision-making and
      increase uptake among eligible patients. Leveraging an existing EMR-based data warehouse,
      this study will combine insights from behavioral economics and connected health strategies to
      pilot test connected health approaches including direct patient outreach and telemedicine
      visits to improve LCS counseling, and to explore individual-level moderators of LCS screening
      intention and uptake. The long-term goal is to decrease lung cancer burden by increasing
      utilization of LCS and providing clinicians and patients with effective strategies to deliver
      high-quality, patient-centered care. This study will also advance scientific understanding of
      the mechanisms that drive or hinder health behavior in the context of cancer prevention.
    
  