
    
      Study Center : Shanghai Zhongshan Hospital

      Study Purpose : Through collecting and effective analyzing basic information, cardiovascular
      characteristics, contemporary clinical treatment , and long-term outcomes of CTO patients ,to
      describe the relevant risk factors ,the contemporary incidence of CTOs and the success rates
      of CTO percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), as well as the complications and long-term
      outcomes of these patients, to explore the relevant factors which affecting the success rates
      of PCI therapy and to provide safer and more effective advice for the treatment of CTO.

      Study Design : A Retrospective Observational Study

      Study Population Description : All CTO patients who has been diagnosed by coronary
      angiography in Shanghai Zhongshan Hospital in 2016-08-01 to 2020-12-31

      Eligibility Criteria :

      Entry Criteria :

        1. Age ≥17 years old;

        2. Finished coronary angiography(CAG) in Shanghai Zhongshan Hospital;

        3. CAG found coronary artery(-ies) was/were total occluded more than 3 months;

        4. CAG found the diameter of total occluded coronary artery was more than 2.5cm;

      Exclude Criteria:

        1. Cardiac arrest; Ventricular fibrillation; Cardiogenic shock; Acute thrombosis in the
           stent; Acute coronary syndrome;

        2. The bridge vessel(-s) was/were not total occluded and coronary artery(-ies) was/were
           total occluded but not trying to revascularize in CAG of the patient who has gone
           through coronary artery bypass graft before;

        3. The diameter was too small or position was too distal of the total occluded coronary
           artery;

        4. Combined severe hepatic or renal insufficiency;

        5. The patient who has history of major surgical, cerebral hemorrhage, severe
           gastrointestinal bleeding, severe anemia, severe allergies, and other anti-platelet drug
           contraindications in recent 3 months;

        6. Pregnant, lactating women;

        7. Suffer from malignant tumor or life expectancy less than 2 years

      Sample size :

      Collecting all cases of CTO patient who has been diagnosed in 2016-08-01 to 2020-12-31 and
      comply with entry and exclude standards, the expectation of quantity is about 3000-4000.

      Follow up time： 2 years

      Information collection:

        1. Basic information: name, gender, age, hospital number, contact information;

        2. Relevant risk factors: medication history, smoking history, drinking history, history of
           hypertension, history of diabetes, history of dyslipidemia, history of arrhythmia,
           history of cerebrovascular disease, history of renal insufficiency, previous coronary
           CTA, and previous myocardial infarction, previous PCI and time, previous CABG surgery
           and time;

        3. Cardiovascular information: Preoperative and postoperative BNP, preoperative and
           postoperative cTnT, cardiac ultrasonography and LVEF, total occluded coronary artery,
           collateral circulation establishment, J-CTO score, Progress score, PCI operation mode,
           contrast agent usage, and final treatment plan;

        4. Follow-up content: short-term results (perioperative-related complications) and 2-year
           long-term results (cardiac and LVEF, cardiac death, re-hospitalization of acute
           myocardial infarction, and subsequent CABG surgery)
    
  