
    
      Investigation of the Natural History of West Nile Virus Infection in Patients with Recently
      Acquired West Nile Fever or Neuroinvasive Disease is a descriptive natural history study.
      Since the first reports of WNV disease in North America in 1999, geographic range has
      expanded, a trend that is expected to continue for the near future. There are few
      sequentially collected clinical, radiologic and laboratory data from patients with WNV
      disease. Standardized data collection tools to measure neurologic outcome have not been
      developed. Prospectively collected data on laboratory and clinical events associated with WNV
      infection are needed to bridge gaps in current knowledge of this disease and to assist with
      the design of better treatments. The objectives of this study are to identify and describe
      the mortality and morbidity, specifically the neurologic and functional outcomes of patients
      with confirmed WNV disease in order to characterize the clinical course and diverse
      manifestations, and to assess kinetics of humoral immune responses to WNV infection,
      correlating these responses with clinical outcomes. Eligible patients fall into two
      categories: those with neuroinvasive disease caused by WNV infection, and those with WNV
      fever who received medical attention for their illness. All subjects must have had illness
      onset within four months prior to enrollment and must have laboratory confirmation of the
      diagnosis. There will be study visits at Days 1, 14, 30, 90, 180, and 365. Evaluations will
      include serum and cerebrospinal fluid for determination of WNV IgM/IgG levels and PCR for
      WNV, urine PCR for WNV, physical examination, serial neurologic examinations, a baseline MRI
      scan, and four functional and cognitive assessments that have been validated in neurologic
      illness in adults: the Barthel Index (BI), the Modified Rankin Scale (MRS), the Glasgow
      Outcome Score (GOS) and the modified Mini-Mental Status Examination (3MS). The subset of
      study participants who develop motor weakness of an extremity (ies) will have
      electromyograms, nerve conduction studies and spinal MRI performed. Results from selected
      clinically indicated tests (done by study participants' physicians, not mandated for the
      study) will be recorded in the Case Record Forms (CRFs).
    
  