
    
      Atherosclerosis-related cardiovascular disease (CVD) events remain the leading causes of
      morbidity and mortality in industrialized nations. Atherosclerosis is a diffuse disease
      characterized by the deposition of lipid and other blood-borne material within the arterial
      wall. Evidence demonstrates that disruption of an arterial atherosclerotic plaque and
      subsequent thrombus formation is responsible for the onset of CVD events. Cardiovascular
      research efforts have been directed toward the identification of early underlying factors
      that initiate this cascade.

      It has been known for some time that the experience of negative emotions is associated with
      an increased risk of incident CVD events, independent of traditional risk factors. Among the
      best-studied negative emotions is anger. Population-based studies have demonstrated that the
      experience of anger is a trigger of incident CVD events. The mechanism(s) by which provoked
      anger acutely affects the pathways that underlie atherosclerosis development and progression
      remain to be fully characterized.

      Endothelial dysfunction is a promising mechanism that may explain the link between anger and
      incident CVD events. Vascular endothelial cells (ECs) play essential roles in maintaining
      vascular tone and the integrity of blood vessels. Evidence suggests that endothelial
      dysfunction is an early pathogenic process underlying atherosclerosis development and CVD
      event onset. Our preliminary findings show in apparently healthy individuals, an anger recall
      task acutely induces endothelial dysfunction by impairing endothelium-dependent vasodilation,
      injuring ECs, and disrupting the molecular processes underlying EC reparative capacity. We
      have additionally found that this task may induce endogenous nitric oxide (NO) inhibition,
      which plays a central role in aggravating endothelial dysfunction. Therefore, NO inhibition
      may partially mediate anger-provoked endothelial dysfunction.

      Although the strongest data are on anger-provoked CVD events, there is also some evidence
      that the experience of other core negative emotions such as depressed mood and anxiety may
      trigger CVD events. Whether the provocation of depressed mood and anxiety acutely induces
      endothelial dysfunction and NO inhibition remains to be determined. The overall aim of this
      study is to primarily examine the acute effects of provoked anger and secondarily depressed
      mood and anxiety on EC health. We will also explore whether NO inhibition partially mediates
      the acute effects of anger, depressed mood, and anxiety on endothelial function. Examination
      of these critical pathways will help identify the biological pathways by which the experience
      of core negative emotions leads to incident CVD risk.

      To address these highly significant research questions, we propose a state-of-the-art,
      laboratory-based, randomized controlled experiment in which 280 participants will be
      randomized to one of four experimental conditions: an anger recall task (N=70), a depressed
      mood recall task (N=70), an anxiety recall task (N=70), and an emotionally neutral condition
      (N=70).
    
  