
    
      How adolescents view (self-concept) and value themselves (self-esteem) may predict future
      adjustment and success in life. Self-concept comprises assessment of scholastic, athletic and
      job competence, social acceptance, physical appearance, romantic appeal, behavioral conduct,
      close friendship, and global self-worth. Self-esteem is the feeling of self-acceptance,
      goodness, and worthiness. It influences daily activities, motivation and behavior.

      Adolescents are very vulnerable to low self-esteem. Generally, boys have higher self-esteem
      than girls; higher weight students have lower self-concept; and post-menarcheal females have
      the poorest opinion of their physical appearance. Higher body mass index (BMI) predicts more
      negative self-concept. Body image and physical appearance contribute to general physical
      self-concept and self-esteem.

      Regardless of race, gender, age, and socioeconomic status individuals are discriminated
      against on the basis of weight. Weight-based stigmatization influences self-perception and
      the perceptions of significant others. Sustained low self-esteem may precipitate anxiety,
      depression, under achievement, poor motivation and inadequate interpersonal relations.

      Obese adolescents are stigmatized by peers. They may attempt to protect their self-image by
      participating in high-risk behaviors. Obese adolescent girls are more likely to report
      adverse social, educational and psychological correlates than obese boys. Overweight girls,
      but not overweight boys, manifest more depressive symptoms than their normal-weight peers.
      Gender differences in clinical depressive syndromes may emerge in early childhood as opposed
      to puberty as previously thought.

      Early stigmatization of obese children may explain their lower self-esteem and greater shame,
      humiliation, and perceived teasing compared with their nonobese peers. Studies have found
      increased psychopathology among clinical samples of obese children and demonstrated
      improvements in psychological functioning with weight loss. Implementing lifestyle changes
      during early adolescence, ages 10 to 13 years, and middle adolescence, ages 14 to 16 years,
      may hold the key for preventing obesity and depression.

      The study population will consist of approximately 100 overweight or at-risk for overweight
      female volunteers, 10 - 14 years old.
    
  