
    
      Introduction: Precision medicine relies on validated biomarkers that can accurately classify
      patients by their probable disease risk, prognosis and/or response to treatment. Metabolomics
      is particularly promising for biomarker development because altered metabolism is considered
      a hallmark of cancer. The measurement of the metabolomic plasma profile is cheap (+-50 EUR)
      and fast (+-17 min), with a high information throughput on a per sample base.

      Rationale: Complete resection is the mainstay of treatment for stage I-IIIA resectable
      non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However rates of recurrence of disease are high, with
      five-year survival rates ranging between 73% (stage IA) and 24% (stage IIIA). Therefore, a
      prognostic biological marker that stratifies between NSCLC patients whom surgery cures versus
      patients in whom surgery would be futile due to early disease relapse after surgery is
      eagerly awaited.

      Study objective: The primary study hypothesis is that the metabolic plasma profile is a
      predictive marker of early disease progression after complete surgical resection in patients
      with pathological stages I to IIIA NSCLC. The secondary study hypothesis is that the level of
      dissimilarity between the metabolic profile before surgery and the metabolic profile after
      surgery, is a predictor for disease recurrence (in which the extreme case would be, that a
      normalization of the metabolic profile to the profile of a healthy person, is indicative of a
      good prognosis).

      Study design: Prospective, interventional design

      Study population: Stage I-IIIA NSCLC patients who will undergo complete surgical resection
      willing to provide a written informed consent.

      Number of patients: 200 patients with stage I-IIIA NSCLC who will undergo thoracic surgery
      with a curative intent will be included.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Recurrence free survival, overall survival, metabolic
      phenotype, presence or absence of hot-spot mutations in tested proto-oncogenes and tumor
      suppressor genes in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in blood plasma, the tumor tissue and
      possibly positive lymph nodes, 43 items of the EORTC quality of life questionnaire C30 and
      LC13.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation: Subjects will be
      asked to give consent to take 10-30 ml of blood at several moments throughout the disease
      course and in follow-up. Furthermore, the participants need to give their permission to use
      the resected tumor/lymph node tissue for genetic testing. Clinical parameters will be pooled
      in a database in a confidential way.
    
  