
    
      Reintubation, which occurs after planned extubation, is a relevant consequence of respiratory
      failure after extubation. The early use of noninvasive pressure support ventilation averted
      respiratory failure after extubation in patients at increased risk. However patient tolerance
      to the technique is a critical factor determining its success. One of the key factors
      determining tolerance to Non Invasive Ventilation (NIV) is optimal synchrony between the
      patient's spontaneous breathing activity and the ventilator's settings, known as patient
      ventilator interaction. Optimal patient-ventilator synchrony during NIV can prove very
      difficult to achieve due to the presence of leaks, the type of interface which can interfere
      with various aspects of ventilator function. Patient ventilator synchrony during NPSV can be
      compromised when using conventional pneumatic triggering, with the ventilator-delivered
      inspiratory support starting after the patient's inspiratory effort. The switch from
      inspiration to expiration (cycling-off) should, ideally, coincide with the end of the
      patient's inspiratory effort. However greater asynchrony at the end of inspiration, with the
      ventilator cycling off either too early or too late compared to the end of the patient's
      inspiratory effort can be observed during NPSV. A possible solution is to replace the
      pneumatic triggering with neural triggering and cycling off using the diaphragm electrical
      activity (Eadi). Neurally adjusted ventilatory assist (NAVA) uses the electrical activity of
      the diaphragm to control the timing and pressure of the ventilation delivered. The ventilator
      is triggered, limited and cycled-off directly by Eadi. The Eadi is measured by a multiple
      array oesophageal electrode. The array of bipolar electrodes can be mounted on a feeding
      tube, which is routinely introduced in critically ill patients.
    
  