
    
      Acute respiratory failure is common in patients with acute lung injury. MV re-establishes
      adequate gas exchange; it allows time for administration of antibiotics, for the host's
      immune system to fight infections, and for natural healing. Approximately 60% of ALI patients
      survive to hospital discharge (1). However, conventional approaches to MV in ALI frequently
      cause dyssynchrony between a patient's spontaneous respiratory efforts and the ventilator's
      respiratory cycle (2;3). Dyssynchrony causes discomfort, anxiety, and agitation. To manage
      dyssynchrony, physicians frequently prescribe large doses of sedative and analgesic
      medications. These medications contribute to delirium and sleep deprivation during the
      critical illness, and may delay weaning from MV and discharge from the intensive care unit
      (2;4). They may also contribute significantly to neuromuscular and neurocognitive sequelae
      after recovery from ALI (5;6). Moreover, MV may itself cause additional lung injury
      (ventilator-induced lung injury, VILI) which could, paradoxically, delay or prevent recovery
      from respiratory failure in some ALI patients (7;9).

      Airway pressure release ventilation (APRV) is a mode of MV that is designed to reduce
      patient-ventilator dyssynchrony and VILI. It differs from most other modes of MV in that it
      allows patients to breathe spontaneously at any time, independent of the ventilator's cycle.
      This feature may improve breathing comfort by minimizing patient-ventilator dyssynchrony.
      Improving comfort and reducing agitation may ultimately curtail the use of sedative and
      analgesic medications. Since a substantial proportion of ventilation results from the
      patient's spontaneous efforts independent of the ventilator cycle, the frequency of
      mechanically assisted breaths can be reduced. This may reduce VILI from the cyclic
      opening-closing of alveoli and small bronchioles that results from assisted MV breaths.
      Another feature of APRV that distinguishes it from other modes of MV is that it applies a
      sustained high pressure during inspiration and a brief period of lower pressure during
      exhalation. This approach may maximize and maintain alveolar recruitment throughout the
      ventilatory cycle while limiting high airway pressures, thus further reducing VILI. Moreover,
      spontaneous contractions of the diaphragm during APRV may open dependent atelectatic lung
      regions, improving ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) matching and gas exchange. However, these
      potential advantages of APRV are unproven.
    
  