
    
      The investigators proposal addresses the use of patient generated data (PGD) - an innovative
      approach to deliver patient centered care to older Veterans that is characterized by
      attention to patient priorities, values, and goals. The investigators clinical focus is on
      chronic pain in older Veterans, which is widespread. PGD broadly encompasses many sources and
      types of data. The investigators will categorize contextual PGD into 3 core components 1)
      relational PGD (patient-clinician relationship and patient individual differences such as
      pain catastrophizing) 2) whole person PGD (what matters to the patient including patient
      preferences), and 3) behavioral PGD (pain self-efficacy and patient actions related to health
      , pain management, functional status). The investigators study is mixed methods.

      In aim 1 the investigators will: Prioritize content for contextual PGD profile displays to
      support patient centered care for geriatric Veterans with chronic pain. The investigators
      will conduct focus groups with geriatric Veterans with chronic pain and the Veterans
      caregivers to explore Veterans' perspectives on the content of the PGD profile displays and
      the Veterans attitudes toward them. The investigators will conduct focus groups with
      clinicians about desired content of the PGD profile displays specific to pain management. The
      investigators will iteratively prioritize PGD elements in accordance with pain care
      management needs of geriatric patients, incorporating results of a card sort exercise
      performed by clinicians.

      In aim 2 the investigators will :Develop a prototype contextual PGD profile display and
      evaluate its usability. The investigators will develop a prototype clinician-facing PGD
      profile display containing PGD elements and guides to interpretation/use for clinicians. The
      investigators will refine the PGD profile display prototype with clinicians in user-centered
      design sessions. The investigators will broadly assess usability in a simulation study with
      primary care clinicians.

      In aim 3 the investigators will: Examine the impact of contextual PGD profile displays on
      patient adherence, pain function, satisfaction, and shared decision making in a randomized
      trial. The investigators will evaluate operationalization of the pain care plan and the
      shared decision making processin the visit by coding study visit recordings. The
      investigators will assess the impact of contextual PGD by comparing patient adherence to pain
      care regimens, pain function, patient satisfaction, and shared decision making process for a
      sample of 150 geriatric patients with chronic pain in VA primary care clinics. The
      investigators will compare between-subjects visits that include access to contextual PGD
      profile displays to visits without access.

      The investigators primary hypothesis is that access to contextual PGD profile displays during
      a clinical visit will result in better adherence to the pain care plan at 30 days, compared
      with no PGD profile display.

      Throughout the project the investigators will work with stakeholders in clinic settings and
      implementation of the electronic health record to ensure future implementation can be
      optimized.
    
  