
    
      Herpes zoster (HZ), also known as "shingles", is caused by reactivation and multiplication of
      the ubiquitous varicella zoster virus (VZV) that remains latent in everyone's sensory neurons
      following varicella, or "chickenpox". Among individuals who live to age 85, the lifetime risk
      for HZ is 50%, and more than one in five individuals affected by zoster develop post-herpetic
      neuralgia, resulting in chronic pain. Other serious complications include encephalitis,
      permanent vision loss, or more rarely, dissemination and death. Fortunately, a live
      attenuated vaccine is available and can reduce HZ risk by up to 70%. For patients with
      rheumatoid arthritis (RA), this vaccine has great potential to provide improved quality of
      life by reducing the incidence and complications associated with zoster. Due to the
      underlying disease and/or treatments (e.g. steroids) for rheumatoid arthritis (RA), the risk
      of herpes zoster in RA patients is approximately double in the general population. This
      increased risk should make prevention of zoster and vaccination exceedingly important for RA
      patients. In fact, because of a higher overall absolute risk for zoster in RA, the vaccine
      yields a comparable or even greater absolute risk reduction to reduce the risk of shingles
      and post-herpetic neuralgia in an RA population as it does in the general population.
      However, the use of the zoster vaccine in RA patients is very low (< 5%), and less frequently
      used than for the general population.

      National guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control's (CDC) Advisory Committee on
      Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommend a single dose of the zoster vaccine for all
      individuals age 60 or older, with the vaccine more recently gaining FDA-approval for
      administration to persons age 50 and older. While a large number of RA patients would
      otherwise be recommended to receive this vaccine on the basis of age, theoretical safety
      concerns related to vaccination likely explain the very low vaccination rates observed.
      Currently, the Federal Drug Administration (FDA), the ACIP, and the American College of
      Rheumatology (ACR) consider the live zoster vaccine contraindicated in patients receiving
      immunosuppressive medications, such as biologic therapies. Such contraindication stems from
      the theoretical safety concern that these individuals could develop a varicella-like
      infection from the vaccine virus strain. However, investigators hypothesize that this vaccine
      can safely be given in this setting, as no published data is available to suggest that these
      safety concerns are warranted. A growing body of observational data suggests that vaccinating
      RA patients receiving biologic therapies with this vaccine may in fact be safe. Moreover, and
      similarly with little or no evidence, the ACIP considers the vaccine safe and acceptable for
      patients using methotrexate at doses commonly used to treat RA (e.g. <= 25mg/week) and for
      patients using glucocorticoids at prednisone-equivalent doses of ≤ 20 mg/day.

      In light of 1) a substantial elevated HZ risk among RA patients; 2) national data showing
      most RA patients are not vaccinated for HZ; and 3) the high effectiveness of this vaccine in
      the general population, the investigators propose to conduct the Varicella zostER VaccinE
      (VERVE) trial, a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the safety,
      tolerability, and long-term effectiveness of the live herpes zoster vaccine. This study will
      recruit 1,000 individuals age 50 years or older currently receiving anti-TNF therapy for RA
      or other diseases. Within a relevant 6-week safety window, the investigators will collect
      serious adverse events (satisfying a regulatory definition of a SAE) including non-serious
      events of vaccine-strain varicella-like infection or herpes zoster. Beyond the key public
      health importance of the clinical question addressed, clinical trial methodological
      innovations anticipated for this unique large pragmatic trial. Additionally, the
      investigators will study vaccine tolerability and long-term effectiveness through a linkage
      to health plan data to allow for cost-effective follow-up while minimizing participant and
      study-site burden. Results from this study will facilitate the parent trial and change RA
      management by demonstrating the clinical safety and immunogenicity of the live zoster vaccine
      among current anti-TNF users. Rheumatologists and other providers will be able to improve the
      care, outcomes, and quality of life for patients using anti-TNF therapy, substantially
      decreasing the morbidity of herpes zoster and its complications over a lifetime.
    
  