
    
      Acetabular fractures were very common in high-energy injury, because of the anatomic of
      acetabular was in deep location and the complex form cause the diagnosis and treatment was
      difficult. For most of displaced acetabular fractures, the preferred treatment is open
      reduction and internal fixation. The purpose of surgery is to restore acetabular integrity
      and stability, allow early exercise, decrease complication. Acetabular posterior wall
      fractures were the most common, the current clinical application fixation of acetabular
      fractures were common plate and reconstruction steel plate. But when the acetabular posterior
      wall was fracture, some patients were not satisfied after surgery. The reason is mainly
      because the reconstruction plate need remoulding in surgery, and it not only led to the
      extension of operation time, but also cause poor attach. Otherwise, the reconstruction plate
      need location the angle of screw in surgery. If the operator lack of experience will make
      into the harm surrounding vessels and nerves. Some research has achieved the improvement from
      the anatomy of acetabular fractures in the locking plate. But there is not any plate match
      with the anatomy of the acetabular posterior wall.

      This anatomical bone plate was designed base on before plate and had patent protection which
      is used in clinical trial. It was a new type of internal fixation of acetabular posterior
      wall fracture, this plate improve the shortcomings of existing technology, provides a
      pre-formed anatomical fixation plate , the direction of the locking screw holes. This design
      provide a better attach of acetabular posterior wall, more safe use the screw, making more
      stable and reliable fixation. This fixation plate was not only suitable for an experienced
      doctor, but also suitable for a less experienced doctors in theory. They can quickly and
      accurately fixed in its correct position, thus this fixation plate have advantages of improve
      surgical success rates, shorter hospital stay, reduce disease painful and it can used in all
      adult patients.
    
  