
    
      Healthy adult human male facial skin surface lipid liquid pheromone given by mouth to opioid
      addicts cures them without any withdrawal symptoms whatsoever 250mg on chewing gum vehicle by
      mouth. Elevated mood eventually becomes accommodated after a few weeks. The pheromone
      contains volatile aversive sub-pheromones which cause aversive behavior (distrust,
      superstition, suspicion, arrogance, astonishment/stupidity, jealousy). Artificial jealousy
      can be avoided by patient isolation for 40 days until the pheromone "taste" wears off the
      saliva. The pheromone provided is odorless, colorless, and tasteless to the conscious brain.
      Pheromone action is insidious. The lifting of the appetite for addictive drugs "monkey on the
      back" feeling is gratifying. Ambition returns and ambitions are realized.

      To mitigate aversive airborne sub-pheromone methyl esters (almost certainly the cause of
      artificial aversive emotions), we will be trying several attenuation strategies. Staff
      collecting, storing, and dispensing pheromone (and placebo) will utilize the provided 3M
      Versaflo supplied air carbon filtered respirator for pharmaceutical applications. Collection
      from volunteer pheromone donors and administration to tox screened opioid addicts will be in
      areas ventilated by Dyson carbon-filtered oscillating fans placed to break up plumes of
      airborne sub-pheromone sufficiently to attenuate aversive emotion. Other lab techniques will
      also be tried as artificially stimulated emotional and heartfelt complaints are expected,
      from everybody. Unfortunately, the rapid process of healing opioid addiction will involve the
      unavoidable creation of potentially problematic emotions. We will try smaller daily doses,
      reverse Fisher esterification with apple cider vinegar, more vigorous air disturbances,
      negative air pressure, fume hoods, isolation, etc.
    
  