
    
      tDCS Implementation:

      2mA of direct current for 20 minutes will be delivered using a constant current stimulator
      via two electrodes in saline soaked sponges. To stimulate the left angular gyrus, a cathodal
      electrode inside a saline soaked sponge (5 x 3cm) will be placed over the CP5 according to
      the 10-20 international system for EEG electrode placement. The electrodes will be secured in
      position by a custom-built EEG cap that will be marked with the location for angular gyrus.
      The investigators will then confirm that the cathodal electrode is over the left angular
      through the use of neuronavigation. The "return" anode electrode will be placed in a saline
      soaked sponge (5 x 5cm) on the center of the supraorbital region.

      At the beginning of the tDCS, current will slowly ram-up during the first few seconds until
      it reaches 2mA. The ramp-up process will acclimate the participants to tDCS-induced
      sensations (e.g., itching). At the end of the tDCS sessions, current will slowly ramp down in
      the last few seconds to 0mA. The total duration of the 2mA current will be maintained for 20
      minutes. For sham stimulation, the investigators will place the electrodes in the same
      location as the real tDCS groups with stimulation ending after few seconds. The brief
      stimulation will produce tDCS-induced sensations so that participants will not be aware when
      the tDCS stopped delivering direct current

      Speech-Language Treatment:

      Standard-of-care treatment - script training will be used to provide SLT to our participants.
      The treatment will be delivered via a computer program, Aphasia Scripts ®, whereby a virtual
      therapist interactively guides the participants through treatment steps. Scripts will be five
      to ten sentences and developed from common templates about topics relevant to daily life
      (e.g., asking questions at the grocery store, ordering in a restaurant). The advantage of
      using a computer program instead of a human therapist is that it removes extraneous variables
      associated with human therapists (e.g., different levels of encouragement) and this, together
      with the use of script templates, ensures treatment fidelity across participants.

      Duration of an individual subject's participation in the study:

      Subjects will be requested to come for baseline sessions (3 to 4 hours) before the actual
      experiment. The baseline assessments may be done over two visits. In the baseline session the
      subjects' aphasia severity will be assessed. The participants will also perform baseline
      tasks of language and cognition in this session. Subjects will then participate in 3 weeks of
      tDCS and SLT (i.e., 15 sessions). The sessions will consist of 40 minutes of SLT and 20
      minutes of tDCS. Subjects will be asked to return for an assessment immediately following the
      end of treatment and for follow-up testing after 4 and 8 weeks. Therefore, total number of
      visits will be 19-23 sessions (depending on how many visits are needed for the assessments)
      over a period of three months.
    
  