
    
      This is a prospective, non-interventional longitudinal study in patients with HNSCC. Patients
      will have their normal routine workup including the standard panendoscopy, during which
      usually multiple biopsies for diagnostic histo-pathology are obtained. Part of one of these
      biopsies will be stored in the HN Tumor Biobank. There will be no change in the subsequent
      proposed treatment, which may consist of primary surgery (with or without postoperative
      (chemo-) radiation) or definitive (chemo-) radiation.

      The primary and general objective of this project is to develop, validate, and improve
      predictive models for different endpoints that are relevant for patients after curatively
      intended treatment of HNSCC. These endpoints include loco-regional tumour control and overall
      survival.

      Primary Objective: To build a biobank of tumor tissue from all HNSCC patients for future
      genomic analyses.

      Secondary Objective: To improve the outcome prediction, based on both clinical factors and
      tumour gene expression profiles.

      Hypothesis:

      Our general hypothesis is that a more accurate estimation of locoregional control and overall
      survival can be achieved when prognostic factors are taken into account different from than
      the currently used 'classical' prognostic factors, such as TNM-stage.

      The investigators hypothesize that the final outcome of this project will allow us to improve
      the performance of predictive models for HNSCC. The performance of our prediction models will
      be quantified by AUC for binary outcome measures and with the c-statistic for survival
      analysis. The ultimate objective will be to achieve an AUC of at least 0.90. Such a
      performance will allow us to build a Decision Support System based on these predictive models
      that provides information to physicians with regard to the probability of loco-regional
      failure and overall survival in individual patients.

      Study parameters/endpoints:

      Because no specific gene-signature has yet been defined that is applicable to a large
      population of HNSCC patients, no specific endpoint can be named.

      However, the main study endpoint will be the accuracy of a certain gene-signature that may
      contribute or rather improve the outcome prediction of patients. Outcome is defined as
      locoregional control and/or survival. The outcome of the patients is currently recorded in
      the electronic medical charts of azM and of Maastro Clinic and at the time of analysis, these
      clinical outcome data will be coupled blinded to the data generated from the tumor-biopsy
      analysis The goal is to achieve an AUC of at least 0.90. Such a performance will allow us to
      build a Decision Support System.
    
  