
    
      Background Divergence of opinion exists regarding the efficacy of cardiac pacing in patients
      affected by different forms of reflex syncope.

      Definitions.

      Severe syncope is defined when:

        -  it is perceived by patient that it alters his/her quality of life, and

        -  is unpredictable because occurs without, or with very short prodromes < 10 sec (thus
           exposing patients to risk of trauma) or, if preceded by prodromes, syncope recurs
           despite appropriate therapies (CPM or drugs).

      Recurrent syncopes: at least 2 episodes during the last year (including the index episode) or
      3 episodes during the last 2 years (including the index episode).

      Suspected (undetermined) reflex syncope: the suspicion of reflex syncope is based on a
      history of uncertain syncope in the absence of (i) severe structural heart disease,
      significant ECG abnormalities, or rhythm disturbances; (ii) orthostatic hypotension; and
      (iii) non-syncopal causes of transient loss of consciousness.

      Study protocol

        1. The eligible patients undergo firstly carotid sinus massage (according to the method of
           symptoms); if a diagnosis of cardioinhibitory carotid sinus syndrome (CI-CSS) is made, a
           pacemaker is implanted and follow-up immediately starts.

        2. If the carotid sinus massage is negative or vasodepressor, the patients undergo tilt
           table testing (with nitroglycerin or clomipramine drug challenge); if a diagnosis of
           VASIS 2B form is made, a pacemaker is implanted and follow-up immediately starts.

        3. If tilt table testing is negative or a form different from VASIS 2B is induced, the
           patients undergo ILR implantation. If a diagnosis of asystolic reflex syncope is made, a
           pacemaker is implanted and follow-up immediately starts.

      End-points End-point of the study is syncope recurrence after pacemaker (PM) implantation.
      Syncope is defined as complete transient loss of consciousness. Pre-syncope is counted but it
      is not an end-point.

      Primary end-points:

        1. Comparison of the time to first syncopal recurrence in CI-CSS and CI-TTT pts with PM and
           in control patients with ILR.

        2. Intra-patient comparison of the syncope burden in the year before and in the year
           following PM implant in all patients receiving a PM (CCS, TTT and ILR groups). Index
           syncope is not counted.

      Follow-up One year after PM implantation for all enrolled patients for burden of syncope
      end-points Until the study end for time to first syncope recurrence end-points. Thus, the
      study ends one year after the enrollment of the last patient.

      Study size Based on the sample size calculation the study will stop when 700 patients are
      enrolled.
    
  