
    
      This is a clinical study to test the hypothesis that Hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO2) given in the
      immediate postoperative period for a total of 10 treatments after Below-the-Knee Amputation
      (BKA) for vascular disease will reduce postoperative complications. Patients scheduled for
      BKA at Duke University Medical Center will be reviewed for contraindications to HBO2.
      Patients for whom HBO2 is not contraindicated may choose to be enrolled in the study.
      Patients enrolled will be randomly assigned to receive treatment or standard postoperative
      care. Each patient receiving treatment will receive twice daily HBO2 for 2 hours at 2 ATA.
      Patients receiving HBO2 will breathe 100% oxygen via head tent while inside a hyperbaric
      chamber at Duke University Hospital. The statistical plan for this study will test
      non-directional hypotheses (two-sided tests). Bonferroni correction will be used to adjust
      for multiple tests. The main analysis of the primary efficacy hypotheses will include data
      from all randomized patients in the group to which random assignment is made. Hence, the
      analysis will be intention to treat. This study will primarily aim to assess whether patients
      receiving treatment suffer fewer complications, as defined by the Vascular Quality
      Initiative, vs. patients who receive standard care. The Vascular Quality Initiative (VQI) is
      a multicenter voluntary reporting system for outcomes related to vascular surgery. The
      primary outcome of this study, postoperative complications, will be those outcomes meeting
      the definition set out in the VQI data dictionary, the set of definitions for inclusion in
      the VQI database. This allows for a standard definition of complications recognized by a
      majority of US academic medical centers. Secondary outcomes include hospital length of stay,
      90-day mortality, failure to heal at 4 and 8 week follow-up visits and ability to ambulate
      with a prosthesis at 6 months post amputation.
    
  