
    
      This study will be a single-center, prospective, single-blinded, randomized, controlled study
      of patients with CCJ instability that are randomized to either 2 bone marrow concentrate
      (BMC) treatments or 2 sham procedure to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of using an
      anterior approach through the posterior oropharynx for treating alar and transverse ligament
      injuries in addition to upper cervical injection treatment. Patients will undergo a bone
      marrow aspiration of approximately 30-60 cc from the posterior superior iliac crest for each
      procedure. Platelet rich plasma (PRP) and platelet lysate (PL) will be derived from the bone
      marrow aspirate and later mixed with the bone marrow nucleated cell layer for those in the
      treatment group. While under unconscious TIVA anesthesia, the injectate is then injected
      under fluoroscopy into the area in need of treatment using an anterior approach through the
      posterior oropharynx with direct visualization of the injection site via endoscopy. Patients
      will be repositioned in the prone position to then receive upper cervical injections to C0-C3
      ligaments and facets. Patients assigned to the sham control condition will also undergo a
      bone marrow aspiration of 30-60 cc to maintain blinding. Control subjects will receive a sham
      procedure of a small skin puncture to the posterior oropharynx guided under fluoroscopy while
      under anesthesia, as well as those pokes to mimic the upper cervical injections to the C0-C3
      ligaments and facets. In this group, the BMC will be donated for research purposes and not
      used clinically. Study patients will be evaluated at 3 months after the 2nd procedure months
      using patient reported clinical outcome questionnaires and digital motion x-ray. Control
      patients can crossover to the treatment group after being unblinded at 3-months after the 2nd
      procedure.

      As an alternative to invasive surgery, ligament injections of proliferant agents
      (prolotherapy) have been proposed to treat cervical instability. Our group has used a blinded
      flexion-extension radiography to demonstrate that injections of cervical proliferant agents
      (hypertonic dextrose) into the supraspinous and interspinous ligaments can objectively reduce
      excessive cervical translation in flexion (Centeno et al. 2005). More recently we have
      published on the use of bone marrow concentrate to demonstrate MRI evidence of robust ACL
      ligament signal changes consistent with healing and repair (Centeno et al. 2015).

      One of the challenges of treating the upper cervical ligaments through injection is that they
      can't be accessed from the posterior due to obstruction from the cervical spinal cord.Our
      group has developed an injection technique using an anterior approach through the posterior
      oropharynx, which allows direct access to the ligaments for injection. The goal of this study
      is to evaluate the effectiveness of this procedure in carefully selected CCJ instability
      patients.
    
  