
    
      This study is designed as a process improvement program to increase compliance to a
      progressive mobility protocol in an ICU setting. The first part of the study (4-6 months
      period depending on time required for implementation) will document 1st day of weight bearing
      as well as the secondary outcome measures of this of progressive mobility protocol as are
      currently in place in the ICU for patients that meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Ease
      of progressive mobility implementation will be assessed. Appropriate education will be
      performed as to the importance of progressive mobility.

      The second part of the study (4-6 months) will document the same outcomes, however, the
      progressive mobility protocol will now include a standardized process using the Total Care®
      P500 Bed System combined with the Liko Lift. During the second study period, patients will
      progress in a stepped protocol (see section 6.2) beginning with head of bed (HOB) at 30o to
      initiate orthostatic stress three times daily with increasing time intervals, then increasing
      HOB angle, time, and finally to standing and bearing weight. The Total Care® P500 Bed System
      and the Liko Lift will be placed on all participating units for the duration of the second
      phase of the study.

      Compliance to specific outcome measures again will be measured as well as the ease of
      Progressive Mobility implementation. The total study period will be 8-12 months (allowing
      time for bed delivery and education).

      Patients who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria for study will be enrolled. Protocol based
      "up in chair" and "standing" orders will be followed for compliance, and length of actual
      sitting in full chair or standing. If patients undergo "full chair" in the bed, this will be
      considered "up in chair." Time/days to first weight bearing, as defined as weight bearing in
      a standing position for at least 1 minute will be documented. ICU LOS, Ventilator Days will
      be assessed at ICU discharge for study patients. Nursing satisfaction and ease of PM protocol
      adherence surveys will be performed after each study period and will assess both standard of
      care and Total Care® bed/Liko lift systems.
    
  