
    
      Study treatment is a complex set of steps of research procedures and regular medical care. By
      using a participant's cancer cells as an immungen, the study hopes to improve freedom from
      molecular residual disease (MRD).

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE Freedom from molecular residual disease at 1-year post-autologous
      transplant.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE Time To Clinical Progression (TTP)

      This study has 2 research agents, PF-03152676 and CpG-MCL Vaccine.

      PF-03152676 is a synthetic DNA molecule, 24 nucleotides in length with a nuclease-resistant
      phosphorothioate backbone. It is an immunostimulatory, single-stranded oligodeoxynucleotide
      (oligo-DNA) containing unmethylated cytosine and guanine (CpG) motifs and synthesized with a
      nuclease-resistant phosphorothioate backbone. PF-03512676 acts as an agonist of human
      Toll-like receptor 9, leading to activation of antigen-presenting cells and a cascade of
      anti-tumor immune reactions.

      CpG-MCL Vaccine is the primary study agent. It is prepared by dissociating a participant's
      harvested tumor cells into a single-cell suspension, and culturing them with PF-03152676 for
      72 hours at 37 degrees C, 5% CO2 to allow for up-regulation of antigen-presenting and
      co-stimulatory molecules, then irradiated to 200 Gy to destroy any remaining cancer
      propagating ability.

      The study procedure is summarized as 12 steps, listed below.

        -  Step 1. Undergo excisional tumor biopsy or apheresis to obtain tumor cells, which will
           be used to generate the CpG-MCL vaccine .

        -  Step 2. Receive standard induction chemotherapy (regular medical care).

        -  Step 3. Once in remission, receive 3 vaccinations of CpG-MCL Vaccine over 3 weeks. With
           each CpG-MCL vaccination, a concurrent subcutaneous injection of PF-3512676 is
           administered as an adjuvant.

        -  Step 4. About 4 weeks later, receive rituximab 375 mg/m² to minimize any residual tumor.

        -  Step 5. Apheresis procedure to harvest the CpG-MCL Vaccine-primed T-cells. Each
           collection is ~1 x 10e10 CD3+ T-cells.

        -  Step 6. High-dose cytoxan and filgrastim to mobilize peripheral blood progenitor cell
           (PBPC).

        -  Step 7. Undergo separate apheresis procedure to harvest PBPC).

        -  Step 8. Receive myeloablative chemotherapy (regular medical care).

        -  Step 9. Receive PBPC infusion (also known as autologous hematopoietic cell transplant,
           AHCT).

        -  Step 10. Within 3 days of AHCT (but typically 1 day), receive infusion of CpG-MCL
           Vaccine-primed T-cells, followed within 1 hour by a with 4th vaccination with CpG-MCL
           Vaccine (1st booster vaccination).

        -  Step 11. After hematopoietic recovery, receive 5th vaccination with CpG-MCl (2nd booster
           vaccination).

        -  Step 12. Monitor participants for general health and disease status through at least 3
           years.
    
  