
    
      According to the 2006 European guidelines, the target age for mammography screening is 50-69
      years. For women aged 40-49, effectiveness is less and less certain. For those over 70, the
      most important concern is overdiagnosis. In Europe, so far, both age groups have been invited
      to screen only in a few countries and regional areas, including some Italian regions.
      Recently, new European guidelines have been published, developed in the framework of the
      European Commission Initiative on Breast Cancer. Although with caution, they recommend
      screening for both women aged 45-49 and those aged 70-74. The recommended interval is 2 or 3
      years in the first case and 3 years in the second. The quality of the evidence on which these
      recommendations are based is defined as very low. Particularly for women aged 45-49, the new
      European guidelines indicate the need for a research effort, based on comparative studies, on
      the effectiveness of different screening intervals. This responsibility also falls on Italy,
      which is the only European country where women aged 45-49 are invited on an annual basis.
      Therefore, a research project is proposed which includes (1) a controlled, prospective
      randomized non-inferiority trial to determine the optimal screening interval for women aged
      45-49, with and without high mammographic density, (2) a retrospective data collection, with
      the same purpose, on screening performed by women aged 70-74, and (3) a qualitative research
      to define the best communication strategy.

      To define the best interval for screening women 45-49 years old a three-arm multicenter
      randomized non-inferiority trial will be conducted. Women signing the written informed
      consent will be randomized with a 1:1:1 ratio to:

      Arm 1: 1-year screening interval; Arm 2: 2-year screening interval; Arm 3: tailored screening
      interval on the basis of breast density. Women with very dense breast (Breast
      Imaging-Reporting and Data System -BI-RADS- category D) will be referred to 1-year interval
      whereas women with less dense breast to 2-year interval (Breast Imaging-Reporting and Data
      System -BI-RADS- category A, B, C).

      Enrollment will last 2.5 years and all women will be followed for 6 years. 60,000 women will
      be enrolled.

      The primary objective is to compare the cumulative incidence of stage 2 or higher breast
      cancer between different screening intervals and this will be evaluated at the end of the
      6-year follow-up period.

      At the same time, data from all women registered in screening archives who have had a
      negative mammogram at the age of 69-71 years will be collected and analyzed. The data will be
      retrieved up to the age of 78 and will concern screening mammograms as well as other
      screening procedures (e.g. biopsies) and also mammograms performed outside the program. Data
      from screening and outpatient information systems as well as from cancer registries will be
      used.

      To identify the best strategy to communicate changes in screening protocols, especially when
      the new protocol would be less intensive than the actual one, a qualitative research will be
      conducted. In particular the following steps will be considered:

        -  Focus groups for discussing, with women from target population and health care
           professionals, key arguments identified in a preliminary research (i.e. scientific
           literature and case-studies research), with particular focus on how they should be
           translated into communication strategies.

        -  Pre-test of the study's communication material through web-based semi-structured
           interviews to eligible women and key-informants.

        -  Assessment of the effectiveness of the communication material through web-based
           semi-structured interviews to participants, that may bring insights on how planning
           communication strategies for the implementation of new screening protocols.
    
  