
    
      Popular topic: Phase I clinical trial of recombinant new coronavirus vaccine (CHO cell) (≥60
      years old) Product name: Recombinant new coronavirus vaccine (CHO cell),Each dose contains
      25μg/0.5mL/bottle (low dose), 50μg/0.5mL/bottle (high dose) Indications: Prevention of
      respiratory diseases caused by new coronavirus infection Research population: healthy people
      ≥60 years old Research Unit: Hunan Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention
      Research purpose: Main purpose: To evaluate the safety and tolerability of different doses of
      recombinant new coronavirus vaccine (CHO cells) in healthy people aged 60 years and above.
      Secondary purpose: to initially explore the immunogenicity and durability of different doses
      of recombinant new coronavirus vaccine (CHO cells).

      Overall design: A single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial design
      was adopted.

      Immunization program: 0, 1, and 2 months. Dose: Divided into low-dose group (25μg/0.5mL) and
      high-dose group (50μg/0.5mL).

      Study population: a healthy population of 60 years and above, a total of 50 cases, both men
      and women.

      Test groups: 20 cases in the low-dose group, 5 cases in the placebo group; 20 cases in the
      high-dose group, 5 cases in the placebo group.

      Research plan and implementation:Volunteers aged 60 and above signed the informed consent
      form and asked about medical history, residence history and other information and then
      performed relevant examinations, including height, weight, vital signs, physical examination,
      laboratory tests (blood routine, urine routine, blood biochemistry), urine Pregnancy (women
      of childbearing age). After the study number is assigned, the subjects will collect throat
      swabs for SARS-CoV-2 real-time fluorescent RT-PCR nucleic acid detection, and blood will be
      collected for SARS-CoV-2 IgM and IgG antibody detection. Subjects will be in accordance with
      0, 1, and 2 months Vaccination procedures are carried out. According to the order of the dose
      from low to high, it is divided into two stages and inoculated sequentially. Among them,
      placebo/five people per dose group, test vaccine/20 people per dose group, and qualified
      subjects were randomly enrolled into the test vaccine group and the placebo control group. In
      the first phase, subjects in the low-dose group (20 cases) and the placebo group (5 cases)
      were randomly enrolled; the safety data of the first 7-day vaccination was evaluated by DSMB,
      and if the suspension/termination criteria were not met, the first In the second-phase study,
      subjects in the high-dose group (20 cases) and the placebo group (5 cases) were randomly
      enrolled. Follow-up to 30 days after each dose, if the suspension/termination criteria is
      reached, DSMB will decide whether to inoculate the follow-up doses; in other cases, the
      investigator will decide whether to inoculate the follow-up doses.

      Safety endpoint:

      1. The incidence of all AEs within 1 month after the first dose to the full course of
      vaccination:

        1. Total AE incidence;

        2. The incidence of AEs related to research vaccines;

        3. The incidence of grade 3 and above AE;

        4. The incidence of grade 3 and above AEs related to research vaccines;

        5. The incidence of AEs leading to withdrawal;

        6. The incidence of AEs related to research vaccines leading to withdrawal; 2. The
           incidence of all serious adverse events (SAE) and the incidence of SAE related to the
           vaccine within 12 months after the first dose to the full course of vaccination; 3.
           Changes in the clinical significance of the laboratory test indicators after each dose
           of inoculation compared to before the first dose.

      Immunogenicity endpoint:

      Humoral immunity: before the first dose of vaccination, 1 month and 6 months after the full
      vaccination, neutralizing antibodies of novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), S protein binding
      antibody (IgG), RBD protein binding antibody (IgG) ) Positive rate; The levels of
      neutralizing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, S protein binding antibody (IgG) and RBD protein
      binding antibody (IgG) and their relative immunity 1 month and 6 months after the full
      vaccination of all subjects Increase the multiple before.
    
  