
    
      Purpose

      Prognostic indicators discriminate patients with good and bad prognosis. Predictive assays
      are tools that select patients for specific treatments or treatment modifications such that
      outcome will be improved relative to conventional treatment. In oncology, many prognostic
      indicators based on clinical or biological tumor characteristics have been described but only
      very few have proven to be useful as predictive assays. We have developed an imaging modality
      for coregistration of tumor oxygenation and proliferation at the microregional level with
      preservation of the tumor anatomy and the microenvironmental structure. We have strong
      indications that this functional imaging can be a powerful tool for identifying those
      patients that will profit from hypoxia modifying treatments.

      Tumor oxygenation and proliferation are recognized as important determinants of the outcome
      of radiotherapy and possibly also of other treatment modalities in a number of tumor types
      and in particular in squamous cell carcinomas. Various exogenous and endogenous markers for
      hypoxia and proliferation are currently available which can be studied in relation to each
      other, the tumor architecture and the tumor microenvironment using immunohistochemistry and
      advanced image analysis techniques.

      The purpose of this project is to identify microregional profiles of oxygenation and
      proliferation based on exogenous and endogenous markers that:

        1. Are predictive for outcome of radiotherapy in squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx.

        2. Can identify the patients that are most likely to benefit from hypoxia modifying
           treatment strategies.

           And to:

        3. Validate these marker profiles in a prospective manner and in a sufficiently large group
           of patients.

      Plan of investigation

      In 2001 a multicenter randomized trial was initiated comparing accelerated radiotherapy with
      carbogen and nicotinamide as hypoxic modifiers against accelerated radiotherapy alone in
      patients with carcinoma of the larynx. This trial is approved and supported by the Dutch
      Cancer Society and currently 6 Dutch and 1 British center are participating. This trial
      provides a unique opportunity to prospectively test oxygenation and proliferation related
      marker profiles in a large homogeneous patient population and to assess the predictive
      capacity in a comparative setting with one group of patients receiving a hypoxia modifying
      treatment and the other group not.

      Paraffin-embedded biopsy specimens will be collected from all patients entered in this trial.
      In part of the patients, biopsies will be taken after injection of the hypoxic marker
      pimonidazole and the S-phase marker iododeoxyuridine (IdUrd). Sections will be
      immunohistochemically processed and stained for various combinations of vascular markers,
      endogenous hypoxia and proliferation markers and, if applicable, for pimonidazole and IdUrd.
      The sections will be analyzed by computerized image processing. Apart from overall single
      parameter values that will be obtained, the interrelationship of the various parameters will
      be studied and the microregional phenotype of the tumors will be characterized by
      quantification and integration of the marker profiles. The information thus obtained will be
      related to treatment outcome in terms of both local control and survival and results from the
      two treatment groups will be compared.

      Possible results

      This investigation can identify oxygenation and proliferation related parameters and profiles
      that are predictive for outcome of radiotherapy in squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx and
      provide a selection tool for hypoxia modifying treatments. The principle of characterization
      of the tumor phenotype at the microregional level using functional imaging may also be
      applied to other tumor types and treatment strategies.
    
  