
    
      This is a placebo-controlled study which means that the effectiveness of the magnesium
      medication (the chemical form of which is known as Mg pidolate) will be compared to placebo.
      A placebo looks like the drug that is being studied (in this case magnesium) but does not
      contain any active drug of any kind. Comparing magnesium with placebo will help decide
      whether magnesium is better than treatment with placebo.

      The study lasts for 64 weeks (about 16 months) and is divided into 2 parts, each part lasting
      for 32 weeks (8 months). During the first part study medication (magnesium or placebo) will
      be taken twice daily for 24 weeks (about 6 months), followed by no study medication for 8
      weeks. These 8 weeks are called a washout period, during which time the effects of the study
      medication are 'washed-out' of the body. After the washout 8 weeks, patients will enter the
      second part of the study. During this second part, the study medication (magnesium or
      placebo) will again be taken twice daily for 24 weeks. During the second part of the study
      participants will receive whichever study medication that was not taken during the first part
      of the study. Following the second 24 weeks, there will be an observation period of 8 weeks
      (during which time no study medication is taken). The study is completed at the end of the
      8-week observation period. Participants will take magnesium for 24 weeks and placebo for 24
      weeks. The decision whether participants will receive magnesium or placebo first will be made
      randomly by a computer. This is a double-blind study which means that neither the participant
      nor the study doctor will know which study medication is taking during each part of the
      study. However, the study may be unblinded for safety issues if necessary.

      If the participant responds to the study medication, it can be continued after completion of
      the 24 weeks.

      The study medication is in the form of a liquid, taken two times a day (morning and evening)
      with the actual amount taken depending on the participant's weight.

      During this study the participant will be seen in clinic on a regular basis; initially every
      2 weeks, later once a month. There will be a total of 21 clinic visits during the study.
      Three of these are clinic visits that would normally take place in the routine management of
      this disease. The other 18 visits are required for this study. At each visit participants
      will have blood tests to measure the amount of magnesium in the blood, especially the red
      blood cells, but also to look for any other changes that might occur. The total amount of
      blood collected during the 16 month study is 120 ml (24 teaspoons), which is a safe amount.
      Three ml (half teaspoon) will be drawn at 13 visits, 5ml (1 teaspoon) at 4 visits, and 15ml
      (3 teaspoons) at a further 4 visits. At 4 of the clinic visits a urine test will be
      performed.

      During the study participants will be asked to keep a record of all episodes of pain, or any
      other changes that are noticed, in the form of a diary.
    
  