
    
      A number of studies both within and outside the ACTG have been initiated or are in
      development to try to address the issue of alternative treatments for patients who either do
      not achieve or lose virologic control while receiving protease inhibitors (PIs). Amprenavir
      (APV) is an attractive candidate to investigate as part of salvage regimens because: 1) it
      has substantial antiretroviral activity; 2) there are preliminary in vitro and in vivo data
      that suggest that resistance to this agent may be mediated in part by a unique mutation
      (I50V); and 3) its cross-resistance profile to the approved PIs is uncertain.

      Patients are selectively randomized to 1 of 4 study arms based on prior PI experience. Those
      randomized to Arms A, B, or C receive 2 PIs, 1 of which is amprenavir (APV), and those
      randomized to Arm D receive a single PI (APV) as part of their treatment regimen, as follows:

      Arm A: APV plus saquinavir soft gel capsule (SQVsgc) plus abacavir (ABC) plus efavirenz (EFV)
      plus adefovir (ADV).

      Arm B: APV plus indinavir (IDV) plus ABC plus EFV plus ADV. Arm C: APV plus nelfinavir (NFV)
      plus ABC plus EFV plus ADV. Arm D: APV plus placebo (NFV, IDV, or SQVsgc) plus ABC plus EFV
      plus ADV. All patients receive L-carnitine supplementation. All patients receive clinical
      physical assessments and laboratory testing during study as follows: Weeks 2, 4, and every 4
      weeks thereafter. A primary analysis is performed after the last patient has reached 24
      weeks. [AS PER AMENDMENT 3/2/00: At that time, all patients are unblinded to their original
      treatment assignment.] Patients who experience virologic failure are unblinded and may choose
      1 of the following 3 options: Continue study medications open-label, permanently discontinue
      study medications, or selectively continue study medications [AS PER AMENDMENT 3/2/00: from
      the arm the patient was originally randomized to] and combine with other approved
      antiretroviral agents. [AS PER AMENDMENT 3/2/00: For patients adding didanosine (ddI) to
      their regimens, monitoring for the development of pancreatitis is crucial.] Final evaluations
      are required for those patients who are off drug during the immediate 8-week period following
      the last dose of study treatment. Beyond 8 weeks, they are followed for incidence of death,
      cancer, congenital anomalies, and permanent disabilities. [AS PER AMENDMENT 3/2/00: Gilead
      Sciences has terminated its U.S. development of ADV for HIV infection. Gilead will continue
      to supply ADV for patients in ACTG 398 until the study closes. Patients who are receiving ADV
      at the completion of the study may continue to access ADV through the Expanded Access
      Program, provided that the physician and patient have determined that continued use of ADV is
      beneficial.]
    
  