
    
      Sepsis is a challenging and elusive entity with a high mortality rate. As a syndrome,
      clinicians are challenged to distinguish individuals with systemic infection warranting
      further interventions from lower severity patients. Sepsis is now recognized as a
      time-sensitive emergency, as patients stand the best chance for survival when effective
      therapeutic interventions are delivered as early as possible.

      Recent data has shown that in-hospital disease progression from sepsis to septic shock is
      associated with a higher risk of morbidity and mortality than those with shock on initial
      presentation. Yet, even when identified and treated with early aggressive interventions, the
      development of septic shock is still associated with a mortality rate of 25-40%.

      Although the presence of sustained arterial hypotension or serum lactate elevation (>4.0
      mmol/L) are the currently recommended threshold to define the presence of overt shock and the
      need for aggressive resuscitation, the investigators have shown that, in patients with
      systemic infection, a moderate lactate elevation (2.0-3.9 mmol/L) is a common occurrence and
      an important warning sign for the increased risk of disease progression and death. Sepsis
      with an elevated lactate between 2.0-3.9, referred to as the "PRE-SHOCK" state, identifies
      this population of patients at-risk for poor outcome. Current guidelines for sepsis
      management do not recommend any specific resuscitation measures or therapies for this at-risk
      population. This study marks the first in a series of investigations addressing the PRE-SHOCK
      population to further define the adverse events within this cohort and to investigate novel
      interventions to improve outcomes.

      The investigators hypothesize that an early quantitative resuscitation strategy using a
      protocol-directed IV fluid resuscitation will result in a significant reduction in the
      development of worsening organ failure (including shock) and mortality compared to standard
      care.
    
  