
    
      Methods/ Interventions:

      Patients who are deemed to meet inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will be
      preoxygenated by any of the acceptable standard preoxygenation strategies (non-rebreather
      face mask, noninvasive positive pressure ventilation, etc.) . Patients will be placed and
      maintained on continuous 3-lead cardiac, automatic blood pressure, pulse oximeter, and
      waveform capnography monitoring for the duration of the procedure. Prior to induction, and
      during the pre oxygenation phase, subjects will be placed on the Biphasic Cuirass Ventilation
      (BCV) device per the manufacturer's guidelines. After adequate preoxygenation has been
      achieved (as determined by the treating emergency physician), the BCV assisted ventilations
      will be maintained and standard of care intubation procedures including apenic oxygenation if
      ordered by attending emergency physician will be utilized. BCV will be discontinued upon
      confirmation of proper tracheal intubation by waveform capnography.

      Safety The BCV device covers the anterior chest wall, and therefore, it cannot be in place if
      CPR is needed. Therefore, all patients in cardiac arrest will be excluded. Investigators will
      be excluding patients with a pacemaker or central line which impairs the ability of the
      Curiass shell to secure on the anterior chest. Finally, patients with a history of valvular
      heart disease will be excluded. The protocol directs the device be applied during the normal
      preoxygenation period (~within that 3-5 minute period of time prior to the administration of
      the induction and paralytic medications). There are no other known side effects of this
      device. There is a potential for the device application to delay the intubation attempt;
      however, it is not known whether delaying intubation ,while augmenting a patient's breathing
      with the BCV device, negatively impacts the patient's condition. The data collection form
      explicitly asks the intubating physician thinks that the device delayed the intubation
      attempt in any way. The data collection form also tracks all of the relevant time milestones.
      Both of these items will be reviewed periodically during the study as safety endpoints by the
      data monitoring committee and will be included in the manuscript results.
    
  