
    
      Objective:

      To assess the agreement between the pain level measured by electronic VAS and verbal NRS in
      acute pain situation. Secondary objective is to determine the test-re-test reliability of
      electronic VAS.

      Method:

      All Chinese or English speaking patients 18 years or above, who are taken care by the acute
      pain service in Queen Mary Hospital are eligible for inclusion. Patients suffer from
      dementia, visual or hearing impairment will be excluded. Written consent will be obtained.

      Pain specialist responsible for the acute pain service will assess patients' condition during
      daily ward round while patients are using patient controlled analgesia (PCA) device,
      receiving epidural infusion or peripheral nerve local anaesthetic infusion. For the pain
      assessment, patient will be asked to rate their current pain level using verbal numerical
      rating scale (NRS) as a standard or care. (0 being no pain, 10 being worst pain imaginable)
      Within one minute, the patient will be asked by the investigator, who is blinded to the
      verbal NRS, to rate the current pain level again on an electronic version of visual analogue
      scale on iPad® (vasQ Clinical©, Maki NAKATA 2011) The electronic VAS displayed on iPad® is a
      horizontal scale with "No Pain" on the left, "Worst Pain Imaginable" on the right. Patient
      can use the finger to mark the level of pain on the iPad® screen by moving a diamond shape
      marker alone the horizontal line. The length of the scale is divided electronically into 100
      equal parts. There will be 101 possible score (0 - 10.0, which indicate the distance of the
      diamond marker from the left end of the scale. The score will be stored together with the
      patient's identifier.

      Patients' clinical pain management will not be altered by the data obtained from the
      electronic VAS.

      Patients will be asked to rate the current pain level after 1 minute using the electronic VAS
      again to evaluate the test-retest reliability of the tool.

      Sample size Previous studies have shown that when VAS assessment was repeated in a short
      period of time, the standard deviation of the difference between the two measurements is
      around 8 mm (on a 100 mm scale). A sample size of 84 patients will be able to limit the 95%
      confidence interval of the mean difference between the pain assessment to +/- 3 mm. 92
      patients will be recruited assuming a drop out rate of 10%.

      Analysis The agreement between electronic VAS and verbal NRS will be evaluated using Spearman
      rank correlation6 and Bland-Altman method. The Spearman coefficient will be presented
      together with 95% confident interval (CI). The Bland-Altman method involves plotting the mean
      of the electronic VAS and NRS against the difference between the 2 scores for each pair of
      data. Mean difference +/- standard deviation of the differences between electronic VAS and
      verbal NRS will be presented.

      The analysis will be repeated for the 2 sets of electronic VAS obtained 1 minute apart to
      evaluate the test-retest reliability of the electronic VAS.
    
  