
    
      Study Arms and Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study arms:

        -  If you are in Arm 1, you will receive bupivacaine only.

        -  If you are in Arm 2, you will receive a combination of liposomal bupivacaine and
           bupivacaine.

      You will have an equal (50/50) chance of being assigned to either group. You will not know
      what you are receiving. However, the study staff will know what you are receiving.

      In both cases, the drug(s) will be injected into your skin and tissue at the end of your
      surgery, right before the wound is closed.

      Study Data Collection:

      Every day while you are in the hospital recovering from surgery, you will be asked questions
      about pain, any side effects you may be having, symptoms, and opioid use.

      Within 30 days after you leave the hospital, you may also be called and asked about side
      effects you may be having. If you are called, this call should last about 10-15 minutes. This
      information may also be collected during a routinely scheduled clinic visit and from the
      medical record.

      Three (3) and 7 days after you leave the hospital, and then 1 time every week after that for
      a total of 8 weeks, you will be called or emailed and asked questions about any symptoms you
      may be having. If you are called, each call should last about 10-15 minutes.

      If you are also enrolled on the study BS99-094 "Measuring the Symptom Distress of Cancer
      Patients: Development of a New Assessment System," information from your participation in
      this study may also be collected and used in that study.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation on this study will be over 8 weeks after you leave the hospital.

      This is an investigational study. Both bupivacaine and liposomal bupivacaine are FDA approved
      and commercially available. It is investigational to compare the 2 drugs.

      Up to 200 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  