
    
      Introduction: Continuous surgical, technological and audiological advances are responsible
      for the ever improvement of outcomes obtained through cochlear implants (CI) over the last
      decades. These positive observations have progressively led to the cautious extension of CI
      indications including patients with single-sided deafness (SSD). SSD patients are
      characterized by the loss of functional hearing in one ear, causing an impairment of binaural
      hearing abilities, with important difficulties for sound localization and speech in noise
      comprehension. These patients also often present invalidating tinnitus in the deaf ear,
      worsening both their psychological and audiological conditions. Recent studies have reported
      successful reduction of tinnitus intensity after cochlear implantation. However, most studies
      included a very limited number of participants and tinnitus evaluation tools. The impact of
      CI speech perception abilities in SSD is still under debate.

      Objective: This study aims to assess the effect of CI electrical stimulation on tinnitus,
      speech-in-noise and speech-in-quiet abilities in a group of 30 SSD patients.

      Methods: After cochlear implantation, patients are stimulated using continuous white noise
      stimulation in the first month period and thereafter using a conventional stimulation. This
      was done to investigate the effects of non-meaningful, and therefore only peripheral,
      stimulation. Outcomes were monitored at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months of CI use. Tinnitus loudness
      and annoyance were measured with a Visual Analog Scale and tinnitus distress and quality of
      life were evaluated with tinnitus questionnaires (THI, TRQ and STSS). Speech in noise
      comprehension was assessed in three different spatial listening configurations and speech in
      quiet was evaluated through direct connection with the speech processor.
    
  