
    
      -  Rationale: Electronic brachytherapy (EBT) offers an isotope-free radiation therapy
           modality for the treatment of specific skin lesions, especially non-melanoma skin
           cancers (NMSC). Within the treatment of NMSC, surgical removal of the lesion is
           currently the treatment of choice for the majority of cases. However in an estimated
           10-15% of NMSC patients, surgery might not be the best treatment option. Location of the
           tumour in cosmetically sensitive areas, patient comorbidities, old age, use of
           anti-coagulation etc. might all be reasons to select radiotherapy as first choice of
           treatment.

        -  Objective: To determine histologically confirmed clinical efficacy, safety, and
           usability of Electronic Brachytherapy, an innovative treatment for Basal Cell Carcinoma
           (BCC).

        -  Study design: Prospective, out-patient based, single centre, single treatment modality

        -  Study population: 40 patients, >18 years old, having at least 1 BCC. Intervention: BCC
           will be treated with EBT, using low-energy X-rays. Area of the lesion will be evaluated
           for tumour presence and size before, during and at 2 weeks, 6 weeks and 3 months after
           treatment. If the patient has more than one BCC, all of them will be treated with
           Electronic Brachytherapy but only the largest one will be analysed in the study.

        -  Main study parameters/endpoints: Local control of BCC.

        -  Secondary parameters: Acute skin toxicity, skin cosmesis, and care giver satisfaction,
           and patient satisfaction.

        -  Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and
           group relatedness: Patients will be exposed to low-energy X-rays. Required site-visits
           are: 1 pretreatment visits (intake/informed consent and biopsy), 6 treatment visits over
           the course of 2-3 weeks, 6 control-visits 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 12
           months and 24 months after treatment.

        -  Patients will also be asked to complete a short questionnaire to evaluate their quality
           of life.
    
  