
    
      The investigators led a prospective observational study in patients/participants scheduled to
      unilateral breast reconstruction surgery with TRAM flap (UBR TRAM) or partial/total or
      totalization mastectomy followed by TRAM reconstruction (M + UBR TRAM). Participants'
      anesthetic plan was general balanced anesthesia (GBA) or general balanced anesthesia combined
      with bilateral TAP block (GBA + TAP).

      The anesthetic plan was adopted by the anaesthetist assigned to the operating room on
      surgery's day. Then, two groups were considered for the study: group submitted to GBA and
      another submitted to GBA + TAP. Anaesthetic information about intra-operative date was
      consulted. Investigators included patients subjected to general anesthesia with orotracheal
      intubation. Intravenous (IV) bolus of fentanyl were administered at anesthetic induction and
      according to analgesic needs. In patients whose anesthetic plan included TAP block
      investigators considered cases that it was performed after anesthetic induction before
      surgical incision. TAP block was performed according to Anesthesiology's Department. After
      aspiration, a volume of 20 mL ropivacaine 0.375% was administered, bilaterally. Investigators
      didn´t consider for the study participants whose systemic postoperative analgesic protocol
      wasn't that adopted by Anesthesiology Department for this kind of surgery.

      It was evaluated:

        -  Intraoperative period: fentanyl consumption (mg/kg), antiemetic prophylaxis and
           anesthesia duration;

        -  Post-anaesthesia care unit (PACU): consumed opioids, total score and score relative to
           consciousness, at admission and discharge, pain assessment, at admission and discharge
           and nausea and vomiting incidence and stay's length

        -  After discharge of PACU until 4 hours after surgery's end and between 4th until 24th
           postoperative hour: morphine consumption, pain assessment, nausea and vomiting incidence
           and other complications.
    
  