
    
      Patients with invasive bladder tumor , candidates for radical cystectomy. Patients will
      receive Lapatinib during 3 weeks +/- 5 days, before cystectomy. A comparison of tissue from
      the original biopsy and cystectomy after Lapatinib will allow this to occur.

      TREATMENT AND STRATEGY Lapatinib in bladder carcinoma -Overall there are arguments for
      considering that egf pathway is involved in bladder carcinoma and so far that drugs
      inhibiting EGF pathway could have an impact for therapeutical endpoints.

      Nevertheless it is unclear that from previous studies that adding egf inhibiting drug to
      chemotherapy is clinically relevant, essentially by difficulties to measure a beneficial
      endpoint while downstream EGF pathways have been modified by these drugs, as shown with
      lapatinib (see 2.1.5).

      Furthermore, there is no argument for initial selection of patients based on the initial egfr
      and/or her 2 tumor profile, asking for more intense knowledge.

      LAPATINIB TREATMENT Patients will receive lapatinib therapy at a daily standard dose of 1500
      mg.

      LAPATINIB TREATMENT DURATION Patients will then receive 3 weeks of lapatinib therapy +
      possible 5 days. As the study is a non direct benefit study, the exposition to the drug is
      proposed during the standard window of 3 to 4 weeks to organize a radical cystectomy in
      patients with muscle invasive bladder carcinoma. In this study patients, the standard
      procedure is not delayed for the purpose of the study.

      The duration of exposition to lapatinib as to be long enough to have a continuous impact of
      biological events to induce indeed inhibition of EGF pathway but also to impact on more
      complex or more distal events as apoptosis and so to be able to measure it. This justifies a
      3 weeks of treatment + possible up to 5 days more due to surgical organization procedures.

      Surgery will take place on the last day of treatment, which is recommended due to the
      half-life of lapatinib. Nevertheless for surgical purpose, the drug could be not given on the
      day of surgery.
    
  