
    
      Patients admitted to the ICU are at great risk of developing nosocomial infections, partly
      because of their serious illness and partly because of exposure to life-saving invasive
      procedures. In ICU, implementation of invasive procedures, with the purpose of diagnosis and
      treatment, such as urinary catheter, central-peripheral catheter, intubation, and being
      subject to intensive antibiotic use increase the likelihood of infection. Environmental
      cleanliness is important for preventing infections.

      Effective cleaning of surfaces in the hospital environment is an absolute necessity to reduce
      pathogen transmission. Multi Drug Resistant Organisms (MDRO) in ICU are among the leading
      causes of hospital-acquired infections. Today, the growing prevalence of MDRO has made it
      more important than ever to clean contaminated surfaces with appropriate aseptic cleaning
      procedures, to protect patients and personnel. Despite the disinfection and sterilization
      methods, microorganisms that reach a sufficient concentration in the hospital environment
      survive for long periods and can cause serious transmission via contaminated hands of
      healthcare workers. In this context, surface cleaning and disinfection procedures in the
      hospital environment reduce cross-contamination of the health care units and disease-causing
      pathogens. Recently, environmental cleaning and disinfection have become important as well as
      the evaluation of cleanliness.

      Cleaning of frequently contacted environmental surfaces, monitoring and verifying the
      cleaning results are important for patient safety. The effectiveness of environmental
      cleaning can be assay by different methods. Visual evaluation, ATP (AdenosineTriphosphate)
      measurement, protein tests and fluoroscan marking methods are some of them.

      Evaluation of the patient unit cleanup in the ICU, that is carried out after the discharge of
      patients with infection or colonization that would require strict contact isolation, by
      Fluoroscan Marking, BCA and Microbiological Sampling methods, is planned with the aim of
      collecting data in order to prove the efficiency and clinical employability of the new
      cleaning assessment method, PRO1 Micro Hygiene Monitoring System (System consisting of
      protein pen and device that analyzes with BCA method).
    
  