
    
      Participation in the study will begin at the patient's request for labor analgesia. The
      patient will be asked to urinate and a post void residual (PVR) will be measured via
      ultrasonography. If the PVR is >100mL, the patient will be excluded from the study. If CSF is
      not obtained during CSE placement or the CSE technique is abandoned for any other reason, the
      patient will be excluded. If the PVR is < 100mL and the combined spinal epidural analgesia is
      successful, they will be randomized to receive either routine Foley catheter placement or
      begin the spontaneous micturition protocol. Last cervical exam and VRS pain will be recorded
      at this time.

      Subjects will be prepared in the usual fashion for the combined spinal epidural with
      hemodynamic monitoring and intravenous (IV) access.

      The anesthesiologist will perform a combined spinal epidural analgesia per routine with the
      subject in the sitting position using sterile technique at the L3-4 interspace (± one
      vertebral interspace). The epidural space will be found using loss of resistance technique
      with either 3 mL of air or saline and a 17G Touhy needle. After the epidural space is
      identified, the dura will be punctured with a 27G Pencan and 2.5mg of plain bupivacaine + 15
      μg fentanyl will be injected. The epidural catheter will be inserted to 3-5cm into the
      epidural space and a test dose of 3 mL of 1.5% lidocaine + 1:200,000 epinephrine will be
      injected. The epidural catheter will be secured and the PCEA initiated with the standard
      infusion rate and patient administered boluses using 0.06% bupivacaine + 2mcg/mL fentanyl.
      Post-procedure vital signs will be monitored in the usual fashion.

      Patients randomized to the control group will have a Foley catheter placed after the CSE is
      performed as is the usual practice at this institution. Their bladder volume will be assessed
      via ultrasonography before Foley catheter placement. The volume of urine collected in the
      Foley bag will be used to validate our ultrasonographic measurements.

      Patients randomized to the spontaneous micturition algorithm will be assessed for spontaneous
      micturition and post void residual (PVR) volumes via ultrasonography at regular time
      intervals. First, the patient's bladder volume is measured via ultrasonography; this is
      followed by an attempt at spontaneous micturition. The patient will have an attempt at
      spontaneous micturition only if their bladder contains >100mL of urine. This ensures
      inability to micturate is not due to insufficient urine in the bladder prior to their
      attempt. An ultrasonographic measurement of their postvoid residual volume will follow their
      attempt to spontaneously micturate, to ensure the patient does not have urinary retention
      necessitating Foley catheter placement.

      The first attempt at spontaneous micturition is two hours after the spinal analgesic dose is
      injected. A study by Campbell et al. demonstrated no urinary retention with this intrathecal
      dose, but it is a possibility that the spinal dose may still be present and have a differing
      effect than the epidural analgesic dose. As a result of this possibility, we decided that if
      a patient has urinary retention at this first attempt, 2 hours post injection of the spinal
      dose, they will have a straight catheterization and be given another chance at spontaneous
      micturition more than 3 hours after the spinal dose was injected. This ensures the spinal
      dose has completely worn off and the epidural analgesic dose is in effect before committing
      the patient to a bed pan or Foley catheter.

      Most patients will be evaluated at least twice for ability to spontaneously micturate and
      have their PVR volumes accessed via ultrasonography before being assigned to either a bed pan
      every 2 hours or a Foley catheter placement. If the patient is able to spontaneously
      micturate twice and their PVR is <100mL, they will be assigned to a bed pan every 2 hours. If
      a patient is unable to micturate with a PVR >100mL, they will receive a Foley catheter.

      The spontaneous micturition algorithm allows for a maximum of 3 attempts at micturition
      before a patient is committed to either a bed pan every 2 hours or Foley catheter placement.
      In the event that a patient is able to spontaneously micturate but has incomplete bladder
      emptying with a PVR 100-250mL, they will be allowed to continue in the algorithm for a third
      and final attempt at spontaneous micturition. If the patient is able to spontaneously
      micturate at this last attempt with a PVR volume <100mL, they will be assigned to a bed pan
      every 2 hours but if their PVR remains >100mL they will have a Foley catheter placed.

      On occasion, patients need a rescue bolus of higher concentration local anesthetic during
      labor for breakthrough pain. If this occurs, the usual rebolus dose of up to 15mL of
      bupivacaine 0.125% will be given in incremental doses titrated to patient comfort. Following
      this rebolus, the infusion rate will be increased to 20ml/hr as is the usual practice. If a
      patient who was previously assigned to use a bed pan every 2 hours requires a rescue bolus of
      local anesthetic, their ability to spontaneously micturate will be reassessed 2 hours
      following the rebolus to evaluate for need for reassignment to Foley catheter placement with
      the higher doses of bupivacaine.

      If a patient who was assigned to use a bed pan every 2 hours requires a second rebolus, they
      will receive another rebolus dose of up to 15mL of bupivacaine 0.125%, the concentration of
      the epidural bupivacaine infusion will be increased to bupivacaine 0.11% + fentanyl 2mcg/mL
      as is our usual practice and they will automatically be assigned to a Foley catheter
      placement.

      If a study patient requires a cesarean delivery, a Foley catheter will be inserted at time of
      decision for cesarean delivery and removed 24 hours post procedure as is the standard
      practice at our institution.

      The primary outcome (rate of positive urine culture) of this study will be assessed by
      collecting a twenty-four to forty-eight hour midstream urine sample and performing a urine
      culture. The clinical and laboratory criteria used to define a urinary tract infection in a
      woman immediately postpartum is unknown. If the patient is considered uncomplicated (normal
      female urinary physiology) then she would be treated only if she has symptoms. If the patient
      is considered complicated (pregnant urinary physiology) then she would be treated for
      bacterial growth on urine culture even if asymptomatic. For this reason and for the purpose
      of this study, if the patient is asymptomatic for urinary tract infection but has a positive
      urine culture with 50,000 colony-forming units (CFU)/mL of bacteria, the patient's
      obstetrician will be notified and they will likely be treated with antibiotics for suspected
      urinary tract infection. This is more conservative than the current guidelines for
      asymptomatic bacteriuria in pregnancy. If a positive urine culture is identified and patients
      is symptomatic (at least1 sign/symptom) with the number of colonies of bacteria exceed 10,000
      CFU/ml, the obstetrician will be notified and they may be treated with antibiotics for
      suspected urinary tract infection. This is more conservative than the guidelines for
      catheter-related infections.

      In addition to the primary outcome data, the following information will be collected after
      delivery: satisfaction with bladder treatment protocol (100 mm scale, 0 mm = not satisfied at
      all, 100 mm = very satisfied), total labor duration, length of stage 2, mode of delivery,
      presence and degree of lacerations, fetal weight, duration of Foley catheterization, time to
      first spontaneous void following delivery or Foley catheter removal, total fluids
      administered during labor and total dose of epidural analgesics.

      In addition, a postvoid residual (PVR) will be assess via ultrasound at 8-24 hours following
      delivery or foley catheter removal to assess for postpartum urinary retention. If the PVR is
      found to be >100mL postpartum, this will be considered urinary retention and the obstetrician
      and co-investigator (urogynecologist) will be notified.

      The following demographic data will also be collected: maternal age, height, weight,
      pre-pregnancy weight, and gestational age.

      One telephone follow-up evaluation 8 weeks after delivery, the patient will be assessed for
      treatment of urinary tract infection and urinary retention during or after discharge from the
      hospital.
    
  