
    
      Patients with a history of opiate abuse (IVDU) are not only a patient population that is
      frequently difficult to reach by the healthcare system, but it also exhibits specific
      problems in HIV-treatment (ART). These patients frequently have a chaotic lifestyle, which
      makes it difficult to take medications regularly. Amongst the reasons for this are housing
      difficulties, intoxication and substance abuse.

      The introduction of opiate substitution treatment can help to provide some structure and
      certainty to patients. Even so IVDU patients are often started on ART later than others and
      have a greater tendency to have treatment interruptions and sub-optimal adherence to ART. The
      end result can be treatment failure and the development of drug resistance.

      There is an unmet medical need for ART regimens that make adherence easier and may be
      suitable for co-administration with once-daily opiate substitution.

      The availability of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (DF) 300 mg offers new options in the
      creation of once-daily regimens with reduced potential for drug-drug-interactions. It is
      believed that it is now possible to construct viable once daily HIV treatment regimens for
      patients who have either never received prior therapy or who have no history of drug
      resistance. Tenofovir DF is administered as a single 300 mg tablet once daily with food for
      the treatment of HIV infection. This once daily dosing schedule of tenofovir DF makes it an
      attractive option for simplified dosing regimens in many subjects, including
      methadone-maintained individuals infected with HIV. Because many opiate-maintained subjects
      are required to have their methadone dosing directly observed in the clinic, there is
      considerable interest in using directly-observed therapy (DOT) in such subjects. Given that
      tenofovir is eliminated renally and methadone is predominantly hepatically metabolized, the
      potential for a pharmacokinetic interaction is low. However, other antiretroviral agents with
      substantial renal elimination such as didanosine and stavudine have been shown to interact
      pharmacokinetically with methadone. Thus, it is important to demonstrate that tenofovir DF
      and methadone can be administered together safely and without concern for a pharmacokinetic
      interaction and/or alterations in the efficacy, safety, or tolerability of methadone
      maintenance such that dose modifications would be required. This can also be influenced by
      the other products in the combination therapy.

      HIV/HBV coinfection is a frequent issue in this population (> 20%). Treatment with TDF, which
      is active against HBV, could help to stabilize the chronic HBV infection, even in cases with
      Lamivudine-resistance.
    
  