
    
      Background and preliminary data:

      Our murine studies suggest that exposure to blue (480nm) light, by comparison to ambient
      white or amber (580nm) light, reduces the inflammatory response (i.e., cytokine
      concentration), risk of organ failure (i.e., kidney failure), and improves the clearance and
      control of the infectious focus (i.e., reduced abdominal and pulmonary bacterial counts and
      bacterial dissemination into tissues of the liver and spleen) in mice subjected to a model of
      cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) or a model of pneumonia. These data directly support the
      proposed project and experimentation.

      Exposure to blue light after a cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) model of sepsis reduces
      systemic inflammation, as evidenced by reduced serum TNF-alpha, IL-6 and IL-10
      concentrations. These mice had reduced bacterial in the abdomen and reduced bacteremia. They
      also had reduced kidney failure after sepsis by comparison to mice subjected to ambient
      light. Similar data were observed in mice subjected to a model of Klebsiella pneumoniae:
      improved survival, reduced bacteria within the lung, reduced bacteremia and dissemination
      into the tissues of the liver and spleen, and reduced systemic inflammation in mice exposed
      to blue light.

      Significance:

      Our data suggest that modulating the characteristics of light carries the potential to modify
      the host response to injury and critical illness and thus, improve outcome. The ability to
      modify the host response to the stress of major operations and sepsis carries immense
      potential to improve patient care. Importantly, the risk of light is minimal. Thus, the
      intervention of exposing a patient to a characteristic spectrum of light carries a very large
      benefit:risk ratio. The results of these studies may be directly applicable to a more
      generalized population of critically ill patients.

      Approach:

      Subjects will receive the standard preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative care for
      appendectomy or colon resection. All operations will be performed by one of the Trauma/Acute
      Care Surgery surgeons at PUH. Subjects with pneumonia will receive standard medical care for
      pneumonia. All medical care will be performed by one of the Critical Care Physicians at PUH.
      There are no deviations from the standard care received for subjects with these diagnoses.

      Discussions of the study, informed consent, and subsequent subject interaction will occur
      during the initial visit that occurs in the hospital at the time of diagnosis.

      There are 4 groups that are being evaluation:

        1. subjects undergoing appendectomy and exposed to Blue light: n=12

        2. subjects undergoing appendectomy and NOT exposed to Blue light: n=12

        3. subjects undergoing colon resection for diverticulitis and exposed to Blue light: n=12

        4. subjects undergoing colon resection for diverticulitis and NOT exposed to Blue light:
           n=12

        5. subjects with pneumonia and exposed to Blue light: n=12

        6. subjects with pneumonia and NOT exposed to Blue light: n=12

      Subjects that are to be exposed to Blue light will be provided by the research personnel (Dr.
      Rosengart) with a Day-Light Classic 10,000 lumen SAD light, a device that has been used in
      many of the previously listed published studies (Epilepsy Behav. 2012 Jul;24(3):359-64. doi:
      10.1016/j.yebeh.2012.04.123. Epub 2012 May 30.) This light is fitted with a blue spectrum
      filter, such that it produces 2000 lumens of blue spectrum lighting at a distance of 12
      inches. This intensity of light is 1/5 of what has been used in prior human studies. The
      comparative groups that are not exposed to Blue light do not receive this light, but
      otherwise, undergo identical standard of care and will have blood drawn for research
      purposes.

      At the time of enrollment subjects to be exposed to Blue light will be instructed in the use
      of the light, though during the period of light exposure the light will be managed by the
      investigative team. The light is small (4 X 16 X 21 inches) and weights less than a pound. It
      is UV filtered and glare free. There is a single "On/Off" switch.

      This study is one of effectiveness rather than efficacy. Thus, there are no rigid guidelines
      that are mandated regarding location or duration of lighting or other environmental
      restrictions.

      Surgical cohort: On the day of surgery, subjects that are to be exposed to Blue light will be
      exposed to the blue spectrum light after consent and prior to the operation. They will also
      be exposed to the light for a 24 hour period postoperatively. This light exposure will be
      initiated, maintained, and removed by Dr. Matthew Rosengart. The light will be positioned 12
      inches from the subject for the period prior to and for 24 hours during postoperative day 1.
      At any time the subject may request the light to be removed.

      Preoperative and postoperative standard care, including blood sample analysis will be
      directed by the surgical team and performed at UPMC PUH hospital.

      Pneumonia cohort: On the day of diagnosis of pneumonia, subjects that are to be exposed to
      Blue light will be exposed to the blue spectrum light after consent. They will be exposed to
      the light for a 24 hour period after diagnosis. They will also be exposed to the blue light
      for 12 hours on days 2 and 3 of treatment of pneumonia. The light exposure will be initiated,
      maintained, and removed by Dr. Matthew Rosengart. The light will be positioned 12 inches from
      the subject for the period prior to and for 24 hours during postoperative day 1. At any time
      the subject may request the light to be removed.

      For ALL subjects we will abstract data from the electronic record regarding white blood cell
      count.

      An additional 2 samples of blood will be obtained for research purposes only to measure serum
      cytokine concentrations. These blood samples are obtain from ALL subjects in the study.
    
  