
    
      Aphasia is a language impairment that commonly occurs following brain damage (e.g., stroke).
      While language rehabilitation can yield improved language functioning, treatment outcomes
      vary greatly across individuals. In chronic aphasia, language gains occur through the brain's
      inherent ability to reorganize (i.e., neuroplasticity).

      While Speech-language therapy (SLT) can target various language skills and modalities, the
      most pervasive deficit across all persons with aphasia (PWA) is difficulty with word finding.
      Thus, aphasia treatment often includes some form of intervention focused on improving naming
      abilities. As with language function in general, naming abilities in PWA seems to be
      associated with left hemisphere recruitment, particularly with the viable tissue at the rim
      of the lesion (perilesional areas). This project investigates an innovative approach to
      improving current therapy by examining the benefits of using excitatory transcranial direct
      current stimulation (tDCS) stimulation/neuromodulation during anomia treatment (i.e.
      word-finding treatment).

      This study investigates an innovative approach to improving current therapy by examining the
      benefits of using excitatory tDCS stimulation/neuromodulation during anomia treatment. This
      project will provide novel mechanistic understanding of changes in functional brain
      connectivity in persons with post-stroke aphasia and how connectivity relates to treatment
      outcomes.

      The aims of this study are as follows:

      Aim 1. To investigate the benefits of using broad transcranial direct current stimulation
      (tDCS) to improve word retrieval in persons with aphasia (PWA). Aim 2. To study functional
      brain changes related to this treatment. Aim 3. To examine behavioral and neural
      re-organization correlates related to treatment outcomes.

      All participants will complete the following 3 components: (1) Baseline Assessment, (2)
      Interventions (i.e., SLT with active tDCS & sham tDCS , and (3) Outcome Testing (i.e.,
      Behavioral & Brain Imaging). During the first week, each participant will complete all of the
      Neuropsychological Testing Battery and the first round of the outcome measures as pre-testing
      before starting SLT. Then the participant will complete 2 weeks of SLT accompanied with
      either active tDCS or sham tDCS. Once the SLT is completed, the participant will complete
      round 2 of outcome testing (i.e., post-testing for 1st SLT phase and pre-testing for 2nd SLT
      phase). Then, the participant will complete another 2 weeks of SLT but with the other tDCS
      condition. Once SLT is completed, the participant will complete round 3 of outcome testing
      (i.e., post-testing for 2nd SLT phase). Lastly, the participant will complete round 4 of
      outcome testing (i.e., follow-up)
    
  