
    
      The objectives of the study are to investigate in a randomised controlled single blind trial
      whether the use of an online monitoring system in patients suffering from bipolar disorder
      reduces symptoms of affective disorder.

      As part of the clinical assessment in the Mood Disorder clinic, a paper version with daily
      monitoring of subjective items has been in use for four years. Based on an interactive
      process with patients suffering from bipolar disorder, the literature as well as clinical
      experience of the research and clinical group involved in the study we have chosen to monitor
      the following subjective items: mood, activity, irritability, sleep duration, alcohol
      consumption, medication intake. Patients are prompted to evaluate these items every evening.
      In the same way, the following objective items will be collected on all cell phones used in
      the study: speech duration (minutes speech per 24 hours on the cell phone), social activity
      (numbers of calls and SMS'es per 24 hours at the cell phone and acceleration of the cell
      phone).

      A personal homepage for each patient is set op on a server so the patient can connect to the
      homepage with his cell phone using secure codes. By giving informed consent to participate in
      the MONARCA trial patients allow clinicians to connect to the homepage. It is optionally
      whether patients allow relatives (or others) to get access to the homepage. Online programs
      present the monitored subjective items as well as speech duration and number of calls and
      SMS's graphically.

      It is not known whether using a cell phone for electronic monitoring of bipolar disorder the
      way described above improve outcome compared to using a cell phone to usual communication. A
      total of 60 patients with bipolar disorder are randomised (1:1) to using the active cell
      phone program (intervention group) or to using a cell phone to usual communication (control
      group). All randomised patients will receive a cell phone (Android) for use during the study
      period.

      Stratification is done for age (18-30 versus 30-60 years) and prior hospitalisations (none
      versus hospitalisation). Study period: 6 months

      The assessments are done by the PhD.-student who is not involved in the treatment of the
      randomised patients and is blinded versus having received the intervention system or the
      control system. All participants in the study will be examined every month by the PhD student
      for the entire study period. The following will be done: The bipolar diagnosis is confirmed
      by a SCAN interview. Further the following ratings/questionnaires are performed every month
      for 6 months: Hamilton Depression Scale-17 items (HAMD-17), the Young Mania Rating Scale
      (YMRS), psychosocial functioning (FAST), Cohen's Perceived stress scale, quality of life
      (WHOQOL), coping strategies (CISS), Altman Self-rating mania scale, Major Depression
      Inventory (MDI). Assessment of cognitive function (SCIP and Massachusetts General Hospital
      Questionnaire), awakening salivary cortisol, urinary oxidative stress, adherence to
      medication (plasma values of medication) and plasma BDNF are measured at start, half way and
      end of the study.

      All assessment is done single blind, i.e., the assessor (researcher) does not know whether
      the patient is randomized to the intervention group or the control group.

      The outcomes are differences between intervention and control group in:

        -  Primary: depressive and manic symptoms

        -  Secondary: psychosocial functioning, quality of life, perceived stress, coping
           strategies,adherence to medication, cognitive function, awakening salivary cortisol,
           urinary oxidative stress, plasma BDNF, physical activity, self-rated depressive and
           manic symptoms
    
  