
    
      1. Primary

           The primary objective of this study is to assess the efficacy of combination therapy
           comprising of RENESSANS, INTERFERONS and RIBAVIRIN in the management of treatment naïve
           HCV related Chronic Active Hepatitis patients.

        2. Secondary

           The secondary objectives of this study are:

             1. Determine the biochemical or virological improvement in patients suffering from HCV
                related Chronic Active Hepatitis.

             2. Determine the safety and tolerability of Renessans {oral} when administered as a
                part of antiviral activity outlined in this protocol.

        3. ENDPOINTS

           The primary endpoint will be the number of subjects achieving

             1. Virological response as evident by Rapid Viral Response(RVR), Early Viral
                Response(EVR) and Sustained Viral Response(SVR).

             2. Biochemical response as evident by normalization of ALT.

           The secondary endpoint will be

           a. Assessment of the safety and tolerability of RENESSANS through: routine physical
           examination, routine clinical laboratory tests, clinical monitoring and adverse events
           reporting.

        4. INVESTIGATIONAL PLAN

           Study Design.

           This is an open labeled, active controlled, three arm, parallel-group study of the
           safety and efficacy of the oral formulation of natural iodine compound (Renessans)
           administered alone and in combination with standard interferon therapy in patient
           suffering from chronic HCV hepatitis.

           The enrolled patients will be tested for following base line laboratory tests

           VISIT 1:

           CBC including platelet count and ESR Liver function tests including albumin and total
           proteins. Creatinine Serum electrolytes Thyroid Function tests HBsAg, HIV antibody
           Urinalysis ANA, RA factor and serum ferritin levels USG of abdomen HCV RNA (PCR by
           amplicor, roche) qualitative analysis, if positive then quantitative analysis (Real
           time) and genotype as well.

           Pregnancy test in case of females Informed consent shall be obtained and each individual
           patient's treatment risk shall be covered under a certified health insurance plan.

           Renessans will be administered in eligible patients as follows:

           Study Arm Dosing Schema Group I ORAL RENESSANS 5gm. Thrice Daily{active iodine 300mg}
           for 6months Group II a ORAL RENESSANS 5gm. Twice Daily +INTERFERON ALPHA 2b 3 Million
           Units s/c +RIBAVIRIN 15mg/kg Group II b INTERFERON ALPHA 2b 3 Million Units s/c
           +RIBAVIRIN 15mg/kg Blood samples shall be collected and stored for post - hoc analysis
           of HCV RNA at day 1, 7 and 15(visit 2,3 & 4).

           Patients will be reviewed for the hepatoprotection, anti viral activity and any adverse
           event every four weeks with following clinical and lab work.

           VISIT 5 Detailed history and physical examination Following lab. Investigations at week
           4. CBC including platelet count and ESR Liver function tests including albumin and total
           proteins. Creatinine Serum electrolytes Thyroid Function tests Ferritin HCV RNA (PCR)
           quantitative analysis VISIT 6 Detailed history and physical examination Following lab.
           Investigations at week 8. CBC including platelet count and ESR Liver function tests
           including albumin and total proteins. Creatinine Serum electrolytes

           VISIT 7 Detailed history and physical examination Following lab. Investigations at week
           12. CBC including platelet count and ESR Liver function tests including albumin and
           total proteins. Creatinine Serum electrolytes Thyroid Function tests Ferritin HCV RNA
           (PCR) quantitative analysis

           VISIT 8 Detailed history and physical examination Following lab. Investigations at week
           16. CBC including platelet count and ESR Liver function tests including albumin and
           total proteins. Creatinine Serum electrolytes VISIT 9 Detailed history and physical
           examination Following lab. Investigations at week 20. CBC including platelet count and
           ESR Liver function tests including albumin and total proteins. Creatinine Serum
           electrolytes VISIT 10 Detailed history and physical examination Following lab.
           Investigations at week 24. CBC including platelet count and ESR Liver function tests
           including albumin and total proteins. Creatinine Serum electrolytes VISIT 11 Detailed
           history and physical examination Following lab. Investigations at week 28. CBC including
           platelet count and ESR Liver function tests including albumin and total proteins.
           Creatinine Serum electrolytes VISIT 12 Detailed history and physical examination
           Following lab. Investigations at week 32. CBC including platelet count and ESR Liver
           function tests including albumin and total proteins. Creatinine Serum electrolytes VISIT
           13 Detailed history and physical examination Following lab. Investigations at week 36.
           CBC including platelet count and ESR Liver function tests including albumin and total
           proteins. Creatinine Serum electrolytes VISIT 14 Detailed history and physical
           examination Following lab. Investigations at week 40. CBC including platelet count and
           ESR Liver function tests including albumin and total proteins. Creatinine Serum
           electrolytes VISIT 15 Detailed history and physical examination Following lab.
           Investigations at week 44. CBC including platelet count and ESR Liver function tests
           including albumin and total proteins. Creatinine Serum electrolytes VISIT 16 Detailed
           history and physical examination Following lab. Investigations at week 48. CBC including
           platelet count and ESR Liver function tests including albumin and total proteins.
           Creatinine Serum electrolytes VISIT 15 Detailed history and physical examination
           Following lab. Investigations at week 52. CBC including platelet count and ESR Liver
           function tests including albumin and total proteins. Creatinine Serum electrolytes VISIT
           15 Detailed history and physical examination Following lab. Investigations at week 60.
           CBC including platelet count and ESR Liver function tests including albumin and total
           proteins. Creatinine Serum electrolytes

           VISIT 16 Detailed history and physical examination Following lab. Investigations at week
           72. CBC including platelet count and ESR Liver function tests including albumin and
           total proteins. Creatinine Serum electrolytes Thyroid Function tests Ferritin HCV RNA
           (PCR) quantitative analysis
    
  