
    
      The AMIHOT II clinical trial is designed as a focused study of a promising patient subset
      from the completed AMIHOT study. A brief synopsis of the AMIHOT experience is provided below,
      followed by a description of the AMIHOT II study.

      The pivotal AMIHOT clinical study for the TherOx® Aqueous Oxygen (AO) System in treating post
      acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients was approved by FDA on January 10, 2002 under IDE
      G980257/S011. The study objective was to determine whether the adjunctive administration of
      AO Therapy immediately after successful PCI in a group of patients presenting less than 24
      hours from AMI symptom onset improves left ventricular function and reduces the area of
      infarction, with no increased incidence of 30-day Major Adverse Cardiac Events (MACE) when
      compared to a control group receiving only PCI standard-of-care treatment. 30-day MACE
      comprises the combined incidence of death, reinfarction, target vessel revascularization, and
      stroke.

      Two hundred eighty-nine (289) patients were enrolled from January 16, 2002 through December
      24, 2003, including 20 run-in subjects and 269 randomized patients. Three independent
      biomarkers (infarct size reduction, regional wall motion score improvement at three months,
      and reduction in ST segment elevation) were designated as co-primary endpoints to evaluate
      the effectiveness of AO Therapy. The study was designed to demonstrate superiority of the AO
      Therapy group as compared to controls for each of these endpoints, and to demonstrate
      non-inferiority of the AO Therapy group as compared to Control with respect to 30-day MACE.
      The study population was comprised of qualifying AMI patients treated with either PCI alone
      or with AO Therapy as an adjunct to successful PCI within 24 hours of symptom onset.

      The observed 30-day MACE rates were comparable between the AO Therapy and Control groups. The
      AMIHOT trial results revealed positive trends for the overall study population in favor of
      the AO Therapy test group in each of the three co-primary endpoints. These favorable results
      did not demonstrate the required level of statistical significance to claim superiority.
      However, an examination of a pre-specified patient subset, anterior AMI subjects treated
      within six hours of symptom onset, showed promising results after analysis of the surrogate
      endpoint data, forming the basis for this IDE supplement that requests approval to conduct a
      new trial focused on this further defined patient population.

      TherOx has designed a follow-up clinical trial focused on these anterior AMI subjects treated
      within six hours, utilizing a Bayesian statistical design that incorporates both the existing
      AMIHOT data, and the new proposed AMIHOT II study data, into a hierarchical model for
      combined analysis.

      The key differences between the proposed AMIHOT II study and the previously conducted AMIHOT
      trial are:

        -  Focused target patient population - anterior AMI subjects revascularized within six
           hours of symptom onset. (AMIHOT included patients revascularized within 24 hours of
           symptom onset, irrespective of location of infarct.)

        -  Single effectiveness endpoint - infarct size reduction as measured by 14-day Tc-99m
           Sestamibi SPECT imaging. (AMIHOT included 3 co-primary endpoints)

        -  Non-inferiority comparison of 30-day MACE rates within a 6% safety delta (AMIHOT
           proposed an 8% delta.)

        -  Randomization scheme - AMIHOT II will be randomized on a 2.8:1 (AO Therapy Group:
           Control Group) basis, as compared to the (1:1) randomization used in AMIHOT.

      The method of administration of AO Therapy and the basic design of the AO System and AO
      Cartridge have not changed since the approval was granted by FDA to conduct the AMIHOT trial.
      The IDE number for the AMIHOT II clinical proposal is consistent with AMIHOT (G980257).
    
  