
    
      Speech production is a complex process by which thoughts are generated into spoken
      utterances. Production involves the selection of appropriate words and the appropriate form
      of those words from the lexicon and morphology, and the organization of those words through
      the syntax. Then, the phonetic properties of the words are retrieved and the sentence is
      uttered through the articulations associated with those phonetic properties.

      The term intelligibility refers to 'speech clarity' or the proportion of a speaker's output
      that a listener can readily understand.

      Velopharyngeal Incompetence (VPI) refers to any situation in which an individual is unable to
      completely close the nasal airway during speech. The velopharyngeal mechanism is comprised of
      a complex group of structures that act in unison to control airflow through the nose and
      mouth by elevation of the soft palate and constriction of both the lateral and posterior
      pharyngeal walls. Any disruption in this mechanism may result in abnormal, poorly
      intelligible speech. VPI can manifest as hypernasality, nasal emission, decreased vocal
      intensity, and/or facial grimacing.

      Intellectual ability refers to the skills required to think critically, see connections
      between disciplines and problem solve in new or changing situations. Memory, creative problem
      solving and vocabulary also contribute to the level of an individual's intellectual ability.

      Orofacial clefts (OFCs) are frequently occurring human birth defects that have a complex,
      multifactorial etiology. Though structural orofacial defects are often surgically corrected
      during infancy and early childhood, OFC patient cohorts are at high risk for neurobehavioral
      problems including learning disability, impaired language function, psychosocial adjustment
      issues, and persistently reduced academic achievement.
    
  