
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Diabetes currently affects 420 million people worldwide, a number that is expected to
      increase to 642 million in 2040. This disease is responsible for a high morbidity rate and an
      overall mortality equivalent to 5 million deaths per year. In Belgium, the prevalence of
      diabetes is estimated at 8% in adults over 35 years of age, the risk of diabetes being 3 to 5
      times higher in populations with high consanguinity, mainly due to the susceptibility to
      generate recessive genetic variants, which are characteristic of atypical forms of diabetes.

      Although diabetes is linearly defined by a state of chronic hyperglycaemia, this criterion
      refers to a heterogeneous group of diseases of various aetiologies and distinct therapeutic
      options. Ten to 15% of diabetic patients have insulin-dependent type 1 diabetes (T1D),
      attributed to autoimmune destruction of insulin-producing beta cells, while 80% of patients
      have type 2 diabetes (T2DM), treated - inter alia - with oral antidiabetic drugs. Despite the
      diagnosis of T1D is confirmed by the determination of specific antibodies, DT1 and T2D are
      clinically characterized by the phenotypic type and evolution of the patient, without
      recourse to specific etiological and/or pathognomonic criteria. Recently, subtypes of T1D and
      T2D have been categorized to help the clinician choose the best therapeutic interventions for
      the patient (i.e., dietary approach, physical activity, oral antidiabetic drugs, insulin,
      combined therapies).

      Monogenic causes of diabetes are less common (up to 5% of all cases) and of recent discovery,
      their molecular basis having been established in the 1990s, under the name "maturity onset
      diabetes of the young" (MODY). The diagnosis of a genetic origin of diabetes has multiple
      consequences, primarily at therapeutic level. Despite the implications of a monogenic
      diabetes diagnosis, this form remains largely underdiagnosed, and it is accepted that 2 to 3%
      of active patients within diabetes conventions of care suffer from undetected genetic forms.

      AIM:

      Screening, using routinely diagnostic tools, of monogenic forms of diabetes in cohorts of
      paediatric patients with atypical forms of diabetes, who are followed in conventions of care
      for diabetic patients. After diagnosis of monogenic forms of diabetes, screened patients will
      be monitored and treated according to international recommendations applied to specifically
      recognized forms of diabetes.

      The aim of GENEPEDIAB study is to improve the diagnosis of atypical forms of diabetes in
      children and adolescents, and not to evaluate the effects of treatment modification following
      genetic screening.

      INTERVENTION:

        1. Retrospective analysis of data from active and historical diabetic patients within
           diabetes care conventions of paediatric endocrinology services; screening of patients
           with atypical diabetes; use of clinical routine tests to allow genetic diagnosis of the
           condition.

        2. Prospective analysis of the evolution of new diabetic patients followed in paediatric
           diabetes care conventions; screening of patients with atypical diabetes; use of clinical
           routine tests to allow genetic diagnosis of the condition.

        3. Screening of patients with atypical diabetes:

             -  The monogenic diabetes probability will initially be assessed using the MODY
                probability calculator (old terminology for monogenic diabetes), which identifies
                at risk patients based on clinical history (age, sex, body mass index, HbA1C, type
                of therapy, presence of diabetes in the family). This calculator is available on
                Internet at www.diabetesgenes.org.

             -  In addition, other clinical criteria will be used to improve the sensitivity and
                specificity of screening for monogenic diabetes.

        4. Genetic diagnosis of the condition:

             -  The diagnosis of T1D will first be completed based on factors currently recognized
                by the International Society for Paediatric and Adolescent Diabetes (ISPAD): anti
                islet antibodies and at risk HLA genotype. Residual insulin secretion will be also
                evaluated.

             -  Subjects that are detected using criteria described above will be screened using
                the routine MODY gene sequencing test, which includes GCK, HNF1A, HNF4A, HNF1B,
                KCNJ11, ABCC8, and INS gene sequencing.

             -  More comprehensive genetic tests will be conducted in patients without anomalies
                found after the MODY gene-sequencing test.

      PARTICIPATING SITES:

      GENEPEDIAB is a multicentre study that include various diabetes care conventions of
      paediatric endocrinology services in Belgium.

        -  Main site: Cliniques universitaires Saint-Luc (UCLouvain), Brussel (Belgium)

             -  Principal investigator : Dr. Philippe Lysy, Paediatric Endocrinology Unit

             -  Co-investigators : PhD student Sophie Welsch, PhD Caroline Daems, Paediatric
                Endocrinology Unit

             -  Clinical Research Coordinator : Paola Gallo, Paediatric Endocrinology Unit

        -  Other sites:

             -  CHU ND-des Bruyeres (ULg), Liege (Belgium) - Prof. Marie-Christine Lebrethon;

             -  CHU UCL Namur site Mont-Godinne & CHU UCL Namur site Sainte-Elisabeth (UCLouvain),
                Namur (Belgium) - Dr. Dominique Beckers & Dr. Thierry Mouraux;

             -  CHC, Liege (Belgium) - Dr. Nicole Seret;

             -  Grand Hopital de Charleroi site Notre Dame (GHdC), Charleroi (Belgium) - Dr.
                Jacques Louis.
    
  