
    
      The proposed study, data collection, and intervention will be performed in the Integrative
      Physiology Laboratory at the University of Illinois at Chicago. Blood samples will be
      collected in the Transplant Clinic at the University of Illinois at Chicago. The study will
      use a two-arm RCT design to examine the effects of personalized exercise rehabilitation
      versus standard clinical care in kidney transplant (KT) recipients. The primary outcome will
      be patient return to work/find work rates. Secondary outcomes will include physical and
      vascular function, body composition, perceived quality of life, kidney function and blood
      lipid markers, and adherence. 120 kidney transplant recipients will be randomized 2:1 into
      either an exercise rehabilitation program or a control group, which involves standard
      clinical care only. Randomization will be done after obtaining informed consent and baseline
      testing, utilizing a computerized randomization program as a way to prevent potential
      selection bias. The exercise rehabilitation arm includes low intensity, personalized
      resistance trainings two times per week for a 12 month period in addition to standard
      clinical care (including regular check-ups and blood work as recommended by their
      post-transplant physician). The control group will continue standard care as advised by their
      post-transplant medical team with no additional intervention. The investigator will collect
      data on employment status, and all physiological and psychological data at baseline (before
      intervention), during (6 months), and immediately after the intervention (12 months).
      Adherence will be monitored throughout the entirety of the study by recording study visits as
      well as having the exercise trainers keep record of the patient's attendance in the exercise
      arm. A 2 X 3 (condition X time) mixed factor, analysis of variance with intent-to-treat
      principles will be utilized for testing the effect of the intervention on the outcome
      variables. The investigators' primary hypothesis is that a 12 month exercise rehabilitation
      program will increase the return to work/find work rate in kidney transplant recipients. It
      is additionally hypothesize that a 12 month exercise rehabilitation program will prevent a
      decline in subclinical atherosclerosis, increase functional capacity, and increase lean
      muscle mass. Outcome measures for subclinical atherosclerosis include aortic pulse wave
      velocity (PWV), carotid intima-media thickness (IMT), endothelial function and carotid
      arterial stiffness. The outcome measures for functional capacity include the 6 minute walk
      test (6MW), unilateral isometric strength test, and free-living accelerometry. Fat and lean
      muscle mass will be assessed via Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). Quality of life and
      perceptions of pain will be assessed utilizing the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement
      Information System (PROMIS) Global health and PROMIS 29 v 2 questionnaires. Additionally,
      fasting blood lipid profile, inflammatory markers, and markers of kidney function including
      glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and creatinine levels will be measured.
    
  