
    
      Mechanical ventilation is frequently used in the intensive care settings. Although essential
      in many cases, mechanical ventilation can be responsible for ventilator-induced lung injury
      (VILI). The relationship between mechanical ventilation and VILI has been clearly
      demonstrated in animals and is highly suspected in humans. The putative mechanism responsible
      for VILI is excessive pulmonary strain or overdistension. Frequently observed in mechanically
      ventilated patients, the presence of severe pulmonary disease can increase the risk of
      overdistension. The development of a tool allowing early detection of pulmonary
      overdistension would represent a great asset in the prevention of VILI by allowing safer
      adjustments of mechanical ventilation parameters. Ultrasonographic imaging is a non-radiant,
      non-invasive technique already available in the intensive care setting. Presently used for
      cardiac strain measurements, ultrasonography is a promising avenue to assess pulmonary
      strain.

      This pilot study will aim to create a small dataset of local pleural strain values assessed
      in 4 predetermined pulmonary areas using ultrasonographic imaging in mechanically ventilated
      patients suffering from pulmonary diseases in the intensive care setting. This dataset will
      be used to help plan larger scale studies.

      Methods:

      Intensive care patients under mechanical ventilation will undergo imaging of the pleura at 4
      predetermined areas. The sites to be studied will be: the 3rd intercostal space at the
      mid-clavicular line (left and right side), the 8th intercostal space at the posterior
      axillary line (left and right side). Three consecutive respiratory cycles at each site will
      be recorded for subsequent analysis.

      Lung ultrasonography will be performed by the principal investigator and a co-investigator
      using a Terason (Teratech Corporation, Burlington, MA) device and a 12L5 linear ultrasound
      probe. For each image, the probe will be oriented perpendicularly to the pleura with the
      pointer towards the participant's head. The beam's focal zone will be positioned at the level
      of the pleural line.

      Using a reference ultrasonographic image, an experienced lung ultrasonographer will segment
      the pleura. From this image, an algorithm will define a region of interest which will be
      followed throughout the rest of the images of the video sequence. Thereafter, the algorithm
      will calculate the various components of pulmonary strain. An experienced technician will
      visually validate the algorithm's tracking.
    
  