
    
      Despite decades of research, heart failure (HF) remains a common disease that continues to
      rise in prevalence, particularly among an expanding senior population. By virtue of age,
      older adults are prone to higher incidence of HF and worse clinical consequences. Exercise
      intolerance and dyspnea are common symptoms that portend poor prognosis and which also
      insidiously detract from functional independence and quality of life. Mortality and morbidity
      also increase significantly as functional capacity declines.

      Growing evidence suggests that pathophysiology of central cardiac dysfunction is associated
      with peripheral pathophysiology (particularly skeletal muscle and vascular perfusion
      abnormalities) such that symptoms, exercise intolerance, and poor clinical outcomes
      correspond to a complex aggregate pathophysiological process. While HF therapeutic guidelines
      primarily emphasize steps that improve cardiac parameters, and/or volume status, goals to
      modify what some describe as "HF skeletal muscle myopathy" may constitute a vital
      complementary treatment target.

      Ongoing analyses from our pilot VA Merit investigation provide pertinent insights and
      substantiation. The investigators demonstrated reduced functional capacity (both aerobic and
      strength) in 31 HF patients (mean age 66) compared to 39 age-matched healthy controls (mean
      age 67). The investigators also showed increased expression of genes signaling
      ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis in skeletal muscle in relation to decreasing aerobic and
      strength performance. Consistently, reduced lean muscle mass, as measured by Dual Energy
      X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA) scanning, correlated to the reduced strength indices.

      This proposal constitutes a logical progression of this pilot analysis, and follows the
      analytic path the investigators anticipated 3 years ago. The pilot (cross-sectional) study
      enabled us to characterize key skeletal muscle gene expression patterns in association to
      disease, exercise capacity, and body composition. The investigators now propose an exercise
      intervention trial to compare the effects of 3 regimens (i.e., aerobic vs. aerobic and
      strength vs. inspiratory) each with a unique physiological rationale. The investigators will
      explore differences in how each modifies clinical attributes (function/symptoms) as well as
      peripheral mechanisms of disease that likely underlie these differences, i.e., skeletal
      muscle biology (histology, gene expression) and effects of body composition. These insights
      will help identify therapeutic strategies that better suppress injurious disease mechanisms
      and thereby facilitate improved clinical outcomes and quality of life.

      The investigators propose to study 100 total male and female HF patients aged 50 years. At
      the outset, a comprehensive battery of function and symptoms will be assessed (aerobic,
      strength, and integrated performance indices/questionnaires) as well as pertinent peripheral
      components that include skeletal muscle (histology, gene expression); and body composition
      (DXA); serum measurements of inflammation, cytokines, and adipokines. Subjects will then be
      randomized into one of 3 training regimens. After 12 weeks of thrice weekly 60 minute
      sessions, all subjects will be reassessed using the same clinical and mechanistic assessments
      to ascertain differences. Confounding effects of body habitus, age, medications, sleep, and
      nutrition will also be assessed and controlled for.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To assess differences in functional outcomes (peak VO2, 1RM) relative to the training
           therapy. a. Aerobic vs. Aerobic-Strength regimens will be compared to one another. The
           investigators hypothesize that Aerobic-Strength will be superior to Aerobic alone.

        2. Inspiratory Training will be compared to Aerobic-Strength. The investigators hypothesize
           that Inspiratory Training will match the effects of traditional Aerobic-Strength
           training as it imparts similar aerobic and strengthening physiology in orientation to
           the diaphragm.

      Secondary analyses will include assessments of training differences in respect to broader
      functional parameters (aerobic, strength, inspiration), symptoms, and quality of life.

      2. To assess gene expression in relation to the different training regimens. The
      investigators hypothesize that proteolytic genes (including Foxo and Ubiquitin) will be
      over-expressed in relation to diminished function and that genes that counteract skeletal
      muscle proteolysis (IGF-1, PGC-1 ) will increase in relation to functional gains.

      The investigators hypothesize that exercise modes with direct skeletal muscle stimulus
      (strength training) will induce greater changes in gene expression (diminished proteolytic
      and increased anabolic genes).

      The investigators hypothesize that exercise modes that stimulate central cardiac performance
      and vascular relaxation (aerobic and inspiratory training) will induce greater changes in
      skeletal muscle perfusion.

      Secondary analyses will include assessment of the relative impact of skeletal gene expression
      vs. perfusion dynamics on function, symptoms, and quality of life. Consequences of serum
      inflammation, cytokines, adipokines, and effects of muscle histology will be factored in
      these analyses.
    
  