
    
      This is a prospective, large-scale samples, randomized, double-blind, placebo
      parallel-controlled, multicenter study to evaluate QSYQ's curative effect in reducing
      cardiovascular death and heart failure rehospitalization in patients with ejection fraction
      decreased heart failure（LVEF≤40%）under standardized treatment. The results will provide
      clinical evidence for combined treatment of traditional Chinese medicine and western medicine
      in ejection fraction decreased heart failure.

      There are two treatment groups in the study, which are the treatment group with standard
      treatment + QSYS (oral use, 1 bag each time, three times a day) , and the control group with
      standard treatment + placebo (oral use, 1 bag each time, three times a day) .

      The subjects are patients with ejection fraction decreased (≤40%) heart failure (NYHA II-IV).
      The sample size is 5380. For the primary end event, type I error is bilateral 0.05, and POWER
      was 0.8. The CV death and the HF readmission rate in the trial control group is 15%, and
      12.7% in the experimental group. The trial cycle is about 3 years. A total of 4373 subjects
      will be assigned to the experimental group and the control group at a proportion of 1:1. The
      primary endpoint was expected to be 1211 cases. Taking into account the annual rate of lost
      to follow-up is about 18%, the final sample cases is 5380. During the treatment period and
      extends to at most 2weeks after treatment, patients will get examination including interviews
      (direct inquiries about the occurrence of adverse events and the situation of taking drugs),
      physical examination, body weight and the ECG. Laboratory parameters to evaluate clinical
      safety, such as routine blood, serum creatinine and urea nitrogen, electrolyte (serum
      potassium, sodium and chloride) and liver enzymes will be taken regularly. Researchers need
      to record and evaluate any occurrence of adverse events (AE) or serious adverse event (SAE)
      and its relevance to study medicine.

      The primary endpoint is to evaluate whether QSYQ can reduce cardiovascular death and heart
      failure rehospitalization in chronic heart failure patients with reduced ejection infarction
      (HFREF) compared with placebo.
    
  