
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the rate of complete and overall response to alemtuzumab and rituximab in
           patients with high-risk, early-stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. Secondary

        -  Determine the overall survival and time to progression of patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine time to response and duration of response in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Correlate prognostic markers 11q-, 17p-, unmutated VH gene, and CD38+ with clinical
           outcome.

        -  Determine response to this regimen using an expanded definition of response that
           includes minimal residual disease detected by sensitive flow cytometry in patients in
           complete clinical remission and single rearranged IgVH gene detected by polymerase chain
           reaction in patients with no monoclonal population on flow cytometry.

        -  Correlate in vitro response with clinical outcome in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine if alemtuzumab and rituximab are synergistic in vitro.

        -  Determine the mechanism of action of this regimen in vitro.

        -  Determine the effect of this regimen on immune function.

        -  Monitor T-lymphocyte, natural killer cell, and monocyte number during and after
           treatment in these patients.

        -  Serially evaluate T-lymphocyte immunophenotype and function in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Monitor recovery of humoral immunity by serial serum protein electrophoresis,
           immunofixation electrophoresis, and immunoglobulin quantification.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Dose-escalation (week 1): Patients receive rituximab IV on day 1 and escalating doses of
           alemtuzumab subcutaneously (SC) on days 3-5 in week 1.

        -  Treatment (weeks 2-5): Patients receive alemtuzumab SC on days 1-3 (at the highest dose
           administered during week 1) and rituximab IV on day 3 in weeks 2-5 in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood collection at baseline and periodically during study treatment for
      pharmacokinetic and prognostic biomarker (11q-, 17p-, unmutated IgVH, and CD38 expression by
      flow cytometry and fluorescent in-situ hybridization) studies. Immune function (CDR3 T-cell
      receptor by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction) and in vitro and in vivo
      response are also examined.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 33 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  