
    
      1. Sample and setting An observational cross-sectional cohort study was conducted on the
           acute geriatric hospitalisation units of the University Hospitals Leuven in Belgium
           which have a collective capacity of 80 beds. All patients aged 75 years or older
           admitted with or without an indwelling urinary catheter between October 26 and December
           18, 2015 were consecutively screened for inclusion within 72 hours of admission.
           Patients with urinary catheters for any other reason than UR, patients with ascites,
           dialysis, uro- or nephrostomy, terminally ill patients, and postoperative patients were
           not eligible for inclusion. Patients who refused to participate, who were unable to
           understand and carry out the instructions for the PVR measurement, with a urinary
           catheter for chronic UR, who were discharged or died during the inclusion process were
           excluded. The study was approved by the Ethics Committee Research of the University
           Hospitals Leuven (mp08305). The study nurse (SV) obtained a written informed consent
           from all patients who agreed to participate in the study, or from a proxy when the
           patient was incapable to provide written informed consent.

        2. Procedures Prior to the start of the study, information sessions were organised for the
           nurses from the acute geriatric hospitalisation units, in which the study nurse (SV)
           explained the aim of the study and the data collection procedure. In addition,
           information was given on the use of the portable ultrasound bladder scan and the
           execution of a bladder scan.

           The nurses were asked to perform 3 consecutive post-void bladder scans as soon as
           possible after admission and at the latest within 72 hours of admission as standard of
           care during the study period. The highest value of the 3 consecutive PVR measurements
           was recorded. The study nurse (SV) was present on Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning,
           performed informed consents and performed bladder scanning in patients where this had
           not yet been done. Before performing the bladder scan, the patients were asked to
           urinate. Whenever possible, patients had to walk to the toilet in the bathroom, with or
           without assistance, meanwhile their mobility was assessed.

           Consecutively, the study nurse performed a bedside assessment. A mini-cog examination
           was performed and urinary symptoms, defaecation habits, and fall history were assessed
           by patient or caregiver interview using a structured questionnaire (SV). The demographic
           and remaining clinical data were collected from the patient's electronic medical records
           (SV, KH, KF).

        3. Variables Outcome variables The PVR was measured using a portable ultrasound bladder
           scan (Verathon BladdersScan BVI 3000). Jalbani et al. found a high correlation (r²=0.97)
           between urinary catheterisation (gold standard) and bladder scanning and concluded that
           the use of the Verathon BladderScan BVI 3000 is as accurate as urinary catheterisations
           for measuring the PVR. As there are no official definitions or guidelines on what is
           considered a relevant PVR for UR, in this study we defined UR as a PVR of ≥150
           millilitres. In addition, we also included a PVR ≥300 ml as secondary outcome. The
           cut-offs were chosen for the following reasons: the first bladder-filling sensation is
           felt at a volume of 150 ml. At a volume of 300 ml, the pressure receptors in the bladder
           wall will be activated, which creates a sense of fullness of the bladder and a need to
           urinate. Moreover, in clinical practice a PVR ≥300ml is often considered as threshold
           for insertion of a urinary catheter.

           Demographics The following patient characteristics were recorded: age, gender and living
           situation. Patients living alone at home and together at home were considered as living
           at home and patients living in an assisted living facility or nursing home were
           considered as not living at home. Patients living in a convent were considered as not
           living at home when they were functionally or cognitively impaired.

           Comorbidities Various comorbidities were retrospectively retrieved from the patient's
           electronic medical records: neurological, gynaecological and urological history, a
           history of diabetes type 1 or 2, recurrent falls (more than 1 fall episode in the last 6
           months), and chronic kidney disease (CKD). CKD was defined as a glomerular filtration
           rate (eGFR, calculated using the CKD-EPI formula) of <60 ml/min/1.73 m². An age adjusted
           definition (<45 ml/min/1.73 m²) was also considered.

           Clinical evaluation Urinary incontinence was assessed by means of 3 questions: Do you
           have/does the patient have (1) an urge to urinate and involuntary loss of urine before
           reaching the toilet? (2) involuntary loss of urine when sneezing, coughing, lifting or
           moving something? (3) loss of small amounts or drops of urine without urge to urinate or
           loss of small drops of urine when changing position. Answering positive on these
           questions was classified as urge, stress or overflow incontinence, respectively. Dysuria
           was questioned as having a burning sensation or pain when urinating. Urinary frequency
           was questioned as urinating more often than usual. Voiding difficulty was questioned as
           straining to void. Subtotal voiding was questioned as the feeling of incomplete bladder
           emptying. Hypogastric pain was questioned as pain in the lower abdomen.

           Constipation was defined as the absence of stools for 3 or more days before the PVR
           measurement, or if patients reported having had less than 3 stools in the last week with
           a need to strain and mostly hard or lumpy stools, or if the patient had faecal
           impaction. Faecal impaction was defined as a large mass of compacted faeces in the
           rectum or colon on clinical or radiographical examination, that could not be
           spontaneously evacuated.

           The cognitive status of the patients was evaluated using the Mini-Cog. The Mini-Cog is a
           brief cognitive test that involves an assessment of an older person's ability to
           memorise three words, to draw a clock, and to recall the three words. Repeating only 1
           or 2 of the 3 words and being unable to draw a clock correctly or not being able to
           repeat any of the words was considered as cognitive impairment.

           Mobility was assessed by walking to the bathroom and going to the toilet. All patients
           were asked to urinate on the toilet prior to the PVR measurements. Patients were
           considered mobile if they could walk back and forth to the toilet and if they were able
           to stand up from the toilet independently. The use of mechanical aids was permitted.
           Needing assistance from another person or not being able to walk was defined as impaired
           mobility.

           Laboratory evaluation and urinalysis The patient's renal function was evaluated by serum
           creatinine level and eGFR (calculated using the CKD-EPI formula).

           A urinary dipstick test was performed in all patients. In patients with positive
           leucocyte esterase or positive nitrites on the dipstick test, further urinalysis was
           performed. An automated leucocyte count of ≥10 leukocytes/mm³ and significant
           microscopic bacteriuria of >100.000 CFU/ml for which antibiotics were started by the
           treating physician was considered as UTI in this study. If the patient was taking
           antibiotics at the time of the urine sample and cultures remained negative, the presence
           of UTI was determined based on the leucocyte count.

           Medication For each patient the anticholinergic burden scale (ACB) score was calculated
           taking into account medication use in the last 24 hours before the PVR measurement.
           Individual drugs with high anticholinergic properties (ACB score ≥2), such as
           antipsychotics, antidepressants, as well as detrusor relaxants, were examined separately
           for their associations with UR. Antiepileptics, histamine H1 receptor antagonists,
           anti-diarrhoea medications, decongestive drugs, spasmolytics, muscle relaxants, and
           antiparkinsonian agents with ACB scores ≥2 were not considered individually. Low
           prevalence of these drugs prohibited statistical analysis.

           Reason for referral to the hospital The reasons for referral to the hospital were
           divided into the following categories: confusion, falls or immobility, urinary symptoms,
           cardiopulmonary symptoms, digestive symptoms, fever or non-specific symptoms with
           biochemical inflammation (elevated leucocytosis and elevated C-reactive protein) on
           admission, other. In patients with multiple reasons for admission, each reason was
           scored separately.

        4. Statistical analysis Descriptive and comparative statistics were used. Normally
           distributed continuous variables were reported as means with standard deviations (SD).
           Not normally distributed continuous variables were reported as medians with
           interquartile ranges (IQR). Categorical variables were reported as numbers and
           percentages. Baseline characteristics and clinical variables of patients with a PVR of
           <150 ml versus ≥150 ml and a PVR of <300 ml versus ≥300 ml were compared using unpaired
           t-tests for normally distributed continuous variables. Pearson Chi-squared tests or
           Fisher's exact tests (if ≥1 cell had an expected count of less than 5) were used for
           dichotomous or nominal variables, and Mann-Whitney U tests for not normally distributed
           continuous variables or ordinal variables. All tests were 2-tailed, assuming a 5%
           significance level. Multivariable logistic regression models were used to determine
           independent predictors for a PVR ≥150 ml and a PVR ≥300 ml. Significant variables in the
           univariable analysis were considered in a forward stepwise logistic regression
           procedure. P-values (Likelihood ratios), odds ratios (OR), and 95% confidence intervals
           (CI) are reported. The software package used was SPSS version 20 (SPSS Inc., Chicago,
           IL).
    
  