
    
      Atrial Fibrillation (AF) is a common arrhythmia with a prevalence of 1.5-2%. This prevalence
      increases significantly after 80 years of age. In the presence of the Arrhythmia the risk of
      stroke increases five fold while the congestive heart failure and the mortality rates are
      increasing significantly also.After the appearance of first episode(s) some of the patients
      will present frequent arrhythmia recurrences moving from the paroxysmal status to the
      persistent and the permanent status of the continuous spectrum of the natural time course of
      AF. In contrast some other will not present further relapses. To study and predict the
      dynamic evolution of AF is clinically important, furthermore, the detection of different sub
      populations risk for AF relapses will determine and different therapeutic approaches. The
      study will include > 500 patients 30-80 years old. Inclusion criteria is one up to five
      paroxysmal AF (PAF) episodes during the last three years. Patients during screening must
      maintaining Sinus Rhythm. Exclusion criteria are substrate of severe valvular diseases,
      congenital heart disease, previous heart surgery, hyperthyroidism, severe diseases of the
      autonomic nervous system, alcoholism, diseases affecting seriously the survival and absence
      of adequate cooperation for the study. Screening will include 12 lead surface digital ECG, 30
      min High Resolution (1000 Hz) ECG recording from 3 pseudo orthogonal x,y,z leads system, and
      complete ECHO study (2D, PWD, TDI, Strain).Among other indices will be analyzed: P duration,
      P index, P dispersion, P wave signal for Late potentials, for Wavelets, PQ/RR Dynamics, Heart
      Rate Dynamics and various markers for the autonomic nervous system status.Primary end point
      is one or more PAF relapse(s) during a period of 12 months after recruitment in
      study.Secondary end point is permanent AF during a period of 36 months after recruitment in
      study.
    
  