
    
      Eating disorder is a chronic mental disorder characteristic of abnormal eating behaviors and
      psychological disorders, accompanied by significant weight changes and physiological
      dysfunction. Many people with EDs have cognitive disorder of their body shape or body weight.
      Anorexia is a subtype of EDs. The main feature of anorexia nervosa is the extreme attention
      to body weight and body shape. As a result of this conflict the patients could be
      malnutrition, metabolism and endocrine disorders with significant weight loss. And women may
      have amenorrhea. At the mean time, the patient will also have a lot of mental symptoms such
      as depression, anxiety and obsession.

      The disease mostly occurs in adolescents and young women. The prevalence rates in Europe and
      America is 0.5%-3.7%, 90% of which are women. The course of the disease is chronic, the
      average duration of disease is 4-6 years. Furthermore the mortality rate is high, a 20-year
      follow-up data shows that the mortality rate is nearly 20%. Most of the causes of death are
      physical complications and depression.

      However, due to the special psychological behavior mechanism, patients have almost no
      willingness to be treated. As well as the long duration of disease and the highrisk of drug
      therapy, it all causes the great difficulties in the treatment. Many patients may even suffer
      from eating disorders for a lifetime. On another hand, the effective treatment options are
      still inconclusive. Psychotherapy, especially and cognitive behavior, is one of the most
      effective treatments at present.

      On the other hand, psychotherapy is quite expensive, requiring not only a large number of
      qualified therapists, but also a long treatment time. Which leads to a high treatment cost.
      In order to reduce the cost of treatment, group therapy is a reasonable choice. However,
      currently there are no related research reports in china.

      Our study is to examine whether the G-CBT for anorexia nervosa is effective or not. The study
      will use randomized controlled study design. 80 patients with AN will be recruited from
      Shanghai Mental Health Center, There will be two groups: CBT treatment group and conventional
      treatment group. Each group is 40 and then the CBT group will be given standard CBT
      intervention for 12 weeks. The control group will receive outpatient treatment. To assess the
      eating disorder symptoms, impulsive and emotional change, clinical symptom scales,
      psychological scales and the security indexs will be used at baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks, 12
      weeks (end of treatment), 24 weeks (3 months after treatment) and 36 weeks (6 months after
      treatment follow-up).

      This study was designed with sufficient consideration about innovation as well as
      feasibility, and is to be operated on well proved theoretical basis and guidance of an
      operation manual. If successful, results of this study may bring great improvement to
      clinical practice of this refractory mental disorder.
    
  