
    
      Narcotic prescribing patterns vary greatly among gynecologists performing minimally invasive
      gynecologic surgery (MIGS). There is no clear consensus or established guideline regarding
      the choice of narcotic or total amount to be prescribed, if any, for MIGS. These represent a
      generally well-tolerated group of procedures that are less painful than conventional open
      surgery. Unnecessary opioid prescriptions and excess unused narcotics have been identified as
      major contributors to narcotic abuse in the community, and efforts geared towards minimizing
      unnecessary narcotic prescriptions may help curb the growing opioid crisis.

      This study suggests eliminating opioids from discharge prescriptions following outpatient
      MIGS in select patients. Given the general tolerability and low pain associated with MIGS,
      the investigators hypothesize that elimination of narcotics from post-operative pain control,
      in conjunction with regular use of non-narcotic analgesics, will result in analgesia and
      early recovery that is no worse than a standard narcotic-containing discharge prescription.

      Women undergoing elective outpatient laparoscopic gynecologic surgery at two medical center
      associated with the McGill University Health Centre will be recruited and screened for
      exclusion criteria. Patients will be randomly allocated to either intervention or control
      groups in a one to one fashion. Patients in both intervention and control group will undergo
      surgery under a standardized anesthesia protocol. Important surgical steps that can affect
      post-operative pain will be standardised and recorded with a surgical checklist to reduce
      inter-surgeon variability. Patient allocated to the intervention arm will then be discharged
      home with a prescription for regular acetaminophen and naproxen for 48 hours, and then as
      needed for one week's duration. Patient in control group will be discharge with a standard
      prescription of five tabs of 1 mg hydromorphone, with regular non-opioid analgesic use.

      All patient will be contacted on day one and seven after surgery to evaluate pain scores,
      mobility, adequacy of analgesia, adherence to treatment, side-effects, and total opioid
      consumption.
    
  