
    
      Advanced prostate cancer may be responsive to a combination of hormonal and chemotherapy
      treatments. Researchers believe that the use of chemotherapy and hormonal therapy before your
      scheduled surgery may help to affect or delay the progression of prostate cancer.

      Before surgery, you will have imaging studies, including a chest x-ray, CT scan and a bone
      scan. You may also have an MRI scan. These tests are being done to check on the status of the
      disease. You will also have 3 tablespoons of blood drawn for routine blood tests, before
      treatment.

      All treatment will be given on an outpatient basis. Treatment should start as soon as
      possible, within 14 days after registration. You will receive hormonal treatment once a month
      for the 12 months before your surgery. Hormonal treatments will not continue after the
      surgery.

      You will be given dexamethasone, Benadryl® (diphenylhydramine) and Pepcid® (famotidine) , by
      a vein in your arm or by central line in a vein before your therapy begins with docetaxel on
      Day 1 of the first treatment cycle. Dexamethasone will help decrease bone marrow
      inflammation. Diphenhydramine helps prevent allergic reactions. Famotidine protects you
      against stomach irritation by decreasing the amount of acid in your stomach.

      Docetaxel will be given through a needle in your vein (IV) once a week during the first 4
      weeks of each 6-week period (called a study cycle). Each dose of docetaxel will take about an
      hour to be given. The total treatment time to complete the docetaxel will be 3 study cycles
      (18 weeks). Before each 6-week study cycle with docetaxel, you will come to the clinic for a
      physical exam and routine blood tests (2 tablespoons).

      After your treatment with docetaxel and hormones, you will then have an operation to remove
      the prostate gland and the tumor. Your doctor will discuss the surgical procedure with you in
      detail and explain the risks of the operation. You will need to sign a separate consent form
      before undergoing the surgical procedure.

      After surgery, you will be closely checked for any possible side effects. After completion of
      the treatment, you will be monitored every 3 months for the first year and every 6 months for
      the second year. You will also have 2 tablespoons of blood drawn for routine blood test
      monitoring at every follow-up visit.

      This is an investigational study. Docetaxel and the hormone treatments used in this study are
      FDA approved medications for the treatment of prostate cancer. Up to 40 patients will take
      part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  