
    
      This is an outpatient clinical trial of topiramate treatment for cocaine dependence and
      reduction of cocaine-associated HIV risk behavior. Topiramate is of high current interest in
      this regard, having been identified my National Institute on Drud Abuse (NIDA) leadership as
      among only a small number of tested candidates providing a "positive signal" and warranting
      further clinical investigation (Vocci, 2005). Topiramate is a marketed antiepileptic that
      enhances the GABAergic system and antagonizes the glutamatergic system, both new targets in
      the search for anti-cocaine treatments. A published pilot trial has supported topiramate's
      efficacy, and it is especially intriguing as potentially beneficial against other disorders
      prevalent among drug users, such as mood, anxiety, panic disorders, PTSD, pain and cognitive
      dysfunction, that may contribute to drug use. Design/Methods: This is phase II, double-blind
      randomized (stratified) 4 group, 2x2 design, evaluating topiramate versus placebo under each
      of two levels of cocaine-abstinence motivation -- cocaine-abstinence-contingent versus
      non-contingent voucher incentives. Conduct will be in a methadone maintenance context to
      ensure adequate retention and adherence, with participants dually dependent on opioids and
      cocaine. The target topiramate stabilization dose is 300 mg/day (150 mg b.i.d.), with one
      dose per day being observed at the clinic. The voucher-incentive manipulation provides
      valuable information about the role of motivation in modulating medication effects; it also
      provides a positive control condition to document the sensitivity of the study methods for
      detecting therapeutic benefit. Enrollment will be 300 patients ( 240 completers, 60/group).
      Participation will be up to 33 weeks - Baseline/Placebo-Run-in (5 weeks), Randomized
      Medication Treatment (20 weeks, induction, stable dosing, taper), Randomized Voucher
      Treatment (12 weeks, embedded in Medication period), and Therapeutic Disposition (up to 8
      weeks). Data analysis focuses on the 8-week period of stable dosing and concurrent vouchers.
      The primary outcome variable is days abstinent from cocaine, as determined by a combination
      of self-report and objective confirmation by quantitative urinalysis toxicology of cocaine
      metabolite levels and application of the "Preston" rule for determining abstinence. Secondary
      outcome variables are measures of adverse behaviors and symptoms commonly co-occurring in
      cocaine abusers (alcohol abuse, tobacco use, depression, anxiety, PTSD, pain, neuro-cognitive
      and psychomotor performance dysfunction) that may contribute to drug use and/or detrimental
      effects. Significance: This randomized controlled clinical trial will provide valuable
      information about the actions and therapeutic effectiveness of the promising candidate
      anti-cocaine pharmacotherapy topiramate, and about the conditions, correlates, and modulators
      of any observed effectiveness. It will also provide valuable methodological information
      contributing to the continuing evolution of clinical trial methods for evaluating potential
      drug abuse treatment medications.
    
  