
    
      This is a phase II/III multicenter, prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled,
      double-blind, parallel-group clinical trial with an adaptive design (flexible group
      sequential design with adaptive dose selection) in subjects with PPS.

      This study will consist of two stages. The first stage (Stage 1) is for dose selection, and
      the second stage (Stage 2) is to establish the superiority (efficacy confirmation) of
      Flebogamma 5% DIF and for overall safety analysis. Stage 1 is a 3-arm evaluation of 2 dose
      levels of Flebogamma 5% DIF. Flebogamma 5% DIF 2 g/kg of body weight (IVIG 2 g/kg arm),
      Flebogamma 5% DIF 1 g/kg of body weight plus the equivalent volume of Normal Saline Solution
      (20 mL/kg of body weight) (IVIG 1 g/kg arm), or a total dose of 40 mL/kg of body weight
      Normal Saline Solution (equivalent volume of the 2 g/kg of body weight Flebogamma 5% DIF
      infusions) (placebo arm) will be administered over 2 consecutive days every 4 weeks during a
      52-week treatment period. At the end of Stage 1, an interim analysis will be conducted and 1
      of the 2 Flebogamma 5% DIF doses will be selected based on predefined criteria to be used for
      Stage 2.

      Stage 2 will consist of 2 treatment arms, the selected dose of Flebogamma 5% DIF from Stage 1
      and Normal Saline Solution (40 mL/kg of body weight). Study drug will be administered over 2
      consecutive days every 4 weeks during a 52-week treatment period. During Stage 2, the
      selected dose of Flebogamma 5% DIF and Normal Saline Solution will be administered in the
      same manner as in Stage 1, including administering the total dose for both treatment arms at
      a volume equivalent to that for the IVIG 2 g/kg arm, regardless of the selected dose.

      Primary efficacy endpoint will be:

        -  Physical performance (2MWD) from baseline to the end of the treatment period (at End of
           Treatment Visit -Week 52).
    
  