
    
      We performed a pilot study in 2017 evaluating the perioperative use of ketorolac in
      circumcision. Overall, there were no adverse reactions and ketorolac patients did not
      experience significantly less pain that the control group patients. However, parental
      perception of pain was lower in the ketorolac group when compared to the control and this
      required more investigation. Based on our findings of the pilot study, we determined that we
      needed at least 36 patients in each study group to come to a statistical conclusion. With a
      larger study group perhaps a statistical difference in pain as measured with a FLACC score
      may become apparent.

      Prospective, randomized, single-blinded study will be conducted from January 2021 - January
      2022. A total of two groups will present with 50 children in each group.

      A computer-generated randomized block design program will be used to allocate patients to
      either the treatment (ketorolac) or control (no ketorolac) group. All children will receive a
      15 mg/kg oral dose of acetaminophen prior to surgery unless contraindicated. General
      anesthesia will be induced with sevoflurane via facemask. After establishing venous access, a
      laryngeal mask will be inserted, and anesthesia maintained with 1 minimum alveolar anesthetic
      concentration (MAC) of sevoflurane in oxygen/air 50/50 mixture. The DPNB nerve block will be
      performed by a pediatric urologist using a 23 GA needle inserted below the Buck fascia. Once
      the needle tip is positioned appropriately, and after a negative aspiration test, 0.2mL/kg
      (maximum 10mL) of 0.25% bupivacaine is injected in small aliquots, with intermittent
      aspiration throughout. In all patients, skin incision is performed at least 5 min after
      placement of the nerve block. At the beginning of the circumcision procedure once the patient
      is asleep, patients in the treatment group will receive a 0.5 mg/kg intravenous dose of
      ketorolac. Patients will be advised to take ibuprofen and acetaminophen post-operatively as
      needed, but not ibuprofen within 6 hours of the procedure. A 6-hour window between ibuprofen
      and ketorolac is in line with our standard of practice at the Alberta Children's Hospital
      when using additional NSAIDs after ketorolac.

      Patients' demographic information, time needed to perform the block, time of block onset and
      duration of surgery will be recorded. The mean arterial pressure, heart rate and oxygen
      saturation, expired sevoflurane end tidal concentration and MAC will be systematically
      collected pre-operatively, intra-operatively and post-operatively in the recovery room. The
      primary outcome of post-operative pain will be evaluated through the use of the Face, Legs,
      Activity, Cry, Consolability (FLACC) pain score or Wong-Baker FACES scale ascertained by a
      nurse or research assistant blinded to the anesthetic technique. The usage of these two
      scales will be performed as deemed appropriate by the research assistant. The FLACC scale
      will be used in children who have difficulty verbalizing pain and in sleeping children
      (regardless of age) while the Wong-Baker FACES scale will be used in patients capable of
      self-assessment. The FLACC score is a well-established postoperative pain measure using 5
      items scored between 0-2, which has been validated in patients from 6 months up to 7 years of
      age. The Wong-Baker FACES pain scale that has been used post-operatively that allows patients
      to select a face that relates to their current feeling of pain. These faces are rated on a
      scale of 10. A FLACC or Wong-Baker FACES score will be recorded every 15 minutes for the
      first hour and every 30 minutes for up to 2 hours following discharge from the PACU into the
      day stay surgical unit. If the score is found to be >3 (moderate pain 4-6, severe pain 7-10),
      the patient will receive an intravenous morphine dose of 0.05mg/kg. An additional dose may be
      given 15 minutes following the initial dose of morphine if analgesia is inadequate (score
      >4). Postoperatively, the child will be monitored every 15 minutes during the first hour and
      every 30 minutes for the next 2 hours until discharge home. Discharge will be based on normal
      institutional criteria including level of awareness, hemodynamic stability and absence of
      pain, bleeding, nausea and vomiting. Prior to discharge, parents will be provided with any
      additional analgesics required at home and will be contacted 24 hours following their surgery
      to complete the parents' postoperative pain measure (PPPM). The PPPM is a well-established
      post-operative pain assessment tool with high inter-rater reliability and construct validity,
      which has been designed specifically for use by parents in the post-operative care of their
      children. The measure includes 15 items scored between 0 and 1. The questionnaire will be
      completed over the telephone at a time corresponding to 24 hours post-surgical closure.
      Amount of pain and analgesia consumption data will then be collected by contacting the
      parents 24 hours post procedure.
    
  