
    
      The proposed clustered two-arm single blind, randomized trial of two children's hospitals:
      CHOC Children's (CHOC) and Seattle Children's Hospital. Approximately 620 patients and their
      families will be recruited in total. This study will examine the effectiveness of a tailored
      Internet-based Preparation Program (WebTIPS) aimed at reducing anxiety and improving the
      recovery process in children undergoing surgery via parent and child interactive preparation
      modules. Each study site will have a permuted block group assignment stratified by surgical
      severity. Within each surgical severity group, patients and their families will be randomized
      to either a Web-based Tailored Intervention Preparation for Surgery (WebTIPS) Group or to a
      Web-based Information (WebINFO) Group, the attention control group. The WebTIPS group will
      receive the newly developed interactive intervention with short message service (SMS) two-way
      communication between a clinician and patient. Conversely, the WebINFO Group will only
      receive an internet and mobile platform with information on the management of preoperative
      anxiety and postoperative pain. Objective measures of children's preoperative anxiety and
      postoperative recovery will be collected prior and during the experimental period.

      Patients and their parents in the intervention group will learn through the internet and
      mobile platforms that implementing strategies and ways to adjust behavior, such as
      distraction and medical reinterpretation, directs the child's attention away from their own
      distress or fear. This group will also have access to a SMS messaging system to allow for
      patient/parent-provider two-way interaction and two-way sharing of information so health care
      providers learn about parents' coping styles.

      Child's anxiety (assessed through the modified Yale Preoperative Anxiety Scale-mYPAS) during
      induction will be assessed at two points, a) entering the operation room (OR) and b)
      introduction of the anesthesia mask to the child. If parents accompanied the child into the
      OR, their anxiety will be rated as they leave the OR (state-trait anxiety inventory-STAI).
      Also, parents answer baseline questionnaires aimed at capturing demographics (e.g. age, sex),
      as well as parental coping (through the Miller behavioral style scale), and child temperament
      (through the emotional, activity, and shyness temperament survey). In the holding area and
      separation, a research assistant who is blinded to group assignment will rate child anxiety
      (mYPAS) and ask parent anxiety (STAI), and also assess child/parent anxiety at separation to
      the OR (mYPAS, STAI). Postoperative analgesic consumption, behavioral and recovery measures
      will also be collected.
    
  