
    
      Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is the death of intestinal tissue. It most often affects
      premature or sick babies. NEC occurs when the lining of the intestinal wall dies and the
      tissue falls off. NEC is a known complication of prematurity with high morbidity and
      mortality. About 7 to 13% of all very low birth weight infants admitted to Neonatal Intensive
      Care Units (NICU) develop NEC, with mortality ranging from 10 to 44% (1,2,3).

      NEC is considered a multifactorial disorder converging on a common final clinical
      presentation associated with several etiologic mechanisms, including ischemia (eg
      reperfusion), infection (eg, gut colonization), mechanical injury (eg, viscosity, embolic),
      iatrogenic factors (eg catheters, excessive enteral feeding), and immunological barrier
      dysfunction (1,13,4,5) To date, there is no single, unifying consensus on causation (6).

      Newly, the association between NEC and Packed Red Blood Cell (PRBC)transfusion has been a
      subject of recent debate. Several retrospective studies report increased incidence of NEC 22
      hrs (7) or 48-72 hrs after PRBC transfusion (8) and increased odds of NEC development within
      48 hrs posttransfusion (9). Singh, measuring the strength of association between the NEC and
      PRBC transfusion describes the association as strong < 24hrs, less strong < 48 hrs and absent
      at 96 hrs (10). Importantly, the majority of the infants in these studies were stable
      premature neonates on full enteral feeds, who decompensated and developed NEC after being
      transfused.

      Based on poor or no evidence, many NICUs are implementing policy not to feed premature
      infants during the blood transfusion (11). A small recent prospective trial (8) reported
      decreased incidence of NEC (from 5.3 to 1.3%) when feeds are withheld during the transfusion.
      Similarly, the limited investigation of the superior mesenteric artery (blood vessel that
      supplies the greatest volume of blood to the intestinal tract) blood flow velocities (SMA
      BFV) revealed that the expected post-prandial increase in SMA BFV disappeared following the
      PRBC, placing the fed neonates receiving blood transfusion at higher risk for NEC (12).

      This initial study had several major limitations, such as enrolling larger and more mature
      preterm neonates at lesser risk for PRBC transfusion related NEC, excluding infants with
      patent ductus arteriosus (PDA), common clinical condition in preterm neonates, losing 11 out
      of 22 patients for follow up studies (hence "normalization" of post-prandial blood flow
      velocities and finding potentially safe time point for feeds reintroduction could not be
      suggested by the study results) and using relatively less commonly transfused PRBC volumes
      over longer period of time.

      In this study, the investigators intend to further their understanding of the hemodynamic
      consequences of PRBC transfusion in very low birth weight (VLBW) neonates by evaluating
      pre-and post-prandial SMA BFV in neonates who are not fed during the transfusion at different
      time points and correlate those with relevant clinical outcome measures. The investigators
      anticipate that the results from this study will be used by clinicians to help guide them in
      making decisions regarding the safety of administering PRBC transfusion in VLBW neonates.
    
  