
    
      The proposed project is a prospective inception cohort study of current nutrition practices
      of patients with foregut tumors (esophageal and/or head & neck cancer) in cancer care
      settings in Canada, Europe and Australia. This multi center study will involve a baseline
      audit of current nutrition practice, followed by repeated audit cycles for up to 6 months
      from the first time the patient is introduced to the Cancer Care System. Approximately 5-7
      Cancer Care settings from Europe, Australia and North America will participate in this audit.

      All consecutive consenting patients will be enrolled in the study. As an audit, a formal
      sample size calculation is not possible, however, we estimate that each of the 5-7 sites will
      be able to enroll 20 patients over 1 year, with a 6 month follow up, resulting in an
      estimated sample size of 140-200. All the nutrition care characteristics, patient level
      descriptors and patient related outcomes will be described using mean and standard deviation
      or median and inter quantile range based on distributional properties for continuous
      variables by different locations and cancer care settings. Count with percentages will be
      used for categorical variables. The effect of route of nutrition, timing of initiation of
      nutrition intervention, adequacy of nutrition, Patient Generated Subjective Global Assessment
      (PGSGA) scores and scores of weight, food intake, symptoms and activities & function on
      survival of the patients will be assessed by univariate and multi-variable Cox regression.

      The association of categorical factors such as route of nutrition, timing of initiation of
      nutrition intervention and so on with the categorical outcomes-complications related to
      cancer treatment, unplanned readmission and treatment toxicity-will be assessed by chi-square
      or Fisher exact test, as appropriate. The continuous variables such as PGSGA and other scores
      will be compared between different categories of the outcomes by t-test or ANOVA as
      appropriate. Appropriate non-parametric test will be conducted if distributional properties
      invalidate the use of t-test or ANOVA. The association of continuous variables with
      continuous outcomes will be assessed by Pearson or Spearman correlation. If necessary,
      multivariable analyses will be conducted using multiple regression analysis for continuous
      outcomes and logistic regression for binary outcomes.

      Data will be stored in REDCap system housed in a physically and electronically secure data
      centre at the University of Alberta and is behind the Faculty of Medicine's firewall. REDCap
      is a secure, web-based application designed exclusively to support data capture for research
      studies. REDCap provides: 1) an intuitive interface for data entry (with data validation); 2)
      128 bit encryption between the data entry client and the server; 3) audit trails for tracking
      data manipulation and export procedures; 4) automated export procedures for seamless data
      downloads to common statistical packages (SPSS, Statistical Analysis Software [SAS], Stata,
      R); 5) procedures for importing data from external sources; and 6) advanced features, such as
      branching logic, calculated fields and data quality checks.

      After this pilot study is completed, we hope to enhance the nutrition evidence in this area
      by expanding this work to create a prospective registry of nutrition practices and outcomes
      in patients with foregut tumors.
    
  