
    
      Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of first ever and recurrent stroke. There is
      extensive evidence that blood pressure should be lowered following acute stroke, even from so
      called normal levels. However, it is not clear how soon after acute stroke that blood
      pressure should be lowered. Observational studies have demonstrated increased mortality with
      both high and low blood pressure. The optimal management of blood pressure in the immediate
      post-stroke period remains controversial.

      Although uncertainty exists with regard to lowering blood pressure in the acute stages of
      stroke, two large randomised controlled trials have demonstrated unequivocally that intense
      management of blood pressure started >4 weeks from the onset of stroke significantly reduces
      the risk of recurrent stroke. Both of these trials have used an Angiotensin Converting Enzyme
      Inhibitor (ACE-I) based regime. It has been proposed that these benefits may be due to a
      direct result of the ACE-I rather than blood pressure lowering per se. Similar
      vasculoprotective effects have been seen in ARBs, but evidence of their safety and efficacy
      in acute stroke is limited to those patients with the highest blood pressures (>200/110). The
      trial (ACCESS) was terminated prematurely due to a positive imbalance in favour of
      intervention with the ARB Candesartan. If such interventions are to convey potential benefit
      they need to be started as soon as possible following the acute event in order that the
      ischaemic cascade which leads to neuronal death may be modified. Further research is first
      required in order to demonstrate their safety and efficacy when used in this way.

      ACCOST is a two phase randomised controlled trial designed to address this important research
      question. Phase I is a four week double blind placebo controlled phase where patients receive
      either Candesartan 4 mg daily or matched placebo, with no blood pressure treatment target. A
      treatment titration step occurs after two weeks where, subject to titration criteria,
      subjects will receive either Candesartan 8 mg daily or matched placebo. After the first four
      weeks, the subjects are unblinded and enter Phase II of the trial. Phase II is an eight week
      open label comparison of Candesartan and 'usual care' with an ACE-I based treatment regime.
      Blood pressure is now treated to reach the British Hypertension Society target blood pressure
      of <140/85, with or without additional therapy.

      Blinded outcome measures will include neurological recovery based on the National Institutes
      of Health Stroke Scale, as well as functional recovery. Incidence of first dose hypotension
      and changes in renal function will also be collected.
    
  