
    
      In this study, investigators plan to prospectively compare in a randomized, controlled,
      double-blind trial, the sedation technique for colonoscopy between two groups. Group 1:
      sedation with dexmedetomidine and propopfol versus group 2: sedation with saline placebo and
      propofol.

      The study will have the following outcome measures for each group.

      Primary outcome measure:

      Readiness-for-discharge (RFD) at 10, 20 and 30 minutes after the colonoscopic procedure.
      Ready-for-discharge is defined as attainment of MPADSS score of 9-10.

      Secondary outcome measures:

        1. Total propofol consumption in mg/kg/duration of procedure in minutes;

        2. Side effects:

             1. lowest intraoperative percent (%) drop in mean arterial pressure (MAP) from
                baseline,

             2. incidence of sustained bradycardic episodes (HR<50 for at least 5 minutes)
                intraoperatively,

             3. incidence of apneic episodes intraoperatively requiring positive pressure
                ventilation.

      Methods:

      One hundred patients will be recruited and randomized into two groups. For sedation, Group 1
      will receive intravenous dexmedetomidine 0.3 ug/kg bolused at the onset of the procedure
      followed by titrated doses of propofol. Group 2 will receive a saline placebo bolus at the
      onset of the procedure followed by titrated doses of propofol. A hospital research
      pharmacist, based on a randomization table, will allocate to the anesthesia provider giving
      the sedation, the bolus syringe labelled dexmedetomidine/or saline study agent. The
      anesthesia provider, gastroenterologist, nurses as well as the subject will be blinded as to
      the syringe's actual content. A Bispectral Index (BIS) Monitor will be used during sedation.
      All subjects will be targeted to maintain a BIS score between 60-70. Outcome measures will be
      evaluated for statistical significance in a non-inferiority assessment.

      Investigators hypothesize that there will be no difference in the time to discharge between
      the two treatment groups.
    
  