
    
      Introduction X-ray studies and three-dimensional analysis in standing showed that this
      Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis was characterised by stiffness of the affected vertebral
      levels [3, 7, 10] with decreased segmental mobilities. The impact of this stiffness was
      studied during functional activity such as walking to quantify the functional dynamic
      consequences. During gait, thoracic AIS provided an asymmetrical trunk rotation with a lack
      of rotation on the convex side [8] and an excessive paravertebral muscular bilateral activity
      [11]. These studies included only moderate scoliosis. There were no studies approaching the
      effects of the severity of the scoliosis curves on gait parameters.

      We hypothesize first that, the spinal deformations in AIS, producing a stiffness of the
      trunk, pelvic and hip motions, will deteriorate the gait by reducing the segmental
      mobilities, increasing the mechanical work and the energy cost and second that the severity
      of the frontal curves will be more damaging on this parameters. To this end, we hope to gain
      valuable insight as to the functional effects of the scoliosis aggravation from a more
      dynamic perspective.

      Material Fifty-four female adolescents will be included in the study. This sample consists in
      two groups: healthy girls and girls with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (divided in 3
      subgroups according to the Cobb angle range) [9].

      A standard full spine XRay assessment will be performed to measure the Cobb angle curve, the
      frontal body balance, the apical vertebral rotation [13].

      Gait will be assessed by a three-dimensional analysis, including synchronous kinematic [4],
      electromyographic (EMG) [14], mechanic [5, 6, 15] and energetic measurements [1, 2, 12].

      The sessions begins with a rest period, in which the subjects stand barefoot on the motor
      driven treadmill for the static calibration of kinematic and energetic variables. Thereafter,
      the subjects will be asked to walk at a constant speed of 4 km h-1 for a few minutes until a
      steady state will be reached and maintained for at least two minutes. Then, energetic
      variables will be computed for two minutes. Other variables will simultaneously be recorded
      for twenty seconds and averaged for ten successive strides. The mean of each value will be
      used for statistical analysis. Scoliosis patients will be assessed at T0 i.e. before any
      treatment and at T1 i.e. one year after the starting of the orthosis wearing (scoliosis
      subgroup 2) or the surgery (scoliosis subgroup 3)
    
  