
    
      The DAVID II Clinical Study evaluates the hypothesis that, in patients needing an ICD but
      without overt indications for pacing, AAI pacing with maximal concomitant drug therapy will
      not increase the rate of the combined endpoint of mortality or hospitalization for new or
      worsened heart failure, compared to patients with ventricular backup pacing (VVI), and that
      AAI pacing will result in a reduction of 0.425 years in median event-free survival compared
      to VVI pacing.

      Enrollment and Randomization:

      A total of 600 patients have been enrolled and randomized. All patients previously enrolled
      in the VVI arm of the DAVID Trial who were hemodynamically stable in the VVI-40 programmed
      mode and willing to participate have been randomized in equal numbers into the study. New
      patients (not previously randomized in DAVID) have also been enrolled and similarly
      randomized. The randomization was stratified for investigational site, for previous
      randomization in DAVID vs being newly-enrolled, for a history of CHF, and, among the new
      enrollees, for primary versus preventive eligibility criteria.

      Patients were enrolled with the same indications used in the DAVID Trial, including MADIT II
      indications, with the exception that any patient in class III heart failure must have been on
      optimal heart failure therapy for at least 3 months prior to enrollment and randomization.

      Any planned cardiac surgery (ablation, endocardial resection, valve, aneurysmectomy,
      revascularization) must have been completed before randomization. All patients have received
      commercially available St. Jude dual chamber ICD systems.

      Blinding:

      Patients have not be told to which pacing mode, VVI or AAI they have been assigned (i.e.,
      they will be blinded) in order to reduce the potential for patient generated bias in the
      quality of life assessments which are part of the study.

      Crossover:

      All patients will remain in the study with the device programmed according to their
      randomization assignment, from the point of randomization to the end of follow-up. No
      crossover from one pacing mode to the other is permitted, even after a hospital admission for
      congestive heart failure, until the reason for the requested crossover is reviewed and
      permission is obtained from the University of Washington Clinical Trials Center to change
      pacing mode.

      Optimal CHF Pharmacologic Therapy:

      Optimal CHF Pharmacologic Therapy in the study consists of digoxin, diuretics,
      angiotensin-converting enzyme, (ACE) inhibitors , and beta-blockers. Treatment during the
      study adheres to the Heart Failure Society of America (HFSA) Practice Guidelines. Heart
      Failure symptoms are treated by adjustment of both the rate and rate response of the
      pacemaker and the medications.

      Primary Endpoint:

      The primary endpoint is either death or CHF hospitalization. The determination of CHF
      hospitalization will be made by an Events Committee based on review of the hospital records
      blinded as to treatment arm.

      Secondary endpoints include:

        -  Appropriate ICD therapy--ICD shocks plus Antitachycardia Pacing(ATP)events;

        -  Inappropriate ICD therapy (any therapy deemed not related to Ventricular Tachycardia
           (VT) or Ventricular Fibrillation (VF);

        -  Quality of Life (SF-36, MLHF, VAS)

      Follow-up:

      Patients will be followed at 3-month intervals. The patients are also instructed to call
      their investigational center any time they receive an ICD shock therapy delivery in order to
      have an ICD interrogation/download of the device's memory performed.

      Data Items Collected:

      Standard demographics, clinical histories, and a QoL assessment were obtained at baseline.
      During the follow-up phase, routine clinical data is obtained every 3 months. Quality of life
      assessments are be repeated at 6 months. Events (adverse symptoms, hospitalization,
      death)trigger more extensive data collection including, in particular: 1)all ICD printouts,
      2)detailed hospital records for all CHF hospitalizations, and patient records for all deaths.
    
  