
    
      Moderate to severe pain is experienced by about one-third of cancer patients during the
      intermediate stage of their disease. Currently used medications for the treatment of moderate
      to severe pain due to cancer often provide inadequate pain relief and require repeated oral
      administration of a narcotic. Providing prolonged, safe and effective pain relief on a
      continuous basis would be a major therapeutic advance in the management of cancer pain. This
      is an open-label pilot study to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the fentanyl
      Transdermal Therapeutic System (TTS) in the management of chronic pain in patients with
      cancer. The initial dose of the fentanyl transdermal patch is calculated based upon the
      equi-analgesic potency ratio of the narcotic used prior to study entry. Four dosage strengths
      of the fentanyl transdermal patch are available as study medication, with a nominal delivery
      rate of 100, 75, 50 and 25 micrograms of fentanyl per hour. Multiple transdermal patches are
      worn when higher doses are required. Morphine sulfate is available as needed as rescue
      medication to treat breakthrough pain. After the initial application, the dose is titrated
      for each patient within a hospital setting over the course of 3 days, or as long as is
      necessary to achieve adequate pain control. Changes in dose during titration occur no more
      frequently than once every 24 hours. After an appropriate dose is reached, the transdermal
      patch is replaced every 72 hours with a new transdermal patch, applied to a fresh skin site.
      When discharged, patients enter a 3-week program of twice weekly nursing visits to monitor
      patient progress. Patients are evaluated at designated time intervals for pain intensity,
      vital signs, and serum fentanyl concentration. Records are kept of all concomitant
      medications administered during the study and any adverse events. After completion of the
      3-week program, patients are given the opportunity to remain on the fentanyl Transdermal
      Therapeutic System (TTS) for long-term treatment of their chronic pain.

      The TTS (fentanyl) transdermal patch starting dose is calculated based upon the
      equi-analgesic potency ratio of the narcotic used prior to study entry, titrated as needed to
      achieve adequate pain control. The patch is replaced every 72 hours. The treatment phase is 3
      weeks.
    
  