
    
      Depression and anxiety are highly prevalent in the general population. Community mental
      health programs in publically-funded jurisdictions such as Canada often have relatively
      limited, fixed budgets in order to provide services, which can result in inadequate access to
      effective treatment for patients. Cognitive Behaviour Therapy (CBT) is a gold-standard
      psychotherapeutic treatment for depression and anxiety. In order to improve access to
      treatment, community mental healthcare settings often provide CBT in a group format for
      patients experiencing mild-to-moderate symptoms. However, typical protocols for delivering
      group CBT in a community setting nonetheless require a considerable investment of limited
      clinician time.

      The question arises as to whether this is the most efficient and effective use of clinician
      time; in other words, per hour spent of clinician time, does this approach maximize the
      number of patients experiencing adequate and meaningful clinical improvement? The Institute
      for Healthcare Improvement (IHI) developed the Triple Aim, which is a framework describing an
      approach to optimizing health system performance by simultaneously pursuing three dimensions,
      namely improving the patient experience of care; improving the health of populations; and
      reducing the associated per capita costs of care. Studies of psychotherapy rarely pursue all
      three of these dimensions simultaneously. Efforts to achieve the best clinical outcome for an
      individual often lead to restrictive inclusionary/exclusionary criteria that sacrifice
      reaching the wider population; conversely, efforts to improve population health often
      prioritize composite overall clinical improvement across an entire group, even though the
      change experienced by many of the individuals in the population might not be clinically
      meaningful; focusing primarily on cost-effectiveness often sacrifices the individual's
      experience and/or the population's needs.

      Adaptive Psychological Training (APT) is a group-based psychotherapy designed with all of the
      dimensions of the Triple Aim in mind simultaneously. In its development, APT drew heavily
      upon Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy, an evidence-based psychotherapy that itself draws
      upon both evidence-based eastern psychotherapeutic practices and CBT, but APT also drew upon
      other evidence-based and evidence-supported psychotherapies including interpersonal and
      relational approaches, as well as meaning-focused psychoanalytic models. It also drew from
      psychology and neuroscience more broadly, as well as from learning theory and from practical
      clinical and operational experience. Inclusion/exclusion criteria, group size, number of
      sessions, in-session practice and learning, and between-session practice and learning were
      all adapted from the perspective of trying to achieve high quality outcomes for a broader
      population within more contained costs, and thereby increase access to quality care.

      To-date, APT has already demonstrated positive outcomes in pilot research and in community
      clinical settings. The purpose of this specific study is to determine whether for a given
      population of patients experiencing mild-to-moderate symptoms of depression and/or anxiety,
      APT can facilitate meaningful change for more patients per time spent by clinicians than can
      CBT (the gold standard). The significance of this study includes its potential contribution
      to determining how best to deploy the limited resource of clinician time in a community
      setting in order to best help the most people.
    
  