
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders worldwide,
      affecting approximately 1% of individuals older than 60 years and causes progressive
      disability.

      Clinical signs and symptoms of PD include the following: asymmetric tremor at rest,
      bradykinesia, muscle rigidity, postural instability, gait abnormalities including festination
      and freezing. Onset is typically after the age of 50 years and the disease is commonly slowly
      progressive. The most common initial finding of PD is a resting tremor in the upper
      extremity. Over time, participants experience progressive bradykinesia, rigidity, and gait
      difficulty, while the axial posture becomes progressively flexed. Non-motor symptoms are
      common in all stages of Parkinson disease and they include constipation, seborrhea, hyposmia
      or anosmia, sympathetic denervation of the heart, depression and/or apathy, sleep
      disturbances, cognitive decline and dementia. They may appear prior to the movement disorder
      and can be used as preclinical markers of PD.

      PD is mostly considered as idiopathic disease; however more and more data suggest that it is
      a disease that involves interaction of genetic and environmental factors. The most common
      monogenic form and the one most closely resembling idiopathic PD is LRRK2 (Leucine-rich
      repeat kinase 2 gene) associated PD.

      The most common monogenic form and the one most closely resembling idiopathic PD is LRRK2
      (Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 gene) associated PD. First identified in 2004, LRRK2 mutations
      are currently still the most commonly known cause of PD and account for up to ~40% of all
      Parkinson's disease cases in select populations. The majority of reported LRRK2-positive PD
      patients are Caucasian (63%), whereas all other ethnicities comprise ~10% or fewer patients
      of described mutation carriers despite clusters in the Ashkenazi Jewish and Arab Berber
      populations. With respect to country of origin, the majority of patients were re-ported to
      reside in Italy or Spain (14% each), Great Britain (10%) or Norway (9%). Definitely
      pathogenic variants identified in LRRK2 include p.G2019S, p.R1441C/G/H, p.N1437H, p.Y1699C,
      and, p.I2020T. Of these, the p.R1441G mutation is particularly frequent, as it represents a
      founder mutation in the Basque population where it is responsible for 46% of all familial PD.
      Very rarely, this mutation has also been observed in other populations where it arose on a
      different haplotype. LRRK2 p.Gly2019Ser mutation accounts for about 0.5% simplex cases and
      >5% familial cases in various ethnic groups worldwide. Furthermore, genome-wide association
      studies have identified common polymorphisms in LRRK2 that associate with idiopathic PD,
      implicating LRRK2 function in susceptibility to late-onset PD in individuals without
      pathogenic mutations.

      LRRK2 mutations cause PD with age-related penetrance and clinical features identical to
      late-onset sporadic PD. Biochemical studies support an increase in Lrrk2 kinase activity and
      a decrease in GTPase activity for kinase domain and Roc-COR mutations, respectively. Strong
      evidence exists that Lrrk2 toxicity is kinase dependent, leading to extensive efforts to
      identify selective and brain-permeable Lrrk2 kinase inhibitors for clinical development.
      Lrrk2 kinase inhibition is currently one of the most prevailing disease-modifying therapeutic
      strategies for PD. Thus, Lrrk2 kinase inhibitors are in development as potential Parkinson's
      disease therapeutics.

      Furthermore, there is now evidence showing that LRRK2 expression and phosphorylation levels
      have a potential as markers of Parkinson's disease. Recently, the presence of Lrrk2 was
      confirmed in exosomes from human biofluids, including urine and cerebrospinal fluid.
      Moreover, elevated LRRK2 autophosphorylation was identified in brain-derived and peripheral
      exosomes in LRRK2-mutation carriers. In summary, it has been shown that markers of Lrrk2
      activity and function may be detected in human blood and that they are relevant for
      pathogenesis if PD.

      Thus, the biochemical analyses of human blood from LRRK2 positive participants and LRRK2
      negative participants create a strong base for the development of PD-related biomarkers. This
      biomarker may in turn be even more accessible than genetic testing and it may serve for
      diagnosis, prognosis, and prediction of PD.
    
  