
    
      Researchers will approach four groups of pregnant women at 24-26 weeks when they present for
      routine obstetrical out-patient appointments:

        1. Those with PGDM

        2. Those with White's Class A1 GDM

        3. Those with White's Class A2 GDM

        4. Non-diabetic controls

      The medical records of these women will be examined to determine self-reporting of any
      alcohol or other drug usage while pregnant; women who report any illicit drug use (or ethanol
      use) while pregnant will not be eligible for this study. A routine urine drug screen will
      further confirm this finding. Women who have not reported alcohol use during their pregnancy
      will be questioned regarding medication usage while pregnant, as some medications do contain
      small amounts of ethanol. Women who are judged to have not consumed alcohol during their
      pregnancies (intentionally or incidentally) would then be included in the study.

      Demographic information about the mother would also be collected (age, parity, length of
      pregnancy), as would the mother's most recent glycosylated hemoglobin level; additionally, a
      glycosylated hemoglobin level will be drawn on our presumptive controls (to allow for covert
      gestational diabetes mellitus). This lab draw would be added to the mother's routine lab
      studies and would not require an additional venipuncture.

      A second urine drug screen will be performed on the mother upon her admission to the
      University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center for the delivery of her baby. If both screens
      are negative and the baby does not meet any of the exclusion criteria, the baby will be
      enrolled in the study.

      The initial meconium from each baby of the recruited mothers will be gathered. Approximately
      1 g of meconium will be collected, frozen, and evaluated for fatty acid ethyl ester analysis
      at the United States Drug Testing Laboratories, Inc. We will also be sending a dried blood
      spot from the baby which will be collected at the time of the baby's scheduled newborn
      screen. This dried blood spot will be evaluated for phosphatidylethanol, an ethanol
      by-product.
    
  