
    
      This study is evaluating a randomized clinical trial and a quasi-experimental observational
      study combined. Pregnant women with substance abuse issues are referred to the Substance Use
      Treatment and Recovery (STAR) prenatal clinic, and those who consent to participate in the
      study will be randomized to the STAR + maternal Attachment Biobehavioral Catchup (mABC) home
      visiting model or to the STAR only treatment group. Those who opt out of receiving prenatal
      care at STAR will be recruited as a control group for the QED portion. Those randomized to
      STAR + mABC will receive additional supports from a licensed therapist, including up to 12
      home visits focused on substance exposed babies and positive parenting. The study will focus
      on the following specific aims:

      A. Specific Aims

      The Oklahoma Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services (OKDMHSAS), in
      partnership with two clinics at Children's Hospital at OU Medicine (CHOUM) - the Substance
      use Treatment And Recovery (STAR) prenatal clinic and the A Better Chance Clinic (ABCC) for
      infant assessment and treatment - have developed the Substance use Treatment and Access to
      Resources and Supports (STARS) program for pregnant women who have a substance use issue. The
      STARS program focuses on women residing in Oklahoma County (OK co.) who, at the time of
      birth, are at risk of losing their infant to state custody care (child removal). The
      effectiveness of combined focal services provided by the STAR (prenatal care, substance use
      treatment supports and postpartum care) and the ABCC (assessment, evidence-based parent
      training) clinics will be the target of the study described herein. The overarching goal of
      the study is to evaluate the impact of these services on the well-being of and permanency
      outcomes for children and families affected by substance abuse. The study will also evaluate
      the quality of service implementation and the overall project's adherence to the following
      objectives:

      Objective 1: Develop training and cross-training to increase the knowledge base of the
      medical, therapy, and child welfare. The key element of this objective is to increase the
      state's capacity to deliver collaborative and integrated services to serve children ages 0-3
      and their families. The STARS will increase the health care and child welfare workforce's
      capacity by disseminating emerging and evidence-based services for substance-exposed newborns
      and Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder. The ODMHSAS and OKDHS plan to enhance cross-systems
      interventions that bridge agencies at policy and practice levels by pursuing procedural and
      policy modifications and formalize agreements to implement targeted evidence-based training
      that will enhance the knowledge base of statewide substance use disorder treatment providers,
      child welfare and health care professionals. Because of the state and local infrastructure,
      the ODMHSAS has developed to date, key partnerships, and access to data, the program is
      well-positioned to focus on substance-exposed newborns and their families as Oklahoma
      continues to strengthen and expand the statewide service and workforce capacity.

      Objective 2: Enhance the well-being of children, parents, and families; and improve safe and
      permanent caregiving relationships. The key element of this objective is to improve
      evidence-based practices to address attachment and bonding that will serve the mother and
      baby. To achieve this, the STARS program will collaborate with A Better Chance Clinic (ABCC)
      at OUHSC to implement modified maternal Attachment Biobehavioral Catchup (mABC) adaptation
      for pre and postnatal babies. mABC is an intervention adapted from an evidence-based
      intervention for children who have experienced adversity (e.g., neglect). This adapted
      intervention specifically targets the challenges of infants born to opioid-dependent mothers.

      Objective 3: Improve retention in substance use treatment and successful completion of
      treatment for parents: STARS program will utilize an array of EBPs to improve treatment
      retention and encourage completion of treatment services. Treatment outcomes are increased by
      offering services to meet the parent's needs. Motivational Interviewing (MI), Community
      Reinforcement Approach (CRA), and Seeking Safety (SS) and Cognitive Process Therapy for
      trauma (CPT) will be utilized to address the treatment needs.

      Objective 4: Facilitate the implementation, delivery, and effectiveness of prevention
      services and programs under the Family First Prevention Services Act of 2018 for at-risk
      families: Under Division E, Title VII - Family First Prevention Services Act, listed under
      Prevention Activities under Title IV-E, it allows title IV-E dollars to fund promising,
      supported, and well-supported mental health and substance abuse prevention and treatment
      provided by a qualified clinician, and in-home parent skill-based programs, for up to 12
      months for candidates for foster care and for pregnant or parenting foster youth. ODMHSAS
      will develop memorandums of understandings, conducting multidisciplinary teams, and providing
      the evidence-based services that treat families that are at risk in compliance with this
      services act.

      Objective 5: Decrease the number of out of home placements for children by enhancing the
      safety of children prior to delivery: ODMHSAS with collaboration with OKDHS will develop
      Plans of Safe Care prior to delivery. The STARS program will implement Wraparound services to
      connect families to resources to support the mother and baby after delivery to ensure they
      have a safe environment and lifestyle.

      Objective 6: Decrease the number of out of home placements for children at risk: The STARS
      program will provide various services and supports prior to delivery of the baby. The program
      will offer prenatal care; Medication-Assisted Treatment (MAT) when applicable, substance use
      treatment through telehealth or in-person, peer recovery, housing and employment, and
      aftercare supports.
    
  