
    
      ADHD is a disorder that may affect an individual's academic performance, social interactions,
      and interpersonal relationships amongst others. It is characterized by impulsiveness,
      hyperactivity, and inattention. It was previously thought that children overcome ADHD as they
      grow up, however, recent studies suggest that 30-60% of affected individuals continue to show
      significant symptoms of the disorder as adults and have associated difficulties such as lower
      educational and employment achievement. Conventional therapeutic approaches that are used
      with individuals with ADHD generally involve pharmaceutical interventions and behavioral
      therapies such as counseling and behavioral modification. However, little is known about the
      long term effectiveness of these treatment approaches which are also known to involve
      significant risks and complications.

      ADHD is a neurodevelopmental disorder that is associated with significant alterations in
      brain development and function. These include changes in fronto-striatal pathways that can
      lead to difficulties with "top-down" control. It is also likely that connections in the
      parietal lobe and cerebellum are involved. These neurological changes are associated with a
      number of alterations to sensory filtering, sensorimotor gating, and sensorimotor control.
      This lends itself to a potential role for chiropractors in caring for children with ADHD
      because chiropractic care has been shown to alter a number of aspects of sensorimotor
      function.

      Chiropractic is based on the theory that spinal adjustments applied to areas of spinal
      dysfunction, known as vertebral subluxations, can improve the function of the nervous system.
      Our research group has been testing this theory for the last 15 years. We have hypothesized
      that the articular dysfunction component of the vertebral subluxation results in altered
      afferent input to the central nervous system (CNS) that modifies the way in which the CNS
      processes and integrates all subsequent sensory input. This processing (i.e. sensorimotor
      integration), is a CNS function that appears most vulnerable to altered inputs. Recent
      studies have shown that chiropractic care alters sensorimotor filtering, cortical and
      cerebellar motor processing, and multisensory processing, all of which may be important in
      the neurodevelopment of ADHD. Given the nature of the neurological changes associated with
      ADHD and the growing body of evidence that suggests that chiropractic care may influence
      neurological function, it is possible that chiropractors may play a role in enhancing the
      neurological function of individuals with ADHD.
    
  