
    
      Hypothesis Use of an abdominal binder postpartum after a vaginal delivery will be associated
      with lower pain scores and reduced need for pharmacologic analgesics.

      Background A significant part of postpartum care involves management of patients' pain and
      discomfort. Etiologies of this pain include perineal pain, incisional pain, uterine
      involution pain, and pelvic girdle and lower back pain. Postpartum pain management primarily
      focuses on the former three types of pain: perineal, incisional and uterine involution. In a
      review of the management of postpartum pain, Eshkevari et al discuss several well-established
      pain management strategies employed for postpartum patients, including ibuprofen and other
      NSAIDs for uterine involution pain and inflammation; local anesthetics for perineal
      lacerations or episiotomies; warm or cold compresses for perineal pain; and opioids for
      post-operative or poorly controlled postpartum pain.

      Data regarding management of pelvic girdle and lower back pain is scarce and the limited
      literature available primarily focus on the pregnant patient. Different proposed treatment or
      management strategies during pregnancy include physical therapy, targeted exercises,
      acupuncture, NSAIDS and opioids. Approximately 25% of postpartum women endorse pelvic girdle
      and/or lower back pain, and these types of pain can persist for as long as several weeks to
      1-2 years after delivery. Therefore, management remains key for the postpartum patient as
      well. The proposed pathophysiology behind pelvic girdle pain and lower back pain in the
      context of pregnancy is widening of the pubic symphysis and increased laxity in the
      sacro-iliac joints (SIJ) secondary to both biomechanical shear forces of increased weight
      bearing and elevated levels of relaxin, a polypeptide hormone that increase laxity of
      ligaments. A prospective study investigating the impact of abdomino-pelvic belts at different
      positions on the laxity of the SIJ found that use of the abdomino-pelvic belt significantly
      decreased mobility of the SIJ. Additionally, pelvic belts or abdominal binders may help
      provide stability to muscles of the abdomen, back and spine.

      Studies investigating the use of abdominal binders for pain management in post-operative
      patients following both cesarean section and gynecologic surgery have had mixed results. A
      randomized control trial examining impact of abdominal binders on patient reported pain and
      symptom distress found no significant difference in pain on post-operative days one and two,
      and the difference in distress on post-operative day two was no longer statistically
      significant after correction for multiple measures. Another study involving gynecologic
      surgery patients randomized to abdominal binder or control groups found that there was no
      overall significant difference in morphine use or pain scale between the groups, and the
      benefits were limited to a significant effect on post-operative ambulation for a subset of
      patients with highest risk of complications: patients > 50 years, cancer patients, and those
      with vertical incision. In contrast, a more recent randomized controlled trial assessing
      abdominal binders following cesarean delivery found that pain and symptom distress scores
      were significantly lower at all time points in comparison to a control group.

      A common theme in the current literature regarding postpartum pain management is the need for
      more research. In light of the current opioid abuse epidemic, which affects approximately 2.1
      million people and the U.S Department of Health and Human Services declared a public health
      emergency in 2017, there is a renewed emphasis utilizing non-opioid methods on pain control.
      As a primary source of pain in the postpartum period is associated with musculoskeletal
      pelvic discomfort, the use of a supportive abdomino-pelvic belt may be a non-pharmacologic
      modality that could reduce pain and decrease narcotic requirements in postpartum patients. No
      studies have directly assessed the effectiveness of abdominal binders on pain management in
      postpartum patients. This study aims to examine how use of an abdominal binder might impact
      postpartum pain, and the use of pharmacologic analgesia following vaginal delivery.

      Protocol

        -  Recruitment

           o Patients admitted to Labor and Delivery will be evaluated for potential participation
           in the study based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria outlined below. If
           appropriate to approach, eligible potential participants will be approached in their
           labor and delivery room prior to delivery. If interested in participation, the Informed
           Consent document will be presented and explained in the room to ensure privacy.

        -  Subject Informed Consent

             -  Informed consent process will take place at the Berry Women's Center at Miami
                Valley Hospital

             -  Written and signed consent will be obtained in English.

        -  Plans of obtaining informed consent:

           o Potential eligible participants will be approached in the labor and delivery room to
           ensure privacy. The research assistant will provide and discuss an informed consent form
           with the participant. The informed consent form will describe the project goals, length
           and rational, as well as the types of PHI that will be collected. All participants who
           agree to participate in the study will sign the informed consent form. All participants
           will be provided with a copy of the signed consent form.

        -  Study design and procedures

             -  After signing informed consent, participants will be assigned to the intervention
                or control group via block randomization

             -  Those participants in the standard of care group will receive routine postpartum
                care

             -  Those participants in the intervention group will receive an abdominal binder in
                addition to routine postpartum care

             -  Determination of appropriate binder size will be based on a visual assessment of
                the patient's abdominal circumference

             -  Nursing staff will evaluate participant's pain level using a visual analog scale of
                1-10 a minimum of every 4 hours. Patient reported pain score and pain location will
                be recorded in the participant's electronic medical record. These processes do not
                deviate from current standards of care and documentation.

             -  Additional non-pharmacologic pain relief measures utilized by patients will be
                documented on the data collection sheet attached to the patient's chart. These
                measures include heating pad, ice pack, and tucks pads

             -  All medications received will be documented in the electronic medical record per
                usual documentation protocols

        -  Sample Size Estimation & Data Analysis Plan

             -  Sample size was estimated using G*Power. In order to detect a difference between
                groups on pain scores and use of pain medications, 65 patients per group will need
                to be enrolled. This will enable the investigators to detect a moderate difference
                (i.e., medium effect size) between the groups with a power = 80% and p at <0.05.

             -  The two groups will be compared for 1. reported pain scores (assessed by nursing
                staff and documented in the EMR) and for 2. pain medications used (morphine
                equivalent as recorded in the MAR) for the duration of patients' hospital stay.
                T-test will be used to compare the groups on average pain scores and total pain
                medication use. Repeated measures analysis of variance will be used to determine
                differences between the groups over time.

        -  Data collection plan

             -  Prospective data collection with hard copy data entry form that includes PHI for
                participant identification, basic demographic information, delivery information
                (see separate document), non-pharmacologic pain relief measures used

             -  Electronic medical record review for: pain scores, pain location, medications
                received

             -  Pain score immediately postpartum

             -  Pain scores (average scores) on PPD#0 and PPD#1

             -  Patient reported pain locations

             -  Quantity (total) of non-narcotic pain medication received on PPD#0 and PPD#1

             -  Quantity (total) of narcotic pain medication received on PPD#0 and PPD#1

        -  Risks

             -  Allergic reaction to fabric of abdominal binder

             -  Skin irritation

             -  Increased discomfort or pain with use of abdominal binder

        -  Mitigation of risks o If participants experience an allergic reaction or skin irritation
           from the abdominal binder symptomatic treatment will be offered. Participants in the
           experimental arm will be encouraged to keep the abdominal binders in place for 24 hours
           postpartum, but will be permitted to remove the abdominal binder at any time should it
           cause irritation, increased pain or any other adverse reaction.
    
  