
    
      Background: Neuropathy is a common complication of diabetes mellitus (DM) with a wide
      clinical spectrum that encompasses generalized to focal and multifocal forms not only leads
      to an impaired quality of life, but also to an increased morbidity and mortality . Till now
      there is no available effective therapy for the treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathy
      (DPN). Autologous platelet-rich plasma is easy and cost-effective method as it provides
      necessary growth factors that promote wound healing/growth, angiogenesis, and axon
      regeneration .

      Objective: To evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of peri-neural platelet rich plasma
      (PRP) injection in the treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathy compared to traditional
      medical treatment.

      Method : Prospective double blinded randomized controlled trial was conducted . All included
      patients had type 2 DM selected from Endocrinology unit Department of Internal medicine,
      Assuit university Hospital, Egypt . DPN of at least 5 years duration of symptoms . Patients
      with other causes of neuropathy like hereditary neuropathies , entrapment neuropathies
      ,connective tissue diseases , vertebral diseases ,thyroid disorders and end organ failure
      were excluded . Neuropathy was assessed by the modified Toronto Clinical Neuropathy Score
      (mTCNS) 2001 (3) , Baseline pain and nerve conduction studies were done. Then they were
      double blindly divided into two groups, Group I underwent PRP preineural injection under
      ultrasound guidance plus medical treatment . Group װreceived medical treatment only( control
      group) . Blood glucose was strictly controlled in both groups . Patients were followed every
      month for 3 months by mTCNS and by nerve conduction studies. Results were expressed as means
      ± standard deviation or frequencies. Independent Student's t test was done for comparison
      between groups
    
  