
    
      Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common childhood behavior disorder that
      causes impaired functioning in multiple settings, including home, school, and in
      relationships with peers. Symptoms of ADHD include impulsiveness, hyperactivity, and
      inattention. Both medications and behavior therapies have been shown to be effective in
      treating ADHD. It is essential, however, that children take their medication regularly for it
      to be effective. This three-phase study will develop and test a provider-administered
      intervention to improve medication adherence and persistence among children with ADHD and
      their caregivers.

      The first phase of this study will gather information about perspectives on ADHD and its
      treatment by using focus groups and interviews with participating children and their parents.
      Phase two of the study will gather information on medication adherence and persistence, as
      well as demographic information. Phase three of the study will involve developing and testing
      a three part intervention consisting of an ADHD education component, a short survey to help
      parents identify non-adherence warning signs, and tailored medication messages for parents.
      After conducting a pilot with five parent-child pairs to assess feasibility and
      accessibility, all interested doctors at the study site will receive a lecture on
      evidence-based treatments for ADHD and a supply of parent ADHD education toolkits. Half of
      the doctors will be randomly assigned to receive additional training on the experimental
      procedures and to administer the intervention as part of the study. Parent and child
      participants will be randomly assigned to receive either treatment with a doctor who has been
      trained on the experimental intervention or treatment as usual. Assessments will take place
      at the beginning of treatment and 1, 3, and 6 months after the start of treatment. During
      each assessment, a saliva sample will be collected from the child, and parents will complete
      several checklists and questionnaires about ADHD treatment and medication adherence.
    
  