
    
      Demographic information will be collected prior to study participation and include age, sex,
      education, family medical history, past medical history, concussion history, litigious status
      and medication use. The PAR-Q+ questionnaire will be completed to determine readiness for
      exercise by a physician. Baseline questionnaires will be completed, such as the Fatigue
      Severity Scale(FSS), Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale(GAD-7), Headache Intensity
      Scale-6(HIT-6), Patient Health Questionnaire(PHQ-9), Epworth Sleepiness Scale(ESS) and
      Quality of Life After Brain Injury(QOLIBRI), Rivermead Post Concussion Symptoms Questionnaire
      (RPQ), Modified Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire(GLTQ), Rapid Assessment Disuse
      Index (RADI) and Postconcusion Syndrome Checklist (PCSC). Pre- and post-intervention blood
      samples will be collected from all participants. Participants will be asked to perform a
      tactile assessment pre- and post-intervention. Sleep will be monitored using wrist-based
      actigraphy and a sleep diary for five days prior to the intervention start and for five days
      following completion of the exercise protocol. Pre and post magnetic resonance spectroscopy
      (MRS) will also be completed. Participants will be randomized to a structured aerobic
      exercise protocol(AEP) or stretching protocol, followed by aerobic exercise protocol(SP+AEP)
      with a random number generator. Both groups will undergo exercise testing using the Buffalo
      Concussion Treadmill Test to determine exercise prescription. Upon completion of SP,
      participants will continue on to the AEP and complete it in full. Following the exercise
      protocols, all questionnaires will be completed post-intervention. At 3 and 9 weeks following
      protocol completion, online follow surveys will be completed to assess symptom burden (RPQ,
      QOLIBRI, HIT-6, ESS, FSS) along with questions regarding current exercise.
    
  