
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the tumor response rate in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine other parameters of antitumor effect including time to tumor progression and
      overall survival in HCC patients treated with bortezomib and doxorubicin.

      II. To observe toxicity profile of bortezomib and doxorubicin in patients with hepatocellular
      carcinoma.

      III. To evaluate proteasome 20S inhibition in tumor tissue (including proteins such as p21,
      p27, p53, Bax and Bcl-2 which are affected by proteasome 26S) and compare them to clinical
      parameters using biopsy specimens obtained from patients with HCC treated with bortezomib.
      (Withdrawn as of 03-2007)

      IV. To measure phosphorylation of IkB in tumor tissue and compare to clinical parameters
      using biopsy specimens obtained from patients with HCC treated with bortezomib. (Withdrawn as
      of 03-2007)

      V. To evaluate the effect of bortezomib on 26S proteasome activity in peripheral white blood
      cells (WBC's) and patient serum. Direct measurement of 26S proteasome activity as well as
      proteins affected by proteasome 26S and Nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kB) will be analyzed.
      (Withdrawn as of 03-2007)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive doxorubicin intravenously (IV) over 5-15 minutes on days 1 and 8. Patients
      also receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients with no disease progression may continue to receive bortezomib alone in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study within 13 months.
    
  