
    
      1. To establish and validate intermediate biomarkers for prostate cancer prevention trials
           by conducting a dietary intervention trial of a low-fat diet with omega-3 fatty acid
           supplements in men undergoing radical prostatectomy. In initial trials it was feasible
           to intervene with diet and obtain tissue and serum for bioassay and biomarker
           development. This aim is to study the effect a low-fat, high omega-3 diet has on serum
           and tissue biomarkers from patients who have prostatectomies for prostate cancer.
           Ultimately, we hope to identify and validate intermediate markers of efficacy for
           large-scale dietary prevention trials.

        2. To establish and validate insulin growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and insulin growth factor
           binding proteins (IGFBP) as relevant intermediate biomarkers for prostate cancer
           prevention trials. IGF-1 is a peptide growth factor that is important to the growth and
           progression of prostate cancer. To our knowledge, no prospective dietary intervention
           studies have evaluated the effect of a low-fat diet with omega-3 fatty acid supplements
           on IGF-1 and IGFBPs, and their potential to serve as relevant intermediate markers for
           low-fat dietary intervention trials for prostate cancer prevention.

        3. To establish and validate serum and tissue fatty acids as relevant intermediate
           biomarkers for prostate cancer prevention trials. We will evaluate if men randomized to
           a low-fat, fish-oil-supplemented diet have increased serum ratios of omega-3:omega-6
           fatty acids compared with men randomized to a control Western diet before radical
           prostatectomy. We also will study if patients in the low-fat, fish oil arm have
           increased ratios of membrane omega-3:omega-6 fatty acids as well as decreased COX-2 and
           decreased PGE-2 levels in benign and malignant tissue and in visceral fat. If so, it
           will proved further evidence to support the potential of low-fat fish oil diets for
           prostate cancer prevention. If serum omega-3:omega-6 ratios correlate with changes in
           COX-2 and PGE-2 in tissues, then serum omea-3:omega-6 ratios may be useful for
           monitoring activity and efficacy of low-fat fish-oil-supplemented diets in future
           trials.
    
  