
    
      Endometriosis is a benign estrogen-dependent disease characterized by the presence of
      endometrial tissue in its glandular and stromal components in locations other than the
      uterine cavity . Represents one of the most common gynecological, chronic inflammatory
      diseases of women of reproductive age, affecting approximately 10% of the female population,
      although this estimate may be lower than the real data considering the heterogeneity of the
      clinical manifestations of the disease and the tendency to therefore be underdiagnosed .
      Endometriosis is often associated with infertility and severe pain symptomatology including
      chronic pelvic pain, dyspareunia and dysmenorrhea. Despite numerous studies, the pathogenesis
      of the disease is still unknown. Studies on family aggregation and twins have given
      prominence to the genetic component, demonstrating how the genetic structure inherited from
      an individual influences 51% of the predisposition to develop endometriosis in life. A great
      deal of work has involved the identification of different gene polymorphisms able to help
      explain the susceptibility to the development of endometriosis, often with conflicting
      results . Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and related meta-analyzes have led to the
      identification of disease risk loci by providing new insights into potential molecular
      pathways involved in endometriosis. At present, 19 independent single-nucleotide
      polymorphisms (SNPs) have been validly associated with endometriosis, explaining 5.19% of the
      variance of the disease.In particular, a recent study investigated three of these SNPs on the
      Greek population: rs7521902, rs10859871 and rs11031006, mapped respectively on the WNT4, VEZT
      and FSHB genes, highlighting a significant association with endometriosis. The WNT4 gene,
      located on chromosome 1, codes for a fundamental protein in the development of the female
      reproductive system . The expression of WNT4 has also been demonstrated at the level of the
      normal peritoneum suggesting a possible metaplastic hypothesis in promoting the
      transformation of peritoneal cells into endometriotic cells using pathways involved in the
      development of female genital tracts. Moreover WNT4 is equally expressed in the eutopic
      endometrium during the proliferative and secretory phases; variants of this gene could
      hypothetically contribute to abnormal growth of endometrial cells in ectopic sites. VEZT is a
      gene located on chromosome 12 and coding for vezatin, an important component of the
      cadherin-catenin complex which is essential for the formation and maintenance of adherent
      joints. The protein is expressed in most epithelial cells and is crucial for the formation of
      cell-cell contact junctions. The expression of VEZT is altered in the endometrium of patients
      with endometriosis and is an excellent candidate for having a causal role in endometriosis.
      In particular, the rs10859871 polymorphism was associated with an increase in the expression
      of this gene.The FSHB gene, located on chromosome 11, codes for the hormone-specific subunit
      b of the stimulating follicle hormone (FSH), a key promoter of ovarian follicle growth and
      estrogen production. The extended GWAS of the Sapkota group identifies a significant
      association between the rs11031006 polymorphism and the risk of endometriosis.

      The metabolomic profile in patients affected by endometriosis have identified
      beta-hydroxybutyrate (bOHB) as a significantly increased metabolite in affected patients. The
      bOHB is a ketonic body that acts as an energy carrier from adipocytes to peripheral tissues.
      However, it plays a heterogeneous role in cellular signaling and regulation of gene
      expression. Several enzymes involved in the generation of ketone bodies from lipids are both
      acetylated and succinylated and target a group of enzymatic activity proteins that act as
      NAD-dependent deacylases: sirtuins. Sirtuins have recently been studied for their involvement
      in the field of female reproductive function. Among these, sirtuine 1, SIRT1, acts as
      histone-deacetylase and is implicated in innumerable phenomena such as the regulation of gene
      transcription, aging, stress resistance, apoptosis, energy efficiency. Furthermore, SIRT1
      plays an important role in regulating the expression of inflammatory cytokines in
      endometriotic stromal cells. The SIRT1 gene, located on chromosome 10, is over-expressed in
      the eutopic endometrium of women with endometriosis and is probably involved in the
      pathogenesis of endometriosis. SIRT1 controls among other things the acetylation of a fork
      transcription factor involved in the pathway metabolic synthesis of ketone bodies, FOXA2, in
      turn involved in the phenomena of proliferation and migration of endometriotic cells. Some
      SSPs of the SIRT1 gene are associated with insults from oxidative stress capable of inducing
      an abnormal proliferation of endometrial cells (k endometrium).

      The study aims to verify the possible association between the presence of certain
      polymorphisms of genes known to have a hypothetical role in the pathogenesis of endometriosis
      and the development of this disease in the population of Sardinian origin.

      The study will be carried out by molecular typing of the following single substitution
      polymorphisms (SNPs): rs7521902, rs10859871, rs11031006, rs2273773, mapped respectively in
      the WNT4, VEZT, FSHB and SIRT1 genes.

      In this work will be described the frequency of alleles, genotypes and haplotypes of these
      SNPs among Sardinian women and will be evaluated their impact on susceptibility to the
      development of endometriosis.

      The molecular-biological analyzes of single-substitution polymorphisms will be carried out
      starting from whole blood, taken, subject to informed consent, to exclusively Sardinian
      patients.

      The investigators have chosen to limit the study only to patients originating from Sardinia,
      taking advantage of the peculiarity of this land, which can be considered a genetic
      macro-isolate. The genetic analysis of complex traits is in fact simplified in isolated
      populations like the Sardinian one, in which inbreeding and "founding effect" reduce the
      genetic diversity of complex and polygenic diseases such as endometriosis which can, in this
      way, be studied more easily.The goal is to identify a genetic characterization that can be
      used for the non-invasive diagnosis of the disease
    
  