
    
      Males ages 21 to 35 will be recruited from the community through fliers and advertisements in
      bars and local publications (print and electronic) and instructed to call the lab for
      telephone screening or complete an online web-screening survey. Sexual aggression is a
      pervasive and highly prevalent problem on college campuses, so the project will heavily
      advertise at the local college campus. The screening will include an assessment of typical
      alcohol consumption patterns, risk for current or past alcohol use disorder, and sexual
      risk-taking.

      Participants (N=180) will be compensated $10 per hour of lab participation for a maximum
      payment of $80. Participants will begin by completing a series of background measures (see
      Measures) related to alcohol consumption and expectations, sexual aggression perpetration
      history, trait anger, and trait emotion regulation. Participants will complete factors of
      personality that have demonstrated associations with both emotion regulation and sexual
      aggression as covariates, including psychopathy, sensation seeking, and impulsivity.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to receive beverages consisting of either an alcohol
      dose (target peak BAC =.08gm%) or a control (non-alcoholic) beverage. Participants will be
      informed into which alcohol condition they have been assigned. Using a double-blind
      procedure, participants will be block randomized by self-reported sexual aggression
      perpetration history [(none = no history of perpetration) vs. (low = history of unwanted
      sexual contact or sexual coercion) vs. (high = attempted or completed perpetration of
      incapacitated or forced rape)]. A computer algorithm will be used to assign participants to
      the experimental conditions such that participants with none, low, and high perpetration
      history are evenly distributed across beverage conditions. Individuals assigned to the
      alcohol condition will consume a beverage comprised of cranberry juice and 100 proof vodka,
      while individuals assigned to the control condition will consume a beverage comprised of
      cranberry juice and water. The total liquid is divided equally between three cups, and
      participant is given nine minutes to consume the total amount (e.g., three minutes per cup).
      To ensure stable absorption of alcohol and decrease the likelihood of nausea, the
      experimenter will instruct the participant to consume the beverages evenly and to avoid
      drinking quickly. Following beverage administration, participants will be Breathalyzed every
      five minutes until they attain two Breathalyzer readings of .08%gm to ensure their BAC will
      descend during the emotion induction and sexual aggression analog. A yoking procedure will be
      employed for control participants in which each control participant is paired with an alcohol
      dose participant and receive an equal number of Breathalyzer checks.

      Participants will also be randomly assigned to an emotion induction condition consisting of
      either an anger emotion induction or a control emotion induction. This study will employ
      deception as individuals will not be told they have been assigned to different emotion
      induction conditions. The emotion induction consists of two parts: 1) an emotion recall task;
      and 2) provocation task. Individuals assigned to the anger induction will be instructed to
      recall an incident in the last 30 days when they felt angry, frustrated, or "pissed off".
      They will then be given five minutes to write as much as possible about that incident and
      their response. Participants in the control condition will be instructed to write for five
      minutes about a neutral topic (e.g., cooking dinner, going for a walk; Marci et al., 2007).
      The writing samples from all participants will be collected and coded by independent coders
      to identify whether participants accurately engaged in the task. Following the emotion recall
      portion of the induction, participants will begin a provocation task. Both groups will begin
      an attention task. Participants assigned to the anger condition will be given negative
      feedback about their performance. Participants assigned to the control condition will
      complete the task without feedback and then will be thanked for their participation.

      Upon completion of both portions of the emotion induction, participants will read and project
      themselves into a written hypothetical sexual situation displayed on a computer. The stimulus
      story will be approximately 1,600 words and be written at a 5th grade reading level. The
      story will depict a sexual encounter between the participant and a hypothetical female, in
      which the female in the story will initially engage in consensual sexual activity however
      will gradually display and express resistance to engaging in intercourse. Participants will
      then complete assessment of outcome measures.

      Immediately after completing the scenario, participants will be required to watch one of
      three neutral videos (e.g., comedy clips, nature documentaries) to assist with distancing and
      detaching from the content of the story. After completing the videos, sober participants will
      be debriefed and paid for their time. Intoxicated participants will be provided with food,
      beverages, and entertainment until their BAC descended to below .04%gm. Once their BAC has
      descended to below .04%gm, these participants will be debriefed and paid for their time.
    
  