
    
      As per hyponatremia standard treatment of care, all patients considered for the study will
      have had diuretic therapy discontinued for at least 1 day prior to the screening visit and
      received volume expansion with 25% salt poor albumin, if clinically indicated to ensure
      adequate intravascular volume expansion as standard of care for a patient hospitalized for
      complications of cirrhosis.

      Patients will be approached and presented with a written consent form during the first 24
      hours of their admission to NYUMC (Tisch Hospital). They will be verbally informed about the
      purpose and procedures of the study, as well as its potential risks and benefits. Following
      written consent, the patients will undergo a series of screening procedures, including
      physical examination, medical history, blood work, and hepatic encephalopathy assessment, to
      determine their eligibility.

      After screening and determination that the patient fulfills all inclusion and exclusion
      criteria, the patients will be randomized the following day on Day 0 to receive oral
      tolvaptan or placebo once daily. Patients in the treatment arm will receive oral tolvaptan at
      an initial dose of 15mg once daily. The placebo arm will be used as a comparison group to
      determine whether long-term, ambulatory tolvaptan administration is associated with clinical
      benefits to patients with cirrhosis and hyponatremia. Patients in the placebo arm will
      receive current standard of treatment for patients with cirrhosis and hyponatremia. Current
      standard treatment of hyponatremia in cirrhotic patients involves fluid restriction in the
      diet (1L fluid daily), discontinuation of diuretic therapy (such as furosemide,
      spironolactone), and frequent monitoring of the sodium level. Severe hyponatremia
      (Na<120mEq/L) involves infusion of hypertonic saline.

      Patients will be encouraged to drink in response to thirst, and patients will be re-evaluated
      at 8 hours with determination of Na level after the first dose. If the serum sodium
      concentration remains below 136 mEq/L or increases by less than 5 mEq/L during the prior 24
      hours, the dose will be increased from 15mg to a maximum dose of 30mg. Too rapid correction
      of serum sodium will be defined as either 8 mEq/L in the first 8 hours or greater than
      12mEq/L over 24 hours. In these situations, tolvaptan will either be withheld or decreased at
      the next dose or the patient instructed to increase fluid intake. Similar adjustments will be
      made if the serum sodium concentration rises above 145mEq/L.

      Patients will undergo a physical examination and laboratory evaluation that will include
      electrolytes, BUN/Cr, and liver tests and determination for reason for continued
      hospitalization as per standard of care from Day 1 to 8 or until day of discharge if
      discharge occurs prior to Day 8. Neutrophil function assay will be obtained upon
      randomization and at week 4 after discharge. Urine electrolytes and renin and copeptin levels
      will be obtained at Day 0, Day 8 (if still hospitalized), day of discharge, and monthly.

      Patients will undergo a detailed assessment for hepatic encephalopathy on Days 0, 2, 4, and 8
      or until day of discharge if it occurs prior to Day 8. Patients will also have a complete
      assessment on day of discharge if occurs after Day 8. Quality of life questionnaires will be
      completed at Day 0, Day 8 (optional), day of discharge (optional), and weekly for the first
      month and then monthly for a total of 3 months after discharge. In addition, patients will be
      asked to complete the questionnaires during their follow-up visits, which will occur 1, 2,
      and 4 weeks after study drug discontinuation.

      Patients with clinically significant fluid overload (moderate ascites, grade 1 edema), Na
      level 130 or greater, asterixis is not present, and severe azotemia is not present (BUN less
      than 30mg/dl, Cr less than 1.5mg/dl) will be started on spironolactone 50mg daily and
      furosemide 20mg daily. Doses will be increased by 50mg and 20mg, respectively, daily every
      week if clinically significant fluid overload persists, weight loss over the previous week
      was less than 5 lbs, and the above safety assessments remain satisfied. Diuretic doses will
      be either reduced or held for excessive fluid loss (more than 10 lbs over the previous week)
      or one of the safety parameters are present.

      At discharge, patients will continue on Study Drug with weekly visits for one month and then
      monthly, after discharge, for 3 months. At each visit, patients will have an interim history
      (need for hospitalization), performance of large volume paracentesis and volume of ascites
      removed, physical examination, liver and kidney tests, and assessment of hepatic
      encephalopathy.

      Following the discontinuation of the study drug, patients will be asked to come to the clinic
      for follow-up visits at weeks 1, 2, and 4, post-discontinuation of study drug. At each visit,
      patients will have an interim history (need for hospitalization), performance of large volume
      paracentesis and volume of ascites removed, physical examination, liver and kidney tests, and
      assessment of hepatic encephalopathy.
    
  