
    
      This is a cluster randomized trial of using a wearable activity monitor to enhance
      communication between patients with recent acute Myocardial Infarction (MI) and their
      physicians. After IRB approval, each site will be randomly assigned to either the monthly
      feedback or the end-of-study feedback arm. All participating providers will participate in an
      accredited webinar discussing the prevalence of post-MI angina, effects of angina on quality
      of life and outcomes, and the evidence supporting use of available treatment options. The
      intention of this approach is to develop a similar baseline understanding of angina among the
      participants so that knowledge gaps do not interfere with the intervention described below.

      Patients at each site who meet the eligibility criteria (acute MI within 6 months with
      documentation of at least single-vessel coronary artery disease, possession of a smartphone)
      will be approached for consideration of participation. Those who qualify and express interest
      will provide informed consent to the study procedures.

      At the time of enrollment, patient data (including socio-demographic information, medial
      history and comorbidities, details of the patient's index MI, secondary prevention
      medications, and anti-anginal medication prescriptions) will be collected by participating
      sites for each enrolled patient via a paper data collection form and faxed to a secure fax
      machine at the DCRI. Patients will also complete a brief survey including questions about
      angina frequency and quality of life.

      All patients will receive a wearable activity tracker (WithingsGO) and smartphone-based app
      (Withings Health mate). Patients will be instructed on how to put on and take off the
      wearable activity monitor. They will be instructed to wear the activity monitor continuously
      while awake for the duration of the study. For the next 6 months, the wearable activity
      monitor will measure daily step count and distance walked. This data will be transmitted
      continuously via a Bluetooth connection to the smartphone-based app. The activity monitor
      application will share activity data through Validic with DCRI IT/CDM through a secure Web
      Portal. Every other week, patients will receive an email with a link to a Qualtrics survey
      including questions regarding angina frequency, angina severity, use of short-acting
      nitroglycerin tablets, and whether they had any overnight hospitalizations in the 2 weeks
      prior. The survey data will be transmitted to the DCRI through Qualtrics. If patients miss 2
      or more consecutive Qualtrics surveys, then representatives from DCRI will contact the
      patient to complete.
    
  