
    
      Background:

      Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) is an aggressive lymphoproliferative disorder caused by
      an infection with the human T-cell lymphotrophic virus type-1 (HTLV-1).

      ATL is characterized by rapidly rising peripheral blood leukemia cell counts,
      lymphadenopathy, lytic bone lesions, hepatosplenomegaly, and skin and solid organ involvement
      by tumor.

      Chemotherapy has shown modest activity and the treatment of ATL has remained largely
      undefined and the survival of ATL patients poor.

      The CD52 surface glycoantigen is overexpressed on ATL cells.

      Alemtuzumab (Campath-1H) is a humanized rat monoclonal antibody that binds to CD52 and is
      cytotoxic.

      In preclinical models, Campath-1H inhibited tumor growth and improved the survival of
      Non-obese diabetic (NOD)/severe combined immune deficiency (SCID) mice injected with human
      MET-1 ATL cells.

      Objectives:

      To determine the efficacy of Campath-1H in the treatment of ATL.

      To define the time course of Campath-1H saturation in patients with ATL.

      To define the toxicity of Campath-1H in patients with ATL.

      Eligibility:

      Patients with HTLV-I-associated adult T-cell leukemia.

      More than 10% of the malignant cells must express CD52 and CD25.

      Patients must have measurable disease.

      The patient must have a granulocyte count of at least 1000/mm(3) and a platelet count of
      greater than or equal to 50,000/mm(3).

      Design:

      A single institution non-randomized open-label Phase II trial.

      This trial will recruit a maximum of 30 eligible patients.

      Patients will receive antimicrobial and antiviral prophylaxis while on-study due to the known
      immunosuppressive effects of Campath-1H.

      Patients will receive I.V. Campath-1H 3 mg on day 1, 10 mg on day 2, and 30 mg day 3 followed
      by maintenance Campath-1H 30 mg I.V. three time per week.

      Patients will be evaluated for response and continuation of Campath-1H therapy after weeks 4
      and 8 of maintenance treatment.

      Patients are eligible to receive a maximum of 12 weeks of maintenance Campath-1H treatment.
    
  