
    
      The data will be collected on socio-demographic by (socio-demographic questionnaire), alcohol
      by AUDIT-C (Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test), Tobacco by FTND (Fagerstrom Test
      Nicotine Dependence), physical activity by IPAQ (International Physical Activity
      Questionnaire), Diet by FFQ (Food Frequency Questionnaire), 24-hour dietary recall method &
      physical measurement.

      Blood will be collected and analyzed for CBC, LFT, KFT, PT/INR, FBS, HOMA-IR, Lipid Profile,
      HBsAg, AntiHBs, Anti HBc, Anti HCV, Anti HAV, IgM anti HAV, IgM anti HEV, auto-Immune
      markers, Ceruloplasmin, Transferrin, S.Ferritin, Alpha1antitrpsin and genetic markers.

      The stool will be collected and analyzed for gut microbiota profiling. Controlled Attenuation
      Parameter and liver stiffness will be measured by using transient elastography. Ultrasound
      abdomen will be done First degree relatives of indexed patients will be enrolled. First
      degree relatives who will not accompanying the indexed subject will be contacted
      telephonically and will be requested to participate in the study.

      The data on first degree relative will be collected on similar parameter as of the indexed
      patient. This will be a cross sectional study.

      For each case, 3 healthy controls will be taken. Healthy Control will be identified from the
      OPD/IPD of ILBS. Liver transplant donors, hospital volunteers, healthy attendants who are
      accompanying other patients of different specialties will be enrolled. An informed consent
      will be taken. The data will be collected on similar parameter as of the indexed patient.
      This will be case control study.

      We will also have disease control (HBV control) for each case enrolled. Subject suffering
      from HBV infection will be included as disease control. For each case, 1 disease control will
      be included. Disease Control will be identified from the OPD/IPD of ILBS. An informed consent
      will be taken. The data will be collected on similar parameter as of the indexed patient.

      Genetic markers and stool microbiota profiling will be done in 30% of the subsets of sample
      i.e NRC, first degree relatives, Healthy Control and Disease control.
    
  