
    
      There are two study phases during the whole course of the study.

      1) Examiner Calibration: 15 volunteers will be recruited for examiner calibration before the
      study period. The intra-examiner reliability will be assessed using intraclass correlation
      coefficient. The following clinical parameters will be collected at day 0 and day 7.

      Clinical Parameters:

      i. Probing pocket depths (PPD) (6 points per tooth) ii. Full mouth bleeding score (FMBS) iii.
      Plaque at 8 sites (mesiobuccal, mesial, mesiolingual, lingual, distolingual, distal,
      distobuccal, and buccal) per implant

      2) Study phase: Stratified randomized single-blinded clinical controlled trial with 2
      parallel arms is designed to achieve the aims of this research project. Study participants
      who are visiting University Dental Cluster or any other dental clinics or hospitals will be
      referred for this study. They will be enrolled at NUH University Dental Cluster if they
      fulfill the study inclusion and exclusion criteria. They will be randomly assigned into the
      barrel shaped (test) and tapered (control) interdental brushes groups and reviewed at 2 weeks
      (± 3 days) and 4 weeks (± 3 days).

      Randomization:

      Study subjects will be randomly assigned to either test or control group based on a computer
      generated randomization code after the screening of inclusion and exclusion criteria and
      signing of the informed consent form.

      Blinding and Allocation Concealment:

      The study examiner who will be doing the clinical examination and collecting the study data
      will be blinded to the group allocation; however, it is not possible to blind the study
      subjects to the group allocation. The clinician, who will be performing the treatment and
      providing oral hygiene instructions, will be given a sequentially numbered envelope
      containing the subject's group allocation after non-surgical periodontal therapy has been
      performed and before giving the oral hygiene instructions.

      i. Probing pocket depths (PPD) (6 points per tooth) ii. Full mouth bleeding score (FMBS) iii.
      Full mouth plaque score (FMPS) iv. Plaque at 8 sites (mesiobuccal, mesial, mesiolingual,
      lingual, distolingual, distal, distobuccal, and buccal) per implant v. Characteristics of the
      implant and implant crown: tissue level or bone level, supra- or submucosal margin, degree of
      overcontour as seen on periapical radiograph vi. Peri-apical radiograph of implant taken with
      parallel technique

      Clinical parameters (i) to (iv) will be performed at baseline, 2-weeks and 4-weeks post
      instrumentation.

      Clinical parameter (v) and (vi) will be performed at baseline.

      Radiographic Analysis:

      Peri-apical radiographs will be only taken with paralleling technique to determine that there
      is no peri-implant bone loss at baseline.

      The sample size is calculated based on changes in mean bleeding on probing (BOP) (primary
      outcome measure) between baseline and at 2 weeks post instrumentation review. Based on a
      previous study (Larsen, et al. 2017), investigators calculated that 88 subjects (44 per
      group) would be needed with 5% significance level and 80% statistical power. If investigators
      expect an attrition rate of 20%, a total of 110 subjects (55 per group) will be needed.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Intention-to-treat analysis on the primary outcome variable (BOP) will be performed.
      Last-observation-carried-forward method will be used in the event of subjects lost to
      follow-up to the end of the study.

      Descriptive statistics (mean and standard deviation for continuous variable; frequency and
      percentage for categorical variable) will be reported to summarize the baseline
      characteristics of study participants. Primary analysis will be patient-level analysis and
      secondary analysis will be implant-level analysis. One implant, will be randomly selected by
      computer generated random number, from each recruited subjects for patient-level analysis.
      All implants from the recruited subjects will be included in the implant-level analysis.

      At patient-level analysis, to examine the effect of shape of interdental brush,
      difference-in-difference technique will be used for study the changes of outcomes (e.g. BOP,
      PPD, FMBS and FMPS) from baseline at 2-weeks. Two-way ANOVA test with adjusting for implant
      types will also be performed to study the effect of interdental brush shape in the form of
      changes in BOP, PPD, FMBS and FMPS, at 2-week. Similar analysis will be replicated for
      secondary study endpoint at 4-week. Generalized estimating equation (GEE) will be applied to
      incorporate repeated measures data collected at 2- and 4-weeks. Baseline data and types of
      implants will be adjusted in the model.

      At implant-level analysis, to adjust for within-patient dependency, multilevel mixed effects
      model will be built to assess the effect of interdental brush shape on the study outcome
      variables (e.g. BOP, PPD, FMBS and FMPS) over time. A multilevel hierarchical three-level
      structure was chosen with three levels of analysis being: timing of follow-up measurements
      (level 1), implant (level 2), and patient (level 3). Baseline values of study outcome
      variables and types of implants will be adjusted in the model.

      Significance level for all analysis is set at p-value <0.05. All statistical analysis will be
      carried out using STATA SE Version 15.0 (StataCorp. 2017. Stata Statistical Software: Release
      15. College Station, TX: StataCorp LLC).
    
  