
    
      Depression and suicide are major issues of public health worldwide. However, there is
      time-lag for current available antidepressants to have therapeutic effective. In fact, if
      partial responses were also included, up to 50% of depressed patients showed little or no
      response to traditional antidepressant medication treatments. In addition, suicide is also a
      prevalent mental health problem worldwide and still has no optimal and effective treatment
      now. In Taiwan, the annual suicide rate increased gradually despite of the suicide prevention
      program. Ketamine, a kind of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist, is a
      FDA-approved anesthetic agent. One single sub-anesthesia dose of ketamine infusion can
      rapidly improve refractory depression without side effects of dependence, and its
      antidepressant effects have been proved by some double-blind and randomized controlled trials
      in other countries. However, it has not been investigated and validated in Han Chinese
      population. The mechanism of rapid antidepressant effects is still unknown. Besides, much
      less studies assessed the anti-suicide efficacy of a low dose of ketamine infusion.

      Under the support of NSC 101-2314-B-010-060 and NSC 101-2314-B-010-061, we finished the study
      of a single dose ketamine infusion in the treatment of refractory major depression (TRD)
      using a double blind randomized placebo-controlled fashion. Three groups with each 24
      patients of TRD received 0.5mg/kg, 0.2mg/kg and placebo (PBO) respectively. The primary
      outcome assessed by MADRS and HAMD depression ratings disclosed about 40~45% response. Also,
      a single low dose of ketamine could reduce approximately 50% suicide-related symptoms based
      on the subanalysis of ketamine treatment efficacy for specific suicide item.

      In current study, we plan to recruit 48 subjects of TRD within two years in double-blind,
      randomized - controlled fashion with each year 24 subjects, who will receive 0.5mg/kg vs.
      active placebo (0.045mg/kg Midazolam) equally. Mood symptom changes by MARDRS and HAMD
      ratings, suicide scales, and impulsivity and loneliness scales will be conducted at different
      time points from baseline to the 14th day. We will elucidate the exact efficacy of a low dose
      of ketamine infusion for the rapid anti-depression and anti-suicidal ideations. If it is
      successful, it would be able to generalize to benefit for the huge population of Chinese in
      the world.
    
  