
    
      Background/rationale: DE CTPA provides additional anatomical and functional information in
      the investigation of PE, especially in regards of iodine uptake in pulmonary vasculature and
      lung parenchyma. Postprocessing techniques improve visualisation of low concentrations of
      iodine contrast media.This has shown potential in reducing the amount of contrast media,
      salvaging scans with suboptimal contrast enhancement and for improving visualisation of
      incidental pulmonary embolisms in portal venous chest CT scans. Other significant DE
      postprocessing techniques include the substraction of iodine, creating virtual non-contrast
      images in addition to the dual energy. This technique has proven useful in evaluation of
      different thoracic and abdominal parenchymal lesions.

      Objective: To evaluate sensitivity of chest DECT in portal venous phase in the diagnosis of
      PE compared to standard care DE CTPA. Furthermore, the prevalence and management of
      incidental findings will be evaluated.

      Design: Patients enrolled in this study will undergo a venous phase chest DE CT in addition
      to standard care DE CTPA. The two scans will be performed consecutively using the same
      contrast media bolus. Standard DE reconstructions of all scans will be obtained for
      radiological evaluation and reporting in regards of suspected PE.

      Both scans with standard DE reconstructions will be available for clinical evaluation and
      patient care in the standard care AGFA PACS system. Radiological reading and reporting will
      be performed as usual in the clinical setting.

      For research purposes, additional post-processing procedures may be performed by the readers
      in Philips IntelliSpace Portal or Siemens Syngo.via depending on the scanner applied. The
      standard CTPA will be interpreted by a thoracic radiologist and used as reference. The
      corresponding portal venous chest CT will be interpreted individually by two other certified
      radiologists in order to avoid recall bias. In case of disagreement in the venous chest CT,
      an independent radiologist not elsewhere involved will be consulted. If a PE detected on the
      portal venous scan is not detected on the reference CTPA, the reference reader will
      re-evaluate the CTPA.

      Patient characteristics, clinical information, radiation dose, contrast media, clinical
      diagnosis, incidental findings and recommendations of further clinical management according
      to clinical guidelines will be recorded in a secure web-based database.

      Study population: Patients aged ≥50 with suspected pulmonary embolism who are having
      performed a standard care CTPA.
    
  