
    
      BACKGROUND/SCIENTIFIC RATIONALE Interstitial cystitis/bladder pain syndrome (IC/BPS) is
      associated with significant morbidity and poorly understood underlying pathophysiology.
      IC/BPS comprises a symptom complex defined by the American Urological Association (AUA) as
      "An unpleasant sensation (pain, pressure, discomfort) perceived to be related to the urinary
      bladder, associated with lower urinary tract symptoms of more than six weeks duration, in the
      absence of infection or other identifiable causes"(1). Up to 11% of women are affected by
      IC/BPS (2), and the disorder may be significantly underdiagnosed (3). A 2008 study (4)
      indicated that 43% of patients with IC/BPS require multimodal therapy with an average of 7-12
      yearly clinic visits at a cost of $9,000/patient. Twenty percent of women report wage losses
      of >$4000 per year (5). Current theories for the cause of IC/BPS include infectious agents, a
      defective uroepithelium permeable to toxic substances, structural abnormalities, neurogenic
      inflammation, increased neurologic sensitivity, or an allergic response involving increased
      numbers of bladder mast cells (6). Despite these theories, reliable treatments remain
      elusive. Most IC/BPS treatments target one of these proposed mechanisms, involve trial and
      error of several therapies (1), and often utilize multiple modalities (7). Treatment success
      ranges from 47-93% for intravesical instillation to 21-64% for oral therapies, with
      discontinuation rates up to 80% due to intolerable side effects (1). Efficacious treatments
      for IC/BPS that apply to a greater proportion of patients with limited side effects are
      urgently needed.

      Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction (MBSR), a Complementary Alternative Medicine (CAM)-based
      therapy, potentially fulfills this need. The Interstitial Cystitis Association (ICA), a
      patient-led organization, sponsored a survey of 2100 IC/BPS patients. They reported that 84%
      had tried CAM therapy and 55% of those surveyed reported that their physicians had
      recommended CAM (8). According to a 2007 National Health Interview survey (9), CAM is used by
      38% of adults in the United States. MBSR has been successfully employed to treat chronic pain
      syndromes and has been used in disorders such as multiple chemical sensitivity, chronic
      fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia (10), and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) (11). These disorders
      may coexist in patients with IC/BPS (6). In IC/BPS, increases in stress are positively
      correlated with increased pain (12); and one study reported that up to 80% of IC/BPS patients
      found stress reduction decreased their symptoms (8). MBSR was found to be efficacious in the
      treatment of urgency urinary incontinence, a urinary disorder closely related to IC/BPS (13,
      14). While MBSR has shown therapeutic promise in conditions that are similar to or coexist
      with IC/BPS, and has been rated as helpful by patients suffering from IC/BPS, rigorous
      randomized clinical trials investigating the efficacy of this intervention are lacking (8).

      OBJECTIVES/AIMS/HYPOTHESES Ultimately, the investigators long-term goal is to provide a
      much-needed treatment for IC/BPS using patient-centered therapy such as MBSR. The objective
      of this research is to conduct a pilot RCT to explore whether MBSR is acceptable to patients
      and results in improved symptoms when added to IC/BPS 1st and 2nd-line treatments as
      recommended in the American Urological Association guidelines (see Table 1). The
      investigators hypothesize that an 8-week MBSR class will be acceptable to IC/BPS patients and
      that MBSR used in conjunction with traditional 1st and 2nd line therapies will improve
      symptoms compared to IC/BPS patients using traditional 1st and 2nd line therapies alone. If
      this pilot study demonstrates effectiveness and acceptance of MBSR, it would provide data to
      justify a larger randomized controlled trial. If the investigators' hypothesis is supported
      with this exploratory study, MBSR, an understudied and potentially underutilized therapy,
      will expand treatment options for IC/BPS patients. The investigators' aims in pursuit of this
      goal are; Aim #1: To determine whether the addition of MBSR to 1st and 2nd line therapies as
      recommended by AUA guidelines improves IC/BPS symptoms as measured by the primary outcome the
      Global Response Assessment (GRA), as well as the O'Leary-Sant Symptom and Problem Index
      (OSPI), and Visual Analog (VAS) pain scale. Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that
      MBSR will be an effective treatment for IC/BPS as measured by the validated GRA, O'Leary-Sant
      and VAS pain scales.

      Aim #2: To evaluate whether participation in a structured MBSR class will improve quality of
      life, sexual function and overall self-efficacy in patients with IC/BPS, based on changes in
      the Short Form Health Survey (SF-12), Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI), and the Pain
      Self-Efficacy Scale (SES). Hypothesis: The investigators' hypothesize that MBSR will improve
      quality of life, sexual function and impressions of self-efficacy as measured by these
      validated scales
    
  