
    
      Phase II will focus on intervention implementation and evaluation (months 13-36).

      The research team will randomize 58 COPD patients (29 per arm) to the SaMBA-COPD intervention
      or an attention control and follow them for 9 months to assess health and self-management
      behavior (SMB) outcomes.

      Intervention:

      Step 1: Outreach and Engagement. The project manager will notify the City Health Works (CHW)
      supervisor when an eligible and consented patient is randomized to receive care the
      intervention and will provide the patient's name and contact information. The CHW will call
      the patient within 7 days of consent to schedule a home visit. The CHW will encourage
      caregivers to join all meetings.

      Step 2: Intake. The CHW will perform an intake interview that includes collection of basic
      information about the patient and their health and healthcare, including medications,
      intended to enable them to understand their health problems and provide them with chronic
      illness self-management support.

      Step 3: Symptom assessment, medication adherence, and inhaler technique. The CHW will assess
      the patients' symptoms, adherence to medications, and check inhaler technique following a
      standardized protocol, and correct errors in inhaler use if identified.

      Step 4: SMB barrier screening with the Screener. The CHWs will assess barriers to good SMB
      that lie within 4 domains: 1) social context, 2) physical health and functioning, 3)
      cognitive factors, and 4) psychological factors. To assess elements in each domain, the study
      team will use questions drawn from validated surveys used in the study team's research and in
      the SAMBA screening tool. Screening questions are a part of the study intervention, of which
      they consented to in the research consent. Examples of barriers follow:

        1. Social context. Factors include adequacy of social support, financial and access
           concerns (costs, insurance, pharmacy convenience), language and literacy skills, coping
           with illness, alcohol and drug use, and use of culturally-rooted therapies like herbals
           and spiritual remedies.

        2. Physical health and functioning. These include physical functioning and medication
           concerns (e.g., side effects, multiple medications).

        3. Cognition. The CHW will screen for cognitive impairment with the validated Quick mild
           cognitive impairment screen (QMCI) because cognitive impairment may challenge their
           ability to perform SMB.

        4. Psychology. Factors include depression and anxiety, and maladaptive beliefs about COPD
           and COPD medications.

      Step 5: Addressing identified barriers. Each identified barrier links to a menu of actions
      for the patient and CHW to employ to resolve or work around it. Other actions may be
      identified by patient or CHW and pursued if desired. Wherever appropriate, the CHW will
      engage the patient's physicians and or a social worker to enact some of the action steps.
      Examples of barriers follow:

        1. Social context barriers. Examples of actions include enrolling the patient in the New
           York State pharmaceutical assistance program to reduce drug costs or ask physicians to
           consider generic or formulary approved alternatives. If retrieving or renewing
           prescriptions is a problem, the CHW may pick up the medication or arrange delivery. The
           CHW can contact the physician to request a renewal if needed, and refer the patient to a
           social worker for assistance with home aid services, entitlements, insurance matters,
           and assistance when second hand smoke is a problem.

        2. Physical health and functioning barriers. Examples include asking the physician to
           consider reducing medicines if the patient finds the regimen too burdensome, requesting
           occupational or physical therapy to address physical limitations, or engaging the social
           worker to arrange transportation.

        3. Cognition barriers. The study team will specifically target memory but also use
           strategies to compensate based on type of impairment, including medication organization,
           slower-paced and explicit verbal instructions, use of tangible external aids, repetition
           and teach-back, use of plain language, and guided imagery to reduce cognitive load. Such
           strategies have been shown to improve SMB in low-literacy populations. The CHW may have
           more frequent encounters (in-person, phone) with memory impaired patients. Daily cell
           phone text reminders are another option that patients can select when memory problems
           impact regular medication use.

        4. Psychological barriers. The CHW will notify the PCP if a participant voluntarily
           divulges any feelings of depression or anxiety. The PCP may evaluate and treat or refer
           to a mental health specialist.

      COPD action plan and medication rescue pack. The study team will obtain consent from each
      patient's primary care provider to have a pharmacist counsel patients about rescue
      medications (oral steroids and antibiotics, "rescue pack") to be used in the event of an
      exacerbation of COPD. This consent will be obtained at the time of obtaining consent from the
      physician to recruit the patient for study participation. If the physician provides consent
      to recruit the patient but refuses consent to counsel the patient about the rescue pack, the
      patient will receive all intervention components with the exception of rescue pack counseling
      by a pharmacist.

      For patients for whom the study team have consent from the PCP to provide counseling about
      the rescue pack, the CHW will suggest to the patient that they meet with the pharmacist. The
      meeting will be voluntary. For patients who agree, a referral will be made to the pharmacist
      and a visit scheduled, to take place in a clinical setting. The pharmacist will counsel the
      patient on the use of the rescue pack. If the patient agrees to receive a rescue pack, the
      pharmacist will place an order in the Epic electronic health record for the rescue pack
      medications, then pend and route the order to the patient's PCP. The PCP can choose to sign
      the order, cancel or delete it. The pharmacist will check to determine whether the
      prescription order was signed by the PCP. If it was not, the pharmacist will assume that the
      physician does not wish to provide the patient a rescue pack prescription. If the
      prescription order was signed by the physician, the pharmacist will contact the patient 7-10
      days later to determine whether the patient picked up the medication and to ensure that the
      patient understands when and how to use the medications appropriately, and will notify the
      CHW that the patient received the medications. The CHW will discuss the use of the rescue
      pack medications with the patient at subsequent encounters to ensure that they continue to
      understand how to use them appropriately. Should the patient use the medications, the CHW,
      pharmacist, and or patient will notify the PCP, who will be encouraged to follow up with the
      patient.

      Step 6: Home-Based Pulmonary Rehabilitation Protocol (HBPR). HBPR will be available to all
      patients who are able to ambulate with or without an assistive device (cane or walker),
      regardless of supplemental oxygen use. If the patient expresses interest in HBPR, the CHW
      will schedule the appointment and accompany the patient and caregiver (if available) to a
      clinical practice at the Mount Sinai Hospital. The patient will undergo a standard evaluation
      by a licensed respiratory therapist employed by Mount Sinai Hospital to develop the HBPR
      prescription. The evaluation will have two components, assessment of aerobic capacity using
      the 6-minute walk test (6MWT), and an assessment of muscular strength using elastic
      resistance bands. Target exercise intensity for HBPR will be set at 60-80% of the maximum
      work rate achieved during the 6MWT, a conservative goal intended to achieve benefit while
      minimizing risk of fatigue and shortness of breath. The therapist will select an appropriate
      band for home use for strength training exercises. During the evaluation, the respiratory
      therapist will monitor the patient's oxygen saturation, blood pressure, heart rate, and
      respiratory rate.

      During the home visit that follows, the CHW will provide a timer, a pedometer to measure
      steps, an elastic resistance band, and an exercise diary. They may also provide the patient
      with an ergo cycle to enable them to conduct the aerobic exercises sitting down if walking is
      too burdensome or the patient is considered to be at high fall risk. The CHW and patient will
      consider the space available for exercise, such as a hallway, common space in the building
      (e.g., lobby, gathering room, etc.), outdoors during favorable weather, and local facilities
      like senior centers or churches. Once the area for exercise is selected, the CHW will
      demonstrate the walking and resistance training routines and observe the patient perform them
      on his/her own. The two will set a schedule for exercising and post the schedule and
      instructions prominently in the home.

      Resistance training will consist of a simple routine of upper extremity extension and
      abduction movements with the elastic band. Each movement will be performed in 3 sets of 10
      repetitions (15 minutes). The walking routine will last 20-40 minutes and the patient's pace
      will be guided by an audible click from the timer that is set by the CHW. The patient will be
      asked to perform the complete exercise routine 6 days a week. The CHW will directly supervise
      the patient multiple times over the 6-month intervention period. She will call periodically
      to support the patient when she is unable to visit.

      The respiratory therapist will oversee the HBPR work of the CHW. This will include reviewing
      all cases in person or by phone every 7-14 days. Patients will be asked to reduce the
      intensity of exercise or rest for 5-10 minutes if they develop an uncomfortable level of
      shortness of breath or fatigue, and to stop exercising if they have symptoms that cause
      distress or discomfort and do not resolve after rest. Low literacy education methods will be
      used to ensure their understanding and retention of these instructions. The CHW will maintain
      communication with the therapist by HIPAA compliant secure email and telephone to report
      patient performance, trouble shoot problems, and to receive continuing education.

      Step 7: Follow-up and Maintenance. The CHW will recommend that in-person meetings occur 1, 4,
      8, and 12 weeks after intake and telephone follow-ups weekly through week 8 and monthly
      thereafter until month 6 when the intervention ends. Calls may be made more often to
      cognitively impaired patients to enhance information retention. Importantly, the patient and
      CHW will have the flexibility to tailor the number and frequency of encounters as they see
      fit. During follow up the CHW will assess patients' progress with SMB, their goals, and their
      symptoms.

      Step 8: Graduation. SaMBA-COPD patients will receive a certificate upon program completion.
    
  