
    
      The Congenital Myopathy Research Program consists of a group of scientists and healthcare
      providers all working to better understand the congenital myopathies. We are taking two
      approaches to reach our research goals. The first involves identifying and describing new
      genes and proteins involved in the skeletal muscles that allow our bodies to move.
      Simultaneously, studies are underway to identify genetic changes (mutations) that cause human
      neuromuscular disease. Thus, our second approach is to identify mutations, learn how they are
      inherited in families, and understand how they lead to weakness in individuals with
      neuromuscular disease. These approaches allow correlation of our basic muscle biology
      findings with our studies on muscle tissue of affected individuals.

      Our research would not be possible without the generous participation of individuals and
      families with congenital myopathies. Participation in our studies is free of charge. Travel
      to Boston is not required, and we welcome the participation of individuals from around the
      world.

      We appreciate the participation of all individuals with a congenital myopathy, as well as
      their first-degree relatives. Participants with a congenital myopathy are asked to donate
      medical records, a blood or saliva sample, and a muscle tissue sample (if available).
      Participating relatives are asked to donate a blood sample. The blood/saliva sample is used
      to acquire DNA (genetic material) which can be used to identify genetic changes and to study
      how a disease is inherited in a family. The medical records are employed to understand a
      participant's symptoms. The muscle tissue is used to better understand the disease at the
      muscular level by studying the gene expression and protein levels in individuals with
      congenital myopathies.

      For more information, visit the Laboratory Website at
      www.childrenshospital.org/research/beggs.
    
  