
    
      So far, empirical values have mainly been used to assess fracture healing. The clinical
      parameter used is freedom from pain over the fracture, and native radiology the callus
      formation. In the case of anatomically reduced fractures, however, this can hardly be
      observed. In the case of a distal radius fracture, it is assumed that the total time to
      complete healing and resilience is one year. However, this has not been proven
      biomechanically.

      The high-resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography offers the possibility of
      precisely describing the healing process in the high-resolution range using the trabecular
      structure, bone density, bone volume and tissue composition. The finite element analysis can
      then be used to calculate the load-bearing capacity of the bone and to create failure models.
      The distal radius fracture is one of the most common fractures in humans, especially in
      osteoporosis. Due to its frequency and easily accessible fracture localization, it is an
      ideal model for investigating fracture healing. The additional examination of blood and urine
      for bone loss markers can provide further information on the healing process in conjunction
      with the image data.

      It is a prospective cohort study. The collected data are compared on the one hand with
      preliminary examinations of the injured side in the sense of creating a model and on the
      other hand with the healthy, non-fractured side in order to compare the strength of the
      fracture.

      Performing the X-ray and HR-pQCTs leads to radiation exposure which, however, can be
      classified as low. (X-ray: 0.02 mSv / image; HR-pQCT: between 0.003 - 0.006 mSv / stack
      image). The DXA examination on the distal radius, femur / hip + lumbar spine requires 0.405
      mSv. With 18 x-rays and 24 HR-pQCTs and 1 DXA per patient, there is a radiation exposure of
      0.837 - 0.909 mSv over the course of the academic year.

      Blood will also be taken and urine samples will be collected. Together with the clinical
      examination and filling in the questionnaire, each examination should take approx. 45
      minutes.
    
  