
    
      Postoperative pulmonary complications account for >50% of all adverse postoperative events
      and are more costly and carry greater comorbidity than cardiac complications. Much research
      has been performed to identify potential risk reduction strategies for PPCs. Until recently
      all of these focused on intraoperative and postoperative interventions, including
      lung-protective mechanical ventilation, lung expansion techniques, and use of regional
      anesthesia and analgesia. In the last few years several studies have investigated the
      potential role of preoperative interventions to improve respiratory status. These studies
      have demonstrated benefit from preoperative inspiratory muscle training (IMT). A recent
      systematic review found that any preoperative intervention, such as education, IMT, exercise
      training or relaxation reduced PPC rates. However, these studies have focused on
      cardiothoracic and abdominal surgery, and almost all have utilized respiratory
      therapist-directed interventions. Likely due to the additional costs and difficulty of
      arranging respiratory therapy on an outpatient basis, this promising new risk mitigation
      strategy has yet to be adopted on a large scale. Incentive spirometry devices offer a
      potentially easier and less costly preoperative respiratory intervention. Incentive
      spirometers are a drug-free, easy to use, hand-held device that promotes deep breathing and
      respiratory muscle strength by providing visual feedback during sustained inhalation. It
      opens weak or collapsed airways to mobilize and assist mucociliary clearance to the upper
      airways where it can be coughed out. This study evaluates the hypothesis that providing
      preoperative, patient self-directed respiratory therapy with use of an incentive spirometry
      device will reduce the incidence of PPCs in patients with increased pulmonary risk undergoing
      any major, non-cardiothoracic surgery with general anesthesia.
    
  