
    
      This is a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study. On the day of embryo transfer
      (5-6 days after a fresh egg retrieval and on the 6th day of progesterone administration in a
      frozen embryo transfer cycle), patients will receive either a single injection of 20 Units
      (1mg) of Lupron or an identical placebo injection. Patients undergoing day 3 embryo transfers
      will not be eligible and will not be randomized.

      Randomization will be in 22 blocks of 20 patients. Based on the power analysis with a power
      of 0.8 and alpha-error of 0.05, the investigators will need to enroll 352 patients, so the
      investigators will recruit 440 to account for attrition.

      Randomization scheme will be computed via a computerized program accessible at
      randomization.com or via SPSS. There will be one randomization: both fresh and frozen embryo
      cycles will be randomized in the same group. Sequential cards with randomization allocation
      will be placed in doubly sealed, opaque envelopes, with a single sheet confirming eligibility
      status. Confirmation of the presence of the signed Informed Consent will be in the first
      envelope. The second envelope will be opened after there is confirmation that the patient is
      eligible and consented. This envelope will have a card stating the group the patient has been
      assigned to, with blank spaces designated to record patient information. This card will be
      completed by the study staff and saved for reference purposes. The card will state the group
      that the patient was randomized to, the date of embryo transfer, the patient's medical record
      number, name, and cycle type. There will also be a log book to record the information and
      medication lot numbers.

      Injections will be prepared at the time of randomization by the research coordinator and will
      be administered by the clinical RN, who will not know its contents. The clinical staff
      assessing and planning care of the patient (attending physicians and nurses) will not know
      the contents of the syringe (either Lupron 20 IU or the same amount of normal saline).
    
  