
    
      Patient recruitment and informed consent The study will recruit patients with GIOPVCF after
      consultation with inpatients and outpatients. The principal investigator of the study will
      screen the clinical information and inform the patients whether they are eligible for the
      study. After explaining the two therapeutic strategies (conservative treatment and PVP) and
      signing the informed consent, the patients will be divided into conservative treatment or PVP
      group based on their own decision.

      The general information and medicine history of the participants are collected: age, gender,
      original disease, the course of original disease, specific GCs that have been used, the
      dosage/length of the GCs treatment, specific anti-osteoporosis medicine have been used and
      the dosage and length of usage. The bone density of the patient will then be evaluated using
      Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA).

      Withdrawal of individual subject Patients can withdraw from the study at any time for any
      reason without any consequences. The investigator can also decide to release patients from
      the study for medical reasons. For every patient who decides to withdraw from the study, the
      reasons of withdrawal will be recorded.

      Sample size calculation A p-value is less than significance level (α) of 0.05 is considered
      as statistically significant. The statistical power (1-β) is defined as 80%. Based on the
      survival analysis of primary endpoint , the incidence of refracture in the patients with
      GIOPVCF is 48.6% after initial PVP operation and 17% after initial conservative treatment.
      Thus, power analysis indicates the study requires 42 patients per group to achieve
      statistical significance between two groups. Considering 20% of patients may be lost during
      follow-up visits, the investigators will recruit 53 patients for each group.

      Statistical analysis Standard statistical techniques will be used to describe characteristics
      of patients in both groups. The investigators will compare baseline characteristics in the
      two treatment groups and if incomparability appears, the investigators will in secondary
      analysis adjust for differences. The incidence of vertebral refracture between groups will be
      compared with the Kaplan Meier survival analysis. Baseline differences of pain relief and
      health-related life quality between two groups will be assessed using student t test or
      nonparametric tests. Changes of VAS, ODI, and EQ-5D within the group from baseline to every
      follow-up time point will be compared using paired t test. A P value less than 0.05 is
      considered as statistically significant. SPSS 17.0 statistical program (SPSS, Chicago, IL)
      will be used for statistical analysis.
    
  