
    
      The aim is to investigate the effect of the cannabinoids THC (tetrahydrocannabinol) and CBD
      (cannabidiol) on energy- and protein intake and lean body mass in patients with pancreatic
      cancer. A metabolomics analysis is conducted to determine the simultaneous and quantitative
      intracellular metabolites when medical cannabis is administered in patients with pancreatic
      cancer.

      The clinical trial is designed as a crossover intervention trial with a four week
      intervention period and a four week control period. The study subjects are instructed to
      administer individual titered doses of medical cannabis during the intervention period.
      Dietary history, height, weight, bio- impedance, VAS scales and quality of life measurements
      are conducted at baseline, every second week and at the end of the clinical trial. Six study
      subjects are invited to a semi-structured interview. Blood samples and urine samples are used
      for the metabolomics analysis thus a research biobank is established.

      Study population: 32 study subjects diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in palliative care are
      included. Inclusions criteria: adult, weight loss > 5% of habitual weight. Able to understand
      and read Danish. Exclusion criteria: regular use of cannabis, psychiatric disorders e.g.
      Anorexia Nervosa, alcohol abuse, life expectancy

      Descriptive statistics is used to characterize the study population. The statistical analysis
      is carried out in R-Project and all primary data are analyzed as intention-to-treat. P value
      90% of patients with pancreatic cancer in the palliative phase experience reduced energy- and
      protein intake. The quantity of the reduction is, however, very poorly described and appear
      to depend on cancer progression.

      The trial which is approved by the Research Ethics Committee is expected to commence May 2017
      after approval by the Danish Medicines Agency and the Data Protection Agency. The clinical
      trial finish no later than February the 6th 2018. The specified time limit is due to the
      trial is also basis for a master's thesis in Clinical Nutrition at the Department of
      Nutrition, Exercise and Sports, University of Copenhagen. A PhD based on this master thesis
      will proceed afterwards. Taking into account the patients' usual control times and to
      minimize dropout, patient inclusion takes place ongoing, so that there is a control- and
      intervention period at the same time. Outcome measurements including anthropometry and
      dietary interviews are carried out at baseline, every two weeks and at the termination of
      each period. Quality of life measurements and VAS scales are filled out weekly in both
      periods. The semi-structured interview is carried out at the end of the clinical trial.

      The results are going to be published, this applies to both positive, inconclusive and
      negative results. The clinical trial is registered in the two trial databases
      ClinicalTrials.gov and EudraCT (clinicaltrialsregister.eu). Scientific articles based on the
      findings are submitted to relevant journals such as The American Journal of Clinical
      Nutrition (2014 Impact Factor: 6.770). The results are furthermore used in a master's thesis
      in Clinical Nutrition at the Department of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports, University of
      Copenhagen by Ninette Renee Jensen and Rikke Lundsgaard Nielsen. The results will be
      presented at congresses. reported in scientific articles, in the master"s thesis, in the
      information material, on the department's website, at the public master ́s thesis defense as
      well as at future congresses, or wherever desired. When the clinical trial is completed a
      report is sent to relevant authorities including the Research Ethics Committee and the Danish
      Medicines Agency within 90 days of completion.

      Necessary permits from the Data Protection Agency, the Danish Medicines Agency and the
      Research Ethics Committee are obtained before the initiation of the clinical trial. The
      protocol is approved by the Research Ethics Committee. Side effects caused by medical
      cannabis varies in the literature, thus an individual titration period is implemented. No
      fatal cases have been reported with the use of medical cannabis in human clinical trials.
      Potential beneficial effects are expected when the study subjects are being treated with
      medical cannabis, since a gain in appetite and quality of life is expected through a
      modulation in the endocannabinoid system. Patients are informed that the drug is discontinued
      after the intervention period. The two master's thesis students review patient charts weekly
      to evaluate potential side effects to the drug. The clinical trial is terminated immediately
      in case of serious side effects. Relevant information material is handed out to the study
      subjects.

      Upon loss of muscle mass and function as seen in cancer cachexia, the administration of
      individually titrated doses of medical cannabis could hypothetically slow down the condition
      further, by affecting any negative protein - and energy balance through the endocannabinoid
      system. When relieving cancer cachexia and improving steady-state, we expect improved
      prognosis's for the included patients

      The overall objective of the study is that it must be orientated towards clinical
      significance, so that it can be implemented in clinical practice, thus benefit patients with
      cancer. The short-term goal is that the patients in this trial experience positive effects in
      terms of increased appetite and quality of life. Positive effects may contribute to increased
      research into this area thus resulting in improved evidence. In the longer term, the aim is
      that the results from this study may contribute to a treatment protocol on malnutrition
      recommending the use of medical cannabis based on high scientific evidence, so a larger group
      of patients with cancer may benefit. The results from the study may be used for
      recommendations on doses, side effects and likely beneficial effects when administer medical
      cannabis. The metabolomics analysis can contribute to a improved understanding of the cancer
      cachexia pathophysiology and management in a more experimental matter.
    
  