
    
      The Alabama Study on Early Age-Related Macular Degeneration 2 (ALSTAR2) is a prospective
      cohort study with baseline measurements that are repeated at follow-up 3 years later. The
      baseline and 3 year follow-up visits will each consist of 2 visits for a total of 4 visits.

      Study assessments are listed below. All are collected at two visits at both baseline and
      follow-up for 4 visits total (blood collection for DNA analysis at baseline only). For some
      functional tests (photopic and mesonic acuity, photopic and mesonic contrast sensitivity),
      each eye will be tested separately. For other functional tests (dark-adapted two-color
      perimetry, light-adapted cone-mediate perimetry, rod-mediated dark adaptation), only one eye
      will be tested, which will be designated by the study eye. Tropicamide 1% and phenylephrine
      hydrochloride 2.5% are used to dilate pupils (diameter of ≥ 6 mm) as needed for specific
      parts of the protocol. After completing the baseline visits, participants will receive an
      annual phone call from the study coordinator so that contact information can be updated.
      Participants will receive an annual newsletter containing study related information (this
      will be submitted to the IRB for approval).

      Study Assessments:

        1. Rod-mediated dark adaptation (RMDA), the ability to recover light sensitivity after
           exposure to a bright light.

        2. Dark-adapted two-color microperimetry, a measure of light sensitivity for lights of two
           different colors.

        3. Photopic and mesopic acuity in central vision, as measured by letter charts..

        4. Photopic and mesopic contrast sensitivity in central vision, as measured by letter
           charts..

        5. Multimodal ocular imaging on both eyes, which consists of the following: color fundus
           photography, spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SDOCT), blue fundus
           autofluorescence (standard and quantitative), OCT-angiography (OCT-A).

        6. Blood draw for the analysis of C-reactive protein, high-density lipoprotein, carotenoid
           level, DNA extraction, and examination of the presence of genetic risk associated with
           age-related macular degeneration (AMD).

        7. Questionnaires: Demographics, medical co-morbidities, cognitive status screen,
           medication use, alcohol use, smoking, self-reported visual difficulty in the visual
           activities of daily living

      The Young normal group will only complete:

        1. Rod-mediated dark adaptation (RMDA), the ability to recover light sensitivity after
           exposure to a bright light.

        2. Dark-adapted two-color microperimetry, a measure of light sensitivity for lights of two
           different colors.

        3. . Photopic and mesopic acuity in central vision, as measured by letter charts..

        4. Photopic and mesopic contrast sensitivity in central vision, as measured by letter
           charts..

        5. Multimodal ocular imaging on both eyes, which consists of the following: color fundus
           photography, spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SDOCT), blue fundus
           autofluorescence (standard and quantitative),OCT-angiography (OCT-A).d and
           quantitative), OCT-angiography.
    
  