
    
      Main objective:

      it is, in cancer patients chronically treated with oxaliplatin (over 5 courses) and
      exhibiting signs of neuropathy, to correlate the quantitative changes in the thermal
      sensitivity to hot and cold (Thermotest, Quantitative Sensory Testing QST ) with any changes
      in the ion conductance chlorine measured by electrophysiological technique (SUDOSCAN).

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Correlating the results obtained with both types of techniques and with the descriptive
           parameters of the population included.

        -  Understand the importance of regulating the activity of the chloride channel in the
           development of neuropathy induced by oxaliplatin.

      Methodology :

      Prospective study, single center, intervention in routine care. Time study: February 2015 -
      October 2016

        1. Evaluation of neuropathy by electrophysiological methods (SUDOSCAN) The SUDOSCAN is a
           new technology fast and non-invasive to quantify the degree of neuropathy objectively
           through evaluation of chloride conductance at the skin of the palms and the soles of
           pieds4,5.

        2. Evaluation of neuropathy by devices for quantitative measurement of neuropathic pain

           The pain symptoms was evaluated through various semi-objective neuropathy quantification
           tools (Quantitative Sensory Testing devices) 6:

             -  The Thermotest (Somedic®): medical device that measures the thermal sensitivity
                thresholds to cold and hot: cold sensitivity threshold, threshold of sensitivity to
                hot, cold pain threshold, pain threshold warm. These stimuli are transmitted by the
                fiber Adelta and C. Since dysesthesia to thermal stimuli (allodynia in acute and
                chronical hypoesthesia) are typical of oxaliplatin, Thermotest is fundamental.

             -  Questionnaire NPSI (Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory) widely used in the field
                and validated.

        3. Statistical Analysis: Professor Gilles Chatellier, statistician (Clinical Research Unit,
           Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou) will bring its expertise in statistical analysis.

      NB: For each subject will be awarded an identifier (simple counter: increment as and
      measurement of inclusions) and the data will be entered on a computer file which will be sent
      to the statistician in charge of the analysis. There will be no exchange of personal data for
      this study is single center on the site GHPSJ.

      Development of the study:

        -  Inclusion of patients treated with oxaliplatin from 6th cycle (FOLFOX protocols
           FOLFIRINOX, EOX, GEMOX, EOF, XELOX).

        -  Expected duration of patient recruitment: 9 months

        -  Number of patients to recruit and duration of participation for each patient: Based on
           75 patients seen in 9 months in GHSPJ the oncology department for cancer of the
           digestive tract, and knowing that the prevalence of neuropathic pain in oxaliplatin is
           50-70% (Attal 2009), the investigators plan to include at least 36 patients in this
           period of 9 months.
    
  