
    
      Type 1 diabetes is an organ-specific autoimmune disease characterized by the selective
      destruction of pancreatic β-cells. The histopathology of type 1 diabetes is defined by a
      decreased β-cell mass infiltration of mononuclear cells into the islets of Langerhans , this
      lesion was later called 'insulitis', and it is the hallmark of the disease .

      Insulitis was observed in 70% of patients with acute onset type 1 diabetes and concluded that
      this disease was caused by a β-cell-specific autoimmune process .

      Furthermore, in a study demonstrated cellular autoimmunity in patients with type 1 diabetes
      using the leukocyte migration test and speculated that cellular hypersensitivity was the
      counter part of lymphocytic infiltration in islets . Therefore, it is speculated that
      cell-mediated immunity could play an important part in the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetes .

      As a view suggesting that type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease, there is some evidence
      that type 1 diabetes is often complicated with other autoimmune diseases or that anti-islet
      antibodies precede the clinical onset of the disease.

      So, it is found that type 1 diabetes is frequently associated with other organ-specific
      autoimmune diseases, including hypothyroidism , pernicious anaemia, and idiopathic Addison's
      disease .The most common coexisting organ autoimmune disease is hypothyroidism (>90%), the
      prevalence of anti-thyroid autoantibodies in children with type 1 diabetes at disease onset
      is about 20% .

      It is generally accepted that is a T cell-mediated autoimmune disease and that circulating
      autoantibodies to various islet cell antigens are induced following the destruction of
      pancreatic β cells .

      Furthermore, it is reported that the prevalence of anti-thyroid antibodies increases with
      increasing age and that the presence of anti-thyroid antibodies at diagnosis of type 1
      diabetes predicts the development of future thyroid disease as patients with antithyroid
      antibodies are 18 times more likely to develop thyroid disease than patients without
      anti-thyroid antibodies .

      Therefore, for early detection of hypothyroidism in children with type 1 diabetes, it is
      suggested to measure anti-thyroid antibodies and thyroid stimulating hormone at disease onset
      and in yearly intervals after the age of 12 yr. Furthermore, the International Society for
      Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes Consensus Clinical Guidelines recommend the screening of
      thyroid function by analysing circulating thyroid stimulating hormone at the diagnosis of
      diabetes and, thereafter every 2nd yr. in asymptomatic individuals without goitre and more
      frequent if goitre present .
    
  