
    
      Patients with COVID-19 usually present in the ED and receive their initial medical check-up
      here. It is the ED where crucial diagnostic and therapeutic steps are taken and where the
      decision for admission or discharge is made. As of now, the effectiveness and value of these
      initial measures and decisions are unclear. With still raising numbers of infections despite
      regulatory constraints in place, there is an urgent need to develop valid decision trees on
      how to treat patients suspected with COVID-19 in the ED.

      Apart from the already described risk factors little is known about if and to which degree an
      infection with COVID-19 itself predisposes to other acute conditions (e.g. myocarditis,
      myocardial infarction or stroke). We will try to gather information of comorbidities and
      other conditions at the time of presentation of COVID-19 patients to the ED.

      Not all patients seek medical consultation at the very beginning of symptoms. The course of
      the disease prior to admission as well as the momentary health status at presentation to the
      ED are of interest because they influence risk stratification and decision-making of treating
      physicians. For example: an immunocompromised patient who presents with mild symptoms at a
      very early stage of COVID-19 would probably be deemed more at risk than the same patient who
      reports mild symptoms without progression for a duration of several weeks.

      The ratio of patients with mild or moderate to severe symptoms will help to calculate the
      need for hospital beds including beds on Intensive Care Units (ICU) and Intermediate Care
      Units (IMC), as well as the need for other hospital resources. It will also help to identify
      the need for capacities in ambulatory care. COVID-19 Patients with mild or moderate symptoms
      can remain in quarantine at home. This would not only disburden hospitals but would also
      lower the risk for previously uninfected patients otherwise having to share rooms and wards
      with them.

      Confirming the diagnosis There is uncertainty with regard to the best initial diagnostic in
      COVID-19 patients. Diagnostic tool of choice is a low-dose CT-scan of the thorax, which will
      detect typical radiologic signs of COVID-19 (ground-glass-opacities, bilateral consolidations
      and "crazy paving") with a high sensitivity, and in some cases even before onset of clinical
      symptoms. However, these features are also seen in other viral pneumonias and specificity
      reaches only 25%. Moreover, a CT-scan might not be available 24/7 in all hospitals, is
      time-consuming and exposes radiologic personnel to the risk of infection. Additionally, as is
      described later, many patients present with severe hypoxemia, a situation in which they might
      not be able to lie in a supine position in the CT-scanner. The role of lung ultrasound (LUS)
      in detection of COVID-19 has not been examined properly so far.

      Testing for COVID-19 usually is done using an oral swab (or expectorated sputum) and
      real-time PCR (RT-PCR) after a clinical suspicion based on different parameters and/or after
      visits of the patient to regions with high prevalence of SARS-CoV-2. The sensitivity of this
      method has not been systematically evaluated, however, false-positive, as well as
      false-negative results have been reported. Moreover, there are sometimes contradictory
      results of RT-PCR and CT-scan. The registry will be used to collect and compare diagnostic
      data from radiological exams as well as RT-PCR-testing.

      Many COVID-19 patients present with shortness of breath and hypoxemia. Physicians have used
      different therapeutic approaches including high-flow oxygen (HFNC), non-invasive ventilation
      or intubation and mechanical ventilation. While a trial with non-invasive methods is deemed
      safe and adequate by most experts, others have raised concerns and advocate early intubation
      and invasive ventilation in COVID-19. Participants of the registry will be asked to state the
      method of oxygenation/ventilatory support that was initiated in the ED.

      Admission vs. discharge As has already been laid out, patients with COVID-19 exhibit symptoms
      of different severity. It is neither possible nor would it be reasonable to hospitalize every
      patient in which the condition is suspected or confirmed. Unfortunately, there are no
      diagnostic markers or laboratory cut-offs that help decide if a COVID-19 patient who presents
      to the ED has to be hospitalized or can be safely managed in ambulatory care. Our goal is to
      gather information of outcomes in both hospitalized and discharged patients and to compare
      this data with epidemiological, clinical, laboratory and radiologic data from the date of
      their visit to the ED.

      The ED is the first contact to a hospital. Diagnostic and therapeutic measures from patients
      who are hospitalized due to the severity of their disease will be analyzed as well as
      complications or death during hospitalization. The duration of hospitalization will be
      analyzed and compared to the initial clinical picture.
    
  