
    
      All patients involved in the study will have a PET scan performed. This involves injecting a
      small amount of radiolabelled glucose (sugar) into the blood. A scan will then be performed
      to obtain an image of where in the body that glucose is being used. Patients will also have
      spirometry done. Spirometry is a simple procedure measuring the functioning of the lungs
      (FEV-1) by measuring the amount of air a patient can blow out and inhale (the patient
      breathes into a machine). Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) will be performed. This involves
      putting a small amount of fluid into a section of the lung, then suctioning it out to
      retrieve the cells and molecules contained in the substance lining the lung.

      Subjects will be patients with cystic fibrosis. Ten subjects will be stable with either mild
      or moderate disease. These subjects will receive a PET scan, spirometry, and BAL.

      This portion of the study is made up of 10 stable CF patients, 5 of whom will have mild
      disease, and 5 of whom will have moderate disease. These patients will receive a PET scan,
      spirometry and a BAL over 2 consecutive days. On day 1, patients will have a PET scan and
      spirometry. On day 2, patients will have a BAL.

      Patients will arrive on the first day after fasting for at least 6 hours and will be taken to
      the PET facility. PET scanning consists of a 2-minute scan followed by a 15-minute scan,
      injection of radiolabelled sugar into the vein, and 66 minutes of scanning. The patient will
      then be instructed to empty his or her bladder to reduce total radiation exposure. The
      patient will then be given a meal. Next, the patient will be taken for spirometry, the last
      test of day 1, which simple involves breathing into a machine that measures the amount of air
      inhaled and exhaled. Upon reporting to the GCRC on day 2, the patient will be taken for a BAL
      (the patient will have fasted for at least 6 hours prior to admission). BAL involves a small
      tube placed into the mouth, down the throat, and into the lung (lidocaine is used to numb the
      entire area). Less than 3 tablespoons of saline (salt water) is poured down the tube, then
      immediately sucked back up and collected by the doctor. This is repeated twice, for a total
      of 8 tablespoons of liquid.
    
  