
    
      Myofascial massage is a deep tissue massage that focuses on muscles as well as the connective
      tissue that surrounds muscles, bones, and ligaments. The study team subsequently conducted a
      pilot randomized controlled trial involving 21 women with persistent pain and mobility
      limitations many months after surgery. They found that women who received myofascial massage
      to the affected breast/chest/shoulder had marked reductions in pain and mobility limitations
      and significant improvements in quality of life compared to a control group who received
      relaxation massage. They also established a practice-based research network of over 50
      northeast Ohio massage therapists to guide future work.

      The study team now proposes a full scale randomized controlled trial involving 202 women with
      persistent pain and mobility limitations at 2 participating sites. To help differentiate
      between the specific effects of myofascial massage and non-specific effects due to prolonged
      touch and attention from a massage therapist, the study will include an active control group
      that will receive light touch. Participants in each group will receive 30 minutes of
      treatment twice weekly for 2 months. Primary analyses will determine the impact of myofascial
      massage on pain and mobility limitations. Secondary analyses will examine the impact of
      myofascial massage on a number of secondary outcomes, including range of motion, quality of
      life, sleep, and body image.

      Innovative features of the proposed project include a rigorous randomized controlled trial
      design, inclusion of an active control group, direct targeting of the affected
      breast/chest/shoulder, assessment of multiple mechanistic and patient-centered outcomes, and
      involvement of a massage practice-based research network. Investigators anticipate that the
      project will lead to a new and effective approach for addressing a major source of morbidity
      for women with breast cancer. Furthermore, the project may serve as a model for future trials
      of manual therapy among individuals with chronic medical conditions.
    
  