
    
      Based on clinical and experimental observations the study will focus on defining the effects
      of two different formulas on intestinal permeability, IL (interleukin)-17 immunity, serum
      metabolome, and gut microflora. The study will be based on a randomized pilot intervention
      trial using an intention to treat statistical analysis to compare e.g. gut permeability
      between the two treatment groups. The investigators hypothesize that the extensively
      hydrolyzed casein formula decreases intestinal permeability, down-regulates IL-17 immunity
      and proinflammatory lysophosphatidylcholines, and stabilize Lactobacilli levels in the gut
      microflora when compared to the conventional cow's milk formula. The study population
      comprises 120 newborn infants with HLA(Human Leukocyte Antigen)-conferred susceptibility to
      T1D. The mothers will be encouraged to exclusively breast-feed their infants as long as
      possible. The timing of weaning and introduction of study formula will be left to the mother.
      The infants are randomized to be weaned to one of two study formulas: ( i) standard cow's
      milk formula and (ii) an extensively hydrolyzed casein formula. The target will be that the
      infant should be exposed to his/her study formula for at least 90 days before the age of 270
      days. The diet of the infant will be studied with 3-day food records at the age of 3, 6, 9,
      and 12 months of age. To estimate the amount of breast milk received the weight of the infant
      will be measured just before and after each lactation. The HLA genotype will be analyzed from
      cord blood, and the result will be available within 10 days after birth. The family will
      visit the Study Center when the infant is 3, 6, 9, and 12-month-old. Blood samples will be
      obtained on each visit. In addition the families are asked to collect stool samples at home
      once a month during the study. Intestinal permeability will be assessed with the
      lactulose/mannitol test at the age of 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. Gut microflora will be analyzed
      with high-throughput, culture-independent methods and serum metabolome with established
      metabolomics platforms. Il-17 immunity will be studied using peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells. This work will generate novel knowledge of the disease process leading to overt T1D by
      studying potential mechanism(s) mediating the protective effect conferred by an extensively
      hydrolyzed casein formula against beta-cell autoimmunity. The identification of such
      mechanism(s) will most likely facilitate the refinement of effective preventive measures
      based on modifications of early infant nutrition.
    
  