
    
      XXY (also known as Klinefelter syndrome) is the most common chromosomal abnormality in males,
      affecting 1/600 boys. The extra X chromosome leads to insufficient development of the
      testicles and subsequent testosterone deficiency. Males with XXY also have a high risk for
      developmental delays, learning disabilities, and cardiovascular disease. An essential
      question is how much of this risk is because of testosterone deficiency and could therefore
      be reduced by testosterone supplementation, particularly during critical periods of
      development.

      In typical male development, there is a surge of testosterone in the first few months of
      life, commonly known as the "mini-puberty period of infancy." This testosterone surge may be
      critical for neurodevelopmental and cardiometabolic programming throughout life. Recently
      there has been increased off-label use of testosterone in infants with XXY, however neither
      the short or long term safety or efficacy have been evaluated. This study aims to quantify
      the short term effects of testosterone treatment in infants with XXY on neurodevelopment,
      growth, body composition, testicular function, and safety parameters. This is a double blind
      randomized placebo controlled trial of testosterone injections 25 mg every 4 weeks for 3
      doses in boys with XXY enrolled between 1 and 3 months of age. Outcomes including body fat
      percentage, scaled motor developmental scores, growth velocity, testicular hormone
      concentrations, specific metabolites, and safety parameters will be assessed 12 weeks into
      the study. The groups will then cross-over (all subjects will receive testosterone during the
      study period) and the outcomes will be reassessed 24 weeks into the study. The secondary
      questions the investigators will answer with this cross-over is 1) whether benefits in the
      treatment group at 12 weeks are sustained at 24 weeks, and 2) whether the same benefits are
      seen if treated after the mini-puberty period.
    
  