
    
      INVESTIGATIONAL THERAPY Cycla Orthopedics Ltd has developed the CYCLAPLEX , a minimally
      invasive enhanced type of Suture and Button implant. It is intended to: (a) reduce the
      intermetatarsal angle (IMA) between 1MT and 2MT without osteotomy osteotomy b) reduce the
      risk of 2MT fractures (d) perform the implantation procedure in an easy and safe way.

      The CYCLAPLEX predicated device is the "Suture and Button" type MiniTightrope. It is based on
      Mini Tightrope clinical experience, however with additional features to increase safety and
      functionality.

      The CyclaPlex device comprise of two bone holders ('Anchors ') connected by a metal cord. The
      cord is connected to the buttons by crimp method as part of the surgery procedures The bone
      holders are T shape screws that are screwed into the bones after drilling holes across the 2
      metatarsals. The gap in the bone as a result of the drilling is filled by the enhanced T
      shape buttons (screws). A nut is residing internally as part of the 1st met anchor structure.
      The IMA is reduced using specially designed tensioning tool CyclaPlex device is indicated for
      reducing intermetatarsal angles in cases where IMA is less than 200 eliminating the need for
      the traditional 1st metatarsal osteotomy. It used in conjunction with traditional release of
      the lateral MTP joint capsular structures and removal of the medial eminence as well as
      regular HVA reduction procedures such as AKIN.

      The 2nd Metatarsal fracture risk is reduced due multiple/ accumulated factors:

      (i) The hole drilled at 2nd metatarsal had been reduced significantly (ii) The hole is filled
      by conical screw and head. This firm anchoring method enable to distribute the horizontal
      forces applied during gate.

      (iii) The metal screw type device enables bone growth over it and strengthen the bone at that
      area.

      (iv) The connecting cord is housed inside the screw and has no direct touch with the bone, in
      both, 2nd and 1st metatarsals.

      The device is delivered sterilized ( steam sterilization) double bag residing in cardboard
      box.

      Dedicated assistive tools for multiple use are provided as well housed in a special tray
      intended for surgery room steam sterilization. The tools comprise of Aiming Drilling Guide,,
      screw driver for anchors insertion, Tensioning tool for reduction of the IMA, Crimping tool,
      cutter, single use drill bits
    
  