
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel
           with or without trastuzumab (Herceptin®) in women with operable, node-positive breast
           cancer that overexpresses HER2.

        -  Compare the effect of these regimens on disease-free and overall survival of these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to number
      of positive nodes (1-3 vs 4-9 vs 10 or more), administration of hormonal therapy (tamoxifen
      vs anastrozole vs neither), surgery/radiotherapy (lumpectomy plus breast irradiation vs
      lumpectomy plus breast irradiation plus regional irradiation vs mastectomy without
      radiotherapy vs mastectomy with radiotherapy), paclitaxel schedule (every 3 weeks vs weekly),
      and participating center. Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm 1: Patients receive doxorubicin IV and cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes on day 1.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses. Approximately 3 weeks after the last
           course, patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours every 21 days for 4 courses OR
           paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly for 12 weeks (12 doses).

        -  Arm 2: Patients receive chemotherapy as in arm I and trastuzumab (Herceptin®) IV over 90
           minutes on day 1 of the first course of paclitaxel. Trastuzumab is then administered IV
           over 30 minutes weekly for 51 weeks, beginning on day 8.

      All patients with estrogen or progesterone receptor-positive tumors receive hormonal therapy*
      for at least 5 years, beginning within 3-12 weeks after the last dose of chemotherapy.
      Patients who have received prior tamoxifen for prevention may be treated with additional
      tamoxifen for no more than 5 years at the discretion of the principal investigator (PI).

      NOTE: *Other hormonal therapeutic agents are allowed in sequence with or as an alternative to
      tamoxifen therapy.

      All patients previously treated with lumpectomy undergo breast irradiation beginning after
      completion of chemotherapy and concurrently with trastuzumab (in arm 2) administration.
      Patients previously treated with mastectomy may also receive radiotherapy. Radiotherapy is
      administered daily for 5-6 weeks.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,700 patients will be accrued for this study within 4.75
      years.
    
  