
    
      The thymus is the major organ of T cell production and is generally believed to be
      nonfunctional in adults. Even if nonfunctional, it is destroyed by HIV infection while T
      cells are destroyed in the peripheral lymphoid system. Given the absence of new T cell
      production and a pathologic acceleration of T cell destruction, the immune system collapses
      and immunodeficiency ensues.

      However, some studies have demonstrated thymic function in adults with HIV disease. Such
      function may be induced by positive feedback regulation of T cell production and the presence
      or absence of such function may play a determinant role in disease progression and response
      to highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). These studies suggest that the thymus is
      functional in many adults with HIV disease and that thymic function might be induced as a
      consequence of HIV-mediated peripheral T cell depletion. Growth hormone is a potent regulator
      of thymic function. This study will determine whether true thymic function can be induced in
      HIV infected adults, whether such induction is indeed prompted by growth hormone, and whether
      thymic function plays a role in sustaining the T cell compartment in the face of peripheral T
      cell depletion.

      Twenty-four volunteers will be enrolled in this 2 year study. All participants will receive
      12 months of treatment with human growth hormone. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      one of two study arms. Twelve participants (Arm 1) will receive growth hormone during the
      first year of the study (3 mg given daily by subcutaneous injection, with dose reduction to
      1.5 mg after 6 months). Twelve participants (Arm 2) will be enrolled in an observational
      control arm (no placebo injections) that will cross over to growth hormone treatment after 1
      year. Participants, whether in Arm 1 or Arm 2, will have as many as 24 scheduled study visits
      during the 2 years after enrollment. In general, study visits occur every every 1 to 3
      months. Study visits will include physical exams, blood tests, CT scans, PET scans, and DEXA
      scans.
    
  