
    
      The BioMed rTSST-1 Variant Vaccine has been developed by Biomedizinische ForschungsgmbH as
      one component of a polyvalent staphylococcal vaccine for the prevention of toxic shock and
      hyperimmunization of donors for the production of TSST-1 immunoglobulin.

      This is a prospective, randomized, parallel control, phase 2 study of extended safety, local
      tolerance, immunogenicity, and TSST-1 antibody persistence in healthy adults, who have been
      vaccinated with one, two or three doses of the BioMed rTSST1 Variant Vaccine compared to
      adjuvant.

      Over a period of 60 days prior to entry into the study, 145 male and female subjects 18 - 64
      years in age will be screened for eligibility. Screening criteria will include physical
      examination, medical history, pregnancy/ adequate contraception in females, HIV Ab, hepatitis
      C virus antibodies (HCV Ab), hepatitis B antigen (HBs Ag) and TSST-1 Ab. 140 qualified
      subjects will be entered into the study.

      Group 1 will receive 10 µg of rTSST-1 Variant Vaccine and two administrations of Adjuvant;
      Group 2 will receive the same dose of Vaccine twice and one dose of Adjuvant; and Group 3
      will be injected the 10 µg of the Vaccine three times. Groups 4 to 6 will be given 100 µg of
      Vaccine following the same schedule. Group 7 will receive Al(OH3) adjuvant three times.

      Prior to, and 24 h (+3 h) after each vaccination, the subjects will be examined for vital
      signs. Blood will be drawn for hematology, clinical chemistry tests, and C-reactive protein.
      Local reactions and adverse events will be assessed in all post vaccination visits.

      The subjects will be followed up for a period of 3 months (± 2 weeks) or optionally 18 months
      (± 12 weeks) if they decide to take part in the long-term follow-up, during which they will
      return to the clinic every three months (± 2 weeks). Tests performed will include vital
      signs, local reactions, clinical chemistry, C-reactive protein. Adverse events will be
      recorded.

      Binding and neutralizing TSST-1 antibodies will be determined prior to each vaccination and
      every three months during the treatment and follow-up periods.

      Each participant will be in the study for 12 to 14, or optionally 24 months, if they decide
      to take part in the long-term follow-up.

      Immunogenicity is defined by seroconversion from a TSST-1 Ab titer of < 20 to > 40 or a
      4-fold increase in TSST-1 Ab titer. Neutralization will be defined as a three-fold increase
      of neutralization titer.
    
  