
    
      This is a single-centre prospective physiological study.

        1. Participants will be recruited through MDTs and clinics.

        2. Baseline screening blood tests will be performed.

        3. Baseline MRI will be undertaken to identify lesions to be studied. This will be followed
           by hyperpolarised carbon-13 MRSI after the injection of hyperpolarised 13C-pyruvate.
           Scanning with 18F-FDG PET in combination with CT or MRI may optionally be performed in
           the same imaging visit.

        4. A subset of patients (up to 10) will undergo repeat hyperpolarised carbon-13 MRSI within
           5 days of baseline imaging to assess for reproducibility of the imaging test.

        5. Where possible, image-guided biopsy will be performed to obtain tissue from selected
           lesions for analysis.

        6. During the first month of and later during systemic anticancer therapy, MRI and
           carbon-13 MRSI will be again carried out to assess to look for changes in pyruvate
           metabolism. If possible, a further biopsy will be undertaken at this stage. Scanning
           with 18F-FDG PET in combination with CT or MRI may optionally be performed in the same
           imaging visit.

        7. MRI and carbon-13 MRSI will be carried out after the full course of systemic anticancer
           therapy, to assess for treatment response and to identify lesions in preparation for
           tissue extraction at surgery. Scanning with 18F-FDG PET in combination with CT or MRI
           may optionally be performed in the same imaging visit.

        8. During surgery, tissue samples will be collected either by excision or biopsy.

        9. MRI may be performed after surgery in selected patients.

       10. In up to 10 participants, carbon-13 MRSI will be done 3 to 6 weeks after surgery to look
           for areas of pyruvate or lactate accumulation that may correlate with long term
           prognosis. Only participants who are not part of the subset undergoing retest carbon-13
           MRSI to assess for reproducibility will be invited for post-surgical carbon-13 MRSI,
           this is to keep the number of carbon-13 MRSI scans each participant has at a maximum of
           four in order to minimise inconvenience to participants caused by having to make repeat
           visits for imaging.

       11. Participants will be followed up for one year in the clinic and/or through their GP.
    
  