
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the complete pathological response (pCR) in the breast/axillary lymph nodes
           in women with stage II or III breast cancer treated with neoadjuvant therapy comprising
           paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation, carboplatin, and bevacizumab
           followed by surgery and adjuvant bevacizumab.

        -  To determine the side effects of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging in assessing pCR.

        -  To measure LZTS1 gene expression before and after neoadjuvant therapy to evaluate
           whether LZTS1 gene expression correlates with pCR.

        -  To evaluate the feasibility and toxicity of adjuvant bevacizumab when administered for 6
           months.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Neoadjuvant therapy: Patients receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle
           formulation IV over 30 minutes and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15
           and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days
           for 5 courses. After completion of course 5, patients receive paclitaxel
           albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation IV over 30 minutes and carboplatin IV over
           30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients then proceed to surgery.

        -  Surgery: Approximately 4-5 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant therapy, patients
           undergo definitive surgery (either lumpectomy or mastectomy). Patients with
           node-positive disease or inflammatory breast cancer at baseline also undergo axillary
           lymph node dissection. Patients then proceed to adjuvant therapy.

        -  Adjuvant therapy: Beginning approximately 6 weeks after surgery, patients receive
           bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes once every 3 weeks for 6 months. Patients with hormone
           receptor-positive disease also receive endocrine therapy. Patients may also receive
           additional adjuvant chemotherapy or radiotherapy at the discretion of the treating
           physician.

      Patients undergo dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging at baseline, after
      course 2 of neoadjuvant therapy, and after completion of neoadjuvant therapy (prior to
      definitive surgery) for assessment of tumor response. Tumor tissue is collected at baseline
      and during surgery for correlative laboratory studies. LZST1 gene expression is assessed by
      immunohistochemistry before and after neoadjuvant therapy.
    
  