
    
      Cancer cells can be recognized by the patient's own immune system, a process that is referred
      to as the "cancer immunity cycle" (Chen & Mellman 2013; Mellman 2013; Chen & Mellman 2017).

      Remarkable anti-tumor activity has been achieved by blocking the inhibitory T-cell receptor
      CTLA-4 and/or the PD-1/-L1 axis. Immune checkpoint inhibition by monoclonal antibody (mAb)
      therapy has become a standard of care in patients with advanced melanoma, renal cell
      carcinoma, non-small cell lung carcinoma, Hodgkin's lymphoma and bladder cancer. Indications
      are continuously expanding. Activity of PD-1/-L1 and CTLA-4 inhibition has been correlated
      with hallmarks of pre-existing anti-tumor T-cell response (presence of activated cytotoxic T
      lymphocytes (CTL) in the tumor microenvironment (TME) as evident from transcription profiles)
      and PD-L1 expression by tumor cells (in response to T-cell secreted IFN-). Mutational load of
      the cancer cells and presence of highly immunogenic neo-epitopes in the cancer cell genome
      underlies the capacity for cancer cells to elicit an immune response (Tumeh, Harview et al.
      2014). Responsiveness to treatment with CTLA-4 has been correlated with the expression of HLA
      class I molecules by the cancer cells (Tumeh, Harview et al. 2014).

      In immune-evasive tumors a pivotal role has been attributed to the elimination of myeloid
      dendritic cells (myDC) from the TME. myDC play a pivotal role in the initiation and
      coordination of the activity of anti-tumor CTL activity within the TME (Rodig, Gusenleitner
      et al. 2017). In animal models, myDC have been demonstrated to play an essential role in
      "licensing" anti-tumor CTLs to eradicate tumor cells. Activation of oncogenic signaling
      pathways such as the WNT/Catenin pathway can lead to the exclusion of myeloid DC from the TME
      (Broz et al. 2014; Spranger & Gajewski 2016). Absence of myDCs at the invasive margin and
      within metastases has been correlated with defective CTL activation allowing the metastasis
      to escape the anti-tumor immune response (Salmon, Idoyaga et al. 2016). These myDC also
      migrate to tumor-draining lymph nodes and present tumor antigens to T-cells in these
      secondary lymphoid organs (Salmon, Idoyaga et al. 2016). In mouse models, tumor-residing
      Batf3 dendritic cells were shown to be required for effector T Cell trafficking and success
      of adoptive T-cell therapy (Roberts et al. 2016). Presence of myeloid DC's was more strongly
      correlated with a "T-cell inflamed TME signature" as compared to neo-antigen load in 266
      melanomas from The Cancer Genome Atlas (Spranger, Luke et al. 2016).

      Two important human myDCs subsets exist that are differentiated by expression of either the
      BDCA-1 or BDCA-3 surface marker. The CD1c (BDCA-1)+ antigen is specifically expressed on
      human dendritic cells, which are CD11chighCD123low and represent the major subset of myDCs in
      human blood (about 0.6 % of all peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs)). CD1c (BDCA-1)+
      myDC have a monocytoid morphology and express myeloid markers such as CD13 and CD33 as well
      as Fc receptors such as CD32, CD64, and FceRI. Furthermore, myDC are determined to be CD4+,
      Lin (CD3, CD16, CD19, CD20, CD56)-, CD2+, CD45RO+, CD141 (BDCA-3)-, CD303 (BDCA-2)-, and
      CD304 (BDCA-4/Neuropilin-1)-.

      A proportion of CD1c (BDCA-1)+ myDC co-expresses CD14 and CD11b. These dual positive cells
      for CD14 and CD1c (BDCA-1) have immunosuppressive capacity and inhibit T-cell proliferation
      in vitro. Depletion of this cell type is preferred prior to using CD1c (BDCA-1)+ cells for
      immune-stimulatory purposes (Bakdash, Buschow et al. 2016).

      CD1c (BDCA-1)+ myDC play an important role in the cross-presentation of tumor antigens
      following immunogenic cell death (Di Blasio, Wortel et al. 2016). Under conditions of tumor
      growth, myDC will be poorly recruited to the tumor microenvironment, do not get activated and
      thereby fail to efficiently coordinate anti-tumor immunity within the tumor micro-environment
      and present tumor associated antigens within tumor-draining lymph nodes. When activated
      appropriately, human CD1c (BDCA-1)+ dendritic cells secrete high levels of IL-12 and potently
      prime CTL responses (Di Blasio, Wortel et al. 2016). In vitro, IL-12 production by CD1c
      (BDCA-1)+ myDC can be boosted by exogenous IFN-(Nizzoli, Krietsch et al. 2013) CD1c (BDCA-1)+
      myDC spontaneously "partially mature" within 12 hours following their isolation. Optimal
      maturation with secretion of IFN- as well as the orientation of stimulated T-lymphocytes
      towards a Th1 phenotype is only achieved following Toll-like receptor stimulation (Nizzoli,
      Krietsch et al. 2013).

      Animal models have established the safety and efficacy of intra-tumoral administration of
      ipilimumab. An intratumoral dose of CTLA-4 blocking mAb administered at a ratio of [1:100]
      compared to intravenous dosing was found to result in equivalent anti-tumor effect and was
      associated with less systemic toxicity (Skold, van Beek et al. 2015) (Marabelle, Kohrt et al.
      2013). In an ongoing clinical trial for patients with advanced melanoma, conducted by our
      research group, intratumoral injection of CD1c (BDCA-1)+ myDC together with the CTLA-4
      blocking mAb ipilimumab plus intravenous administration of the PD-1 blocking mAb nivolumab
      have been proven feasible and safe. Intratumoral administration of an anti-PD-L1 IgG1 mAb may
      increase the potential for antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) and complement
      dependent cytotoxicity (CDC).

      Additionally, the investigators have previously investigated the utility of SBRT to primary
      tumor and metastatic locations in oligometastatic non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC)
      patients and found that this treatment was feasible, safe and resulted in an overall
      metabolic response rate in 60% of the treated population, with 30% of patients achieving a
      complete metabolic remission (Collen, Christian et al. 2014). Radiation therapy (RT) has been
      recognized as potentially synergistic with immune checkpoint blockade. Tumor cell killing by
      radiation results in release of tumor antigens, reduces the immunosuppression within the TME
      and can reinvigorate the cancer-immunity cycle by upregulation of immunogenic cell surface
      markers and inducing immunogenic cell death (Dewan, Galloway et al. 2009; Kulzer, Rubner et
      al. 2014; Frey, Ruckert et al. 2017). Moreover, it has been shown that RT-induced immunogenic
      cell death can trigger DC maturation and activation in vitro (Kulzer et al. 2014), providing
      a clear rationale for combining DC-therapy together with RT.

      In this randomized phase II clinical trial, the investigators propose to conduct
      hypofractionated SBRT in combination with systemic PD-1 immune checkpoint blockade
      (pembrolizumab) with or without intratumoral PD-L1/CTLA-4 inhibition plus intratumoral
      administration of CD1c (BDCA-1)+ / CD141 (BDCA-3)+ myDC.
    
  