
    
      Proline is a non-essential amino acid. Its synthesis and catabolism is via the pathway of
      ornithine and glutamate, the latter two amino acids serve as its immediate precursors as well
      as metabolites. Ornithine is one of the intermediates for urea cycle, and glutamate is
      metabolically connected to tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, the major cycle for energy
      production.

      It is hypothesized that the significantly increased rates of net nitrogen loss and energy
      "production", as the consequence of the accelerated activities of both the urea and TCA
      cycles in burn injury "drain" both ornithine and glutamate, thus depleting tissues of the
      availability of proline. Hence, the de novo synthesis of proline is likely to be affected by
      the reduced availability of its major precursors: glutamate and ornithine.

      This hypothesis is supported by 1) tissue and circulating glutamine content are reduced in
      stressed conditions; 2) ornithine disposal via oxidation is significantly increased after
      burn injury(2). Therefore, the availability of proline is likely to be limiting after burn
      injury for the synthesis of proteins. On the other hand, proline requirement is significantly
      increased in burn patients due to the high demand for tissue repair and wound healing. As a
      result, providing an adequate proportion of its precursors, glutamine / glutamate and / or as
      preformed proline, is of importance to maintain the appropriate supply and balance of amino
      acids for protein and other synthetic functions after burn injury.

      The overall purpose of the study is to evaluate the effect of depleting proline supply in the
      nutritional support regimen on proline metabolism in the burn patients, this includes the
      rate of proline oxidation after burn injury, the rate of proline de novo synthesis from its
      immediate precursors glutamate and ornithine. The specific aims of the proposed study are: 1)
      to determine the kinetic status of proline metabolism and whole body proline balance under
      the following nutritional states: (a) "fasting; (b) regular total parenteral nutrition (TPN);
      (c)TPN with isonitrogenous depletion of proline, glutamate and ornithine metabolism under
      nutritional conditions studied in specific aim 1) above.
    
  