
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the response rate three months post-conventionally fractionated radiotherapy,
      relative to baseline, for bone metastases in breast cancer patients receiving concurrent
      palbociclib and hormone therapy treatment.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether conventionally fractionated radiotherapy in combination with
      palbociclib and hormone therapy in breast cancer patients with bone metastases adversely
      increases the frequency and severity of palbociclib toxicities including grade 3 neutropenia.

      II. To determine whether radiotherapy in combination with palbociclib in breast cancer
      patients with bone metastases adversely increases the frequency and severity of radiotherapy
      toxicities including neurological and bone injury.

      III. To assess fatigue, quality of life, and depression before and after radiotherapy for
      bone metastases in metastatic breast cancer patients treated with palbociclib.

      IV. To determine progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in breast cancer
      patients treated with palbociclib and concurrent radiotherapy to bone metastases.

      V. To evaluate the relationship between volume of irradiated bone and side effects of
      treatment, including leukopenia and neutropenia.

      TRANSLATIONAL RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To collect, store, and analyze circulating tumor-derived deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) in
      metastatic breast cancer patients treated with palbociclib and radiotherapy to bone
      metastases and to determine the relationship between ctDNA and responders versus
      non-responders, PFS, and OS.

      II. To collect, store, and analyze plasma for inflammatory cytokine measurements and
      determine their relationship with fatigue, depression, and quality of life before and after
      radiotherapy for bone metastases in metastatic breast cancer patients treated with
      palbociclib.

      III. To collect, store, and analyze ribonucleic acid (RNA) for gene expression to identify
      functional biology processes over-represented in genes differentially regulated among
      patients who develop toxicities versus those who do not and those who are responders versus
      those who are not and to identify transcriptional regulatory pathways driving observed
      differences in gene expression.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo conventional radiation therapy over 5-10 days and receive palbociclib orally
      (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. At the discretion of treating physician, patients also
      receive letrozole, anastrozole, exemestane, or tamoxifen PO QD on days 1-28, or fulvestrant
      intramuscularly (IM) on days 1 and 15 of cycles 1 and on day 1 of subsequent cycles. Cycles
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 and 3 months.
    
  