
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of Akt/ERK Inhibitor ONC201 (ONC201) in
      combination with radiotherapy before a tumor resection in recurrent glioblastoma (GBM)
      patients.

      II. To determine the ability of ONC201 to decrease glioblastoma-initiating cells as
      determined by percentage of neurosphere formation of treated brain tumor tissues compared to
      non-treated brain tumor tissues.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the ability of ONC201 to decrease glioblastoma-initiating cells as determined
      by expression of glioma stem cells using ribonucleic acid-sequencing (RNA-Seq) of treated
      brain tumor tissues compared to non-treated brain tumor tissues.

      II. To assess the ability of ONC201 to inhibit Akt by evaluating progressive disease (PD)
      markers by immunohistochemistry such as Sox2, Oct3/4, Nanog, Akt and p-Akt, GSK3 and
      pGSK3alpha.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). II. To determine
      the immunogenicity of the combination of ONC201 + radiation therapy (RT) via immune cell
      studies.

      III. To determine if the combination of ONC201 + RT leads to increase cholesterol synthesis.

      IV. To determine molecular markers of response to ONC201 in correlation to survival such as
      DRD5 expression.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo radiation therapy for 10 fractions over 2 weeks, and receive ONC201
      orally (PO) daily on days 1, 2, 8, and 9. Beginning 24 hours after completion of radiation
      therapy, patients undergo surgical resection. Beginning 7 days from last pre-surgery dose of
      ONC201, patients receive ONC201 PO daily on two consecutive days weekly (2 days on/5 days
      off) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo radiation therapy for 10 fractions over 2 weeks. Beginning 24 hours
      after completion of radiation therapy, patients undergo surgical resection. After recovery
      from surgery, patients receive ONC201 PO daily on two consecutive days weekly (2 days on/5
      days off) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3
      months.
    
  