
    
      The study population correspond to male and female patients with idiopathic dilated
      cardiomyopathy.

      51 patients diagnosed with this disease are included. After inclusion, will proceed to the
      random allocation to study group or control group in a 2:1 ratio, 34 patients in the
      treatment group and 17 in the control group.

      The total duration is expected to be 48 months: The inclusion period is 24 months and each
      patient assigned to the experimental group will be followed for 24 months, whereas that one
      ramdomized to the control group, will have a folow-up of 12 months. Upon completion there of,
      the patients will be followed in routine clinical practice.

      This is a double blind study, in which all patients will perform the bone marrow harvesting.

      All patients will receive the best medical treatment individualized (ACEIs or Angiotensin II
      receptor blocker, beta-blockers, diuretics and eplerenone) for at least 6 months prior to
      their participation in the clinical trial, so that the situation is stable and
      pharmacological basal condition is the same for everyone.

      The bone marrow cells of patients assigned to placebo group will be cryopreserved, and once
      the trial is completed, the blind will be opened and all the patients who had been randomized
      to the control group, may be processed by the route of compassionate use with their own
      mononuclear bone marrow cells previously frozen.

      The patients who are randomized to experimental group will be treated by the conventional
      treatment + infusion of autologous mononuclear bone marrow cells not expanded whereas the
      patients who are randomized to control group will be treated by the conventional treatment +
      infusion of placebo.

      The main objective is to assess comparative the efficacy of intracoronary injection of bone
      marrow stem cells autologous to improve ventricular function in patients with idiopathic
      dilated cardiomyopathy who receive conventional medical treatment, compared with a control
      group who receive a infusion of placebo and conventional medical treatment. The improvement
      in ventricular function assessed by changes in angiographically determined ejection fraction.

      Secondary objectives of the study are:

      - To analyze the predictors of good clinical response, functional and biological treatment
      with adult stem cells autologous mononuclear bone marrow not expanded in terms of functional
      recovery.

      The following parameters were evaluated: Functional class (NYHA), Natriuretic peptide B,
      Stress test (exercise time), Echocardiographic parameters of ventricular function, for
      example LVEF (%), TDV (ml), TSV (ml) and TAPSE (ms) and Biological parameters of cellular
      functionality, for example CD133 +, CD34 +, CD34 +/CD177 + and CD34 +/CD38- (in %).

      - To determine, in the light of the obtained results, the application protocol suitable cell
      therapy for the treatment of dilated cardiomyopathy.
    
  