
    
      Introduction Noncommunicable diseases overtook infectious diseases as the leading cause of
      death in … and despite concerted efforts, continue to result in the deaths of millions
      worldwide each year. A growing body of literature links these diseases with modern
      lifestyles, which have increased intake of calorie-dense nonnutritive foods combined with a
      lack of physical activity. Obese and overweight patients have increased risk of developing
      cardiovascular disease, and to an increasing extent, cancer, worldwide. These general trends
      are mirrored in the country of the United Arab Emirates, as well as in the specific location
      of this trial, the emirate of Abu Dhabi.

      Existing knowledge The latest available data from the Department of Health of Abu Dhabi show
      that cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death among both the expatriate and
      national populations of the emirate of Abu Dhabi (1). This trend has been stable over time
      despite concerted efforts. Particularly striking is that cardiovascular disease was listed as
      the cause of death in over 39% of those over the age of 45. In the over 60 years of age
      cohort, this outweighs the combined effect of the second, third and fourth leading causes of
      death, cancer, respiratory diseases, and infectious disease, respectively. (2) A survey of
      the Middle East and North Africa showed that suboptimal diet was the leading risk factor for
      cardiometabolic disease (CMD) deaths and estimated that this pattern of eating accounted for
      72% of CMD deaths in the UAE. In particular, the low consumption of whole grains was
      responsible for 22% of CMD deaths in the UAE. Other risk factors included high levels of
      processed meat, red meat, and sugar sweetened beverages (3).

      The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) is a well known, durable, and broadly recommended diet
      and exercise program which results in improvement in known cardiovascular risk factors such
      as total cholesterol (TC), low density lipoproteins (LDL), triglycerides (TG), body mass
      index (BMI), blood pressure (BP) and glucose (4). The key advantage of the DPP diet is its
      flexibility and that it is not severely restrictive, and therefore is also appropriate for
      the vast majority of people, which lends itself to health promotion in group or family
      settings. Perhaps because of its acceptability, the proportion of participants remains high
      at the 10 and 15 year follow ups in the follow on Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study
      (DPPOS) with sustained improvement in cardiovascular risk profile when compared to placebo
      (5,6,7).

      Studies done in the UAE show that despite knowledge of healthy diet and exercise practices,
      barriers exist to lifestyle change. For example, a study of patients in the UAE with type 2
      diabetes showed only 3% of the surveyed population of 390 patients in the UAE met numerous
      guidelines' recommendations for 150 minutes of moderate intensity aerobic activity or 90
      minutes of vigorous aerobic activity per week (8). The reasons given by the participants for
      this study for not exercising included cultural reasons (29.2%), "exercise is boring"
      (20.3%), and lack of family support (4.1%). Despite availability and access to individual
      appointments with dieticians based in primary health centers, rates of obesity, overweight,
      and cardiovascular disease risk factors have remained stable.

      Need for a trial: To the investigators' knowledge, no study has investigated the effect of
      family based lifestyle interventions led by a health coach and supported by technological
      aids such as fitness trackers and smartphone applications to track dietary intake. In the
      setting of the traditional culture of the nationals of the UAE, family based interventions
      that specifically address cultural and religious mores and accommodate family obligations may
      have a greater benefit than individual dietician visits. There may also be greater adherence
      to physical activity and health eating habits if the family commits to this lifestyle
      together.

      Comparators The current practice in the primary health centers is to identify individual
      Emiratis who are obese and overweight and refer these patients to obesity clinics run by
      family physicians and to dieticians. These are all appointment based individual visits in the
      primary health center. Age and gender matched controls will be selected consecutively from
      patients undergoing usual care to populate the control group.

      Study results may influence health care policy and practice through allocation of clinic
      resources by the government and through health insurance coverage. The study is designed to
      assess for superiority of the EHHP intervention, which if proven, can guide future policy and
      practice.

      Objectives Research hypothesis: The Emirates Heart Health Program (EHHP), a family based diet
      and exercise intervention using a family health coach with technological aids, has additional
      benefit in reducing cardiovascular risk factors when compared to the current usual management
      of obese and overweight patients in the emirate of Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.

      Study Objectives:

      Primary objective: to determine if the EHHP is superior to usual current practices in
      reduction of weight and BMI in obese and overweight Emiratis.

      Secondary objectives: to determine in obese and overweight Emiratis, if the EHHP is superior
      to usual current practices in:

        -  Reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressure

        -  Reduction in hemoglobin A1c

        -  Reduction in total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol and triglycerides

        -  Increasing HDL.

      Setting: The pilot study will take place in Neima Primary Healthcare Center, in the emirate
      of Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. This center serves a patient population that is more than
      90% Emirati, which will be of benefit in enrolling sufficient numbers of members of Emirati
      families who meet the inclusion criteria for the study, as well as to allow the selection of
      age and gender matched controls.

      Methods and analysis Trial design The EHHP is designed as a nonrandomized, controlled,
      unblinded single-center superiority trial with two parallel groups. Randomization will be
      performed as individual randomization with a 1:1 age and gender matched allocation.

      Interventions For the intervention group, a health coach will deliver a 16 session program
      with weekly teaching sessions and discussion that will take place in the family's home. These
      teaching sessions have been contextualized from the DPP material to suit local culture and
      customs and translated from English to Arabic. The material for each session follows a set
      structure and is largely scripted for standardization. The health coach will review each
      participant's weight, dietary logbook, and exercise records weekly and provide additional
      support as needed. Measurement of height, weight, blood pressure and blood samples will occur
      in the primary health center at study enrollment, at 8 weeks into the intervention, and at
      the conclusion of the intervention period.

      Age and gender matched controls from the same primary health center will be followed for the
      same period of time, and outcome measures from both the intervention and control groups will
      be compared at the conclusion of the intervention to assess for a statistically significant
      difference.

      The DPP, on which the EHHP is based, is a flexible, individualized program that allows each
      participant to follow the preference according to individual needs. For example, participants
      that are completely sedentary at study enrollment are advised to gradually and consistently
      increase physical activity with the goal of performing 150 minutes a week of moderate aerobic
      exercise by the end of the intervention, rather than starting at some preset amount of
      exercise in week 1.

      The health coach will be monitoring each participant's attendance of the weekly teaching
      sessions, offering make up teaching as needed on an individual basis while encouraging
      participation in the family's efforts at adhering to the program. The health coach will also
      be monitoring each participant's progress in increasing physical activity and making healthy
      dietary choices. Each participant will be encouraged to ask for help, advice, and support
      from the health coach during the intervention period.

      Participants with diabetes, hypertension, or other comorbid conditions will be encouraged to
      continue any individual treatment plans under the ongoing care of the primary physician and
      specialists. Participants are advised that medications may need to be adjusted by the
      preexisting care team in case weight loss results in significant changes in blood sugar or
      blood pressure. As long as the participant agrees to continue in the study, enrollment in the
      study will be continued; the only criteria for stopping the intervention will be withdrawal
      of participant consent.

      Prior studies performed in the UAE have faced the challenge of retention of participants
      during the study period. Similar challenges exist for the usual care of obese and overweight
      patients as loss to follow up with the dietician and obesity clinic team is quite common. The
      health coach is the primary measure that will improve adherence and participant retention, as
      the therapeutic relationship is established. The investigators have selected an initial
      health coach who speaks Arabic, has worked in this country for over thirty years as a medical
      interpreter within the government health system, is familiar and fluent in local customs and
      practices, and has a degree in psychology. In addition, the health coach has experience in
      working with this patient population as a clinical care coordinator, who is typically
      responsible for arranging and reminding patients of follow up appointments.

      Outcomes Primary outcome measure The primary outcome measure is the difference between the
      two treatment arms in the proportion of participants that achieve a weight loss of 7% from
      each individual's baseline weight. This aligns with the American Diabetes Association
      guidelines on the management of diabetes, as it is associated with a clinically significant
      improvement in glycemic control and cardiovascular risk factors. Weight is also a recognized
      goal of the anticipated participants and easily measured and analyzed.

      Secondary outcome measures

      Secondary measures include the absolute and relative change pre and post intervention in:

        -  Systolic blood pressure

        -  Diastolic blood pressure

        -  Hemoglobin A1c

        -  Total cholesterol

        -  HDL cholesterol

        -  LDL cholesterol

        -  Triglycerides

      Participant timeline The primary outcome in this study is change in weight and the secondary
      outcomes are changes in blood pressure, hemoglobin A1c, and lipid parameters. These will be
      assessed at baseline in eligible family members after enrollment and informed consent. Age
      and gender matched controls will be assigned based on consecutive individuals presenting to
      the primary health center's dietician. The sixteen sessions will then be delivered with
      inter-session coaching and follow up. After completion of the final session, the participant
      will have repeat weight and blood pressure measurement, along with a repeat blood draw to
      assess the hemoglobin A1c and lipid parameters.

      Sample size The sample size was calculated on the basis of the primary hypothesis, i.e that
      the EHHP intervention would result in a statistically significant greater proportion of
      participants achieving a 7% or greater reduction in body weight when compared to age and
      gender matched patients undergoing usual care in the same clinic. Therefore, the study has
      been powered to detect a 7% difference in weight using a two sided significance level of 5%
      and a power of 80%. The more conservative drop-out rate of 50% reflecting the past corporate
      experiences of the investigation team has been assumed. This resulted in an anticipated
      allocation of 214 patients in each arm of the trial. (ClinCalc, Rosner B., Fundamentals of
      Biostatistics. 7th ed. Boston, MA: Brooks/Cole; 2011)

      An adaptive interim analysis will be performed after the results for the primary endpoint are
      available for 107 participants in each arm of the trial, which is 50% of the calculated
      required sample size. The following type I error rates and decision boundaries are specified:

      Overall one sided type I error rate: 0.025 Boundary for the one-sided p-value of the first
      stage for accepting the null hypothesis within the interim analysis: a0 = 0.5.

      One-sided local type I error rate for testing the null-hypothesis within the interim
      analysis: a1 = 0.01012 If the trial will be continued with a second stage after the interim
      analysis, the results of the interim analysis can be taken into account for a recalculation
      of the required sample size. If the sample size recalculation leads to the conclusion that
      more than 300 patients are required in the intervention arm, the study will be stopped as the
      relative benefit is judged to be of minor importance.

      Recruitment This is a single center study taking place at the center where three of the
      investigators (DB, JK, LD) spend the majority of assigned clinical time. The enrollment
      period of the study will be 18 months, which will allow completion of the intervention and
      data gathering prior to the completion of the two year grant.

      Participants will be consecutively selected from patients presenting to the center and the
      investigators based on the eligibility criteria which includes interest and consent in taking
      part in the study. The study will be explained to each potential participant, and if consent
      is given, the participant will be enrolled in the trial. LD will then identify for each
      enrolled participant a consecutively presenting age and gender matched patient seen in the
      health center's dietician practice for enrollment in the matched control group.

      Screening and recruitment will continue until the required sample size is reached or the
      grant expires, whichever comes first. Investigators will not be compensated for participation
      in the study. Participants will be allowed to keep the activity tracker at the conclusion of
      the intervention.

      Allocation Due to the limited timeframe of the grant and the limited resources available to
      the investigators, it is not possible to compare family units undergoing the intervention
      directly with family units undergoing the usual care of receiving individual visits with the
      dietician and obesity clinic team. In addition, variation in the size of the family units
      makes a family to family comparison impractical. Therefore, it was decided to pursue a
      strategy of assigning individual age and gender matched controls to each study participant.

      If a positive result is obtained, additional funding and health coaches could be requested to
      allow for the assessment of similar sized families in the interventional and control arms.

      Blinding Due to the nature of the intervention, it is not possible or practical to blind the
      participants in the interventional and control arms, as the participants in the
      interventional arm will be meeting and being coached in family meetings, whereas individuals
      in the control group will be having individual appointments with the dietician without health
      coaching support and without being supplied activity trackers for personal use.

      Similarly, the health coach will only be working with the study participants in the
      interventional arm.

      The investigators performing the clinical portions of the study as care providers (enrollment
      and ordering the appropriate labs) will be unblinded to the allocation (LD, JK, DB); however,
      those performing the statistical analyses and assessing the outcomes (RDG, SS, JN, MSK, AK,
      IB) will be blinded to the allocation by de-identifying both study participants and the
      corresponding age and gender matched controls. This de-identified database will be
      administered by LD, JK, DB, along with the health coach. Those assessing the outcomes will
      then be supplied with this de-identified data which will be separated into groups
      (interventional and control arms) as well as for potential sub-group analysis based on age,
      gender, initial BMI, etc.

      Data collection Primary outcome Weight: Increased weight is associated with significant
      reversible risk factors for cardiovascular disease and as such the American Diabetes
      Association guidelines for the management of prediabetes and diabetes recommend lifestyle
      changes to achieve a weight reduction of 7% in obese and overweight patients. Weight will be
      measured in the primary health center at enrollment (baseline) and after the study
      intervention. The primary health center which will provide biometric and lab measurements is
      part of the government ambulatory care system, which is accredited by the Joint Commission
      International (JCI), and as such has appropriate and internationally accepted protocols for
      the calibration of the scales used in the health center according to the manufacturers'
      recommendations. It is customary for a staff nurse to measure the patient's weight at each
      clinic visit, and this data is stored in the electronic medical record. Each study
      participant will also have access to a scale within the home for weekly weight measurements,
      which will allow the health coach to monitor participants' weight as well as to provide any
      needed individualized support. The age and gender matched control patients will have weight
      data reviewed and recorded at the times nearest to the matched study participant. The ongoing
      relationship between the health coach and study participants is expected to be protective of
      retention in the interventional arm.

      However, in cases of study discontinuation or withdrawal, the data for the intervention
      participants will be classified under intention to treat, i.e, the data of those in the
      intervention arm who do not complete the intervention will still have be considered as for
      study participants.

      Secondary outcomes In addition to the primary outcome described above, the secondary outcomes
      of blood pressure, hemoglobin A1c, and lipid parameters will also be obtained in the primary
      health center at enrollment (baseline) and after completing the intervention. The blood
      pressure is measured by an automated oscillometric sphygmomanometer which undergoes routine
      calibration as explained above. The laboratory tests are performed by a JCI accredited
      laboratory which is part of the government health system. The control patients will again
      have blood pressure measurements and appropriate lab data reviewed and recorded at the times
      nearest the matched study participant.

      The intervention arm will be compared against the control arm for significant differences in
      both the primary and secondary outcomes. The T-test will be used for continuous outcomes. For
      subgroup analyses, linear regression will be employed, examining the residual to assess model
      assumptions and goodness-of-fit. For all tests, 2 sided p-values will be used with α <= 0.05
      level of significance. P-values will be reported to four decimal places with p-values less
      than 0.001 reported as p < 0.001.

      Method of analysis Primary outcome Weight: Greater reduction than control in % reduction from
      baseline weight (T-test) Secondary outcomes Systolic blood pressure: Greater reduction than
      control in % reduction from baseline systolic BP (T-test) Diastolic blood pressure: Greater
      reduction than control in % reduction from baseline diastolic BP (T-test) Hemoglobin A1c:
      Greater reduction than control in % reduction from baseline Hgb A1c (T-test) Total
      cholesterol: Greater reduction than control in % reduction from baseline total cholesterol
      (T-test) HDL cholesterol: Greater increase than control in % increase from baseline HDL
      (T-test) LDL cholesterol: Greater reduction than control in % reduction from baseline LDL
      (T-test) Triglycerides: Greater reduction than control in % reduction from baseline
      triglycerides (T-test)

      Data monitoring Data will be reported to the Ambulatory Health Services Ethics Committee,
      which is independent of the study organizers and the University of the United Arab Emirates.
      This committee is responsible for establishing the ethical nature of all research involving
      human subjects within the government health system in the emirate of Abu Dhabi and monitoring
      the progress of each approved study, and stopping any study that has concerns regarding
      ethical matters or participant safety. During the time of recruitment, interim analyses will
      be supplied confidentially to the Ethics Committee, along with any additional requested data.
      Currently, an interim analysis is planned when recruitment reaches 50% of the calculated
      sample size (i.e 107 study participants); however, the frequency of the interim reports will
      be ultimately be determined by the Ethics Committee. After review of the interim data, the
      Ethics Committee will advise the investigators if the effect of the intervention has been
      proved to be significantly different from the controls beyond a reasonable doubt. If this
      occurs, the study will be completed prior to the anticipated study date. Absent this or any
      safety or ethical concerns, the study will be completed as planned; the trial will not be
      discontinued in the case of futility. The chair of the Ethics Committee is Dr. Latifa Al
      Ketbi (LK). Due to the anticipated benign nature of the intervention and the stringent
      oversight supplied by the Ambulatory Health Services Ethics Committee, a dedicated Data
      Monitoring Committee is not needed for this study.

      Harms Since this is a nonpharmacological study, no significant risk of harm is anticipated.
      Each study participant will continue separately under the care of the primary care physician.
      As part of the informed consent, each participant is aware that any medications are taken for
      hypertension or diabetes may need to be adjusted if the clinical situation changes due to
      weight loss.

      An adverse event, for the purposes of the study, will be defined as any occurrence of a
      potentially or actually negative nature with respect to the participant's health. The most
      likely adverse event would be hypoglycemia in those participants who may be taking certain
      medications for diabetes. The study team considered excluding patients on medications for
      diabetes from the trial, but ultimately decided to retain these patients in order to assess
      the real world effect of the package of interventions on the overweight and obese
      populations. The potential for adverse effects is highlighted in the informed consent form,
      along with the contact information for the principal investigator (JK).

      The health coach has been made aware of the symptoms of hypoglycemia, and which medications
      place participants at risk. The coach is aware of the standard response to hypoglycemia, and
      will educate any participants on the identified high risk medications on how to initially
      manage hypoglycemia, as well as the need to follow up with the primary physician or emergency
      services after the initial management phase.

      At each session, the health coach will ask the participants who are present if any problems
      were encountered, and any potential adverse events will be reported to the principal
      investigator for further investigation. This report will include the nature of the adverse
      event, severity, and potential causes. Severe events or events that cannot be attributed to
      other causes other than the study intervention will be reported to the Ethics Committee
      within 24 hours.

      Consent Eligible individuals will be asked to invite family members to participate together
      in the study. These family members will then undergo screening for eligibility as well.
      Interested individuals who meet the eligibility criteria will then read the informed consent
      either in English or Arabic. Any questions or concerns will be addressed by one of the
      investigators in either English or Arabic, with translation as needed. All of the
      investigators are medical doctors and experienced researchers. Once this process is
      completed, and all questions and concerns are addressed, those who are interested in
      participating will be enrolled upon signing the informed consent form in the appropriate
      language (English or Arabic). One of the inclusion criteria is the ability of each potential
      participant to give informed consent for enrollment in the trial; if there is any concern on
      the investigators' part regarding the capacity of that individual to give consent, that
      person will be excluded from the study.

      Confidentiality The biometric and lab data will be stored as usual in the participants'
      electronic medical record, which is access restricted, password protected, and otherwise
      safeguarded by the information technology team of Ambulatory Health Services. Participants'
      data will not be released outside of the study without individual written permission, except
      as requested for monitoring purposes by the Ambulatory Health Services Ethics Committee or as
      legally required by local or national government authorities.

      Access to data Only those investigators who perform clinical duties at the involved primary
      health center will have access to the original pre and post-intervention biometric and lab
      data via the participants' electronic medical record. Once the data has been de-identified,
      all of the investigators will have access to de-identified biometric and lab data. The health
      coach and investigators will have access to the data supplied by each participant on a weekly
      basis, which includes but is not limited to weight, caloric intake, minutes and type of
      exercise, and correspondence. This access will be discontinued after the aggregate data has
      been analyzed and published.

      Ancillary and post-trial care All Emiratis who are eligible for this study have comprehensive
      health insurance which will cover, at no cost to the participant, any needed medical care. No
      additional compensation is anticipated or required due to benign nature of the intervention.

      Should this study provide evidence of a clinically significant benefit to those who underwent
      the study intervention, the age and gender matched controls will be contacted at the
      conclusion of the study and invited to receive the same intervention at the discretion of
      Ambulatory Health Services.
    
  