
    
      Background: Transanal minimally invasive surgery (TAMIS) is an effective surgical alternative
      to transanal excision for treating early rectal neoplasms not amenable to en bloc resection
      by conventional colonoscopic techniques. Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is a
      revolutionary endoscopic procedure that enables en bloc resection of large rectal neoplasms
      with low morbidity. To date, no randomized controlled trial can be found in the literature
      comparing the two modalities.

      Objectives: To compare the short-term clinical outcomes, functional outcomes, costs, and
      recurrence rates between ESD and TAMIS for early rectal neoplasms.

      Design: Prospective randomized controlled trial.

      Subjects: One hundred and fourteen consecutive patients diagnosed with early rectal neoplasms
      (>/=2 cm in size and without evidence of deep submucosal invasion) that are not amenable to
      en bloc resection by conventional colonoscopic techniques will be recruited.

      Interventions: Patients will be randomly allocated to receive either ESD or TAMIS.

      Outcome measures: Primary outcome: 30-day morbidity/mortality defined by the Clavien-Dindo
      classification. Secondary outcomes: hospital stay, functional outcomes and quality of life,
      overall costs, R0 resection rate, and recurrence rate.

      Conclusions: Results of the present study can provide evidence-based clarification of the
      efficacy and safety of ESD in treating early rectal neoplasms. The Investigators hypothesize
      that ESD is associated with lower morbidity, shorter hospital stay, and similar R0 resection
      rate when compared with TAMIS. A faster recovery and earlier discharge after ESD may reduce
      financial burden to the hospital/healthcare system. The results of this proposed project may
      have a significant impact on the future treatment strategy for early rectal neoplasms.
    
  