
    
      Phase I of this study enrolls pregnant women with physician-ordered twice-weekly NSTs
      scheduled in the OB Diagnostic Center at the University of Utah Hospital. Participants
      receive an in-clinic NST with the Airstrip® Sense4Baby™ device, are taught how to use the
      device, and asked to demonstrate their ability to use the device. Once the participant
      successfully demonstrates use of the monitor the device is given to the participant to use at
      the scheduled time each week. Patients receive educational materials, including a
      visuals-enhanced, short quick start guide.

      For her remote NST monitoring, the patient will receive a virtual NST appointment. At the
      time of the scheduled appointment, the patient will apply the monitor and the NST will be
      read by the mid-level provider staffing the testing center after a thirty-minute strip has
      been recorded and transmitted to the database. The NST will also be interpreted by the
      maternal-fetal medicine physician, according to the established workflow. The patient will be
      notified of the result by a telephone call from the mid-level provider and appropriate
      follow-up arranged according to the NST management algorithm developed for this study. If the
      patient has trouble with using the device at home, the patient will be able to talk with the
      mid-level provider via telephone to troubleshoot issues.

      The patient will also continue to receive an NST in clinic weekly. These NST schedules will
      be repeated on a weekly basis until delivery or until the provider discontinues the NST
      order.

      Patients will be contacted after delivery to assess overall satisfaction with the NST at home
      versus in clinic.

      Phase II of this study will enroll the same patient population (pregnant women with
      physician-ordered twice-weekly NSTs scheduled). Participants in Phase II may receive NSTs up
      to twice weekly at home. During regularly scheduled obstetric visits (every 1 to 2 weeks
      depending on gestational age and circumstances), NSTs will be performed on site. However, we
      will remove the requirement for once weekly on-site testing at the University of Utah
      Hospital.

      The requirement to be within a 60-mile radius of University Hospital will be removed for
      Phase II participants. Instead, the requirement will be to be within a 60-mile radius of a
      hospital with an obstetric unit.

      Patients will be contacted after delivery to assess overall satisfaction with the NST at home
      versus in clinic.
    
  