
    
      Postoperative recovery is an important part of the patient's experience, regardless of the
      type of surgery. The recovery and prognosis of postoperative anesthesia have gradually become
      important indicators for judging the efficacy and quality of anesthesia. The recovery period
      of general anesthesia is an important transition period from anesthesia to wakefulness, and a
      good recovery period is an important guarantee for the recovery of postoperative organs and
      functions after surgery. However, the delay in awakening after general anesthesia remains one
      of the biggest challenges facing anesthesiologists. Postoperative resuscitation is the result
      of the removal of anesthetics from the brain. The time of resuscitation depends on patient
      factors, effects of anesthetic factors, duration of surgery, and painful stimulation.

      The delay of recovery after anesthesia was mainly caused by the use of anesthetic drugs
      during the perioperative period. The drugs commonly used during the perioperative period are
      opioid analgesics, sedatives and muscle relaxants. Studies have shown that intravenous
      opioids are more difficult to control than neuromuscular relaxants. Opioids can extend the
      recovery time after anesthesia by direct sedation of opioid receptors. It also reduces the
      sensitivity of brainstem chemoreceptors to carbon dioxide, leading to dose-dependent
      respiratory depression and hypercapnia, which affects the removal of volatile substances and
      carbon dioxide, and ultimately leads to coma. In addition, the active metabolites of some
      opioids can prolong the duration of action, especially in the case of impaired renal
      function, which can lead to delayed awakening.

      As an opioid antagonist, nalmefene can inhibit or reverse the respiratory inhibition,
      sedation and hypotension effects of opioid drugs. Moreover, it has no opioid excitatory
      activity, does not produce respiratory inhibition, hallucinogenic effect or pupil dilation.
      No pharmacological effects were observed without the administration of opioid agonists. In
      terms of inducing wakefulness during anesthesia, nalmefene can effectively reverse the
      sedative effect caused by opioids. There have been reports at home and abroad that nalmefene
      can be used to improve the effect of post-anesthesia resuscitation and reduce agitation
      during the waking period, but there is still a lack of large sample and well-designed
      randomized controlled studies to provide important data on how to improve the quality of
      anesthetized resuscitation. In order to speed up the awakening after anesthesia, promote the
      patients' consciousness and respiratory recovery, and improve the quality of awakening
      patients after anesthesia, the patients should control postoperative pain immediatly, improve
      the comfort of patients in the PACU, reduce the residence time of patients, speed up the
      circulation of operated patients, reduce the costs of PACU, and reduce the staff workload in
      the PACU. This study will conduct a rigorous randomized controlled studies, large sample, and
      the research indicators for patients from the PACU roll-out to ordinary ward, using Aldrete
      score , in order to obtain a series of data of nalmefene used for anesthesia recovery , and
      to lay the foundation of related research of nalmefene and similar drugs in clinical
      application in the future.
    
  