
    
      120 patients with DCM due to cervical spinal canal stenosis will be examined preoperatively
      and postoperatively with nTMS. On the basis of the initial Japanese Orthopedic Association
      (JOA) Score two patient groups will be established (JOA≤12/>12). The resting motor threshold,
      recruitment curve, cortical silent period and motor area will be determined. Accordingly, 40
      healthy subjects will be examined.

      To the investigators knowledge, this study is the first to analyze changes of corticospinal
      excitability and reorganization in patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy with
      navigated TMS. In the present study, there was a significant difference in parameters of
      excitability and motor area activation between the severely symptomatic and clinically stable
      patient group. The investigators analysis showed that chronic CSM induces a recruitment of
      the non-primary motor area and corticospinal disinhibition, so that axonal damage can be
      compensated through recruitment of new cortical and supplementary motor connections, to a
      certain degree. Upon exhaustion of these mechanisms further axonal damage translates directly
      into new neurological deficits. These results lay the ground for a novel concept in CSM, the
      "corticospinal reserve capacity".

      This study lays the foundation for future research to examine the pathomechanisms in CSM.
      Functional reorganization occurs on a spinal as well as on a cortical level. The concept of
      the corticospinal reseve capacity describes a compensatory, increased recruitment of non
      primary motor areas and corticospinal disinhibition in order to preserve motor function. By
      detecting the degree of reorganization, a stratification for an unfavourable as well as
      stable clinical course could be made. This innovative approach to describe the
      pathomechanisms in CSM might revise current concepts of clinical diagnostics and might have
      an impact on future treatment strategies.
    
  