
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of investigational drugs to learn whether the drugs work in treating a
      specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drugs are being studied. The FDA (the U.S.
      Food and Drug Administration) has not approved acalabrutinib for CLL, although it is
      FDA-approved for patients with relapsed mantle cell lymphoma. The FDA has approved venetoclax
      and obinutuzumab separately for the treatment of patients with CLL. However, the FDA has not
      approved the combination of these three drugs together (acalabrutinb, venetoclax, and
      obinutuzumab) as a treatment for any disease. This combination is investigational. In this
      research study, the investigators are trying to learn if giving the three drugs together can
      safely and effectively treat CLL.

      Acalabrutinib is a type of drug called a kinase inhibitor. It blocks a type of protein called
      Bruton Tyrosine Kinase (BTK) that helps CLL cells live and grow. By blocking BTK,
      acalabrutinib may kill cancer cells or stop them from growing. As of September 2017,
      acalabrutinib has been administered to more than 2,000 people including healthy volunteers,
      patients with cancers, and patients with rheumatoid arthritis. A few hundred patients with
      CLL have been treated with acalabrutinib as a single drug, and some of these patients had
      improvement of their cancer with this treatment.

      Obinutuzumab is a type of drug called a monoclonal antibody. It targets a protein on the
      surface of the CLL cell, causing it to die. Obintuzumab has already been shown to be safe and
      effective at treating CLL, and is FDA-approved when given together with chemotherapy.

      Venetoclax is an oral drug that blocks the function of a protein called BCL-2. CLL cancer
      cells are thought to depend on the BCL-2 protein for their survival. By blocking BCL-2,
      venetoclax may kill cancer cells or stop them from growing. Venetoclax has been shown to be
      safe and effective when given alone to treat patients with CLL and is FDA-approved for
      patients with CLL after their disease has worsened after at least 1 prior therapy.

      If, after 15 or 24 cycles of this investigational therapy, participants have a complete
      response to the drugs in this trial -- meaning that the investigators cannot detect any CLL
      using CT scans, bone marrow biopsy and a sensitive test called minimal residual disease (MRD)
      testing -- participants will stop therapy with acalabrutinib and venetoclax. The
      investigators will continue to monitor participants while they are off of therapy, and if the
      CLL comes back participants will be able to restart acalabrutinib and venetoclax. The use of
      MRD testing to identify small amounts of CLL is investigational, meaning that it has not been
      FDA-approved. The use of results from this test to guide the decision to stop and re-start
      therapy, as is done in the trial here, is also investigational.
    
  