
    
      Breast cancer are heterogeneous group of tumors with diverse behavior, outcome, and
      sensitivity to therapy.In recent years, the term triple negative (TN) breast cancer has
      emerged to describe those cancers which do not express oestrogen (ER) , progesterone (PR)
      receptors, or Her2. Many studies had estimated that TN cases represents between 12%-20% of
      all breast cancers. Those TN case constitute one of the most challenging breast cancer
      groups, with only systemic chemotherapy is currently available for their treatment.

      BRCA1 protein normally functions as a negative regulator of the cell cycle, also,
      BRCA1-positive tumors encompass a heterogeneous group of tumors that show distinctive
      pathological and clinical features. BRCA1-associated cancers are typically high-grade
      invasive duct carcinoma and are mostly triple negative.The phenotypic and molecular
      similarity of the TNBCs to BRCA1-associated BCs might be of use in designing their treatment
      protocol. There is increasing evidence that the DNA repair defects that are characteristic of
      BRCA-1 related cancers may provide sensitivity to certain systemic agents to treat TNBC
      patients such as the bifunctional alkylating agents and platinum drugs.

      Dose density refers to the administration of drugs with a shortened intertreatment interval.
      It is based on the observation that in experimental models, a given dose always kills a
      certain fraction, rather than a certain number, of exponentially growing cancer cells.
      Because human cancers in general, and breast cancers in particular, usually grow by
      nonexponential Gompertzian kinetics, this model has been extended to those situations.
      Regrowth of cancer cells between cycles of cytoreduction is more rapid in volume-reduced
      Gompertzian cancer models than in exponential models. Hence it has been hypothesized that the
      more frequent administration of cytotoxic therapy would be a more effective way of minimizing
      residual tumor burden than dose escalation. In the INT C9741 trial, the dose-dense schedule
      is accomplished by using granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (filgrastim) to permit
      every-2-week recycling of the drugs A, T and C at their optimal dose levels rather than at
      the conventional 3-week intervals.Sequential therapy refers to the application of treatments
      one at a time rather than concurrently. It does not challenge the concept that multiple drugs
      are needed to maximally perturb cancers that are composed of cells heterogeneous in drug
      sensitivity. Rather, it hypothesizes that for slow-growing cancers like most breast cancers,
      it is more important to preserve dose density than to force a combination, especially if that
      combination would be more toxic and requires dose-reductions or delays in drug
      administration. If dose density is the same in a sequential combination chemotherapy regimen
      and a concurrent combination regimen, theoretical considerations indicate that the
      therapeutic result should be the same, even if the sequential pattern happens to be less
      toxic.

      In our trial, we want to compare the 3 years DFS of dose-dense epirubicin and
      cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel with paclitaxel plus carboplatin as adjuvant therapy
      for triple-negative breast cancer.The other purpose of this trial is to observe the patient's
      tolerance.
    
  