
    
      In Sierra Leone, a dangerous gap remains between long-term psychosocial needs and adequate
      services. As youth affected by the war begin to enter adulthood, they face new challenges
      including unemployment, interrupted education, the need to support families, marginalization
      and stigma, as well as the remaining psychological effects of exposure to war. Healthy social
      integration is critical to the long-term wellbeing of this generation, but the evidence base
      on effective interventions to improve skills and self-efficacy is severely limited. Despite
      the high burden of mental health problems among war-affected youth in Sub-Saharan Africa, few
      empirically-supported behavioral treatments (ESBTs) or evidence-based interventions have been
      implemented in this region. This study stands to make an important contribution to knowledge
      on effective and culturally-sensitive mental health services that can be implemented in
      settings fraught by multiple hardships, including war, poverty, low educational attainment,
      and other hardships.

      The Research Program on Children and Global Adversity at the Harvard School of Public Health
      has implemented the Youth Readiness Intervention (YRI) to address some of the challenges that
      youth face, including lack of education and employment, stigma and marginalization, and the
      long-term psychological effects of exposure to war. The YRI is an evidence-based group
      intervention designed to improve emotion regulation/reduce anger and foster prosocial
      functioning among 15-24 year old war-affected youth. It is grounded in findings from
      Betancourt et al.'s three wave-longitudinal study carried out from 2002 to 2008, which
      provides insight into how the adjustment of youth in post-conflict Sierra Leone is shaped by
      violence exposure and post -conflict loss and life disruption including family
      reconfiguration.

      The intervention has three main goals: (1) Develop emotion regulation skills for healthy
      coping; (2) Develop problem solving skills to assist with achieving goals; (3) Improve
      interpersonal skills to enable healthy relationships and effective communication. Primary
      mental health outcomes include decreased anxiety, hostility, and depression, and increased
      pro-social attitudes, as measured by the Oxford Refugee Studies Psychosocial Adjustment Scale
      and the African Youth Psychosocial Assessment.

      The addition of biomarkers research will build on a rare randomized controlled trial
      conducted in 2012-2014, where the control group will now receive the treatment and will be
      randomized in a lagged design to YRI or control and then all participants treated with the
      YRI. Therefore, the research data collection of the biomarkers will have three overarching
      aims: 1) To develop feasible and acceptable methods for collecting and analyzing genetic and
      epigenetic biomarkers from war-exposed youth in Sierra Leone. This will include forging
      collaborations with expert colleagues engaged in biomarker research, development of ethical
      protocols for data collection/storage, and review of the literature on genetic variation and
      mechanisms related to psychopathology. 2) To obtain biosamples from the control study
      participants of the randomized controlled YRI trial (2012-2014) and investigate the
      possibility of using this research methodology as a component of a fourth wave of data
      collection among war-affected youth and their families. 3) To investigate improvements in
      epigenetic marks (DNA methylation) pre- and post- the Youth Readiness Intervention and its
      associations with the findings from participants' self-reports on emotion regulation and
      prosocial functioning.

      EducAid is a charitable trust established in 1994. Devoted to promoting education among
      underprivileged and war-affected young people in Sierra Leone through holistic and academic
      learning, EducAid provides free year-round education to over 1,500 youth, along with food,
      medicine, and shelter when needed. EducAid has a keen interest in exploring how psychosocial
      interventions can promote academic, social, and emotional well-being in students. EducAid's
      education model aims to improve academic knowledge, self-efficacy, and attitudes toward
      school. Additionally, it aims to nurture hope for the future and a sense of normalcy through
      interactions with teachers, mentors, and peers. Following participation in the education
      component, participants' employment and economic activity will be assessed using standardized
      instruments for cross-cultural work, including the World Bank Living Standards Surveys.

      The Douglas Institute's Research Centre is the oldest centre of its kind in Quebec. With an
      annual budget of $18.5 million USD, it brings together over 300 distinguished researchers and
      post-doctoral fellows from all over the world, whose breakthroughs produce some 215
      scientific publications every year. Recognized as a flagship centre by the Fonds de la
      recherche en santé du Québec (FRSQ), the provincial health research fund, the Research
      Centre, overseen by a board of directors, is financed in part by the Douglas Institute
      Foundation and in part by Canada's most prestigious research grants, including Canadian
      Institutes of Health Research (CIHR) and FRSQ, to name just two. It also sets itself apart
      with innovative research projects in the neurosciences, clinical and psychosocial divisions.
      In addition, the World Health Organization (WHO) Collaborating Centre in Montreal chose the
      Institute to establish its Centre for Research and Training in Mental Health.
    
  