
    
      Treatment outcome of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is improved recently and the 5-year
      survival rates reached 90% in developed countries . So more research currently focuses on
      strategies to decrease toxic adverse effects of methotrexate (MTX). Oral mucositis occurs in
      about 20% of patients receiving methotrexate Identifying risk factors leading to this side
      effects would be valuable to develop preventive interventions and improve quality of life for
      these patients .

      Previous studies revealed a relationship between vitamin D deficiency and
      chemotherapy-induced oral mucositis in cancer patients. This hormone is important in many
      physiological processes in the body as bone mineralization and immune regulations. The main
      sourses of Vitamin D is production in the skin through sunlight exposure, diet and Vitamin D
      supplements .

      Previous literature showed that receptors for vitamin D expressed in the mucosa and so there
      is a relationship between vitamin D deficiency and increase inflammation and impairment of
      mucosa .

      Patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia maybe at risk of vitamin D deficiency because of
      impaired vitamin intake and sunlight exposure . In this study we examin the possible role of
      vitamin D in relation to methotrexate induced oral mucositis in cancer patients.

        -  peripheral blood samples from patients before starting chemotherapy course with
           methotrexate and 24 hr after starting the treatment for measurement level of vitamin D,
           samples centrifuged at the speed of 2000 - 3000 rpm for 20 min , then analyzed using
           ELISA.

        -  blood samples after treatment also used to determine serum level of methotrexate which
           may lead to toxic adverse effect as oral mucositis , samples centrifuged at speed of
           2000 - 3000 rpm for 10 min and analyzed using Viva-E equipment.

        -  All serum samples were stored at -80 °C and analyzed collectively
    
  