
    
      Designing and manufacturing

      1. The CBCT images of the patient will be used to build a digital model using a 3D planning
      software (Mimics innovation suite). Based on this model, a machine will be used to mill a
      pressed and pre-sintered body of PEEK to the desired macroscopic shape.

      2. The size of the machined sheet is enlarged in order to compensate for the sintering
      shrinkage performed at 1450 C.

      3. After manufacturing, the sheet will be cleaned in an ultrasonic bath of 70% alcohol for 15
      min, followed by a brief heating to 1200 C.

      4. It will be again cleaned in an ultrasonic bath for 3x15 min using 90% alcohol.

      5. Thereafter the sheet was placed in an autoclave and sterilized using a standard program.

      6. The sheets will have a thickness of approximately 0.5 - 0.7 mm. b. Surgery

        1. The intraoral area is initially cleaned with chlorhexidine 1 mg/ml.

        2. Local anesthesia is administered.

        3. Horizontal crestal incisions are made lingual of the mid-crest within the keratinized
           tissue. Vertical releasing incisions are placed on the buccal aspect of the surgical
           site in the usual manner to provide adequate access and to allow for eventual coronal
           repositioning.

        4. Then, a full-thickness mucoperiosteal flap is reflected to completely expose the
           atrophic ridge.

        5. The cortex of the mandibular crest is generously perforated to produce bleeding in
           multiple sites. The pilot holes for the fixation screws were also prepared at this time.

        6. The barrier is inserted over the mandible and compressed into place, the fixation screws
           are inserted and no adaptation will be needed as the barrier is custom-made for the
           edentulous ridge.

        7. The ceramic sheets is cleaned with 3% hydrogen peroxide prior to soft tissue closure.

        8. After fixation of the sheets, the buccal flaps should be coronally repositioned.

        9. Split-thickness periosteal releasing incisions are completed to aid in primary
           tension-free closure. The flap margins are then advanced over the barrier and
           approximated to evaluate for tension-free closure.

       10. After a mean of 6 months of uneventful healing, the augmented sites are reopened. The
           ceramic barrier and fixation screws are identified and removed, followed by Dental
           implant.

      Post-operative care:

      Avoid traumatization of the surgical site. Patients must abstain from brushing at the
      surgical area. Instead, a disinfecting mouth rinse should be used (e.g. chlorhexidine 0.2%).

      Instruct the patient not to touch or manipulate the surgical area. Ice packs for 10 minutes
      every 30 minutes for 24 hours. Do not use removable dentures during the expansion phase.
      Temporary fixed partial dentures must be adjusted to the expected tissue gain.

      No consume of tobacco

      Post-operative medications will be prescribed as follows:

      Amoxicillin/clavulanic acid tablets 10mg/kg every 12 hours for 7 days, diclofenac potassium
      50mg every 8 hours for 4 days and then as needed, metronidazole 5 mg/kg every 8 hours for 7
      days and chlorhexidine gluconate 0.1% mouthwash 3 times daily for 14 days.

      11b. Criteria for discontinuing or modifying intervention: No protocol for discontinuation of
      the procedure. 11c. Strategies to improve adherence to intervention: Face to face adherence
      reminder session will take place to stress on the post-operative instructions at the
      following time intervals.

      Patients were recalled every other day to monitor soft tissue healing for the first week, one
      visit weekly for the first month then monthly for 6 months.
    
  