
    
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder and the leading cause
      of dementia worldwide. A growing number of people are surviving into their 80s-90s and the
      number of AD patients projected to nearly triple in the next three decades, affecting 80-90
      million people worldwide by 2040. As such, AD will become the third cause of death for older
      people, just behind cardiovascular disease and cancer. In contrast to the latter, AD cannot
      be prevented, slowed or cured. AD represents an enormous socio-economic burden and has become
      a trillion dollar disease. Despite decades of intensive research, diagnosis and treatment
      remain challenging for AD. A string of recent failures in clinical trials for AD drugs has
      pointed out that our understanding of the disease is still far from complete. More in detail,
      three major reasons underlying this treatment gap have been identified:

      i. The lack of techniques for patient screening and early diagnosis. ii. The incomplete
      understanding of the complex interplay of pathological processes that underlie AD.

      iii. The many hurdles between drug discovery and approval.

      With this study, the investigators propose a novel way to address these needs, by using the
      retina as a model organ to study the central nervous system (CNS). Many of the hallmark
      cerebral pathophysiological processes of AD have also been observed in the retina. Unlike the
      rest of the CNS, the retina can be visualized directly, with an imaging resolution up to 100x
      higher than PET and MRI scans. Using these high-resolution imaging tools such as Optical
      Coherence Tomography (OCT), studies have demonstrated microvascular changes and neuro-retinal
      thinning in AD patients. Pilot data show that retinal Aβ can be visualized non-invasively
      solely based on the intrinsic hyperspectral signature of aggregated amyloid deposits.
      Non-invasive retinal imaging (e.g., fundus photography, OCT, hyperspectral imaging (HSI)) -
      which are all available at affordable cost -, could therefore represent novel means for
      identifying patients at risk, for longitudinal follow-up of disease progression in AD
      patients, and for research in a quest for more effective treatments.

      This is an open-label longitudinal biomarker study without investigational medicinal product
      in subjects in different stages of the AD spectrum.

      The data that we will collect consist of amyloid imaging, MRI, blood, genetic, general health
      and cognitive data, as well as visual acuity, ocular biomicroscopy and funduscopy, fundus
      photographs, hyperspectral retinal images, Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) retinal images
      and OCT angiography (OCT-A) retinal images. Subjects will be followed longitudinally. In the
      current study the investigators will primarily investigate the potential of non-invasive,
      multimodal retinal imaging for the early detection of Alzheimer's disease and for the
      evaluation of disease progression. This will be done in comparison with amyloid imaging and
      neuropsychological evaluations.

      The investigators will build a longitudinal database of ocular, systemic, neuro-psychiatric,
      MRI and PET imaging parameters of Aβ-positive and Aβ-negative patients with different stages
      of cognitive impairment. This database will be used to provide proof-of-concept that retinal
      biomarkers provide an early, accurate and non-invasive tool for AD detection and follow-up.
      All data will be collected in a database for statistical analysis.
    
  