
    
      It has now become clear that the relation of sleep and pain is bidirectional; acute and
      chronic pain is associated with disturbed sleep and disturbed sleep enhances pain.
      Experimental studies have shown that reduced and fragmented sleep in pain-free normals
      increases their pain sensitivity and daily self-report studies in chronic pain patients have
      shown a poor night of sleep is followed by enhanced next-day pain. In mediation analyses of
      large clinical data sets it is found that the sleep-pain side of the bidirectional relation,
      as opposed to the pain-sleep side, accounts for the greater variance. These data then would
      suggest that improving sleep in chronic pain disorders should attenuate daytime pain.

      Most of the drugs used to treat chronic pain facilitate inhibitory central nervous system
      mechanisms as their primary mechanism of action. Suvorexant, recently approved by the FDA for
      the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep onset and sleep
      maintenance, has a unique mechanism of action. Suvorexant is a selective antagonist for
      orexin receptors (OX1R and OX2R). Orexins are considered to be involved in arousal and
      maintenance of the waking state.

      As such, suvorexant may provide unique clinical benefit as a treatment in chronic pain
      conditions with co-morbid insomnia, and specifically for fibromyalgia with its putative
      central hyperarousal and hypersensitization. Thus, this project proposes to study objective
      and clinical measures of sleep, pain, and daytime sleepiness and fatigue in patients with
      fibromyalgia and co-morbid insomnia while treated short-term with suvorexant 20 mg versus
      placebo.

      Those qualifying will receive suvorexant 20 mg and placebo for each of 9 nights in a cross
      over design with 7 nights of washout between treatments. Overnight sleep recordings (PSGs)
      will be collected on nights 7 and 8 of each crossover treatment arm to determine objective
      sleep measures. During the day following night 7 in each arm, a Multiple Sleep Latency Test
      (MSLT) at 1000, 1200, 1400, and 1600 hr will be conducted and nociceptive sensitivity [finger
      withdrawal latency (FWL)] testing to a radiant heat stimulus (1100 and 1500 hr) will be
      conducted on day 1 and day 8. Self-reported mood and pain indices will also be completed
      prior to each FWL test.

      Primary outcomes to be measured include PSG sleep efficacy and FWL response on both
      conditions (suvorexant 20 mg versus placebo).
    
  