
    
      This is a prospective, cross sectional study. Adult patients undergoing surgery in the main
      operating theatres of Singapore General Hospital and requiring general anaesthesia and muscle
      relaxants will be enrolled and assessed over a 4 month period.

      Explanation, handing over of the Participation Information Sheet, and consent taking for the
      research will be taken either: In the anaesthetic Pre-operative Evaluation Clinic (PEC) which
      takes place on average 1-2 weeks prior to surgery itself; or On the ward, as a portion of
      patients are admitted as an inpatient the day before surgery. This allows patients time to
      consider participation into the study.

      The conduct of anaesthesia before arrival in PACU is left to the discretion of the attending
      anaesthetist. After arrival in PACU, patients are cared for by the PACU nurse and attending
      anaesthetist. The PI or co-investigators of the participants will follow up patients arriving
      in PACU if they fit the inclusion criteria i.e. who have received muscle relaxants during
      their anaesthetic.

      Participants will have their neuromuscular function monitored using a TOF Watch. This is a
      neuromuscular monitor used to assess the twitch height of muscles when stimulated by small
      electrical currents. Assessing neuromuscular function at all stages of anaesthesia (during
      anaesthesia and during recovery from anaesthesia) is the standard of care and is considered
      "essential" as per guidelines from the Association of Anaesthetists of Great Britain and
      Ireland (2015).

      The following are standards of care in PACU if patients are suspected of having residual
      block:

        1. Neuromuscular function will be assessed using clinical means (head lift and hand grip)
           but these are unreliable (false positives due to effects of anaesthetic agents and
           opioids rather than muscle relaxants)

        2. Neuromuscular function assessed by either TOF count (number of twitches) or TOF ratio
           (any fade in height of the four twitches) as per manufacturer's guidelines. Two ECG
           electrodes will be placed 4 cm apart over the path of the ulnar nerve of the wrist after
           cleaning the skin with alcohol swabs. The TOF force transducer will be placed on the
           volar aspect of the thumb. The TOF Watch leads will be attached to the electrodes and a
           TOF stimulus will be applied: four twitches at 2Hz (every 0.5 seconds), each twitch
           lasting 0.2ms, and at a current of 50 milliamperes (mA).

        3. Patients who have residual block will be closely monitored as per standard care in PACU,
           which include oxygen therapy, and monitoring (continuous ECG, respiratory rate, pulse
           oximetry, and 15 minutely non invasive blood pressure measurements). Those patients who
           have clinical signs and symptoms of residual block will be treated at the discretion of
           the PACU nurse and attending anaesthetic medical officer stationed in PACU

      For the research study in PACU, patients will have the above (steps 1 to 3) irrespective of
      whether residual block is suspected.

      In addition:

      The TOF ratio will be measured as two sets of TOF ratio with an average of the two taken. As
      far as possible, the TOF will be done when patients are still slightly drowsy from the
      effects of anaesthesia in order to minimize any patient TOF discomfort. If there is >10%
      discrepancy between these two readings then two more TOF will be applied, and an average of
      the two closest measurement averaged. This will determine if the participant has residual
      block (defined at TOF<0.9).

      Medical record review of data will be that from intraoperative period and PACU stay (usually
      one hour) and includes data already inputted into the anaesthetic charts:

        1. Patient data: age, weight, BMI, American Society of Anaesthesiologists (ASA) status,
           list of co-morbidities

        2. Surgical data: type of operation and duration

        3. Anaesthetic data: type, dose and timing of muscle relaxants and reversal used; type and
           method of neuromuscular monitoring used

        4. PACU data: time of arrival; heart rate, blood pressure, pulse oximetry and respiratory
           rate on admission; any adverse incidents (airway obstruction, desaturation (SpO2<95%),
           complaints of muscle weakness or blurred/double vision).
    
  