
    
      This study is a clinical research study following patients for toxicity after brachytherapy,
      and the investigators will be using the D2cc as a surrogate biomarker for determining risk
      for toxicity in addition to utilizing toxicity measured from physician-queries using the
      Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v. 4.0). Patients will have images
      analyzed for quantification of residual tumor versus fibrosis. The investigators will utilize
      Magnetic Resonance (MR) tracking, and pilot test: an endovaginal coil, a deflectable Magnetic
      Resonance stylet, real-time planning software, and auto-segmentation of normal tissues and
      tumor.

      Standard T2-weighted MR images are generally recommended given the soft-tissue visualization
      without the need for contrast media injection. At the time of brachytherapy, acquisition of
      para-axial, para-sagittal and para-coronal images should be performed with the orientations
      being orthogonal (para-axial) and parallel (para-sagittal/para-coronal) to the intrauterine
      tandem. Slice thickness has a direct impact on applicator reconstruction accuracy, and a
      slice thickness of ≤3mm is required on the NRG Oncology study (NRG-GY006).

      More advanced multi-parametric magnetic resonance imaging (mmpMRI) series show significant
      promise. A Dynamic Contrast Enhanced (DCE) study identified one voxel cluster consisting of
      low-enhancing voxels based on the relative signal increase (RSI) time series that was related
      to locoregional control (adjusted p-value 0.048). Diffusion-weighted (DW)-MRI is used to
      identify areas of dense residual tumor.31 In one analysis, the mean apparent diffusion
      coefficient (ADC) value of the primary tumor on pretreatment MRI was an independent predictor
      of disease-free survival in cervical cancer patients treated with chemoradiation. However,
      artifacts result in inconsistent contouring at the time of brachytherapy. 3D Slicer is a free
      open source software application for medical image computing, and will be utilized for some
      aspects of research in MR Simulator Suite.
    
  