
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the response rates, duration of response, patterns of recurrence and
      overall survival in patients with unresectable high grade soft tissue sarcomas of the
      extremity following isolated limb perfusion (ILP) using melphalan with or without tumor
      necrosis factor (TNF).

      II. Determine the application of these regimens as neoadjuvant therapy to render an
      unresectable sarcoma resectable.

      III. Determine whether either regimen results in durable disease control and limb salvage for
      patients with multifocal unresectable high grade soft tissue sarcoma of the extremity or
      patients with stage IV soft tissue sarcoma with symptomatic primary extremity tumor.

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a randomized study.

      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms:

      Arm I: Patients receive isolated limb perfusion (ILP) with tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and
      melphalan. After the limb is warmed, TNF is injected into the arterial line of the
      extracorporeal ILP circuit over 2-3 minutes beginning at time 0, and perfusion proceeds for
      another 25 minutes. Melphalan is injected into the same line over 3-5 minutes and perfusion
      with both drugs continues for another 60 minutes.

      Arm II: Patients receive ILP with melphalan alone. Melphalan is injected into the arterial
      line of the extracorporeal ILP circuit over 3-5 minutes beginning approximately 30 minutes
      after initiation of perfusion as in arm I, and perfusion proceeds for 60 minutes.

      Patients with potentially curable localized disease undergo a definitive local resection 4-12
      weeks following ILP at the time of maximum tumor response as determined by physical exam and
      CT or MRI. Patients with microscopically positive viable tumor margins following resection
      receive adjuvant external beam radiotherapy as clinically indicated. If definitive local
      control cannot be confirmed with either local excision or biopsies, then amputation is
      recommended in the absence of unresectable metastatic disease. Local resection may also be
      performed on patients who achieve partial response. Patients with unresectable metastatic
      pulmonary disease who are undergoing ILP for palliative purposes do not undergo definitive
      resection.

      Patients are followed at 4-6 weeks, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 4 months
      thereafter in the absence of disease progression. Patients expected to undergo interval
      resection are followed every 4 weeks until the procedure is scheduled.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL:

      A total of 12-40 patients (6-20 per arm) will be accrued for this study.
    
  