
    
      African American patients often experience more gastrointestinal (GI) complications after
      kidney transplant than Caucasian patients. In addition, African American kidney transplant
      recipients also experience a higher incidence of acute rejection and have worse outcomes
      compared with all other ethnic groups. Reasons accounting for these differences are not well
      understood.

      In light of the increased risk of GI complications in African American patients, we will
      compare in a pilot study, different regimens (described below) that we commonly use in our
      clinical practice in this population. As part of this study, patients will also fill out a
      GSRS survey at specified time points to help describe gastrointestinal side effects after
      transplant.

      Pharmacokinetic studies (studies looking at how the drugs are absorbed and broken down) for
      mycophenolate mofetil or enteric coated mycophenolate sodium have largely been performed in
      Caucasian populations. There is little information available in African-American patients.
      This is particularly concerning in the face of the worst clinical outcomes observed after
      transplantation in African American kidney transplant recipients.

      Comparisons: Patients will be randomized to one of two groups

        -  Group 1: Myfortic (enteric-coated mycophenolate sodium) in combination with Prograf
           (tacrolimus) or its generic equivalent and corticosteroids

        -  Group 2: CellCept (mycophenolate mofetil) or its generic equivalent manufactured by
           Sandoz in combination with Prograf (tacrolimus) or its generic equivalent and
           corticosteroids

      Since toxicity of mycophenolate mofetil and enteric coated mycophenolate sodium may be
      influenced by pharmacokinetics (studies that look at how the drugs are absorbed and broken
      down) of these respective drugs, we will compare the pharmacokinetics of enteric coated
      mycophenolate sodium and mycophenolate mofetil in a subset of patients. This pharmacokinetic
      data may have the additional valuable benefit of helping to optimize dosing parameters for
      mycophenolate mofetil and enteric coated mycophenolate sodium in African American kidney
      transplant patients in the future.
    
  