
    
      Design

      This is a multi-center, randomized, patient-blinded multicenter trial, comparing two
      treatment strategies in 356 patients undergoing EMR for a colonic lesion 2-6 cm. The study
      will be enrolled in a selection of academic and non-academic Dutch hospitals. Patients
      undergoing an EMR will be a randomly allocated by web-based randomization to:

      A) PC treatment group: minimally 1 clip per 1 cm of the polyp resection plane: OR B) Control
      group: standard care: only clip placement in case of uncontrollable bleeding (not
      successfully managed by coagulation) AND/OR perforation.

      Population The target population in this proposal includes patients of 18 years and older,
      who gave written informed consent, undergoing EMR of a colonic polyp with a moderate to
      severe risk of developing DB. Moderate-severe risk of DB is defined as a laterally spreading
      or sessile polyp morphology proximal to the splenic flexure, measuring 2-6cm. Given the
      significantly increased risk of bleeding in the cecum, ascending and transverse colon, clip
      placement at this location may have the greatest benefit.

      Inclusion Gastroenterologists from participating hospitals of the Dutch EMR Study Group will
      be asked to recruit patients for the trial. They will provide written information about the
      trial to potential participants, i.e., all patients scheduled for an EMR of a (right-sided)
      colonic polyp 2-6 cm, and 18 years or older. Members of the study group will contact
      potentially eligible patients at the outpatient clinic, hospital wards or by phone and give
      detailed information about the trial. In- and exclusion criteria will be checked and
      questions about the trial will be answered. Eligible patients will be invited to participate.
      After both the patient and the study physician or nurse practitioner have signed the informed
      consent form, in- and exclusion criteria will be checked again and baseline measurements will
      be performed, which include disease specific questionnaires including risk-factors for DB (AC
      use, restarting AC, polyp size, visible vessel, etc) and generic and disease specific quality
      of life questionnaires (see below). Patient's contact details will be provided to the study
      center for randomization.

      Standard of care (usual care) In Dutch common practice, PC is not standard of care. PC is
      used, based on the personal preference of the endoscopist, mostly in case of intra-procedural
      bleeding/(possible)perforation. In our study group the minority of endoscopists applies PC
      after EMR in case of high risk patients, defined as right-sided flat polyps of at least 2cm
      and on AC or AP therapy.

      Definition clinical significant delayed bleeding (DB)

      DB is defined as any bleeding occurring after the completion of the procedure necessitating
      blood transfusion, hospitalization, or re-intervention (either repeat endoscopy, angiography,
      or surgery). Self-limiting bleeding managed on an outpatient basis is not included. Severity
      of DB Severity of bleeding is defined according to the ASGE working party document for
      adverse events in colonoscopy:

        1. Mild DB: any post-EMR medical consultation, unplanned hospital admission, or
           prolongation of hospital stays for 3 days or fewer.

        2. Moderate DB: unplanned hospital admission of 4 to 10 days, transfusion, repeat
           endoscopy, any interventional radiology procedure, or intensive care unit (ICU)
           admission for 1 night.

        3. Severe DB: admission to the ICU for more than 1 night, unplanned admission for more than
           10 nights, surgery, or permanent disability.

      Treatment of DB DB is primarily treated by resuscitation. In case of resuscitation failure,
      colonoscopy, angiography with coiling and eventually surgery may be applied to control the
      bleeding site.

      Follow-up After the EMR patients are contacted at 30, 90 and 180 days (short-term and
      long-term effects). At 180 days a colonoscopy is scheduled to access the adenoma recurrence
      rate (standard of care).
    
  