
    
      Rationale: More than 50% of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) have
      sleep complaints characterised by longer latency to falling asleep, more frequent arousals
      and awakenings, generalised insomnia and/or excessive daytime sleepiness. Sleep disturbance
      seems to be more severe with advancing disease and substantially reduces patients' quality of
      life. The sleep complaints are due to dyspnea, chronic cough, sputum production, hypoxaemia
      and hypercapnia during the night. One of the available therapies for these patients is the
      prescription of hypnotics (like benzodiazepines). However, it is thought that in patients
      with COPD sleep medication may produce adverse respiratory effects due to suppression of the
      cerebral respiratory drive. In our practice, we never encounter any adverse respiratory
      effect of an hypnotic in patients with COPD. There have been several trials in COPD patients
      studying these potentially adverse effects. The results of these studies are inconsistent,
      relative older hypnotics are used and there are several methodological limitations.
      Furthermore, in none of these studies transcutaneous PCO2 or PO2 was monitored. Temazepam is
      nowadays the sedative of first choice in the medical treatment of sleep complaints.

      Aim: primary: studying the effects of temazepam on the respiratory function during daytime
      and at night in patients with severe COPD. Secondary: studying the effects of temazepam on
      the sleep quality and sleep structure and on the objective and subjective sleepiness during
      daytime and at night in patients with COPD.

      Study design: double blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over randomised clinical trial.

      Treatment: 10 mg temazepam or placebo during seven consecutive nights.

      Endpoints: Primary: difference in PtcCO2, PtcO2 and oxygen saturation during sleep after 1
      week temazepam compared to placebo. Secondary: Respiratory Disturbance Index, Desaturation
      Index and Hypercapnic Ventilatory Response, percentage REM/nREM-sleep and total effective
      sleep time, Multiple Sleep Latency Test and the Epworth Sleeping Score.
    
  