
    
      Fecal incontinence (FI) is a devastating condition that causes psychological stress, shame,
      embarrassment, and social isolation. It has a major impact on quality of life of patients and
      their families. It complicates medical illnesses and management, has major economic
      consequences and can contribute to early nursing home placement. Although FI affects 2.2% to
      11% of the general population, the magnitude of the problem is underestimated, since most
      patients do not discuss this silent affliction with their care providers. In uncontrolled
      studies of biofeedback for FI, including our preliminary observations in male veterans
      without anal sphincter injury, improvement was observed in up to 80% of patients. However, it
      may not be appropriate for all patients. One recent randomized, controlled trial in
      predominantly (93% women) female patients, many (> 60%) with post-obstetrical anal sphincter
      injury, reports that biofeedback is no more effective than medical therapy alone. The trial
      provides data for the formulation of an evidence-based approach to treat FI in female
      veterans. There are no randomized, controlled data on the effectiveness of biofeedback for FI
      in male patients. A randomized, controlled trial is needed to assess the effectiveness of
      multi-component biofeedback therapy versus standard medical therapy in man. The immediate
      objectives of the current proposal are to evaluate the effectiveness of biofeedback treatment
      for FI and to identify baseline patient characteristics that will predict improvement and
      adequate relief in FI symptoms following treatment. This will lead directly to our long-term
      goal of providing optimal treatment for FI by tailoring biofeedback plus medical therapy to
      each patient's needs, based on sound clinical evidence. This project is a prospective,
      randomized, controlled clinical trial comparing two treatments for FI among patients who have
      failed medical treatment under the care of their primary care providers and are referred for
      evaluation and management of current FI. As part of standard care, all referred patients will
      receive a history and physical examination, including medical, surgical, FI-specific symptoms
      and physical findings (general, mobility, mental status and anorectal examination). Those who
      meet inclusion criteria and who agree to participate will be randomly assigned to one of 2
      study arms: 1. medical therapy alone, 2. medical therapy + sphincter strength + sensation +
      coordination training. Baseline data will also include adequate relief measure, incontinence
      scores based on bowel habit diary, anorectal parameters based on manometric and sensory
      testing, general and FI-specific quality of life, depression, anxiety, and expectation of
      improvement following treatment. All questionnaires will be based on published, validated
      instruments. Patients will be treated in six biweekly sessions (3 months). Medical therapy
      (six 40 - 60 minute sessions) includes advice, medication for constipation/diarrhea, and
      instruction related to empiric anal sphincter exercises (group 1). Biofeedback treatment (six
      40 - 60 minute sessions) includes medical therapy plus all components of biofeedback (groups
      2). Follow up data will be obtained in all patients at the end of treatment (3 months) and by
      mailed questionnaires at 12 months after completion of treatment or dropout. We can determine
      if biofeedback plus medical therapy will be superior to medical therapy alone in providing FI
      symptom relief. The possibility that more patients will report relief of FI symptoms when
      specific deficit(s) detected at baseline testing show(s) improvement with treatment. The
      influence of co-variables on results of treatment can also be determined. Our long term goal
      is to develop a clinically relevant strategy that will be cost-effect for the management of
      FI in VA patients (predominantly male) within the organizational frame work of primary and
      subspecialty care. If biofeedback treatment is proven to be effective, and VA patients can be
      offered therapy components with optimal likelihood of success, the obvious benefit to our VA
      patients is abatement of the silent affliction of FI and improvement in patient satisfaction
      and quality of life. Further study will focus on a multi-site cooperative study to assess
      which component of biofeedback is most instrumental in bringing about improvement and relief
      in patients with specific deficits.
    
  