
    
      Background: Fever is a common complaint and lacking localizing signs poses a diagnostic
      dilemma, mostly, but not only, in children under 3 years of age. Recent years studies found
      common clinical markers for a Serious Bacterial Infection (SBI) to be ineffective in
      confirming or ruling out a suspected SBI in an environment with low prevalence of SBI such as
      developed countries. Shivering (chills, rigors) during a febrile illness is a common
      complaint in children but it's true incidence is unknown. It is assumed that shivering
      appears more frequently in children with SBI but only one study in the pediatric population
      was found to support this assumption. No studies were found to describe the frequency of
      shivering in the emergency department. Study purpose: To describe the frequency of febrile
      shivering in the pediatric population arriving at the emergency department and it's relation
      to a Severe Bacterial Infection. Participants: Children in the age range of 3 months to 18
      years presenting with fever. Intervention: During the study time frame the frequency of
      febrile shivering will be documented . Patients with febrile shivering who meet the inclusion
      criteria, a sepsis workup will be done including blood samples for inflammatory markers,
      blood culture, urinalysis and urine culture when a urinary tact infection is suspected. Other
      systems (CSF sampling, joint fluid aspiration, stool culture, chest x ray) will be examined
      according to an appropriate history and clinical suspicion. The same work up will be done in
      next consecutive patient presenting with fever without shivering. Results: The frequency of
      febrile shivering, positive cultures, lobar pneumonia in a chest x ray. A comparison between
      the study and the control group will be made. Categorical variables will be compared using
      the Chi square test or Fisher exact test (as appropriate). Continuous variables will be
      compared using the student t test or Mann Whitney test. The relation between a bacterial
      infection and clinical variables will be analyzed using a logistic regression. Study group
      size: This is a pilot study. Investigators will use a convenience sample of all children
      admitted with shivering during the study period.

      Safety: All examinations will be held by the emergency department organic staff in the same
      routine methods done otherwise outside the study settings. The emergency department and
      hospital protocols for patients identification and infection control will be carried out
      before invasive procedures. Ethics: Parents will be asked for their agreement to answer a
      questioner as part of the study and their agreement will be documented. Informed consent will
      be asked for each patient, of the legal guardian. The study will be held according to the
      ethics rules of the Helsinki declaration and was approved by the local Ethics board. Access
      to the database will be restricted to the study investigators. The database will be encrypted
      by a password. After gathering the data and before statistical analysis information
      identifying the patients will be removed. The importance of the study: Fever in children is a
      common complaint frequently posing a dilemma on the extent of workup needed beyond clinical
      evaluation. This study aims to examine the frequency of shivering among children presenting
      to the ED with fever , its ability to predict the risk of severe bacterial infection.
    
  