
    
      Melanocytes are highly specialized dendritic cells that performs multiple functions through
      autocrine, paracrine and endocrine mechanisms. These cells are part of a complex system of
      intercellular communication along with keratinocytes, Langerhans cells and fibroblasts. This
      intricate network of cellular communication is possible thanks to interaction with cytokines,
      growth factors and neurotransmitters. Although melanocytes perform brilliantly
      immunoregulatory and neuroendocrine functions, their fundamental role is to offer protection
      against the harmful effects of UV radiation through production and transference of melanin to
      keratinocytes, a process better known as melanogenesis. The latter requires 3 basic proteins
      to ensure photoprotection: MC1R (activation), MITF (traduction) and TYR (melanin synthesis).

      If one of the main features of melanocytes is to avoid UV radiation injurious effect, thus it
      raises many questions regarding the possible relation between these cells and skin cancer.
      Currently a great number of melanocytic alterations have been described in melanoma; however
      in non-melanoma skin cancer the role of melanocytes is less clear. Basal cell carcinoma (BCC)
      is the most frequent neoplasia worldwide. There are more than 30 histopathologic subtypes,
      however the nodular subtype is the most common. Pigmented varieties are common in darker skin
      types, therefore in our country. Previous studies have shown an increase number and size of
      melanocytes. Melanogenesis were increased at the expense of hyperfunctioning melanocytes as
      well. In our experience we have noticed the clinical course regarding pigmented nodular basal
      cell carcinoma is more benign when compared to those without pigment. Most studies regarding
      the role of melanocytes and pigmentation in basal cell carcinoma have been conducted in
      caucasian populations, and therefore not representative of what may occur in mestizo
      population. The aim of the study was to describe the characteristics of melanocytes in
      pigmented and non-pigmented variants of basal cell carcinoma. Quantify the expression of
      melanocytic maturation: transcription factors (SOX9 and SOX10), focal adhesion kinase
      (FAK125) and receptor tyrosine kinase (c-KIT) and melanogenesis such as melanocortin 1
      receptor (MC1R), microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) and tyrosinase (TYR)
      markers. Investigate the tumoral microenvironment through the quantification of melanin, mast
      cells, angiogenesis and solar elastosis.
    
  