
    
      If you agree to participate in this research study you will be asked to undergo some
      screening tests or procedures to find out if you can be in the research study. Many of these
      tests and procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer care and may be done even if it
      turns out that you do not take part in the research study. If you have had some of these
      tests or procedures recently, they may or may not have to be repeated. These tests and
      procedures include: a medical history, performance status, physical exam, assessment of
      tumor, assessment of breathing function and blood tests. We will also confirm that you have
      no contraindications to MRIs. If these tests confirm that you are eligible to participate in
      the research study, you will begin the study scans. If you do not meet the eligibility
      criteria you will not be able to participate in this research study.

      If you qualify for this research study, you will come for the first study visit that will
      last about one and a half hours. We will use the first 30 minutes to make sure you can
      undergo a MRI scan (MRI screening).

      Before the MRI scan, we will explain how we want you to breathe during the scan. You will
      breathe in small and regular breaths for one part of the exam. In another part of the exam,
      you will hold your breath as much as possible and breathe in between breath-holds.

      An MRI contrast agent called gadolinium will be injected into a vein in your arm through an
      intravenous (IV) line. A contrast agent is a dye that is injected into the body to allow for
      better visualization (images) during an MRI exam.

      You will be aked to lie down on your back on a platform that can slide into the scanner. The
      scan will last 60 minutes. You will hear a loud knocking or hammering noise while the MRI is
      taking pictures, but the process itself will be painless. You will be given disposable
      earplugs to help make the noise less noticeable.

      During the procedure, you will be able to talk to the MRI technician through an intercom. If
      you feel too uncomfortable to continue the scan for any reason, the procedure will be
      immediately stopped and you will be removed from the MRI scanner.

      You will then undergo a standard treatment planning session for SBRT. This will include a
      standard 4D-CT scan and a standard planning CT scan. As part of the standard planning CT
      scan, an intravenous (IV, through a vein) line will be placed, and you will receive an
      injection of IV contrast. The planning process will be conducted exactly as it would if you
      were not participating in this research study; it is not experimental in any way.

      One to two weeks later, you will start standard SBRT treatment for your early stage non-small
      cell lung cancer. This treatment will be delivered exactly as it would if you were not
      participating in this research study; it is not experimental in any way.

      After the first treatment, you will undergo your second study DCE-MRI, which is identical to
      the initial DCE-MRI scan as described above.

      You will then have two more study visits for the post-treatment research scans. The first
      visit will occur 1-2 weeks after completion of SBRT. It will involve a 30-minute routine
      clinic visit with your radiation oncologist to assess your recovery from treatment, and then
      you will undergo your third study DCE-MRI, which is identical to the DCE-MRI scans described
      above.

      You will then undergo the fourth (final) study DCE-MRI scan 3-4 months after completion of
      SBRT. This scan will be identical to the three previous DCE-MRI scans. At this visit, you
      will also have a repeat 4D-CT scan which is study related. You will also have a routine
      clinic visit with your radiation oncologist at this time. You will then undergo the standard
      post-treatment re-evaluation imaging including a repeat PET/CT and a pulmonary function test.

      Once you have completed the DCE-MRI scans, no further study follow-up will be necessary.
      However, you will continue with routine follow-up with your radiation oncologist as part of
      standard care. You will be in this research study for approximately four months.
    
  