
    
      The importance of the establishment of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) registries as a
      critical step in improving OHCA outcomes is recognised from clinical, academic and political
      perspectives 1-4. The aim of the EuReCa project is to establish a European Registry of
      Cardiac Arrest to provide quality benchmarking for OHCA measurement in Europe based on
      Utstein style data collection, so that variations in OHCA incidence, management and outcomes
      can be identified 5,6.

      The EuReCa ONE project secured the collaboration of 27 European countries. During October
      2014, data was collected from each of these countries, resulting in the most comprehensive
      estimate of OHCA incidence and outcomes to date 7. As expected, the proportion of variation
      between data collection from individual countries was considerable. While much of this
      variation is likely to be attributable to patient and system level differences, some
      variation was a consequence of the difference in proportions of countries covered by data
      collection, and may also have been caused by differences in how key variables were
      interpreted.

      Improving data quality is an incremental process therefore in EuReCa TWO, we aim to build on
      the work of EuReCa ONE and further improve understanding of OHCA incidence, management and
      outcome across the continent. Key to the overall aim of achieving quality benchmarking is to
      ensure that EuReCa data collection is comprehensive and reliable.

      Essential to the aims of the EuReCa project is that the data collected on each link of the
      Chain of Survival is comparable across participating countries. During EuReCa ONE, it was
      noted that the term 'bystander CPR' was interpreted differently across countries. A
      subsequent European survey of interpretation of the term 'bystander' and 'bystander CPR'
      confirmed this observation.

      In order to enhance the key quality requirements of comprehensiveness and reliability, the
      aims of the EuReCa TWO project will be as follows:

        -  Expand the EuReCa network

        -  Improve the understanding of the role of bystanders in OHCA in Europe

      In order to achieve these aims, the following objectives will be fulfilled:

        -  Encourage participating countries to aim for national data collection and encourage
           additional countries to participate

        -  In order to provide more robust estimates of incidence, management and outcome, increase
           the data collection period, increase the period of data collection to three months (1st
           October to 31st December 2017)

        -  Identify consistency and variation in the use of the term 'bystander CPR'

        -  Describe the incidence of 'bystander CPR' and its influence on OHCA outcome

      EuReCa TWO is expected to result in the creation of the largest ever database of OHCA
      European data, which has been collected over a single time period, using consistent data
      definitions. This will provide the opportunity to generate more robust estimates of OHCA
      incidence and outcome for particular subgroups.

      2. Research Questions

      In order to build on previous work and improve the robustness of estimates, the Research
      Questions in EuReCa TWO will closely mirror those of EuReCa ONE:

        -  What proportion of each country's national population is covered by data collection?

        -  What is the incidence of confirmed OHCA attended by the EMS in different European
           regions?

        -  What is the incidence of any CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) attempted in OHCA
           throughout Europe?

        -  What proportion of CPR is started by:

             -  Bystander - on scene by chance

             -  Person alerted to scene by ambulance dispatch

             -  EMS?

        -  What is the age and gender profile of those who provide CPR before EMS arrival?

        -  In OHCA, what is the initial cardiac arrest rhythm of the patients where bystanders or
           EMS starts CPR or any other resuscitation intervention - shockable or non-shockable?

        -  In patients where CPR was started by bystanders or EMS, what is the incidence and rate
           of any return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest?

        -  What is the incidence of patients never transported due to being declared dead on scene?

        -  What is the patient status at handover from EMS to emergency department or hospital
           system with ongoing additional treatment in the next step of care (ROSC, ongoing CPR,
           dead)?

        -  What is the incidence of patients who are still alive 30 days (whether in-hospital or
           discharged) after their cardiac arrest event and/or what is the incidence of patients
           who are discharged alive from hospital?

        -  In patients with a witnessed collapse (witnessed by bystanders and/or EMS), found in a
           shockable rhythm and with an event of medical aetiology (i.e. Utstein comparator group):

             -  What is the incidence of ROSC at hospital admission (at time of being handed over
                from EMS to emergency department or hospital system with ongoing additional
                treatment e.g. PCI) for the Utstein group

             -  What is the incidence of patients who are still alive at 30 days (whether
                in-hospital or discharged) after their cardiac arrest event and/or what is the
                incidence of patients who are discharged alive from hospital in the Utstein group?

        -  What factors determine ROSC, admission and survival (as defined in questions above)?

      Secondary Research Questions

        -  What is the European incidence of and percentage survival from OHCA with a traumatic
           aetiology?

        -  What is the European incidence of and percentage survival from OHCA in cases brought to
           hospital with unsustained ROSC and/or ongoing CPR?
    
  