
    
      Depression is a common, often recurring, condition and the leading cause of disability
      worldwide. In the UK, the one-week prevalence of depression is estimated at 3.3%, and by
      2026, the cost of depression to the UK economy is estimated to reach £12.15 billion in lost
      earnings and service use costs. There are two main strategies to reduce the burden of
      depression, treatment and prevention. Treatment for depression is, even with full coverage of
      services to all those who need it, not enough.to avert the total burden of disease. Indeed,
      whist treatment is crucial, even if all people with depression received evidence-based
      treatment, it is likely that only 35% of the burden (years lived with disabilities) would be
      averted. Prevention strategies are an integral part of reducing the burden of depression
      through fully preventing, or otherwise delaying, its onset. One way to improve the reach of
      prevention interventions and to deliver such approaches at scale is to offer interventions
      via digital technologies such as websites, computer programmes, or apps. This allows for a
      larger reach and it may help reach communities which are currently under-served by
      traditional mental health services. Whilst digital tools have been shown to be effective and
      acceptable in primary care for the treatment of depression, less research has been conducted
      on its effectiveness or barriers and facilitators to implementation for prevention. A 2017
      meta-analysis identified ten trials on the effectiveness of digital interventions for the
      prevention of anxiety and depression. The review found promising evidence for the use of
      digital interventions for prevention, finding a small but positive effect on depression
      symptoms in the short-term (0.25, [0.09-0.41], p = 0.003). However, the majority of these
      studies were conducted outside of the UK, in Germany, Australia, USA, Japan, Norway, and the
      Netherlands. The trials also represented a mix of universal interventions, and
      indicated/selective efforts targeted to university students, older adults, and young adults.
      Of the two studies identified that were conducted in the UK, both had a short-term follow up,
      one of 6 weeks, and the other 12 weeks and did not include diagnostic outcome assessments.
      This suggests there is still more to learn about the application of digital technologies in
      the UK for the prevention of depression, and the medium to longer term effects of such
      interventions.

      Research questions:

        1. Can an online self-help tool reduce depression symptoms and help support the prevention
           of depression?

        2. What are the effects of Moodbuster on the development of depression, anxiety symptoms,
           quality of life, and service use, and are there any negative unintended effects?

        3. What are the barriers and facilitators to implementing an online tool for prevention in
           primary care and community settings?

      Research hypothesis:

      It is hypothesised that the intervention group will display reduced depression symptoms and
      incidence, reduced service use, and improved quality of life, and the intervention will be
      acceptable to a UK primary care population.

      Recruitment:

      Participants will be recruited via three routes:

        1. Direct referral from GPs in participating practices, who feel the study would be
           appropriate for their patients

        2. Through a software tool (FARSITE) that allows for the secure searching of GP records for
           potential study participants at participating GP practices

        3. Self-referral by individuals in response to recruitment campaign launched both in-print
           and online by the Mental Health Foundation (MHF).

      The final sample of participants accepted for the trial will be randomly allocated to either
      the intervention arm or the Treatment as Usual (TAU) arm by an independent statistician based
      at the University of Manchester.

      Intervention:

      Those assigned to the intervention will take part in a six-week online self-help programme
      called Moodbuster. Use of the programme will be supported by three telephone calls from a
      trained researcher at baseline, three weeks, and six weeks. The calls will serve to support
      participants with their use of Moodbuster and resolve any technical issues. Treatment as
      usual during the study period will involve participants carrying on as they ordinarily would
      and seeking support as and when they feel it is needed using the (clinical) resources and
      services available in their area. Those assigned to the TAU arm will receive the stand-alone
      online intervention for free after the nine-month study period and will have access for an
      additional 9 months.

      Data Collection:

      Baseline data will be collected via online questionnaires, and an interview. Participants in
      the intervention arm will be asked to complete a second set of online questionnaires upon
      completing the six-week self-help programme. This will involve the same set of online
      questionnaires completed at baseline with additional items related to acceptability of the
      self-help programme. Participants in both groups will be contacted again at six months and
      nine months for follow-up data collection, which will involve the same set of online
      questionnaires that were completed at baseline. At nine months, participants will also be
      asked to participate in a second diagnostic telephone interview with trained researchers.
      Sub-groups of participants taking part in the intervention arm of the study will be selected
      for inclusion in the qualitative process evaluation. The aim is to recruit 20-25 participants
      for interview. In depth semi-structured interviews will be conducted with participants one
      month after the end of the intervention. Participants will be asked questions related to
      barriers and facilitators encountered in the use of Moodbuster, the perceived impact of
      Moodbuster on their daily lives, and their motivations for taking part in the study.
      Interviews will last approximately 30 minutes and will be conducted by study team researchers
      over the phone. Additional focus groups will be conducted with primary care professionals
      involved in the recruitment and referral to the intervention. Purposive sampling will be used
      to select staff to reflect different areas of expertise. Focus groups will be conducted one
      month after the end of the intervention and will explore professionals' perspectives on the
      implementation of the intervention. This will include the perceived impact of the tool and
      barriers and facilitators to use.

      Sample size: Intervention

      For our design, which assesses baseline and two follow-up measurements, we anticipate an
      effect size of 0.30 at nine-month. This estimate is based on prior meta-analyses on
      depression prevention.

      An effect size of 0.30 indicates a sample size of N = 116 per arm, or N = 232 for the full
      trial. Accounting for 20% drop-out, we would require a sample size of N = 290 participants.
      This is based on the assumption that the correlation between baseline and follow-up is 0.5.

      Sub-Sample Size: Process evaluation

      For the qualitative component, we will aim to recruit up to 25 participants for interviews,
      and a further 15 professionals for focus groups. This number ensures sufficient data to
      answer the research questions and is achievable within the timescales of the project. It is
      consistent with previous research applying thematic analysis to interview data in mental
      health. The exact number of participants recruited will depend on the richness of the
      interview data and whether new themes continue to emerge. Recruitment and data collection
      will continue until collection of new data does not shed any further light on the issue under
      investigation and saturation has been reached.
    
  