
    
      Fifty participants will complete questionnaires at baseline (Day 1), then they will be
      randomized 1:1 to the Positive Piggy Bank condition (n=25) or Treatment as Usual (n = 25)
      approximately 3 weeks before surgery. Post-intervention (Day of Surgery) and 14 days
      post-surgery, participants will complete the same questionnaires. The 14 day post surgery
      questionnaires will be administered by phone.

      Intervention Procedures - The Positive Piggy Bank. Participants randomized to this group will
      first get an overview of the intervention, learn about the rationale for this treatment, and
      receive supplies including the instructions on a decorative card, a piggy bank, and paper
      currency slips (pieces of lined paper with a place for the date). Participants in this group
      will be instructed to do the activities as detailed above in the Positive Piggy Bank
      instructions daily until the evening before surgery (approximately 21 days). On the evening
      before surgery, they are to "close their account" by opening the piggy bank and reviewing all
      of the slips of paper.

      Study personnel will contact patients within 72 hours of beginning the study to answer
      questions and/or provide encouragement. Participants will also be contacted on the day before
      surgery to let them know that they should read all of their currency slips and reminded to
      bring their currency slips with them to the hospital on the day of surgery.

      On the day of surgery, prior to surgery they will complete the first set of follow-up
      questionnaires. They will also be reminded that these same follow-up questionnaires will be
      administered by phone 14 days after surgery.

      The control group will serve to show the relative benefits of the Positive Piggy Bank
      intervention. These participants will follow the same questionnaire completion procedures as
      listed above including phone calls. The phone call at 72 hours will be to simply thank them
      for their participation in the study.
    
  