
    
      Dolichoectatic vertebrobasilar (DVB) aneurysms are fusiform in geometry and often large (< 10
      cm) in size limiting traditional microsurgical clipping or endovascular coiling strategies.
      Collectively, DVB aneurysms represent ≤ 0.01% of all aneurysms (~ 600 US) and, consequently,
      their study is limited to a few small series. Despite their rarity, the location and geometry
      of DVB aneurysms make surgical intervention, microsurgical or endovascular, nearly uniformly
      fatal. Therefore, most DVB aneurysms are observed providing greater insight into their
      natural history than many more surgically amenable aneurysms. One series noted 28% of
      patients manifesting any neurological deficit, ischemic or hemorrhagic, over a 4 year
      interval with an overall mortality rate of ~ 20%.

      Tumor necrosis alpha (TNFα). From the many implicated genetic pathways in aneurysm formation,
      tumor necrosis alpha (TNFα) has been noted a pivotal actor. In pre-clinical studies, the
      ability to inhibit TNFα induction prevents aneurysm rupture and even aneurysm growth
      altogether. In humans, TNFα inhibitor therapy has proven effective for many types of vascular
      inflammation including carotid wall thickening in the setting of rheumatoid arthritis. Over
      12- and 24-month intervals, others have demonstrated significant decreases in carotid
      intima-media thickness in patients taking the TNFα inhibitor, infliximab. Furthermore,
      infliximab therapy has proven effective in refractory Kawasaki's disease, a condition
      characterized by post-infectious coronary artery inflammation in children. There is also
      evidence that infliximab therapy is effective in treatment of IVIG-refractory Kawasaki's
      disease including regressing coronary aneurysms. Despite the multitude of agents and
      indications both on and off-label, TNFα inhibitor therapy has not been used for the treatment
      of brain aneurysm.
    
  