
    
      Cervical incompetence is defined as the inability to sustain a pregnancy to full term. It is
      characterized by recurrent second-trimester pregnancy losses. Cervical cerclage is a
      procedure that is commonly carried out in order to prevent pre-term loss in at-risk
      pregnancies. The major challenge of performing this as a day case procedure is achieving
      adequate anaesthesia for comfortable performance of the cerclage whilst providing adequate
      regression of motor and sensory blocks to allow ambulation and bladder control within an
      appropriate timescale. Spinal anaesthesia, or subarachnoid block (SAB), is commonly employed
      to facilitate a wide variety of pelvic and lower limb surgeries. In the United Kingdom, the
      commonly administered subarachnoid agents are bupivacaine, prilocaine and, until recent
      decades, lidocaine. The duration of action of bupivacaine makes it less well suited to day
      surgery as it is often difficult to reach discharge criteria within a convenient time frame.
      The investigators aim to examine the recovery profiles of two equipotent doses of hyperbaric
      prilocaine and bupivacaine. Given the evidence, the survey of practice in other centres and
      the commonly used doses at this institution the following regimens will be compared:

        -  40 mg of hyperbaric 2% prilocaine with 15 mcg of fentanyl (intervention) and

        -  10 mg of hyperbaric 0.5% bupivacaine with 15 mcg of fentanyl (comparator).

      Primary Objective:

      This study aims to determine if a difference exists between the time required for regression
      of motor block between two commonly used and equipotent doses of subarachnoid hyperbaric
      prilocaine and bupivacaine.

        -  The hypothesis is that SAB with hyperbaric 2% prilocaine will result in a clinically
           significant reduction in time taken for regression of motor blockade, as determined by
           achieving a Bromage score* of I, when compared to an equipotent dose of hyperbaric
           bupivacaine when used to facilitate cervical cerclage in pregnant women in the second
           trimester of pregnancy.

        -  The null hypothesis is that no clinically significant difference exists while the
           alternative hypothesis is that such a difference truly exists.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To compare the intraoperative characteristics of the subarachnoid block and quality of
           intraoperative anaesthesia in the two groups.

        -  To compare the recovery profiles in the two groups

        -  To compare the incidence of complications in the two groups

        -  To compare the satisfaction of the participants in each group This is a prospective,
           single centre, parallel group, double-blind, randomised, controlled, superiority trial.
           The sample size will consist of 135 patients having elective cervical cerclage, under
           SAB, due to cervical incompetence.

      Sample Size Calculation The primary outcome measurement is the comparison of the difference
      in time taken for regression of lower limb motor block with hyperbaric (heavy) 2% prilocaine
      compared to hyperbaric (heavy) 0.5% bupivacaine. Assuming, based on pilot data, that the time
      to regression of motor block has a standard deviation of up to 60 mins; complete data on 128
      participants (64 to each arm) would give 80% power to detect a plausible and clinically
      important 30-min difference between groups at the 0.05 significance level. To allow for up to
      5% dropout, the study will recruit 135 women.

      Random allocation to groups will be achieved using "Castor" randomisation software. The
      sequence will have been previously determined, prior to recruitment, using computer software,
      by random permuted blocks. Subsequently, the subjects who give written informed consent will
      be randomly assigned a unique 3-digit subject number. The subject number together uniquely
      identifies every subject eligible for the study. Randomisation will take place on the day of
      surgery by a non-operating healthcare professional who will randomise according to the
      "Castor" software. If code breaking is necessary, this will be done by pharmacy. As soon as
      128 evaluable subjects have been included in the study, recruitment will be stopped.

      Analysis After checking for normality by standard diagnostic plots, a comparison between the
      groups will be made using multiple regression with a dummy variable for treatment arm. A
      correction will be made for unequal variance using the robust standard errors. Adjustment
      will be made for maternal BMI and height, as these are known to be related to anaesthetic
      effect.

      No power calculation has been carried out for the secondary outcomes, and no priority is made
      between them. Continuous measures, including the patient satisfaction score, will be analysed
      as described above for the primary outcome. Binary measures will be expressed as percentages,
      and compared by means of risk ratios, using binary regression with a log link, adjusted for
      BMI and height, as described above.

      Subgroup analyses: A comparison will be made between normal weight and obese women (BMI over
      30 kg.m-2); and between women above and below 165 cm in height, using an interaction test to
      check for a difference in treatment effect.

      No interim analysis is planned.
    
  