
    
      Introduction and Specific Aims:

      Family members who care for those with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) may
      find a sense of meaning, opportunity and power in their evolving role, but they may also find
      the experience burdensome, leading to depression, anxiety and grief. Caregiving can also have
      negative effects on health, including impairments in cardiovascular health, immune function,
      restorative sleep and cognitive function. As care demands build over the long duration of
      disease, the quality of life for the care dyad (the person with dementia, (PwD) and their
      care partner (CP)) is affected and the risk of placement for the PwD increases. Interventions
      that reduce the CP affective and physical burden, and delay PwD placement are available to
      support the 16 million ADRD CPs in the United States, but access to them is limited by a
      number of factors, including geographic distance, financial resources and stigma.

      Internet-based videoconferencing technology (also known as "telehealth") is making education
      and support interventions more accessible for families living with ADRD. These interventions
      have had small to moderate effects on reducing CP burden and depression and good consumer
      acceptance. However, despite evidence that CPs prefer individualized interventions with
      real-time counselors, most telehealth interventions are group-based, automated and not
      tailored to stages of disease. Also, while the telehealth interventions target important
      aspects of the CP affective experience (burden, depression), few address sleep issues or the
      cognitive dysfunction that can result from caregiving. Further, limited information is
      available about the mechanisms of action of these technology-based interventions.

      To address the need for personalized, real-time educational interventions for families caring
      for those in moderate to late-stage dementia, we designed Tele-STELLA (Support via
      TEchnology: Living and Learning with ADRD). Tele-STELLA uses videoconferencing to connect
      nurse consultants with CPs, in both one-to-one and then small group sessions. STELLA uses
      cognitive behavioral techniques to guide CPs in strategies to reduce the emotional, cognitive
      and physical effects of upsetting behavioral symptoms of dementia. Pilot testing of STELLA
      prototypes found that the intervention reduced burden. Focus groups revealed that CPs liked
      the one-to-one telehealth format, but did not like the abrupt cessation after completing the
      8 weekly sessions. They asked for opportunities to connect with other caregivers to sustain
      support.

      There are few known telehealth interventions that use combined one-to-one and group sessions.
      This novel study, co-developed with CPs, will provide feasibility and efficacy data and help
      understand the mechanisms of change for this intervention. Further, this study will be one of
      the first to use objective data from the ORCASTRAIT LL to learn about Tele-STELLA's
      mechanisms of behavior change.

      Phase 1 assesses the STELLA intervention, Phase 2 assesses costs and the effect of the
      intervention on costs.

      Phase 1

        1. Using quantitative and qualitative approaches, assess feasibility and participant
           acceptability of (a) STELLA, and (b) the assessment methods (subjective measures and
           unobtrusive objective monitoring).

        2. Using quantitative strategies, assess the preliminary effect of STELLA on (a) the
           affective impact of caregiving, Care Partner cognitive function and person with dementia
           quality of life, and on (b) Care Partner and person with dementia objective digital
           behavioral biomarkers (activity, sleep and time together).

        3. Test the feasibility of employing digital behavioral biomarker data, combined with
           qualitative Care Partner feedback, to assess mechanisms of behavior change before,
           during and after the STELLA intervention.

      Phase 2

        1. Quantify the costs of delivering the STELLA intervention.

        2. Quantify the cost efficacy of STELLA in relation to BPSD frequency and CP reactivity and
           assess the relationship between costs, BPSD, and care partner burden.

      H1: There is a relationship between BPSD and cost: More BPSD behaviors and more CP reactivity
      to the BPSD are associated with higher out-of-pocket and implicit costs for families living
      with dementia.

      H2: There is a relationship between out-of-pocket and implicit costs and objective measures
      of burden identified in the ORCASTRAIT Living Lab continuous home assessment. Higher
      objective burden will correlate with higher implicit and out-of-pocket costs.

      STELLA is an ancillary study embedded in the Oregon Roybal Center for CAre Support
      Translational Research Advantaged by Integrating Technology (ORCASTRAIT) parent study
      (IRB#20236).

      THEORETICAL FRAMEWORK AND MECHANISMS OF ACTION: Tele-STELLA is framed by Vitaliano et al's
      model which hypothesizes that CP stress exposure catalyzes a cascade of concerns, including
      psychological, physiological and cognitive strain. The original model places the caregiver at
      the top of the model as the recipient of a stressor. However, the PwD also experiences
      stressors, such as CP disengagement. Thus, we include the PwD, who is also vulnerable to the
      stress of caregiving, at the top of the model. By addressing behavioral symptoms in both the
      CP and the PwD, it is hypothesized that Tele-STELLA will be feasible and acceptable to
      families, will reduce the negative effects of ADRD on the family, and that objective feedback
      (provided by digital biomarker data) will inform the efficacy of the intervention and the
      mechanisms of behavior change.

      Significance Providing care for a family member with Alzheimer's disease or a related
      dementia (ADRD) is both rewarding and risky. CPs exposed to chronic stress, often over years,
      are susceptible to physical and psychological ailments. In addition, the caregiving
      experience increases the risk of cognitive impairment in CPs, with spousal CPs being
      particularly vulnerable, thus potentially perpetuating a cycle when yet another family member
      has to care for the former CP. Effective interventions that reduce caregiver burden and
      reduce health risks are available, but various factors impede CP participation, including
      distance, cost, behavioral symptoms of dementia, stigma and social anxiety. Recognizing the
      need to reduce barriers to access, scientists have turned to Internet-based interventions.
      Recent research indicates that multi-component technology-facilitated interventions which
      allow CP engagement with health professionals are effective and favored by caregivers.
      However, only a minority of studies allow for health professional engagement, and of these,
      only a handful provide real-time interaction. Hopwood et al concluded that, despite the fact
      that family needs vary across ADRD stages, the interventions reviewed were not targeted to a
      specific stage of ADRD.

      We have completed two pilot studies using Internet-based CP interventions. These studies
      tested the feasibility and consumer acceptability of the evidence-based, Staff Training in
      Assisted-living Residences - Caregivers (STAR-C) intervention, the precursor to Tele-STELLA,
      when delivered via telehealth. Qualitative data revealed the telehealth intervention was
      acceptable to CPs and preferred over a potential in-home ("live") intervention. We found that
      burden was reduced, but depression was not. This may be because the interaction with the
      nurse consultant formally ended with the concluding Session 8, leaving CPs with a sense of
      isolation, as this CP commented: "I went through withdrawals… I wanted to call her (the nurse
      consultant)-who can I turn to?" The prototype interventions did not include meaningful
      opportunities for CPs to interact with each other post-intervention. CPs felt their support
      vanished and did not like "the fact that it was over". Participants advised that future
      interventions should include both one-to-one sessions and one-to-multiple sessions.

      Based on the qualitative and quantitative data from the pilot work Tele-STELLA was designed
      to address the specific needs of families living with dementia. Tele-STELLA is a
      multi-component, tailored intervention that begins with one-to-one sessions with each CP and
      nurse consultant, then links CPs to each other in a meaningful way to sustain support post
      intervention. Tele-STELLA is designed for families living in the later stages of dementia,
      where behavioral symptoms are more prominent and distressing for all.

      Innovation This pilot is innovative in several ways. First, we are testing a new intervention
      format (blended one-to-one and one-to three) using an online environment (Internet-based
      videoconferencing technology). Second, we are examining novel strategies for assessing the
      effect of the intervention and mechanisms of action using unobtrusive, objective monitoring
      of digital behavioral biomarkers (sleep, time together, activity). Finally, we are collecting
      data (saved video and audio files) that can be used for future objective assessment of dyad
      well-being, such as assessing conversational dynamics through linguistic analysis of session
      interactions or employing facial recognition techniques to assess CP emotions. Taken
      together, this pilot will set the stage to advance caregiving science beyond traditional,
      earthbound approaches.
    
  