
    
      By its mechanism of action i.e., inhibiting protein degradation, VELCADE targets a wide-range
      of pathways that are relevant to tumor progression and therapy resistance. Preclinical data
      in cell lines indicate anti-tumor activity in NSCLC. Preliminary work in vivo (animal models)
      suggests an enhanced anti-tumor effect in combination with cytotoxic agents commonly used in
      the treatment of lung cancer, including gemcitabine and CPT-11 and additive tumor growth
      delay when combined with cisplatin or paclitaxel.

      Platinum- or non-platinum- based combinations including the newer agents represent the
      standard front-line treatment for patients with stage IIIB/IV NSCLC. However, despite the
      introduction of the newer agents, the efficacy of cytotoxic chemotherapy seems to have
      reached a plateau. The incorporation of molecularly targeted agents in NSCLC treatment is
      likely to improve the treatment outcomes. Recently, an initial Phase 2 of VELCADE in
      combination with gemcitabine/carboplatin in the first-line treatment of NSCLC was completed.
      A response rate of 21% with impressive progression-free survival and overall survival rates
      of 5 and 11 months, respectively, were reported.

      Combining VELCADE with a currently approved standard regimen such as cisplatin/gemcitabine,
      may lead to a better response rate, TTP, and OS than chemotherapy alone. VELCADE combined
      with gemcitabine and cisplatin has been shown safe in a phase I trial in patients with
      advanced solid tumors. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of VELCADE was 1 mg/m2 on either a
      weekly or a biweekly schedule when combined with gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 and cisplatin 70
      mg/m2. Treatment was generally well tolerated with the weekly regimen of VELCADE being
      associated with less myelotoxicity. Plasma pharmacokinetic profiles of gemcitabine and
      cisplatin were not altered by VELCADE. Interestingly enough, among 27 patients with NSCLC an
      encouraging response rate of 37% and disease stabilization rate of 52% was recorded.

      In this trial VELCADE alone will be administered on the first treatment cycle to examine
      molecular correlates of VELCADE activity. Subsequent cycles will include the combination of
      VELCADE with cisplatin plus gemcitabine.

      Data from the phase I study of VELCADE plus cisplatin/gemcitabine contributed to the
      selection of the drug doses for patients that will be enrolled in the current study.
      Specifically, the doses employed are those identified as the MTD level of the phase I study.

      The anti-tumor activity of the combination of VELCADE and cisplatin/gemcitabine in the
      first-line treatment of NSCLC will be tested in this study according to a Simon 2-stage
      optimal design.
    
  