
    
      This study will attempt to replicate findings suggesting that visual evoked potentials
      generated in one human brain (Subject A) by photostimulation can generate a correlated EEG
      signal in the brain of another human subject (subject B) who is located at a distance (14.5
      meters) and who is not visually stimulated.

      This project will occur in three stages. First we will identify pairs of subjects who have
      cross-correlated evoked potentials during photostimulation to Subject A at the p < .01 level
      of significance. If no pairs can be identified we will continue to enroll and test up to 50
      pairs of subjects. If pairs of subjects that demonstrate the phenomenon cannot be identified
      using this p value by the end of the project time line we will reject the hypothesis that
      remote transfer of neural energy occurs and report failure to replicate the original study.
      If we detect greater than or equal to 5 pairs of subjects who meet the criteria we will
      attempt to replicate in those pairs using a higher criteria of p < .001. If
      Grinberg-Zylberbaum et al's experiment can be replicated at both stages, the project team
      will go to stage 3 to investigate the same phenomenon in the identified pairs of human
      subjects using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) as a second independent
      neurophysiological measure of transfer of information between two human brains. We will
      record fMRIs (occipital, temporal, frontal and parietal) in the remote individual while their
      counterpart, located in a separate chamber, is receiving light stimulation in an on-off
      pattern. We will determine if there are statistically significant differences in digitized
      fMRI during lights on vs. lights off conditions. The main outcome measures for this project
      will be the binary (yes-no) output from statistical analysis using cross-correlational and
      z-score testing for the detection of a transferred evoked signal (in both EEG and fMRI
      experiments) in Subject B. Appropriate controls will be used. If replicated, this study will
      provide a useful technology and method to quantitatively investigate the characteristics and
      neural mechanisms of remote effects of "mental events." Such experimental methods will assist
      in the investigation of basic mechanisms involved in "mind-body" medicine.
    
  