
    
      HIV-1 RNA emerges in CSF early in the course of HIV disease. Studies have shown that high
      levels of HIV-1 RNA in CSF correlate with increased severity of dementia and worsened
      performance on neuropsychological tests. While combination antiretroviral treatments are
      potent suppressors of HIV-1 replication in plasma, the extent to which these treatments
      suppress viral replication in CSF is unknown. A few studies suggest that antiretroviral
      treatments can reduce HIV-1 RNA in CSF. However, since CSF is isolated from peripheral immune
      responses to HIV and antiretroviral treatment may not readily penetrate the compartment,
      researchers hypothesize the remaining virus will overcome the antiretroviral treatment to
      achieve high levels of viral replication again. This virologic failure is likely accompanied
      by decreased cognitive function. It is therefore critical to determine the ability of
      antiretroviral treatments to control HIV-1 replication in the CSF and the durability of that
      viral suppression.

      Patients enrolling in one of several AACTG-sponsored potent antiretroviral therapy trials (a
      "parent" trial) may enter this study. [AS PER AMENDMENT 06/06/00: Patients already enrolled
      in an AACTG-sponsored study who are changing treatment due to virologic failure may also
      enter this study.] [AS PER AMENDMENT 11/15/01: Patients starting a new potent antiretroviral
      regimen as part of their clinical care, enrolling in a potent antiretroviral treatment trial,
      or changing potent antiretroviral therapy in clinical care or in an ongoing antiretroviral
      treatment trial because of virologic failure may enter this study.] Patients receive no
      treatment but undergo various procedures aimed at characterizing the effects of
      antiretroviral therapies on CSF viral load and cognitive function. Procedures include: 1)
      venipuncture to measure plasma HIV-1 RNA and DNA levels, CD4+ T cell count, and cytokine and
      immune activation markers associated with HIV-1 neurological disorders; 2) neuropsychological
      examinations to measure cognitive function; and 3) lumbar punctures to obtain CSF samples,
      which are used to determine the pharmacokinetics of antiretroviral agents in CSF and to
      determine levels of blood cells, cytokine and immune activation markers, and HIV-1 RNA and
      DNA. An entry visit must occur before initiating potent antiretroviral therapy in the parent
      trial [AS PER AMENDMENT 06/06/00: or before changing the antiretroviral regimen due to
      virologic failure in an ongoing trial]. [AS PER AMENDMENT 11/15/01: Patients are registered
      before initiating a new potent antiretroviral regimen.] Subsequent visits occur within 21
      days prior to each lumbar puncture and at Weeks 24 and 52. If evaluations, procedures, or
      assays for a given patient's parent trial [AS PER AMENDMENT 11/15/01: for any coenrollment
      AACTG study] occur at the times specified in this study, they are not duplicated for this
      study. Other visits may occur when a patient changes antiretroviral treatment or discontinues
      a parent trial [AS PER AMENDMENT 11/15/01: discontinues a potent antiretroviral therapy].
    
  