
    
      "Background" Newborn screening (NBS) is a state-based public health program that screens
      babies for a panel of over 30 conditions. It is estimated that about 12,500 newborns each
      year in the United States are identified with one of the conditions screened in NBS, with
      each child receiving the benefit of early treatment. For inclusion in newborn screening there
      must be evidence that pre-symptomatic treatment is more effective than treatment after
      clinical presentation. Most conditions proposed for newborn screening are rare, however, and
      researchers have difficulty identifying sufficient numbers of babies to test the benefits of
      pre-symptomatic identification and treatment. This lack of data is central to challenges that
      the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Advisory Committee on Heritable Disorders in
      Newborns and Children (ACHDNC) faces when making federal recommendations to states on which
      conditions should be included in newborn screening programs. ACHDNC is often asked to
      consider conditions for inclusion in newborn screening for which there is limited evidence of
      the natural history, prevalence, and especially about the benefit of early treatment.

      "Rationale" That evidence gap, especially in the rare disease context, makes it important to
      develop and test a system to efficiently generate high-quality data about conditions that
      have the potential to be candidates for state newborn screening. The Early Check program will
      address this gap through screening newborns for a carefully selected panel of conditions,
      offered under a research protocol with biological maternal permission, except in cases where
      there is a transfer or loss of custody. In cases with a transfer/loss of custody, a legal
      guardian can grant permission for the infant to join Early Check. Early Check will identify
      pre-symptomatic infants with rare disorders, accelerate the acquisition of data on the early
      natural history of rare disorders, and demonstrate the feasibility of a statewide program to
      offer voluntary opt-in newborn screening for a panel of conditions not currently included in
      states' standard newborn screening. Further, Early Check will facilitate the public health
      'on-boarding' of conditions that are ultimately recommended for state newborn screening
      programs.

      The initial panel of conditions screened in the Early Check program will change over the
      course of the study.

      The current screening panel includes spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), Duchenne muscular
      dystrophy (DMD) and related neuromuscular conditions that result in increased CK-MM, and
      fragile X syndrome (FXS). SMA and DMD causes progressive weakness and FXS causes intellectual
      disability and behavioral outcomes.

      SMA has an approved treatment, nusinersen, which has been demonstrated to improve outcomes in
      infants with infantile-onset SMA. In addition, infants with a shorter disease duration
      compared to a longer disease duration had improved outcomes after the start of treatment with
      nusinersen, suggesting that earlier identification of SMA would benefit affected infants.

      DMD causes progressive inflammation, fibrosis, and muscle fiber degradation, and weakness.
      DMD has traditionally been treated with physical therapy, corticosteroids, and ACE inhibitors
      to delay the progression of skeletal muscle and cardiac damage. In 2016, the FDA approved
      Eteplirsen (Exondys, 51) a promising treatment for a subset of patients with DMD. In 2017 the
      FDA approved Emflaza, a corticosteroid also known as deflazacort. In 2019 the FDA approved
      Vyondys 53 and in 2020 the FDA approved Viltepso for mutations amenable to exon 53 skipping.
      Early diagnosis allows for treatments that might work best if used presymptomatically.

      FXS does not have an approved treatment, although there is evidence that early behavioral
      intervention services may improve outcomes. Given that the diagnosis of FXS is made on
      average after the child is three years old, early identification through the screening of
      newborns may provide benefit to the child.

      These conditions are rare; SMA has an estimated incidence of 1 in ~10,000, DMD has an
      estimated incidence of 1 in 4000-5000 males, and FXS has an estimated incidence of 1 in
      ~4,000 males and 1 in ~4,000-6,000 females. We also propose a sub-study with a secondary
      permission process that offers mothers the choice to obtain additional data about the gene
      that causes FXS: specifically, whether the infant has a premutation in the gene, which has an
      uncertain impact on the infant's learning and development. This uncertainty is the reason why
      premutation results are offered separately under a sub-study.

      For a wide range of rare disorders there is evidence that a delayed diagnosis (i.e., the
      frequently-described diagnostic odyssey as parents search for a diagnosis) can have negative
      health outcomes on children who miss out on treatments or interventions and on families who
      experience negative psychosocial impact. Thus, the identification of affected newborns
      through Early Check may improve health outcomes for the children and the wellbeing of their
      parents and families. The evidence supporting the benefit of newborn identification of SMA is
      strong enough that SMA was recently recommended by the ACHDNC to join the Recommended Uniform
      Screening Panel (RUSP). In July 2018, the Secretary of HHS endorsed SMA to join the RUSP.
      However, there is still some considerable time lag (historically multiple years) before SMA
      newborn screening can be implemented by individual states. The inclusion of SMA on the Early
      Check panel will provide important data to the North Carolina State Laboratory of Public
      Health as they prepare for implementation, without delaying the access of infants with SMA to
      the potential benefits of early diagnosis.

      In the future, Early Check will integrate new conditions to the screening platform as science
      advances and funding is secured, and conditions may be removed from the screening platform as
      associated research questions are answered and/or conditions achieve inclusion in state
      newborn screening programs (as may be the case with SMA).

      The overall research question is whether Early Check is an effective onboarding program to
      inform newborn screening policy decision-making.

      Early Check will also provide the infrastructure to facilitate translational research studies
      and clinical trials. A dilemma in research in rare diseases is a lack of sufficient numbers
      of presymptomatic patients. New treatments are being developed for rare diseases at a rapid
      pace. Presymptomatic treatment often has the best potential for effective treatment.
      Currently, early identification and intervention is based on the prenatal or early diagnosis
      of a sibling of a patient with known disease, which greatly limits the numbers of
      presymptomatic patients available for trials. Newborn screening has the greatest potential to
      identify presymptomatic infants. Ultimately the research program should more rapidly advance
      understanding of diseases and treatments, reducing the length of time for appropriate
      conditions to be added to the recommended panel for inclusion in state newborn screening
      programs, and provide early identification of affected newborns.

      Overall, this project will provide important information about the success of Early Check to
      feasibly and acceptably implement a large scale, electronically-mediated research approach to
      accurately identify affected infants. Results of the research activities and the ongoing
      quality assessment will be used to inform the most efficient and judicious translation of
      expanded newborn screening into public health in ways that maximize benefit and minimize
      potential risk of harm to children and families.
    
  