
    
      Studies performed under 89-N-0045 are primarily designed to examine the natural history of
      multiple sclerosis (MS) and its mimickers, viewed through the window of imaging (especially
      magnetic resonance imaging or MRI). The protocol has four other important objectives: (1)
      Screening prospective participants in selected Neuroimmunology Branch clinical trials; (2)
      Performing studies to help define the mechanism of action and cause of side effects of
      disease modifying therapies (DMT); (3) Studying healthy volunteers for comparison with
      patients and for development of new experimental technologies; and (4) Comparing MS to other
      neurological diseases that share imaging features.

      To the extent possible, scheduled testing performed under this protocol will coincide with
      standard of- care evaluations for diagnosis and longitudinal clinical management, thereby
      reducing the burden of research participation by participants. Such testing may involve
      state-of-the-art research methods. Additional pure-research visits may be scheduled to
      further investigate findings observed on scheduled visits and/or outside studies.

      Disease activity on MRI will be assessed using several MRI measures, including the detection
      of new on-study lesions, quantification of contrast-enhancing lesions, the total number
      and/or volume of MRI-visible lesions, brain volume and brain volume change, and more advanced
      MRI measures of tissue damage, such as quantitative magnetic relaxation mapping,
      diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), magnetization transfer imaging (MTI), and MR spectroscopy
      (MRS). Participants may be assessed with other imaging modalities, including optical
      coherence tomography (OCT), and they will be asked to provide research samples (generally
      blood, but also saliva and cerebrospinal fluid) and be studied clinically.

      The patient control cohort will include patients with other CNS diseases that may share
      pathophysiological processes with MS patients (e.g. other inflammatory conditions of the
      central nervous system, mitochondrial disorders, leukodystrophies, neurodegenerative diseases
      that may cause axonal loss or oxidative stress, or cerebral small vessel disease). Enrollment
      of these control patient populations will help to answer the question of whether the
      identified MRI findings and/or pathophysiological mechanisms are MS-specific or
      generalizable.
    
  