
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the anti-tumor efficacy of the combination treatment using the 6-month
      progression free survival rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety profile and tolerability of docetaxel and ramucirumab in
      combination with pembrolizumab in patients who progressed on platinum-based chemotherapy and
      PD-1 or PD-L1 checkpoint inhibitor given sequentially or in combination.

      II. To determine immune related adverse events of the combination docetaxel, ramucirumab, and
      pembrolizumab.

      III. To assess the overall response rate (ORR) of the combination docetaxel, ramucirumab, and
      pembrolizumab.

      IV. To assess the overall survival (OS) of the combination docetaxel, ramucirumab, and
      pembrolizumab.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate treatment response with PD-L1 22C3 expression, STK11 and KRAS mutation
      status.

      II. To correlate treatment response with the doublet tumor mutation burden (TMB) and PD-L1
      22C3 expression.

      III. To perform an immunophenotypic analysis of circulating immune cells by mass cytometry
      before and after treatment and end of treatment (EOT).

      IV. To analyze the tumor infiltrating immune cells by single cell ribonucleic acid (RNA)
      sequencing coupled to mass cytometry, in paired biopsies before and after treatment.

      OUTLINE:

      After premedication, patients will receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes,
      ramucirumab IV over 60 minutes, then pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of each 21-day
      cycle. The combination will be administered until confirmed disease progression defined as
      progression on 2 consecutive scans at least 4 weeks apart, occurrence of severe side effects,
      withdrawal of consent by the patient or if in the opinion of the treating physician
      continuing on the study treatment is not in the best interest of the patient.

      The first six patients will be evaluated for safety data. If less than 2 patients experience
      dose limiting toxicity, enrollment on study will continue with the efficacy assessment of the
      combination.

      Participants who experience confirmed disease progression or start a new anticancer therapy,
      will move into the Survival Follow-Up Phase and should be contacted by telephone every 12
      weeks (+/- 3 weeks) for 2 years, then every 6 months for next 3 years, then annually until
      the subject's death or until the subject is lost to follow-up up to 10 years to assess for
      survival status until death, withdrawal of consent, or the end of the trial, whichever occurs
      first.
    
  