
    
      Patients will be wheeled into the operating theatre.

        -  Anaesthesia will be induced using an inhalation anaesthetic (sevoflurane) and
           intravenous anaesthetic using propofol or thiopental for the older children (3 years and
           above).

        -  Maintenance of anaesthesia will be done using either inhalation anaesthetic
           (sevoflurane)

        -  Intra-operative analgesia will be maintained with intravenous fentanyl given at the
           start of surgery and hourly for surgeries longer than one hour.

        -  Monitoring intra and post operatively will be done with WHO standard monitoring. (Blood
           pressure, heart rate, saturation, temperature, ECG, End tidal carbon dioxide).

        -  The intervention will be given at the end of surgery after the last stitch has been
           placed with patient receiving either caudal bupivacaine or intravenous morphine.

        -  to receive a caudal the baby will be placed in the left lateral position knees and hips
           flexed

        -  The skin over the coccyx and sacrum will be cleansed with povidone-iodine solution and
           alcohol.

        -  After palpation of the sacral cornua, a 22- or 23-gauge needle will be placed into the
           sacral hiatus to identify the epidural space by loss of resistance as the needle passes
           through the sacral ligament.

        -  Aspiration will be done to check for cerebrospinal fluid or blood, then a test dose is
           administered to rule out intravenous injection then the drug caudal bupivacaine will be
           injected.

        -  The patients' pain scores will be assessed by the research assistant in the post
           anaesthesia care unit after 30 minutes before being discharged to their parent wards and
           hourly after the intervention is given.

        -  monitoring of pulse rate and saturation on the ward will be done with a pulse oximeter.

        -  On the ward the pain scores will be assessed every hour by the research assistant and
           time to a pain score of 4 recorded

        -  The pain scores and the time to the next analgesic requirement will be recorded and
           continuation of analgesia given with intravenous paracetamol.

      The crying, requires oxygen, increased vital signs, expression, sleeplessness (CRIES) pain
      tool will be used to score pain in neonates and the Face, Legs, Activity, Cry and
      Consolability (FLACC) pain score used in children above 2 months. Analgesic requirement will
      be given if child found to be in pain.
    
  