
    
      The circadian timing of energy intake (EI) has emerged as a key factor in the regulation of
      body weight. Studies have suggested that eating meals later in the evening or during the
      biological night when the circadian system is promoting sleep adversely influences the
      success of weight loss therapy. In contrast, restricting EI to a short window during waking
      hours and extending the length of the overnight fast (i.e., time restricted feeding, TRF) may
      be a practical and useful strategy for promoting weight loss and weight maintenance. However,
      potential benefits of adding TRF to a weight loss program have yet to be evaluated in a
      well-controlled clinical study. The overall objective of this proposal is to provide a
      foundation to inform the design of a future large-scale trial to evaluate the efficacy of TRF
      in generating weight loss. The investigators overall hypothesis is that feasibility,
      adherence, and acceptability of a weight loss intervention using TRF in the setting of a
      reduced calorie diet (RCD) - RCD+TRF - will be similar to compliance with an intervention
      using a reduced calorie diet alone (RCD), suggesting acceptability for a future large-scale
      trial. In this 12-week pilot and feasibility study, 30 overweight and obese individuals will
      be randomized 1:1 to RCD+TRF (EI restricted to a 10-hour window starting 1 hour from habitual
      waking time) or standard RCD (no restriction on feeding duration). Additional follow-up will
      occur at 6 months to collect pilot data on weight maintenance. Measures include feasibility,
      acceptability and adherence to the interventions, body weight, body composition (Dual-energy
      X-ray absorptiometry (DXA)), EI (smart phone application), physical activity (PA,
      accelerometery), glucose variability (continuous glucose monitoring, CGM), sleep
      (questionnaires and polysomnography), and nocturnal substrate metabolism (room calorimetry).
      The specific aims (SA) are as follows:

      Specific Aim 1a. To evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of a 12-week TRF intervention
      compared to a standard dietary weight loss intervention (i.e. RCD). Feasibility of enrollment
      and retention, and acceptability of the intervention will be assessed in adults with obesity
      meeting inclusion/exclusion criteria proposed for the future large-scale trial. The
      investigators will assess adherence to the weight loss programs, as measured objectively with
      a novel smartphone application and verified with CGM data, and subjectively with the use of
      questionnaires.

      Specific Aim 1b. To assess the efficacy of RCD+TRF compared to RCD alone in producing weight
      loss at 12 weeks and reducing the risk of weight regain after 6 months of follow-up.
    
  