
    
      Participants will be moderate to heavy smokers, aged 18-70, who have smoked an average of ≥10
      cigarettes/day for the past year and who have not quit during the past year for a period >1
      month.

      During a 12-week open phase smoking cessation program, eligible subjects will be given active
      varenicline in addition to a 13-session weekly cognitive behavioral therapy program for
      smoking cessation. Dr. Evins (Principal Investigator) or a co-investigator will meet with
      subjects individually at Baseline of the Smoking Cessation Program to assess their medical
      eligibility for varenicline. A chart review will also be conducted by a research physician or
      psychiatrist.

      Dr. Evins or another prescribing co-investigator will write a prescription for varenicline
      for each medically eligible subject. Subjects will receive their study medication at the end
      of each weekly group meeting. Any subject who experiences a serious side effect to the
      medication will meet with Dr. Evins or another medical co-investigator individually.

      Subjects will set quit dates between the fourth and fifth CBT session weeks. Self-reports and
      exhaled carbon monoxide (CO) levels will be used to assess smoking status. Those subjects who
      have been abstinent for ≥2 weeks at the end of the 12th session group will be eligible for a
      40-week relapse prevention program. After enrolling in the Relapse Prevention Program,
      subjects will be randomized to receive varenicline or placebos in addition to CBT for relapse
      prevention.

      At Week 12 (the week before the end of the Smoking Cessation Program), Dr. Evins or another
      prescribing co-investigator will write prescriptions for subjects eligible for the randomized
      Relapse Prevention phase (i.e. successful quitters); these prescriptions will be sent to the
      Massachusetts General Hospital Research Pharmacy, where they will be filled according to the
      randomization code that the a research pharmacist will create.

      When subjects come for the CBT orientation group session of the Relapse Prevention Program
      (Week 13), they will receive a 1-month supply of varenicline or placebo pill. During this
      randomized Relapse Prevention phase, medication compliance will be assessed at every group
      meeting by pill-count. Subjects will be asked about medication compliance and side effects at
      each group by the CBT group leaders and staff.

      Any subject who experiences a serious side effect to the medication will meet with Dr. Evins
      or another medical co-investigator individually. In addition, Dr. Evins or a medical
      co-investigator will review the adverse events forms for each subject every week. Again,
      self-report and CO levels will be used to monitor smoking status.

      Before and during both the open and randomized relapse prevention phases, subjects will be
      periodically assessed for cognitive performance, clinical characteristics, and adverse events
      in order to evaluate effects of withdrawal, predictors of cessation and relapse, and
      medication side effects. Following the completion of the 40-week relapse prevention phase, 3
      follow-up assessments will be performed over a 3-month period to evaluate smoking status,
      cognitive functioning, and clinical effects.
    
  