
    
      Strict glycemic control has been recommended for critically ill patients. However, its
      implementation may face difficulties with increased nursing workload, inadequate glucose
      control and higher risk of hypoglycemia.

      We designed a computer guided protocol to adjust endovenous insulin infusion aiming glucose
      levels between 100mg/dl and 130 mg/dl. This trial evaluates the efficacy and safety of this
      protocol (algorithm A), compared to a standard endovenous insulin infusion protocol
      (algorithm B) and a conventional subcutaneous insulin protocol (algorithm C).

      Methods : MICU patients with at least one blood glucose ≥ 150 mg/dL and who are on mechanical
      ventilation, or had SIRS, or are admitted because of trauma or burn will be randomized to one
      of the following treatments: algorithm A - continuous insulin infusion with adjustments
      guided by hand held device or desktop software targeting glucose levels between
      100mg/dL-130mg/dL; algorithm B - continuous insulin aiming glucose levels between
      80mg/dl-110mg/dl using Van den Berghe's insulin protocol; algorithm C - conventional
      treatment - intermittent subcutaneous administration of insulin if blood glucose levels
      exceeds 150mg/dL; insulin will be administered as IV boluses in hypotensive patients.

      The randomization list was generated in blocks of six by computer software. Patients will be
      randomly assigned in a 1:1:1 ratio to have their glucose controlled by one of the three
      insulin algorithms with the use of a central, computerized system accessed by Internet,
      permitting concealment of allocation list. Randomization will be stratified according to
      study site.

      The study is planned to enroll 165 patients in order to have 80% power to detect a 20mg/dl
      difference in blood glucose means between groups, assuming standard deviation equal to 33
      mg/dl and two-tailed alpha equal to 0.05. Efficacy will be measured by the mean of patients'
      median blood glucose and safety measured by the incidence of hypoglycemia (≤40 mg/dL).
      Analysis will follow the intention-to-treat principle.
    
  