
    
      Half of the patients undergoing mechanical ventilation in intensive care have moderate to
      severe dyspnea. This dyspnea has a negative impact on the prognosis and quality of life in
      the medium term.

      As ECMOs, techniques for extracorporeal assistance to supplement cardiac and pulmonary
      functions, are developing rapidly, it seems essential to study the dyspnea associated with
      the use of these techniques. In particular, understanding the main mechanisms involved in the
      genesis of dyspnea in patients under ECMO would allow the development of therapeutic
      solutions aimed at minimizing it.

      The investigators hypothesize that, in patients under veno-arterial ECMO with dyspnea, the
      dyspnea decreases in response to an increase in ECMO sweep gas flow through the membrane lung
      via modulation of central and peripheral chemoreceptors sensitive to variations in PaO2,
      PaCO2 and pH. Since dyspnea experienced by patients on veno-arterial ECMO is related to
      cardiogenic pulmonary edema, increased discharge from the left cavities by increasing
      positive expiratory pressure should also alleviate dyspnea.

      The main objective of the present study is to evaluate the impact of sweep gas flow through
      the membrane lung and PEP incrementation on dyspnea in patients with veno-arterial ECMO with
      dyspnea.

      Relief of dyspnea will be carried out by the clinician in charge of the patient. He will have
      complete control of his behaviour. He will carry out this test according to the practices in
      force in the department.

      One of the investigators will be present and will collect the data listed above. This
      investigator will not intervene in the conduct of the test.

      Each patient will participate in a dyspnea relief test according to the protocol of the
      department and according to the management of the practitioner in charge of the patient.

      Initially a recording of 5 minutes will be made in the basal state, before any therapeutic
      action.

      As soon as the D-VAS is ≤ 3 at one of these steps the data collection ends.

      If a sweep gas flow through the membrane lung increment has been decided upon to relieve
      dyspnea, a new recording will be made after each scan increment and the patient will be asked
      at each step.

      In ventilated or non-ventilated patients in whom the decision to implement non-invasive
      ventilation has been made, an increase in PEEP in 2 cmH2O steps without exceeding a plateau
      pressure of 25 cmH2O and a VT of 10ml/kg of the patient's theoretical weight will be
      achieved.
    
  