
    
      The study's main hypothesis is that IHAT will be bioavailable in pre-menopausal anaemic
      Gambian women and will lead to a lower serum iron and transferrin saturation increase than an
      equivalent dose of ferrous sulphate. Furthermore, the investigators hypothesize that IHAT
      will produce a less harmful post-ingestion rise in transferrin saturation, i.e. the serum
      collected from subjects following a single dose of IHAT will promote less pathogen growth in
      ex vivo assays than that collected following an equivalent dose of ferrous sulphate. Finally,
      based on previous animal data [5], the investigators hypothesize that IHAT absorption will be
      significantly higher in anaemic women compared to non-anaemic women, and that this will not
      be the case with ferrous sulphate.

      This study is a cross-over, single-dose comparison against ferrous sulphate (standard of
      care) in anaemic and non-anaemic women. The iron single dosage for both compounds will be
      60mg elemental iron equivalent and each compound will be labelled with a stable iron isotope.
      Outcomes will be: red blood cell incorporation of labelled iron, serum iron, transferrin
      saturation and pathogen growth in ex vivo serum assays.

      Primary objective:

      To determine iron bioavailability (i.e. red blood cell incorporation) from a single dose of
      IHAT versus ferrous sulphate in pre-menopausal Gambian women.

      Secondary objective:

      To determine serum iron absorption following a single dose of IHAT versus ferrous sulphate in
      pre-menopausal Gambian women.

      To evaluate if a single-dose of IHAT produces a less harmful post-ingestion rise in
      transferrin saturation and serum iron than ferrous sulphate.

      Each compound is labelled with a stable isotope of Fe so that its absorption can be
      determined from the red blood cell incorporation of the stable isotope 14 days after the
      single dose. This study is effectively a Phase 0 study (pharmacokinetics) with small numbers
      and because iron absorption varies from individual to individual, depending on their body
      iron needs and gastrointestinal digestion issues, it is more accurate to use each study
      subject as her own control. Therefore, each subject will ingest IHAT on one study day and the
      active treatment comparator on a separate day. The 2 study visits need to be 14 days apart to
      allow for red blood cell incorporation of the stable iron isotopes used to label the iron
      materials. This method is the gold standard to determine relative bioavailability values
      (RBV) of novel iron compounds (i.e. in relation to ferrous sulphate absorption) and allows an
      accurate determination of RBV of IHAT that otherwise would not be possible if we used a
      parallel study design with small numbers.
    
  