
    
      This study will establish a cohort of surviving pediatric patients with symptomatic
      (including COVID-19 and MIS-C) and asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection to study the long-term
      sequelae of acute infection and the evolution of the immune response over time. Longitudinal
      follow-up of this cohort will provide important information about clinical sequelae of acute
      COVID-19 and MIS-C, characteristics of the immune response to SARS-CoV-2, and the extent and
      duration of protective immunity.

      Non-contrast low-radiation chest CT or AP chest radiograph: All participants will undergo 2
      chest imaging procedures, one at baseline and one at the final study visit (year 3). Thus,
      each chest CT would involve an effective dose of 1 mSv to 2 mSv for all age groups, while
      each chest X-ray would involve approximately 0.01 mSv to 0.06 mSv for all age groups. An
      average person's annual natural background radiation effective dose is 3 mSv.

      Participants of childbearing potential will have a pregnancy test prior to this procedure,
      and participants who are pregnant will be excluded from this procedure and will be withdrawn.

      Non-contrast cardiac MRI: All participants will undergo 4 non-contrast cardiac MRI procedures
      during this study. The first cardiac MRI will be performed at baseline (for survivor
      participants, at least 6 weeks post onset of symptoms), and then cardiac MRI will be
      performed annually. No cardiac MRI will be performed in any participant requiring conscious
      sedation. For most participants, the primary risk associated with cardiac MRI is discomfort
      as participants will be asked to lie still for a long period of time. Additionally,
      participants may feel claustrophobic during the scan or find the sound of the MRI disturbing.
      Participants with pacemakers, aneurysm clips, metallic prostheses, shrapnel fragments,
      welders and metal workers are at risk for injury and will be excluded from having an MRI
      performed.

      Participants of childbearing potential will have a pregnancy test prior to this procedure,
      and participants who are pregnant will be excluded from this procedure and will be withdrawn.

      Blood draw: The two hazards associated with blood drawing are those of the needle stick and
      those associated with blood loss. Risks of blood draw are pain at the site of the needle
      stick, the potential formation of hematoma at the site of the needle stick, and a small
      potential for infection and/or inflammation at the site of the needle stick. Occasionally,
      individuals may faint as a result of vasovagal reactions to the procedure. These risks will
      be minimized by maintaining sterile technique, carefully preparing the site of needle
      puncture with an alcohol swab, using the smallest size needle or cannula required for the
      procedure, applying local pressure after removal of the needle or cannula, and having the
      individual lie down or sit for 5 to 10 minutes after the procedure, if needed. The major risk
      of repeated blood drawing is anemia. To minimize this risk, the amount of blood drawn for all
      purposes will be adjusted so as not to exceed the guidelines: for pediatric patients, no more
      than 5 mL/kg drawn for research purposes in a single day, and no more than 9.5 mL/kg drawn
      over any 8 week period; for participants 18 years of age or older, no more than 10.5 mL/kg or
      550 mL drawn for research purposes over any 8 week period.

      A total of 26.5 to 30 mL of blood will be drawn at each visit for profile analysis as
      outlined.

      Echocardiogram: Echocardiogram is not an invasive procedure. Some patients report mild
      discomfort during the test.

      EKG: EKG is not an invasive procedure. Some patients experience minor irritation from the
      electrodes. There are no other anticipated risks related to completing an EKG.

      PFT: PFT is not an invasive procedure. Some patients with underlying lung disease may
      experience wheezing, coughing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, dizziness, headache, and
      rarely fainting or asthma attack during the testing. If this happens, we will stop the test
      until symptoms resolve.

      Completing questionnaires: Participants and/or legal guardians will be asked to complete
      multiple questionnaires at every visit. To complete the questionnaires will take
      approximately 25 to 64 minutes. Some of the questions in the questionnaire may be upsetting
      or uncomfortable.

      Participants will be informed that they may skip or decline to answer questions that make
      them feel uncomfortable. If responses on self- or parent-proxy measures indicate significant
      distress or a clinical elevation (> 2 standard deviations) for depressive symptoms, a study
      team member will follow up with the participant and a list of resources will be provided.

      Collection of saliva, NP swab, urine, and stool: There are no risks associated with these
      procedures. Collection of NP swabs may cause discomfort, gagging, and rarely nosebleed.

      Genetic testing (optional): This protocol involves genetic testing using whole genome
      sequencing (WGS) approaches for all participants. Genetic findings may cause emotional stress
      and may require further medical testing or treatment that is not covered by this study. There
      may also be medical and psychosocial implications for participants and their families.

      Following genetic testing, data will be shared in controlled-access public databases for
      other qualified biomedical investigators to study. However, no personal, identifiable
      information will be shared in this process, since the results will be identified only by a
      code.

      Clinical photography (optional): Taking pictures of the face and body may be embarrassing to
      some people. These photographs may be published in medical journals, without identifying the
      participant. We will attempt to preserve the anonymity of the participant as much as
      possible, while providing the information needed to support the research being published.
      Participants may decline photographs or place any restrictions on their use. Participants
      will be given the opportunity to discuss this with the PI or AIs.

      Storage of samples and data: The primary risk of storing and sharing samples and data is
      breach of confidentiality. Study samples and data will be kept confidential. Following
      research testing and publication of the study results, study data will be shared in
      accordance with NIH policy in a controlled-access public database, but no personal,
      identifiable information will be shared.

      Incidental findings of standard procedures: Some standard clinical procedures and evaluations
      performed as part of this protocol (e.g., echocardiogram, EKG) may result in the discovery of
      a previously unknown medical condition. If this occurs, the study team will discuss the
      findings with the participant.
    
  