
    
      This single-centre prospective pilot study is conducted to assess the diagnostic accuracy of
      3D optical surface imaging based external Haller Index (EHI) measurements to quantify the
      severity of pectus excavatum. CR and CT based conventional Haller Indices (HI) are used as
      reference method.

      CR and CT are both used as reference method, as the work-up of pectus patients in our centre
      is dependent of age. Subsequently, two groups are created: (A) patients under 18 years of age
      that receive a frontal (anteroposterior) and sagittal chest radiography, and (B) patients
      aged 18 years or older that receive a chest CT scan.

      In this study, patients are their own control. To obtain optical surface images, a handheld
      3D scanner is used. During acquisition, subjects will be standing in an upright position with
      arms abducted. Standard routinely used protocols are used to acquire chest radiographies and
      CT scans.

      The HI is obtained from all chest radiographies and CT scans, calculated by dividing the
      widest thoracic transverse diameter by the anteroposterior distance, measured from the
      posterior surface of sternum to the anterior surface of the vertebral body. The EHI, a
      modified measurement to assess pectus deformity, is used to quantify PE severity based on 3D
      optical surface images. The EHI is calculated by dividing the widest external thoracic
      transverse diameter by the distance between the external deepest point or point of maximal
      protrusion and external vertebral body. The EHI is also calculated from the available chest
      radiographies and CT scans.

      All measurements will be performed by three blinded observers that are not responsible to
      perform a comprehensive interpretation of the study. Following acquisition of all indices,
      the inter-observer reliability is calculated using the intraclass correlation coefficient.
      Based on the means, a receiver-operating characteristic (ROC)-curve is created for the 3D
      scan based EHI measurements, utilizing the surgical indication based on CR and CT (HI larger
      or equal to 3.25) images as gold standard. The optimal cut-off value, obtained from the
      ROC-curve is subsequently used to determine the 3D optical surface images' diagnostic
      accuracy.
    
  