
    
      A substantial number of individuals fail to achieve clinically significant symptom relief
      from exposure-based therapies or experience a return of fear following exposure therapy
      completion. The prevailing model of exposure therapy for phobias and anxiety disorders
      purports that fear reduction throughout exposure therapy (i.e., habituation) is reflective of
      learning and critical to overall therapeutic outcome. However, the amount by which fear -
      indexed by both self-report, behavioral, and biological correlates of fear expression -
      reduces by the end of an exposure trial or series of exposure trials is not a reliable
      predictor of the fear level expressed at follow-up assessment.

      Developments in the theory and science of fear extinction, and learning and memory, indicate
      that 'performance during training' is not commensurate with learning at the process level.
      Inconsistent findings regarding fear reduction are paralleled by findings based in
      associative learning laboratory paradigms with animals and human samples, specifically that
      outward expression of fear on the one hand, and conditional associations indicative of
      underlying learning on the other hand, may not always change in concordance. Rather,
      'inhibitory learning' is recognized as being central to extinction, rather than fear during
      extinction training.

      The current proposal will compare the 'emotional processing' or habituation-based model of
      exposure therapy to the competing inhibitory model of exposure that emphasizes learning
      theory principles. No study has directly compared these approaches to determine which
      provides optimal symptom relief and return of fear, or mediators and moderators that may
      contribute to these outcomes.

      In an effort to address this gap, the current study plans to recruit participants for a
      treatment trial consisting of two psychotherapies: (a) habituation-based exposure therapy and
      (b) inhibitory learning-based exposure therapy. The primary goal of this study is to
      determine if one theoretical approach to exposure outperform the other in reducing symptoms.

      This study is conducted with individuals meeting diagnostic criteria for social anxiety
      disorder or panic disorder. Participants will be randomized to either treatment condition and
      receive 9 sessions of individual psychotherapy focused on either of these disorders. If
      individual meets diagnostic criteria for both disorders, treatment will be focused on the
      primary presenting disorder. Participants will complete four assessments over the course of
      the study, at pre-treatment, mid-treatment, post-treatment, and three-month follow-up.
      Pre-treatment, mid-treatment, and post-treatment assessments occur over two days, while
      three-month follow-up requires only a single day and is conducted remotely.

      These assessments will include semi-structured interviews, self-report questionnaires, and
      laboratory paradigms designed to examine fear learning processes.
    
  