
    
      The RARE PEARL is a multicenter prospective, randomized, double-blinded, crossover study.

      Prior entering the study the patient should be informed and should give his written consent.
      Besides he/she should meet all selection criteria. The Investigator has to check that all
      selection criteria are satisfied. Then the patient undergoes pacemaker implantation,
      receiving a pacemaker model C20 SSIR or T20 SSIR (or later). The ventricular lead must be
      bipolar independently of the manufacturer.

      After pacemaker implantation, a 45 days Stabilization Period is necessary to stabilize leads
      and drug therapy.

      At the end of the stabilization period the patient is randomized to have VRS algorithm
      switched either ON or OFF. The 1° Study Phase ends after 2 months. Then a cross-over takes
      place: VRS algorithm is switched respectively OFF or ON and the 2° Study Phase is started.
      Also the 2° Study Phase ends after 2 months.

      The randomization will be centralized: randomization lists will be generated and managed by
      the sponsor. Because the patients will undergo a QoL questionnaire at each crossover phase,
      they will have to be blinded about the status of their VRS setting. Similarly, also the
      co-investigators administering the QoL questionnaires have to be blinded about the status of
      VRS setting. Only the principal investigator knows if the VRS algorithm is ON or OFF. The
      principal investigator will be instructed not to inform the patient and the co-investigators
      administering QoL questionnaire about the setting until after the end of the study.

      The co-investigator(s) responsible for QoL questionnaire should not perform the patient
      follow-up at 1° and 2° Study Phase, otherwise the patient is automatically excluded from the
      study.

      After the cross-over period (2 + 2 months) a Free Therapy Phase (3° Phase) starts. Device
      settings and drug therapy are left to the physician's discretion.

      One year after implantation a final follow-up is scheduled. The study ends and the pacemaker
      can be programmed according to the physician's discretion.
    
  