
    
      Diabetic macular oedema:

      A combination of increasing longevity and increasing obesity is causing a rise in the
      incidence of diabetes and its associated complications such as diabetic retinopathy. Almost
      all patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM) develop some signs of retinopathy and
      approximately 60% of patients with type 2 DM develop diabetic retinopathy. Of those with type
      2 DM, diabetic macular oedema (DME) is the most common cause of reduced visual acuity. [1]

      DME is one of the leading causes of loss of vision in people of a working age in the
      developed world. It affects the function of the macula, a key part of the retina which is
      used for central vision. In DME there are abnormal structural changes in the blood vessel
      walls which lead to leakage of fluid and proteins from the blood vessels. [2, 3] DME can be
      classified as ischaemic or exudative, based on the dominant underlying problem. In ischaemic
      DME, the main problem is a reduction in blood flow to the macula which causes reduced central
      vision and swelling of the retinal tissues in this area. [4] In exudative DME, excessive
      leakage of fluid from the blood vessels around the macula results in thickening or swelling
      of the retina and a resultant reduction in central vision. There is often a combination of
      ischaemia and exudation.

      Vascular endothelial growth factor:

      A chemical called vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has been implicated as a
      potential cause of the abnormalities seen in DME. It has been shown to modulate the growth
      and pattern of blood vessels, the tone and permeability of their walls, and to cause white
      blood cells to be drawn to the inner walls of blood vessels. [5, 6] The actual roles played
      by VEGF are in part dependent on the needs of the tissues in which it is acting. [5] Studies
      of diseases of the eye that involve the abnormal development of new blood vessels, such as
      neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and proliferative diabetic retinopathy
      (PDR), have demonstrated a central role for VEGF. It has also been implicated in the
      development of some of the problems associated with central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) and
      DME. VEGF exists in a variety of subtypes, called "isoforms", each described by the number of
      amino acids (the building blocks of proteins) that it contains. The different VEGF isoforms
      have distinct activities at different sites in the body and its various tissues. [7] This may
      in part help to explain how VEGF is able to elicit such a variety of functions within blood
      vessels and beyond. [5]

      A role for VEGF inhibitors in the eye:

      Macugen [TM] (OSI-Eyetech, Inc. and Pfizer, Inc.), also known as pegaptanib, is a drug which
      has the ability to block one of the isoforms of VEGF called VEGF(165), leaving the other
      types of VEGF unaffected [8]. It inhibits the amount of leakage of fluid through blood vessel
      walls. It has been demonstrated that VEGF(165) alone mediates abnormal new blood vessel
      development in the eye, and its inactivation by Macugen [TM] inhibits the new vessel
      development observed in patients with neovascular AMD [8] without affecting normal blood
      vessel development, which is supported by the VEGF(121) isoform. In addition, animal model
      studies have shown that injection of Macugen [TM] into the fluid at the back of the eye
      ("intravitreal injection") can inhibit or even show signs of reversing the typical damage to
      the blood vessels that occurs in diabetes. [9] These findings suggest that that intravitreal
      Macugen [TM] could provide a safe and effective treatment against both the development of
      abnormal new blood vessels in the eye and diabetes-induced damage to the blood vessels of the
      retina. [6] They formed the basis for randomized controlled trials examining the efficacy of
      Macugen [TM] as a therapy for AMD and DME. [8]

      Other inhibitors of VEGF or "antiVEGF" drugs exist. These include Avastin [TM] (bevacizumab,
      Genentech, Inc) and Lucentis [TM] (ranibizumab, Genentech, Inc.) which bind to and inhibit
      all VEGF isoforms, in contrast to Macugen [TM] which is specific for VEGF(165). To date,
      Macugen [TM] and Lucentis [TM] have received regulatory approval for the treatment of
      neovascular AMD. Increasingly antiVEGF drugs are being examined to see if they might play a
      beneficial role in other ocular conditions.

      The generalized leakage of fluid from tiny blood vessels ("capillary hyperpermeability") seen
      in DME has been described as being somewhat analogous to the leakage or "hyperpermeability"
      seen from the abnormal blood vessels (choroidal neovascularisation) associated with AMD. [10]
      Therapeutic effects from blockade of the VEGF(165) isoform previously demonstrated in AMD
      have been demonstrated in DME. That particular study, detailed below, did not specify the
      degree of macular ischaemia that these patients had.

      Safety and efficacy of Macugen [TM] were assessed in a randomized, sham-controlled,
      double-masked, Phase 2 trial enrolling 172 diabetic subjects with DME affecting the centre of
      the fovea. The participants were individuals with a best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA)
      between 20/50 and 20/320 in the study eye and DME involving the centre of the macula for whom
      the investigator judged laser photocoagulation (at present the standard treatment for
      clinically significant exudative DME) could be safely withheld for 16 weeks. Intravitreal
      injections of Macugen [TM], or a sham injection, were administered at baseline and every six
      weeks thereafter. At Week 36, 0.3 mg Macugen [TM] was significantly superior to sham
      injection. The results suggested an overall visual acuity (VA) gain as well as a reduced risk
      of VA loss in eyes with DME treated with intravitreal Macugen [TM]. The 0.3 mg dose seemed to
      be the most efficacious dose studied, but due to the relatively small number of participants
      in the study, the authors were unable to identify statistical differences between the
      different doses given.

      The authors felt that these results were consistent with established and known effects of
      selective blockade of VEGF(165) bioactivity- decreased leakage from blood vessel walls-and
      postulated that they suggest an anti-permeability effect at the macula. Most adverse events
      were transient, mild to moderate in severity, and attributed to the injection and the
      preparation procedure itself, rather than to the study drug. Macugen [TM] was equally well
      tolerated systemically, with no apparent increased risk of cardiac, ischaemic or haemorrhagic
      adverse events. [11] Rates of serious injection-related complications, most notably infection
      inside the eye (endophthalmitis), were within the range of historical benchmarks of
      injections into the eye and not associated with severe visual loss. These preliminary
      findings provide evidence that selective inhibition of VEGF(165) may produce a clinically
      meaningful and statistically significant benefit in the treatment of DME. Confirmation of
      these preliminary observations of Macugen [TM] safety, patient tolerance, and significant
      efficacy across a broad spectrum of patients with DME is required. [10]

      There is now a growing body of evidence [12, 13] that suggests that there may be a role for
      antiVEGF drugs, both selective and unselective, in the treatment of the wide range of ocular
      conditions caused by the development of abnormal blood vessels, including exudative DME. [14]
      Results of large, randomised, controlled trials are needed to confirm early safety and
      efficacy findings from small, open-label prospective studies. Laser photocoagulation
      treatment, however, remains the current best treatment for clinically significant exudative
      DME. The primary aim of this type of laser treatment is to try to stabilise vision rather
      than to improve it. [15] In ischaemic diabetic maculopathy laser treatment is not an option
      as it would be expected to make vision worse. There is no known effective treatment for
      ischaemic DME, the natural history of which is of a gradual decline in central vision.
      Ischaemia is well known to be a major factor in the development and progression of diabetic
      retinopathy (DR). It may be due in part to the effects of VEGF on the tone of blood vessel
      walls and narrowing of small blood vessels. Consequently some studies have been done to try
      to assess the effect of antiVEGF treatment on retinal ischaemia. The results in the
      literature are conflicting.

      VEGF inhibitors and retinal ischaemia:

      Neubauer and colleagues [16] showed that the anti-VEGF drug Avastin [TM], which inhibits all
      isoforms of VEGF, caused a reduction in peripheral retinal ischaemia and an improvement in
      visual acuity in patients with diabetic retinopathy. They investigated changes in central and
      peripheral ischaemia after intravitreal injection of Avastin [TM] and were able to
      demonstrate in a small series of patients with DR that Avastin [TM] treatment improved
      peripheral ischaemia in the short term. They saw no evidence of increasing ischaemia, as
      might be feared. Limitations of their study include the small number of patients and short
      follow-up after only one administration. They believe that the observed reduction of
      ischaemia makes anti-VEGF therapy a promising approach in the treatment of DR, but further
      investigations with longer follow-up times are needed.

      In contrast, a single case report [17] demonstrated a deterioration in VA with the use of
      Avastin [TM] for chronic, refractory DME in a 58-year-old woman who had undergone multiple
      previous treatments including laser photocoagulation and intravitreal triamcinolone (steroid)
      injections. The authors felt that using Avastin [TM] in this way exacerbated macular
      ischaemia by disrupting an already fragile perfusion status. It is difficult to attribute the
      poor outcome fully to the antiVEGF drug, but the report highlights our need to examine the
      effects of antiVEGF in ischaemic DME more closely.

      Chung and colleagues [18] retrospectively analysed the effect of macular ischaemia on the
      outcome of treatment of DME with Avastin [TM]. They collected data on 59 eyes of 53
      consecutive patients and analysed their preoperative imaging tests (fluorescein angiograms)
      for signs of ischaemia. They then divided the patients into two groups, those with and
      without signs of ischaemia, in order to assess their outcomes. 3 months after treatment, the
      group with ischaemia showed a reduction in visual acuity from approximately 20/63 to 20/80,
      whereas the group without ischaemia showed an improvement in visual acuity from 20/100 to
      20/80. Nine of 18 eyes (50%) in the ischaemic group, but only 9 of 41 eyes (21%) in the
      non-ischaemic group, experienced visual losses of >or=1 line on the ETDRS chart (P = 0.031,
      Pearson chi-square test). Four eyes (22%) in the ischaemic group, but only 2 eyes (5%) in the
      non-ischaemic group, lost >or=3 lines (P = 0.042, Pearson chi-square test). Whilst these data
      show a poorer outcome for patients with macular ischaemia treated with Avastin [TM], compared
      to those without, they do not show how treatment with Avastin [TM] compares to what would
      have happened to these patients' vision without any treatment at all. As already discussed
      the natural history of ischaemic DME is of a decline in visual acuity and there is currently
      no established treatment option. The investigators would not expect the patients with
      ischaemic DME to do as well as those without ischaemia as they tend to have much more severe
      disease than those without ischaemia. In this particular group it appears that the baseline
      acuity was much poorer in the non-ischaemic group, which gave them more scope for improvement
      in visual acuity with treatment than the non-ischaemic group which had, on average, better
      visual acuity, and probably much less oedema, to begin with.

      Macugen [TM] for ischaemic DME:

      The investigators have chosen to look at Macugen [TM] because of its specificity and
      generally good safety profile which has now been validated over >4 years. It is possible that
      a non-selective VEGF inhibitor that blocks all VEGF isoforms could be more deleterious to
      retinal function over the long term than a more selective VEGF antagonist that could spare
      several of the smaller soluble VEGF isoforms within the eye. [19] No increased risk of
      serious systemic adverse events has been shown in any of the major clinical trials of Macugen
      [TM]. [11] The incidence of ocular adverse events when used for treating AMD is low [20]. As
      discussed above, Macugen [TM] has been used with benefit in exudative DME but its
      effectiveness in ischaemic DME, for which there is currently no available treatment, remains
      unknown.

      The investigators plan to use Macugen [TM] to treat 30 patients with ischaemic DME. The
      investigators will diagnose macular ischaemia by assessing the size of the foveal avascular
      zone (FAZ). This is the area at the centre of the macula. It is usually devoid of blood
      vessels in order to maximise visual clarity. The FAZ may be abnormally enlarged and irregular
      in patients with diabetes and this is a requirement for the diagnosis of ischaemic DME.
      Enlargement of the FAZ is thought to be a sign of reduced blood flow, possibly related to the
      effects of VEGF, and is associated with reduced vision. Macugen [TM] will be given at the
      standard dose that is used for treating AMD and that which was identified as most effective
      in the phase 2 study of Macugen [TM] in DME, i.e. 0.3mg. Our primary outcome will be the
      change in size of the FAZ and secondarily we would like to look for a change in thickness of
      the retina at the centre of the macula or a change in visual acuity. The investigators hope
      that this pilot study will clarify whether Macugen [TM] might be able to reverse some of the
      effects of VEGF(165) and be of benefit for those with ischaemic DME, the more severe end of
      the DME spectrum.
    
  