
    
      Globally 25% of children under age 5 years of age are stunted, i.e. the child's height is
      more than 2 standard deviations (SD) below the median length/height-for-age as determined by
      the world health organization child growth standards. Sub-Saharan Africa remains the region
      with the highest prevalence of undernutrition. Stunting, a multifactorial condition, develops
      as a result of sustained inadequate nutrition and recurrent infections. Socioeconomic and
      environmental factors are considered to be important determinants of stunting. Stunting has
      long term detrimental effects on cognitive development, school achievement and income and
      hence potentially perpetuates the vicious circle of poverty and malnutrition. Interventions
      that target directly maternal and child health and nutrition such as maternal supplementation
      with iron and folic acid and promotion of exclusive and continued breastfeeding, have proven
      effective in enhancing child and maternal nutrition status and in reducing mortality in women
      and children. The evidence accumulated over the previous years has also shown that if
      nutrition-sensitive approaches (i.e. women's empowerment, agriculture, food systems and
      education) are integrated in nutritional-specific interventions, they can significantly
      accelerate progress in countries with the highest burden of maternal and child undernutrition
      and mortality.

      Diversified diet provides a balance of nutrients that promote healthy growth and development.
      Agricultural interventions to improve production of micronutrient-rich foods, through
      increased productivity, home gardening and diversification efforts have a significant
      potential to improve dietary diversity and micronutrient intake of children. However, in
      Ethiopia there is limited evidence on the contribution of nutrition-sensitive agricultural
      interventions on dietary diversity and nutritional status of children. Our study evaluates a
      larger governmental programme "sustainable undernutrition reduction in Ethiopia (SURE)", a
      multi-sector integrated health and agriculture programme that aims to strengthen the existing
      nutrition specific interventions by addressing two key determinants of undernutrition:
      inadequate complementary feeding and household dietary diversity.

      The SURE package includes: 1) promoting diversified agriculture; 2) promoting infant and
      young child feeding practices; 3) women empowerment in decision making related to
      agriculture, food and health; and 4) enhanced food security and Water, Sanitation and Hygiene
      (so-called "WASH") practices.

      The programme started in 2016 and is implemented by the Ministries of Health and Agriculture
      in Ethiopia through a funding by the Children's Investment Fund Foundation (CIFF). The
      Ethiopian Public Health Institute (EPHI) has been contracted by the Ethiopian Ministry of
      health to deliver the programme and to carry out its evaluation at the level of impact,
      process and cost-effectiveness.

      Aims of the Study The study aims to investigate whether access to diversified food through
      improved nutrition education and enhanced diversity in local and household food production
      leads to improved household food security, which in turn results in diversified dietary
      consumption and improved nutritional status of children 4 -6 years of age.

      In a control longitudinal study design, our primary objective is to assess the extent of
      diversified food production and consumption as a result of SURE intervention and to evaluate
      their effects on nutritional status of children in the target/intervention communities
      compared to the agricultural practices, food insecurity and nutritional status of children in
      comparable communities in the control group.

      Our second objective is to identify factors that mediate the association between diversified
      food production and diversified food consumption and design a model for a modified
      intervention to strengthen the association between diversified food production and
      consumption at a household level.

      Our third objective is to identify key barriers and opportunities of adopting infant and
      young child feeding practices (IYCF) and nutrition sensitive agriculture interventions.

      Methodology The study is part of the evaluation of the government project "SURE". The
      evaluation will have a mixed-method study design (quantitative and qualitative). A
      longitudinal survey will be carried out in a representative sample of households four years
      post-intervention, at the end 2020. The survey will use multistage cluster sampling at the
      Kebele and household levels.

      Quantitative data

      Baseline data collection: The survey at baseline collects data on: 1) child (6-23 months)
      nutritional status (height, weight, and hemoglobin concentration); 2) Infant and YCF
      practices including breastfeeding, minimum meal frequency, minimum dietary diversity and
      minimum acceptable diet; 3) maternal knowledge, attitude and practice regarding IYCF; 4)
      women empowerment; 5) household food insecurity and dietary diversity; 6) water, sanitation
      and hygiene (WASH); and 7) health services and morbidity symptoms of the child during the 15
      day-preceding the interview day (received vitamin A supplement in the previous 6 months;
      diarrhea; cough; fever and; attending the growth monitoring program).

      Key behaviors and agriculture outcomes at household level in the intervention and in the
      control groups will also be collected. These are: number of trainings organized in the
      community; crop production diversity; animal husbandry (eggs, chicken, milk, small and large
      livestock for meat).

      In addition to outcome indicators, socioeconomic indicators such as age, ethnic group and
      education level will also be collected.

      Follow-up data collection: follow-up surveys will be conducted after an exposure of four
      years in the intervention and the control groups. The same indicators collected at baseline
      will be collected during 2020 but in households with children who will now be 4-6 years of
      age (hypothetically these children would have been exposed to the intervention).

      Qualitative data Qualitative methods will be used to examine the quality of implementation
      mechanisms of change, and contextual data to help interpret findings of the impact
      evaluation. Additionally, household expenditure will be estimated to determine the average
      cost of the intervention per case of stunting averted
    
  