
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate whether the addition of entinostat to endocrine therapy (exemestane) improves
      progression-free survival (PFS) and/or overall survival (OS) in patients with hormone
      receptor (HR)-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative locally
      advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have previously progressed on a non-steroidal
      aromatase inhibitor (Al).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of entinostat in combination with exemestane, and
      to compare the safety profile to that of endocrine therapy with placebo.

      II. To evaluate the objective response rate of exemestane in combination with entinostat or
      placebo.

      III. To evaluate whether the efficacy of exemestane with entinostat varies with changes in
      acetylation status in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs).

      IV. To evaluate the time to treatment deterioration (as defined by decrease in health-related
      quality of life [HRQL], progression, death) of exemestane + entinostat versus exemestane +
      placebo arms.

      V. To evaluate the differences in overall health-related quality of life (HRQL) between the
      exemestane + entinostat versus exemestane + placebo arms.

      VI. To evaluate the difference with respect to specific symptoms that are associated with
      entinostat, i.e., fatigue, nausea, anorexia and diarrhea, between the exemestane + entinostat
      versus exemestane + placebo arms.

      VII. To measure adherence to protocol therapy. VIII. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of
      entinostat in patients with advanced breast cancer.

      IX. To evaluate what, if any, patient variables alter the pharmacokinetic profile of
      entinostat in patients with advanced breast cancer.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To collect archival tumor samples and germline deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) to explore
      other potential biomarkers of therapeutic efficacy.

      II. To collect patient ratings of adverse events (AEs) using select patient-reported outcomes
      (PRO)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) items to evaluate the
      psychometric properties of PRO-CTCAE items and explore the incorporation of PRO-CTCAE items
      into a phase III double-blind placebo-controlled trial.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive exemestane orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and entinostat PO
      on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive exemestane as in Arm A and placebo PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      In both arms, pre/perimenopausal female patients and all male patients also receive goserelin
      acetate subcutaneously (SC) on day 1.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 5 years.
    
  