
    
      Arrhythmias are common in critical care, with atrial tachyarrhythmias (and especially AF)
      being the most prevalent. This is especially true after cardiac surgery, with approximately 1
      in 3 patients affected. The occurrence of new-onset post-operative AF is associated with
      increased short and long-term mortality, intensive care unit (ICU) and hospital stay and
      costs of care. This association appears causal, even after correction for confounding
      factors.

      Potassium (K+) plays an important role in cardiac electrophysiology and abnormal levels may
      cause arrhythmias. Hypokalaemia, defined as a serum K+ <3.6 milliequivalents per litre
      (mEq/L) is thus associated with an increased incidence of ventricular arrhythmia after
      myocardial infarction. Low K+ levels are common following cardiac surgery, and appear
      marginally lower in those suffering atrial arrhythmias in this context. Despite an absence of
      proof that this association is causal, efforts to maintain serum [K+] in the 'high-normal'
      range (4.5 - 5.5 mEq/L) are considered 'routine practice' for AF prevention worldwide. The
      efficacy of such intervention remains unproven and data supporting this practice is extremely
      limited, being derived from observational rather than interventional studies. Indeed, no data
      exist to demonstrate that maintaining a high-normal potassium level is beneficial, or that
      aggressive replenishment of potassium in patients with heart disease necessarily leads to a
      better clinical outcome.

      Furthermore, the method of potassium supplementation may be problematic. Oral replacement is
      not possible immediately post-operatively. Central venous administration is thus generally
      utilised in the early post-operative period. However, this practice is both time-consuming
      and costly: the intravenous administration of potassium carries recognised clinical risk, and
      is now prescribed in pre-diluted doses, stored securely for a safety purposes. Oral
      replacement is commonly associated with profound nausea, and is very poorly tolerated by
      patients. The investigators have estimated that the annual spending on potassium in
      cardiothoracic patients at Barts Health National Health Service (NHS) Trust is £100,000,
      compared to £16,500 for Milrinone (perceived as a high cost drug (2011-2012 prices).
      Additional costs relating to nursing time, drug checks, and intravenous connection and
      charting are also accrued. Central venous catheters may also be routinely left in situ solely
      for the purposes of parenteral potassium replacement; leading to an increased risk of
      line-related sepsis.

      The routine maintenance of serum K+ in the high-normal range is thus a costly and unproven
      practice.
    
  