
    
      Rationale: The utilization of complementary therapies in the management of cancer have not
      been extensively studied in the pediatric population. Patients in active treatment and even
      those in remission may experience higher levels of anxiety and medical complications compared
      to their counterparts. Complementary therapies such as meditation have been found to improve
      symptoms and decrease anxiety and pain levels in adult oncology patients.

      Objective: The goal of this study is to determine the impact of relaxation breathing with
      body scan techniques through the utilization of media clips on pediatric oncology patients'
      complications, hospitalizations, anxiety levels and outlook on diagnosis and treatment
      management.

      Methods: A randomized non-blind control trial will be conducted in order to compare a control
      to a therapy intervention group. The therapy will consist of a video clip approximately 5
      minutes in length. The clip will walk the patient through mindfulness in breathing along with
      muscle relaxation of each muscle group. This therapy is to be completed three times a week
      prior to falling asleep. Prior to initiation of therapy a baseline questionnaire will be
      completed. Following initiation, a follow up survey will be distributed on a monthly basis to
      assess for symptom severity, number of hospitalizations and patient outlook.

      Population: The study population includes patients seen at Janet Weis Children's Hospital's
      pediatric oncology clinic. Patients must be in the age range of 6-20 years old for the entire
      year of the study in order to qualify. Exclusion criteria includes patients who are actively
      receiving drug therapy for anxiety or depression or receiving palliative care. Patients who
      pass away within the year of study will be excluded.

      Time Frame: Following recruitment, each patient will be enrolled for the total of a one-year
      time frame.

      Expected Outcomes: The investigators project that the patients utilizing guided meditation
      will experience decreased levels of anxiety, pain and complications compared to those of the
      control group.
    
  