
    
      Patients diagnosed with hematologic malignancies (as defined) who have responded to
      conventional therapy, and without any potentially curative therapeutic intervention, will be
      candidates for this Phase I/II study. Following confirmation of disease response to
      conventional antineoplastic therapy, eligible patients who agree to participate and sign a
      consent form will have their tumor cells and/or blood analyzed for the expression of a
      specific panel of Tumor Associated Peptide Antigens (TAPAs), including SP17, Ropporin, AKAP4,
      PTTG1 and Span-xb. Patients whose tumors express one (1) or more of these TAPAs will receive
      three (3) days of subcutaneous Granulocyte Macrophage Colony Stimulating Factor (GM-CSF) to
      increase bone marrow production of monocytes and dendritic cell (DC) precursors, and
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells will be obtained by phlebotomy and/or leukapheresis for
      generation of autologous DCs. Patient's DCs will be generated at Kiromic's Cell Processing
      Good Manufacturing Process (GMP) facility, according to established Standard Operating
      Procedures, and activated by pulsing/loading them with the TAPA(s) relevant for each
      particular patient. Patients will receive five (5) days of low-dose cyclophosphamide prior to
      each vaccination with TAPA-pulsed DCs to decrease Treg activity. TAPA-pulsed DCs will be
      administered at a fixed dose of up to 1 x 107 DCs at least two (2) days following
      cyclophosphamide administration. DC vaccination schedule will be once every fourteen (14)
      days via subcutaneous (SC) and intradermal (ID) injections for a total of 6 vaccinations. Low
      dose GM-CSF will also be administered SC for five (5) consecutive days, starting three (3) to
      six (6) hours after each TAPA-pulsed DC treatment, to optimize immune response and DC
      viability in vivo. Patients will be followed on a weekly basis (or more frequently if
      required) to evaluate treatment-related toxicity. Immune responses and anti-tumor responses
      will be evaluated per protocol specifications. Continuation and stopping rules for the study
      will be defined based on toxicity/tolerability (Phase I) and/or immune responses (Phase II).
    
  