
    
      This clinical physiological study will take place over a period of 2-14 days, depending on
      the participant.

      Assessment of the readiness to wean using RSBI calculation and an SBT are standard practice
      in the ICU, and the decision to perform one is made by the ICU team. They are usually
      performed in the morning between 08:00 and 10:00. The RSBI calculation will be performed by
      disconnecting the patient from the ventilator for 2-3 minutes and then measuring the
      breathing frequency and average tidal volume for 1 minute. A value of the RSBI index <
      100-105 breaths/min×L predicts a possible successful SBT. The SBT will be performed using
      flow-by technique (Pressure Support (PS)/Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) 0/0
      cmH2O) for 30 to 120 minutes and at a Fraction of Inspired Oxygen (FiO2) below 0.5 when the
      RSBI index < 100-105 breaths/min×L. A T-piece trial gives the most reliable assessment of
      weaning capability, but it is often reserved for the most challenging patients. Using flow-by
      (PS/CPAP 0/0 cmH2O) will give a similar indication of weaning capability in comparison to
      T-piece, but will allow the Respiratory Therapists to keep the same equipment and to monitor
      tidal volume and minute ventilation throughout the test. During the SBT, respiratory and
      hemodynamic parameters will be continuously monitored. Determining the success or failure of
      the SBT will be performed by the clinical team. For patients who pass the SBT, the decision
      for extubation is made by the ICU clinical team independently from this study. For the
      purpose of the study, a daily screening will be performed each afternoon by the Respiratory
      Therapist to identify patients who will have a RSBI calculation and an SBT the following day.

      On the night prior to the planned weaning assessment, sleep architecture will be recorded
      using standard PSG (electroencephalography, right and left electrooculography, submental
      electromyography and electrocardiography) from 17:00 to 8:00. Pulse oximetry (SpO2) and
      end-tidal carbon dioxide (EtCO2) or transcutaneous partial pressure of carbon dioxide
      (PtcCO2) will be recorded continuously during the PSG.

      For patients who pass the RSBI index and SBT and are extubated successfully, PSG recording
      will be repeated that night. If the patient passes the SBT but is not extubated, we will wait
      for a new extubation attempt within the next 48 hours. If extubation is performed within the
      next 48 hours, PSG recording will be repeated the night of extubation. If extubation is
      further delayed, no PSG will be performed.

      For patients who fail the 1st RSBI or fail the 1st SBT, PSG recording will be repeated the
      night before the next weaning attempt and the night of extubation if it happens within a
      maximum of two weeks from the 1st SBT.

      Assessment of delirium will be performed using the Confusion Assessment Method for the
      Intensive Care Unit (CAM-ICU) twice daily (at 08:00 and 18:00) from day 0 until extubation.
    
  