
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the impact of IDO1 inhibitor BMS-986205 (BMS986205) and nivolumab versus
      nivolumab alone on tumor radiographic response both at the primary tumor site and in regional
      lymph nodes by investigator assessment at 5 weeks.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate whether adding the IDO1 - inhibitor, BMS986205, to nivolumab therapy
      affects intratumoral and systemic anti-tumor immunity.

      II. To assess the impact of BMS986205 and nivolumab verses nivolumab alone on pathologic
      treatment effect bother at the primary and regional lymph nodes.

      III. To determine the effect of BMS986205 and nivolumab versus nivolumab alone on immune cell
      composition within the tumor microenvironment including the presence of effector T cells
      (Teff), regulatory T cells (Treg), and tumor-associated macrophages (TAM).

      IV. To further characterize the effect of BMS986205 when combined with nivolumab on
      kynurenine production and correlate these levels with effects on immune cell composition and
      polarization.

      V. To review the relationship of p16 status by immunohistochemistry with immune cell
      polarization, tumor radiographic response, and immune cell composition.

      VI. To review the relationship of PD-L1 status by immunohistochemistry with immune cell
      polarization, tumor radiographic response, and immune cell composition.

      VII. To assess the safety and tolerability of BMS986205 and nivolumab. VIII. Evaluate
      surgical wound healing post treatment.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To further characterize the effect of BMS986205 and nivolumab versus nivolumab alone
      through analysis of T cell repertoire.

      II. To assess the interactions between the immune and metabolic microenvironment through
      analysis of alterations in exosome composition in peripheral blood as it related to immune,
      cytokine and metabolic alterations before, during and after treatment.

      III. To identify risks for poor physical and mental health outcomes; examine bio-behavioral
      factors associated with cancer treatment outcomes; and evaluate the physical and psychosocial
      needs of cancer survivors through patient reported outcomes.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive IDO1 inhibitor BMS-986205 orally (PO) once daily (QD). Beginning week
      2, patients also receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats for up to 5 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients showing a treatment response receive IDO1 inhibitor BMS-986205 PO QD for 4
      additional weeks and receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1, then undergo surgery at
      week 10. Those without a treatment response after 5 weeks undergo surgery within 7 days.

      ARM II: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients showing treatment response after 4 weeks
      receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1, then undergo surgery at week 9. Those without
      a treatment response after 4 weeks undergo surgery within 7 days.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 12 months.
    
  