
    
      INTRODUCTION: Intubation processes of patients under general anesthesia are important in
      terms of patient morbidity and mortality. The cervical region has also anatomical and
      physiologic speciality in which stability of the general condition of the patient during this
      intubation process. The cervical region needs to be manipulated very carefully due to
      respiratory center, cardiovascular balance and neurological integrity. During general
      anesthesia, the patient will be under the effect of muscle relaxant and especially the
      cervical region becomes vulnerable to trauma. The intubations made by affecting the cervical
      region as little as possible change the morbidity and mortality. Intubation with fiberoptic
      bronchoscopy and videolaryngoscopy has reduced the complications that other methods can
      cause. Awake intubation with fiberoptic bronchoscopy and videolaryngoscopy is important for
      neurological evaluation during the procedure. In this study, we aimed to compare awake
      intubation by videolaringoscopy and fiberotic bronchoscopy in patients with intubation
      difficulties due to restriction of neck movements in cervical surgery.

      METHODS: Patients in the ASA I-II-III risk group, aged 18-80 years, who will undergo cervical
      surgery operation between 01.04.2018 and 01.04.2020 by the Brain and Neurosurgeon at Trakya
      University Medical Faculty Hospital will be included. Patients will be prospectively
      randomized into 2 groups; Group F (intubation with fiberoptic in awake patients), Group V
      (intubation with videolaringoscopy in awake patients). In successful intubations the time
      between the time of access to the criterion laryngoscope and the appearance of the vocal cord
      will be assumed to be 60 seconds. Complications during intubation (mucosal injury, tooth
      trauma, lip injury, hypoxia (SpO2 <95%) and esophageal intubation) will be recorded. After
      intubation, the presence of blood in the Endotracheal Tube (ETT) or sore throat, which is
      expressed by the patient after recovery, will also be recorded.

      STATISTICAL METHODS: Student-T test or Mann Whitney U test will be applied among the groups.
      Ki-Kara test will be used to compare categorical data.

      CONCLUSION: Evaluation of mortality and morbidity of the patients awake intubation with
      fiberoptic bronchoscopy and videolaryngoscopy for cervical trauma surgery.
    
  