
    
      Previous studies, including our own, have shown that in those with diabetes, severe
      hypoglycaemia (defined as requiring the assistance of emergency ambulance in the community)
      carries with it a high mortality in the immediate months/short years following the event.
      What isn't known is what this group of patients dies of and what the demographics of this
      group may be. This is important as this is a vulnerable patient group in whom few
      interventions to reduce this excess mortality have been trialled.

      Through a collaboration with a local ambulance service, the hospital diabetes research team
      set out to recruit participants to a small, pilot, randomized controlled trial to try and
      ascertain more about the demographics of this group, follow them up in a longitudinal fashion
      and report on their causes of death using information recorded on death certificates (a
      statutory requirement in the UK). Additionally the investigators sought to provide pilot data
      on whether a structured nurse led intervention programme could reduce risk.

      The local ambulance service contacted the research team, with patient consent, once they had
      been called to treat a patient with diabetes whom had severe hypoglycaemia. Within 7 days a
      research nurse approached those whom had given consent to invite them to take part in a
      clinical trial. Full eligibility criteria are available elsewhere in this document. Following
      this, groups were split in the following way:

        1. Intensive group - participants were randomized to receive a structured nurse led
           intervention aiming to educate them on the treatment of and how to avoid hypoglycaemia.

        2. Standard group - participants were randomized to continue on their current diabetes
           treatment and were returned to their standard diabetes care provider.

        3. Observational group - participants were happy to have a baseline visit, and for their
           case to reviewed using electronic records moving forward, but they did not wish to be
           randomized to an intervention.

      All three groups had baseline data collected including:

        -  Diabetes specific information, including HbA1c, type of diabetes, diabetes therapy,
           duration of diabetes, presence of complications. Blood tests were taken at baseline for
           all groups if participants consented to have this done.

        -  Demographic data - including age, gender, smoking status, BMI

        -  Information of co-morbidity - Any other illness the participant may suffer from, any
           medications they take.

      Information regarding baseline characteristics was confirmed using electronic patient
      records.

      Those whom were randomized to a nurse led intervention received a structured education
      programme for 12 months, with the bulk of the work coming in the first 12 weeks.

      At 12 months, all participants active engagement in the programme was terminated. Data was
      collected electronically on new hospital admissions and deaths over this period as well as
      changes in HbA1c. Participants also had their electronic records screened at study
      termination and thus data could be provided on outcome at 12 months and study end (in this
      case 42.6 months.)
    
  