
    
      This pilot trial will determine whether retroviral-transduced peripheral blood progenitor
      cells (PBPCs) can be selected and expanded in vivo after non-ablative chemotherapy in
      patients with metastatic breast cancer. It will also examine the feasibility of administering
      induction high-dose therapy with antimetabolites, followed with consolidation using high-dose
      single alkylating agent therapy and finally intensification therapy with sequential cycles of
      very high doses of the natural product breast cancer chemotherapeutic agents (paclitaxel
      followed by doxorubicin).

      Patients will receive induction therapy with antimetabolite agents (methotrexate, leucovorin
      and 5-fluorouracil) for two to four cycles. Patients will then receive consolidation therapy
      with two cycles of high-dose alkylating agents. First, patients will receive one cycle of
      high-dose cyclophosphamide administered with growth factor support. PBPCs will be harvested
      during the recovery phase of the cyclophosphamide cycle.

      One-half of the cells to be reinfused will be transduced with a retroviral vector containing
      the gene for the multidrug resistance protein (MDRI in vector G1MD) and the other half will
      be transduced with a vector containing the neomycin resistance gene (NeoR in vector G1Na.40).
      Both of these vectors have previously been approved by the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee
      for PBPC transduction in Medicine Branch protocols.

      The next cycle will consist of high-dose single agent thiotepa. Hematopoietic stem cells
      mobilized and collected during the previous cyclophosphamide cycle and transduced with the
      retroviral vectors will be reinfused following treatment with thiotepa to augment recovery of
      bone marrow function. After recovery, intensification with natural product chemotherapy will
      be administered, consisting of four cycles of paclitaxel given as a 24-hour infusion followed
      by four cycles of single agent doxorubicin. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells will be
      monitored following each cycle of paclitaxel and doxorubicin for the presence of the MDRI and
      NeoR transgenes. The ration of the levels of MDRI to NeoR transgenes in peripheral blood will
      determine whether in vivo expansion of the PBPCs containing the selectable MDRI marker has
      been achieved.

      This protocol combines several highly active chemotherapeutic agents in an attempt to improve
      upon response rates achieved with current combinations. Patients who do not wish to
      participate in the gene therapy procedures will be offered identical chemotherapy in a
      different protocol.
    
  