
    
      Prostate Cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer among Veterans, comprising 30% of new
      cancer diagnoses in the VA. Eighty-five percent of men present with localized prostate
      cancer, which is typically treated with active surveillance or curative local therapy using
      surgery or radiation therapy. Unfortunately, twenty percent of Veterans undergoing curative
      local therapy will develop metastatic recurrence. These men typically receive palliative
      systemic hormonal therapy to control the participants disease. Despite this, over half of men
      will have cancer progression within 1-2 years and half will die within 5 years.

      Two diverging paradigms have been studied in recent years to improve the survival of men with
      recurrent metastatic prostate cancer. First, a subset of patients has oligorecurrent disease,
      defined as 1-5 sites of metastases. These patients are hypothesized to have an intermediate
      clinical state in which ablative local therapy with surgery or radiation to all metastatic
      sites of disease (metastasis-directed therapy; MDT) can lead to durable disease control and
      potentially cure in select patients. Recent Phase II randomized trials have demonstrated
      improved long-term progression-free survival with MDT in the absence of systemic therapy.

      Yet, 75% of patients receiving MDT for oligorecurrent cancer develop progression in new
      areas, arguing that systemic therapy is needed to treat occult metastases. This is supported
      by data demonstrating that earlier palliative hormonal therapy is associated with improved
      survival. In fact, the second approach that has been studied in recent years, is whether
      escalating hormonal therapy by adding novel androgen receptor axis targeted agents or
      chemotherapy improves outcomes in men with metastatic prostate cancer. Multiple phase III
      randomized trials demonstrate that escalating hormonal therapy with these novel therapeutic
      agents improves progression-free survival and overall survival dramatically. Therefore, these
      agents have been integrated as an option into today's standard systemic therapy (SST) for
      metastatic recurrence.

      Given the promise of MDT to induce long-term cancer control and the effectiveness of SST to
      prevent further cancer progression, there is an urgent need to determine whether adding MDT
      to SST improves disease outcomes further. Additionally, prior studies have excluded patients
      with local recurrence. However, these comprise a large proportion of Veterans with
      oligorecurrent prostate cancer.

      The primary goal of the investigators study is to determine if adding PET-directed local
      therapy (treatment of local recurrence on PET/CT and/or MDT) improves disease control
      compared to SST alone in Veterans with oligorecurrent prostate cancer. The investigators will
      conduct a multi-institutional phase II/III randomized trial comparing SST with or without
      PET-directed local therapy. Other goals of the study are to determine any differences in
      patterns of cancer progression, survival, and quality of life. The investigators also will
      determine if certain mutations present in tumor DNA can predict if Veterans will benefit from
      PET-directed local therapy and encourage banking of tumor tissues for future analyses in a
      separate tumor registry study (VA MAPP).
    
  