
    
      The proposed study is an open-label single-arm phase II trial.

      Eligible patients are those with non-metastatic biochemically-recurrent prostate cancer and a
      PSADT of ≤6 months and a minimum PSA of 1.0.

      After enrollment, patients will be treated with olaparib at the established dose of 300mg
      tablets by mouth twice daily. Patients will be followed monthly with clinic visits, safety
      labs (including CBC w/diff, Comp), PSA, and toxicity assessments. Treatment [with a minimum
      drug exposure of 12 weeks] will be continued until PSA doubling from study entry (confirmed
      with another measurement at least 4 weeks later), development of radiographic metastatic
      disease, or toxicity requiring drug cessation. CT scans and NM bone scans will be performed
      every 6 months for patients remaining on olaparib treatment.

      This study will enroll up to 50 subjects. The study design will employ a stepwise adaptive
      statistical plan, derived in part from Biankin et al, Nature 2015 Oct 15;526(7573):361-70.
      The design is adapted from a multi-stage design, with interim stopping rules to determine
      futility or need for enrichment of the study population.

      The study will initiate with a two-stage design in an unselected population. The assumptions
      for the trial of the unselected population are: null hypothesis of 0.1 PSA response rate and
      alternative hypothesis of 0.3 for the unselected population. The first stage is 20 subjects.
      If ≤2 subjects responds in the first stage, then unselected population study is halted for
      futility and an assessment of DNA mutations present in the initial cohort will be undertaken.
      If less than 3 subjects with a known/suspected deleterious mutation in the following genes
      (ATM, BARD1, BRCA1, BRCA2, BRIP1, CDK12, CHEK1, CHEK2, FANCL, PALB2, PPP2R2A, RAD51B, RAD51C,
      RAD51D, or other DNA repair genes) have been accrued in the first stage, then the trial will
      proceed with enrichment. If 3 or more subjects with known/suspected deleterious mutation in
      the genes of interest have been accrued, then the trial will proceed with enrichment, as long
      as the response rate in that subset of subjects is ≥20%. In the case that 3 or more subjects
      have been accrued, yet the response rate in that subset is <20%, then the trial is halted for
      futility.

      However, if ≥3 subjects among the first 20 respond, then additional 10 unselected subjects
      are accrued. If ≥6 subjects respond out of 30 in the unselected population after the second
      stage, then the null hypothesis is rejected in the unselected population and broad efficacy
      will be concluded.

      The trial proceeds to complete accrual of 50 subjects in order to better estimate PSA
      response rate and strengthen data for correlative studies. If <6 respond, then the null
      hypothesis is not rejected. Again, if less than 3 subjects with a known/suspected deleterious
      mutation in the following genes (ATM, BARD1, BRCA1, BRCA2, BRIP1, CDK12, CHEK1, CHEK2, FANCL,
      PALB2, PPP2R2A, RAD51B, RAD51C, RAD51D, or other DNA repair genes) have been accrued in the
      first and second stage combined, then the trial will proceed with enrichment. If 3 or more
      subjects with those mutations have been accrued, then enrichment will again proceed as long
      as the response rate in that subject of subjects is ≥20%.
    
  