
    
      Few treatments are effective for chronic low-back pain, a disorder that causes marked social
      costs in developed countries. A "comfortable" mattress is commonly assumed to play an
      essential role, both on a preventive and on a therapeutic basis on chronic low-back pain.
      However, evidence supporting the beneficial effects of different levels of mattress support
      on pain is lacking.

      The primary study objective is to determine whether mattress firmness affects pain in
      patients with chronic low-back pain. We hypothesize that mattresses that differ in their
      firmness and support should have a varying effects on LBP patients' level of pain and
      pain-related disability. We also seek to test the hypothesis that the optimal mattress might
      vary from person to person. In this regard, we will test:

        1. whether there is a single mattress that is superior to the others in terms of reducing
           low-back pain and pain-related disability and

        2. whether the optimal mattress for reducing pain varies in the observed population.

      The secondary objectives are:

        1. to determine whether there is a relationship between mattress firmness and sleep in this
           population;

        2. to determine whether there is a relationship between pain and sleep in this population;

        3. to determine whether key sleep variables (subjective or objective) are mediating or
           moderating factors of the relationship between mattress and level of low-back pain (LBP)
           and disability;

        4. to determine if different sleep surfaces have differential effects on measures of daily
           function among patients with chronic LBP;

        5. to evaluate if Kingsdown's proprietary algorithm for selecting optimal mattress "fits"
           with the subject's best mattress for reducing pain and improving sleep and measures of
           daytime functioning;

        6. to conduct exploratory regression analyses using variables included in the proprietary
           algorithm and other demographics and measures of physical characteristics to predict the
           optimal "fit" mattress (i.e., the mattress associated with lowest morning pain ratings,
           best sleep measures and optimal levels of daytime function);

        7. to determine if different sleep surfaces have differential effects on measures of
           partner sleep disturbance;

        8. to determine if there is a relationship between partner pain level and partner sleep
           disturbances.

      Please see "Eligibility Criteria" for inclusion and exclusion information.
    
  