
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare engraftment of peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPCs) mobilized by 2
           different fixed doses of pegfilgrastim versus a by-weight dose of filgrastim (G-CSF).

      Secondary

        -  Determine the ability of 2 different fixed doses of pegfilgrastim to mobilize PBPCs.

        -  Determine the safety of pegfilgrastim during PBPC mobilization and collection.

        -  Determine the effect of different induction chemotherapy regimens on autologous
           progenitor cell transplantation.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified by type of induction
      chemotherapy (Thal/Dex vs VAD vs Vel-Dex vs VTD) and by stage of disease according to
      International Prognostic Index criteria (stage I [i.e., beta-2 microglobulin < 3.5 and
      albumin > 35] vs stages II and III).

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive 3-4 courses of 1 of the following regimens:

             -  VAD: Patients receive vincristine, doxorubicin hydrochloride, and dexamethasone.

             -  Thal/Dex: Patients receive thalidomide and dexamethasone.

             -  Vel-Dex: Patients receive bortezomib and dexamethasone.

             -  VTD: Patients receive bortezomib, thalidomide, and dexamethasone. Patients
                achieving complete, partial, or minimal response after 3-4 courses of induction
                therapy proceed to peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) mobilization 17 days
                after completion of induction therapy.

        -  PBPC mobilization: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) once daily until the final
                leukapheresis.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive a single dose of pegfilgrastim SC.

             -  Arm III: Patients receive pegfilgrastim as in arm II at a higher dose.

        -  Leukapheresis: Patients undergo up to 3 leukaphereses to obtain adequate numbers of
           CD34-positive filgrastim- or pegfilgrastim-mobilized PBPCs for engraftment. Patients
           achieving a sufficient number of collected PBSCs proceed to conditioning chemotherapy.

        -  Conditioning chemotherapy: Patients receive high-dose melphalan* IV over 1-2 days.
           Patients then proceed to PBPC transplantation.

      NOTE: *Patients ≥ 65 years old receive melphalan at a lower dose.

        -  Autologous PBPC transplantation: Patients undergo infusion of PBPCs on day 0. Patients
           in all arms receive G-CSF support beginning on day 1 after PBPC transplantation and
           continuing until blood counts recover for 3 consecutive days.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for up to 100 days
      post-transplantation.
    
  