
    
      In addition to the main study, two sub studies will be conducted, using the same intervention
      and subjects as the main study;

        1. COPD patients´ self-efficacy after virtual admission compared to hospital admission -
           implications for clinical practice

        2. Cognitive function and daily life after virtual admission compared to conventional
           hospital admission in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)

           --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

           Ad. 1: COPD patients´ self-efficacy after virtual admission compared to hospital
           admission - implications for clinical practice

           Background:

           In order to transfer the patient from the hospital to the telemedicine based homecare
           treatment regimen, the patient must be able to perform tests and treatments and also
           contribute to identification of problems and changes in the physical condition. However,
           so far it has not been investigated whether patients using telehomecare have or acquire
           the necessary skills to cope with the problems entailed by COPD, in interaction with
           healthcare professionals and relatives.

           Aim:

           The primary aim of this sub study is to describe what characterizes COPD patients´
           self-efficacy after virtual admission compared to hospital admission.

           Method:

           Self-efficacy will be measured using "The COPD self-efficacy scale", developed by Wigal
           et al (Chest 1991). The mean score will be compared between the two study arms, and
           furthermore the changes within the two groups will be assessed. Data will be collected
           at baseline, and also three days, six weeks and three months after discharge.

           In addition, analyses will be conducted to explore the association between
           self-efficacy, readmission and the use of bed days during a three month follow-up
           period.

           --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

           Ad.2: Cognitive function and daily life after virtual admission compared to conventional
           hospital admission in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)

           Background:

           COPD affects distant organs and causes several complications, including cognitive
           dysfunction. The impairment forms a significant clinical problem with consequences for
           the patients such as dependency on help for basic daily activities, increased symptom
           experience and poor compliance with medical treatment.

           Aim:

           The aim of the study is to investigate cognitive function and daily life after virtual
           admission compared to conventional hospital admission in patients with COPD. The study
           is a part of a randomized multicenter trial, investigating the feasibility and safety of
           a telemedicine based treatment regime in COPD patients, compared to conventional
           hospital treatment (Telemedicine technology makes it possible to communicate with the
           patient using a video conference system connected to a telemedicine communication
           platform).

           Method:

           For this sub study, we consecutively include 150 patients from the multicenter trial.
           The primary outcome will be cognitive function evaluated by a neuropsychological test
           battery (ISPOCD), including verbal learning, memory capacity and attention, at
           discharge, and six weeks after discharge. The secondary outcomes is daily life evaluated
           by questionnaires including self-reported cognitive function, self-efficacy, activities
           of daily living, health related quality of life, anxiety and depression, at discharge,
           six weeks and three months after discharge.
    
  