
    
      Prospective subjects will be identified from the patient population pool in the Uveitis
      Clinic at the Truhlsen Eye Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Department of
      Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences.

      The procedures below will be performed at the first visit in all patients and at the
      patient's return visit in the 10 patients recruited for the prospective arm of the study
      (upto a maximum of 3 follow up visits)

      The following information will be extracted from the chart. These are obtained routinely as
      part of routine clinical care through history and ocular examination by slit lamp examination
      and applanation tonometry for intraocular pressure measurements.

        1. Age

        2. Race

        3. Gender

        4. Diagnosis

        5. Duration of disease

        6. Medications, dose and duration currently and over the past year

        7. Visual acuity- snellen and peripheral visual fields

        8. Intraocular pressure

        9. Gonioscopy: documentation of degree of synechial angle closure

       10. Slit lamp examination and documentation of parameters of ocular inflammation: cells,
           flare, posterior synechaie extent and clock hours

       11. Fundus examination

      Testing done solely for the study will involve:

        1. Tonographic Outflow facility: will be assessed using the pneumatonography. A two (2)
           minute tonography protocol will be used. The subject will be in a supine position as the
           weighted pneumatonometer probe is placed on the eye measuring aqueous outflow. The
           patient may need another drop of proparacaine prior to the test if the previous
           anesthesia is insufficient. This procedure should take 3-4 minutes.

        2. Aqueous flare meter: The anterior chamber flare will be measured in a non-invasive way
           using the AC flare meter. This process will take 2-3 minutes and does not require any
           additional topical anesthesia.
    
  