
    
      Enrollment started in June 2018 and was completed in December 2018. The inclusion criteria
      were as following: the patients referred for elective and isolated Coronary Artery Bypass
      Graft (CABG) using Cardiopulmonary Bypass (CPB) with vitamin D deficiency (defined as
      25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH) D] < 20 ng/mL) and normal kidney function (creatinine <1.5mg/dL).
      The exclusion criteria were: recent myocardial infarction, urgent CABG, non-isolated coronary
      surgery, redo surgery, malignant disease, presence of acute or chronic inflammatory diseases,
      history of vitamin D treatment within previous 6 months, or unwillingness to participate.

      Intervention Following informed consent, eligible study participants were randomly assigned
      (by using a computer- generated random code) in a 1:1 ratio to receive either placebo or a
      total of 450,000 international units (IU) vitamin D3 (three 50,000 IU of vitamin D3 tablet
      daily for 3 days) before operation. The placebo group received three inactive medication
      tablets daily at the same time point. With the exception of the pharmacists, all the
      investigators, patients and the medical team were blinded to the group allocation.

      Coronary artery bypass was done in the culprit lesions for both groups by one surgical team.
      The standard protocol for general anesthesia, surgical and CPB management were performed for
      all patients and have already been described in detail [16].

      Outcome measures The primary outcome was the degree of heart apoptosis by measurement of
      caspase 2, 3 and 7 activity from right atrial specimen with immunohistochemistry staining,
      and the serum level of anti-inflammatory interleukin-10 (IL-10) and insulin- like growth
      factor (IGF-1), and N-terminal pro v-type Natriuretic Peptide (nt-pro BNP). The biopsy from
      right atrial appendage was taken at the end of surgery after venous cannula removal in a
      nontraumatic fashion, kept into formalin and in less than 24h parafinized. Blood samples were
      collected at the baseline (T1), before anesthesia induction (T2), at the end of surgery after
      protamine reversal (T3) and the first postoperative day (T4) to measure the serum level of
      IGF-1, IL-10 and pro BNP. The blood samples were centrifuged at 2500 rpm for 15 min within
      one hour after blood sampling, and the serum was stored at -20°C until assayed.

      Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay The concentration of IL-10 was measured by a quantitative
      ELISA kit (Ref: BE53101, IBL International GmbH, Hamburg Germany). The concentration of the
      IGF- 1 was measured by a quantitative ELISA kit (Ref: MD58011, IBL International GmbH,
      Hamburg Germany).

      Serum vitamin D was detected by using the high performance liquid chromatography method
      (Agilent 1100 series HPLC, USA). The pro BNP measurement was done using a commercially
      available two- site chemiluminescent immunometric assay (IMMULITE 2000 NT-pro BNP, Siemens
      Healthcare, Mannheim, Germany).

      Immunohistochemistry studies Immunohistochemical staining was performed on 5-micrometer thick
      sections. The slides were incubated at 37°C for 24 hours and deparaffinized in pre-heated
      xylene and rehydrated through descending grades of alcohol, washed in distilled water. Heat
      induced antigen retrieval was done by microwave oven with citrate buffer (pH 6.0) for
      anti-caspase-7 and Tris-EDTA buffer(pH=8) for anti-caspase-2 and 3. Endoperoxidase blocking
      was done by adding hydrogen peroxide on the sections. The protein block then added for 5
      minutes, slides were washed in Tris-Buffered Saline (TBS). The primary antibody as
      anti-caspase-2 antibody, rabbit monoclonal (clone EPR16790,abcam), anti-caspase-3 antibody,
      rabbit monoclonal (clone EPR16888, abcam), anti-caspase-7 antibody, and mouse monoclonal
      (clone 7-1-11 , abcam) antibody were added and kept for 30 minutes, washed in TBS. Mouse and
      Rabbit Specific HRP/DAB immunohistochemistry (IHC) Detection Micro-polymer Kit (ab80436) were
      used and incubated for 15 minutes then washed with TBS. DAB chromogen was added and kept for
      5 minutes. Slides washed in distilled water and counter stained with hematoxylin. Sections
      containing lymph node tissue were used as positive control. Negative control included primary
      antibody replaced with phosphate buffered saline (PBS). Immunostained sections were reviewed
      for cytoplasmic expression of anti-caspase-2, anti-caspase-3 and anti-caspase-7. The number
      of immune-reactive cells per High Power Field (HPF) (X 400) was counted. For this purpose at
      least 10 HPF were assessed and the average of positive cells was recorded.

      Sample size and statistical methods The determination of the patient number (30 patients per
      group) was based on previous trials investigating the caspase activity in the CABG setting .

      Categorical variables were reported as numbers and percentages, whereas mean± standard
      deviation was expressed for continuous variables. Repeated measures of analysis of variance
      and multiple comparisons using the Bonferroni correction (type I error correction) were
      applied for evaluating the change of measured inflammatory markers between the groups over
      time. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test for normality was performed. Continuous variables and
      categorical variables were compared between groups using Student's t test (or Mann-Whitney
      test for those meeting abnormal distribution) and Chi-square, respectively. All the
      statistical analyses were performed using SPSS version 23 (SPSS, Chicago, IL, USA). A p
      values <0.05 was considered to be significant.
    
  