
    
      Low back pain affects 70 to 80% of people at least once in their lives. They have
      considerable socio-economic repercussions and represent the leading medical cause of work
      stoppage, at around 25% .1

      The articular pain between the lumbar vertebrae, called facet joints pain, represent between
      15 and 45% of all low back pain and their manifestations are grouped under the name of facet
      syndrome including localized pains at the lumbar level as well as pains referred to the
      gluteal, trochanteric, inguinal and lateral and posterior region of the thigh. 2-5 The
      thermocoagulation of the roots innervating the lumbar facets consists in creating a lesion of
      the nerve roots innervating these articulations in order to block the transmission of the
      pain.

      According to many studies this technique gives good results in 70 to 80% of the cases with an
      improvement around 71% to more than six months. 6 A recent Meta-analysis involving 454
      patients also shows a significant improvement at 12 months of thermocoagulation versus
      placebo and even versus epidural lumbar. 7

      To date, Lumbar Thermocoagulation are still mostly performed under fluoroscopic control by
      injection of contrast. This technique have proved this effectiveness, but have significant
      disadvantages, such as the irradiation of the patient as well as that of the practitioner
      because of the number of daily acts performed and its cost.

      For its part, ultrasound is easily available, easy to use, represents a lower cost, and the
      lack of irradiation. The technique to reach the lumbar facet joints with sonography is pretty
      well described and known for many years. 8

      We propose here to evaluate the precision of lumbar thermocoagulation performed under a
      transverse ultrasound approach by performing a fluoroscopic control once the needle in the
      desired position. The effectiveness of the technique will be assessed by measuring different
      pain and disability scores at six weeks post-thermocoagulation: the Visual analogue pain
      Scale score (VAS) and the Oswestry disability score (ODI) will be collected, compared to that
      of the conventional fluoroscopic technique.
    
  