
    
      In lieu of the increasing disease burden of oral cancer in South Asian countries due to
      increasing popularly fashionable SLT consumption; the objective is to develop (i) a BCI
      pertinent to socio-cultural aspect for South Asian SLT users, followed by (ii) assessing its
      efficacy in changing perception and dependency regarding SLT use in high risk group of 11-16
      years old school going children of Karachi of both private and public sector schools.

      It is also aimed to deconstruct the BCI to establish which components of our BCT are more
      useful in making an intervention most efficient by using sub-indices of fidelity index to
      assess the adherence and quality of each component of intervention. Each component will be
      scored using fidelity index by a neutral trained listener each time intervention is delivered
      by a trained personnel.

      Quantitatively, the objectives of the study are to:

      i. measure SLT/ or BQ use prevalence amongst adolescents of 11-16 years ii. assess the
      reasons behind their use of SLT/ or BQ in users (both intervention and control clusters) by
      using Reasons for Betel Quid Chewing Scale (RBCS).

      iii. evaluate the dependency on SLT/ or BQ in users (both intervention and control clusters)
      using Fagerstörm Tobacco and Nicotine Dependency scale for Smokeless Tobacco (FTND-ST) and
      Betel Quid Dependency by using Betel Quid Dependency Scale (BQDS).

      iv. assess perceptions of adolescents (both intervention and control clusters) regarding ill
      effects of SLT/ or BQ use in oral cavity causing oral cancer and OPMLs.

      v. assess the perception of adolescents regarding oral cancer picture of SLT/ or BQ product
      pack in cessation of its use with the help of Behavior Changing Intervention in intervention
      cluster and a questionnaire item in control cluster.

      vi. evaluate each component of Behavior Changing Intervention in its efficacy by using
      fidelity index and self-perceived efficacy by participants of intervention cluster.

      This study will be conducted at government and private schools of Karachi as schools have the
      maximum probability of engaging focused age group of mixed ethnicity, religion, different
      cultures and different socio-economic strata of the population. Also, these young individuals
      spend a substantial number of their waking hours in school thus they are easily approachable
      globally without needing to delineate or be reliant on families(41).

      With a population of approximately 24 million, Karachi is the largest city of Pakistan(42).
      Karachi City government has divided the city into six (6) districts in 2013 with each
      district being further divided into administrative towns of total 18 in number(43).

      Multi stage cluster sampling will be done. Out of six districts, 26 clusters (secondary
      schools) will be randomly selected proportionate to the number of each school type (ensuring
      equal participation of government and private schools). The students of 11-16 years of age,
      studying in grade VI - Grade X will be randomly recruited. Complete lists of all private and
      government schools of Karachi have been arranged by requesting respective Directors (Appendix
      6). If any randomly selected school declines to participate than another school will be
      randomly selected from the same district; also, a government school will be selected if
      government school will decline and vice versa. Fifty-100 students per school will be randomly
      included in the study. Depending upon the size of each class, students will be randomly
      selected from each of the secondary classes present on the day of our visit till a total
      number of 50-100 is reached.

      This will therefore summit a total sample size of 2200 that may be considered representative
      of the 11-16 year adolescents of Karachi as Global Youth Tobacco Survey conducted in Karachi,
      Pakistan in 2008 enrolled 720 individuals of 13-15 years for comprehensive tobacco control
      program(44).

      Students of younger or older age group than mentioned already will be excluded and students
      who already are undergoing treatments for Oral Cancer will be excluded.

      For recruitment purposes, investigators will contact principals of selected schools (both
      government and private) to provide them with details regarding the intervention, its merits
      and efficacy, and will request for their inclination to participate in the trial. If any
      selected school refuses to participate then another school of same profile will be sent an
      invitation.

      Schools' heads will then be requested to send consent forms (will be provide to schools) to
      the parents along with a covering letter in which they will be provided with all relevant
      details regarding intervention and will be encouraged to contact principal investigator via a
      text on given contact number who will then call parents to respond to all queries since
      principal investigator does not have toll-free number(33).

      Parents will be requested to sign an acceptance or refusal on the form and sent it back to
      school by a specific decided date.

      After 12 weeks, a follow up visit will ensue to:

        1. Re-assess their perceptions regarding SLT/or BQ use in users and non-users of both
           intervention and control clusters.

        2. Re-assess their dependency on SLT/or BQ in users of both intervention and control
           clusters.

        3. Re-evaluate their perceptions (of users and non-users of intervention cluster) regarding
           warning labels on SLT/or BQ product packet

        4. Collect their quit calendars to assess quit from users of both intervention and control
           clusters, and

        5. Collect perceived efficacy of each component of BCI that helped them quit, attempt to
           quit or change perceptions from all users and non-users of intervention cluster to
           assess efficacy of each component of BCI.

      Any differences in outcome based on BCI will be assessed and documented between two arms of
      cluster-randomized trial.

      The change in perceptions if at all, after four weeks, regarding imprinting of pictorial
      warning labels on SLT packaging will help us in recommending its implementation at National
      level to curb SLT use.
    
  