
    
      Type of the study: Open labelled randomized controlled trial

      Study Setting: ART Unit, Women's Health Hospital

      c. Sample Size Calculation: Sample size calculation was calculated using Epi Info software
      (version 7). Based on previous study the pregnancy rate was 25.5% with GnRHa and 10% with
      control. Based on these percentages and with a confidence level of 95% and power of 80%, the
      sample size needed for the study was estimated to be 200 women (100 in each group).

      Study tools :

      All women scheduled for ICSI cycles in the AUH -ART unit and fulfil the above criteria will
      be invited to participate in the study, and subjected to the following

        1. A Thorough history will be taken with special emphasis on age and parity of the
           patients, age and duration of marriage, menstrual pattern, contraceptive history (with
           stress on type and duration of use), type and duration of infertility and type of
           previous delivery.

        2. Blood sampling will be performed for baseline evaluation FSH, LH, TSH and AMH on 2nd day
           of menses.

        3. Ovarian stimulation will be initiated from the day 2 of the menstrual cycle using
           recombinant gonadotropins 150-450 IU depending on patient age, BMI, antral follicle
           count and basal serum FSH.

        4. After 5 days, doses will be adjusted according to ovarian response. Once the leading
           follicle will reach a size of 14 mm, co-treatment with a GnRH antagonist will initiated
           and continued up until at least three follicles reached a size of 17-18 mm.

        5. Trigger will be done using HCG followed by OPU 36 h later.

        6. Retrieved oocytes will be fertilized by ICSI depending on sperm quality.

        7. According to the local regional policy and after an agreement between the patient and
           the medical team, one to three embryos will be transferred.

        8. For LPS, all patients will receive micronized P (400 mg/day) vaginally beginning on the
           day of oocyte retrieval and continuing until either end of first trimester by ultrasound
           or a negative pregnancy test.

        9. For the study group GnRH agonist 0.1 mg will be given 6 days after OPU.

       10. Blood sampling will be performed for progesterone within 24 h following the GnRH agonist
           0.1 mg injection particularly in the study group.

       11. Blood sampling will be performed 14 days after OPU for Quantative BHCG.

      Randomization:

      Randomization will be accomplished by using cards at the time of embryo transfer; two hundred
      will sequentially divide into two groups. Opaque sealed envelopes will used containing 100
      cards labelled control group and 100 cards labelled study group. All of envelops will mixed
      together randomly in a box. The cards will be pulled randomly.
    
  