
    
      Risk stratification is a key element in emergency medicine and there is great interest to
      identify and validate novel tools and parameters. These tools must be are easy to handle even
      in the emergency setting by emergency physicians and paramedics. The main challenge for these
      tools is to identify critically ill patients, but usually, an ambulance disposes on clinical
      examination and basic hemodynamic values. Therefore, diagnostic tools are limited to the
      assessment of macrocirculatory values, which are not very reliable and might not necessarily
      reflect factual organ perfusion. Focusing only on macrocirculation might mask already ongoing
      impaired organ perfusion as tissue hypoxia is crucial and microcirculatory collapse or at
      least dysregulation occurs very early. Reduced microcirculation might result in attenuated
      cellular nutrient and oxygen supply that might result in severe cell damage. In fact,
      impaired microcirculation is ubiquitous in shock and can be found even in the setting of
      hemodynamic compensation. An impaired microcirculation is often the very first sign of alarm
      for deteriorating critically ill patients. A promising way to identify patients with impaired
      microcirculation is the use of sublingual IDF- and SDF-measurement (IDF: incident dark-field;
      SDF: sidestream dark field) devices as sublingual microcirculation is a suitable target
      because it reliably reflects organ perfusion. Measuring sublingual microcirculation has
      already been used to identify high-risk patients in many intra-hospital or experimental
      settings. These measurement tools are easy to use hand-held devices. The newest generation of
      SDF offers the great improvement of automatic software which independently calculates various
      microcirculatory parameters. Therefore, there is no need for the treating physician to
      interpret the videos by himself. This investigation will take place in the ambulance
      emergency service of the metropolitan area around Düsseldorf, Germany. To participate in the
      study, patients must meet the following criteria: 1) the call for an acute emergency outside
      the hospital with the indication for sending out an emergency doctor, 2) a spontaneous
      circulation without previous resuscitation, 3) informed consent, 4) the sublingual mucosa
      must be accessible. The following data will be collected: age, sex, cause for emergency alarm
      (cardiac reason, respiratory reason, gastroenterological, oncological, general internal
      medicine, renal, neurological, psychiatric, paediatric, traumatic), and the National Advisory
      Committee on Aeronautics' (NACA), that ranges from 0 = no injury, 7 = lethal injury severity
      score. Vital parameters (heart rate, non-invasive blood pressure, peripheral oxygen
      saturation) will be measured using a standard out-of-hospital monitoring device (Corpuls3 (GS
      Elektromedizinische Geräte G. Stemple GmbH, Kaufering, Germany)). Mean arterial pressure
      (MAP) will be calculated as follows: (2 * diastolic pressure + systolic pressure) /3. The
      capillary refill was evaluated in a standardized manner as described by Hernandez et al. Only
      sufficiently trained investigators will perform measurements. The microcirculation will be
      assessed by the implementation of the sidestream darkfield microscope (MicroScan® device,
      Microvision Medical, Amsterdam, The Netherlands). At the tip of the device, a highly
      sensitive camera digitally records the sublingual capillary network. The software analysis
      can directly be performed and visualized on a tablet screen. Additionally, the videos will be
      saved for later analysis. A suitable tablet computer will be used (Microsoft Surface Pro 4,
      (Redmond, Washington, USA). After acquisition of the videos, a validated automatic
      algorithm-software (AVA, Version 4.3 C) will perform the analyses. According to the second
      consensus on the assessment of sublingual microcirculation in critically ill patients
      (European Society of Intensive Care Medicine), the following parameters of microcirculation
      will be assessed both for all and for small vessels: PPV (Percentage of Perfused Vessels), NC
      (Number of Crossings), PNC (Perfused Number of crossings), TVD (Total Vessel Density), PVD
      (Perfused Vessel Density). The study plans to include at least 25 patients.
    
  