
    
      Gynecologic cancer encompasses various conditions such as uterine, ovarian, cervical,
      peritoneal, fallopian tube, vaginal and vulvar cancers. Of these, uterine cancer is the top
      4th cancer diagnosed and ovarian cancer the 5th deadliest in women.

      Many of these patients require some form of chemotherapy administration during their
      treatment course. Chemotherapy is given at different stages of the treatment course with some
      patients receiving it prior to surgical intervention (neo-adjuvant), post-surgical
      intervention (adjuvant), and in the recurrent disease setting. Chemotherapy infusions can
      cause distressing side effects to the patients in the form of physical and also
      emotional/psychological effects, which may disrupt compliance to treatment protocols.
      Physical symptoms often begin during the administration of chemotherapy, such as nausea,
      vomiting, fatigue, pain, and anorexia. As a result, patients frequently experience
      psychological distress, including feelings of depression, helplessness, anxiety, and
      cognitive decline. These directly interfere with the patient's ability to perform activities
      of daily living and daily quality of life. The purpose of this study is to assess the effect
      of virtual reality (VR) sessions as a distraction intervention at time of chemotherapy
      infusion on symptom control.

      VR creates an alternative, 'less stressful' environment, and is easy to use. Users of VR wear
      a head-mounted display with a close proximity screen that creates a sense of being
      transported into a 3-dimensional world. The technology can be individualized to be
      interactive, and allows for an immersion experience by engaging several senses
      simultaneously. Importantly, VR has become increasingly portable, immersive and inexpensive
      to adopt. VR does not require a subject's experience or competency prior to use in the
      clinical setting. VR has been used to assess and treat a wide variety of medical, surgical,
      psychiatric, and neurocognitive conditions including pain, addiction, anxiety disorders,
      schizophrenia, eating disorders, and stroke rehabilitation.

      There have also been functional MRI studies demonstrating the effect of VR on the brain
      during receipt of painful stimuli. Multiple studies have demonstrated the benefit of VR as a
      distraction intervention for decreasing symptom distress, particularly in regards to anxiety,
      distress and fatigue, and have demonstrated that it is feasible to integrate in the
      chemotherapy setting for patients receiving treatments for various cancers, as well as when
      enduring medical procedures.

      In summary, VR has been shown to be safe and effective in reducing emotional distress of
      patients undergoing chemotherapy. These studies are generally limited in small sample size,
      but all have shown to be safe and feasible. To date, the benefit of VR during chemotherapy
      infusion has not been evaluated in patients with gynecologic cancer.
    
  