
    
      Oral anticoagulation (OAC) has been shown to be highly effective in preventing thromboembolic
      complications in patients for whom it is indicated. Numerous studies have documented that
      elderly patients seem to benefit most from OAC therapy. Atrial fibrillation (AF), the
      incidence of which increases with age and approaches 10% for individuals aged ≥ 80 years,
      carries the main risk for stroke, and among elderly patients without antithrombotic therapy,

      Despite its proven benefit, numerous studies have reported reluctance in prescribing OAC due
      to a variety of barriers, especially in the elderly. Risk of haemorrhage, which is in fact
      twice as great in those over 70 years of age as in younger patients, is one of the major
      determinants of refusal to prescribe OAC therapy. The risk of stroke rises steeply in
      patients with atrial fibrillation when INR values are less than 1.8 and INR values greater
      than 4 to 5 are rapidly associated with increased bleeding rates. Due to relatively small
      therapeutic ranges, the reality is often that only a small percentage of the INR values have
      been found to be within the target range, which can be low as 29% of INR measurements, as
      seen in routine care patients prior to participation in a randomised self-management
      programme study.

      One way to improve OAC care is by introducing patients' self-management of OAC therapy. In
      this context it is important to differentiate between INR self-testing alone, and full
      self-management. Self-management includes self-adaptation of the anticoagulation treatment
      based on self-monitoring results after the patients have participated in a structured
      instruction and treatment programme.

      Our study aims to provide answers to this important medical question by examining elderly
      patients receiving long-term anticoagulation treatment and randomised into self-management
      versus routine-care groups, with thromboembolic and haemorrhagic complications as primary
      outcomes.
    
  