
    
      Background:

      Cirrhosis may be complicated by the presence of ascites, portosystemic collaterals that may
      eventually bleed or give rise to hepatic encephalopathy. Laboratory findings in patients with
      cirrhosis includes alterations in synthetic function as well as an increase in serum
      bilirubin. Liver diseases are also associated with hematologic complications and altered red
      blood cells morphology. Up to 70% of cirrhotic patients display anemia and hemoglobin level
      may fall to below 5 gr/L in spur cell anemia. Thrombocytopenia, leucopenia and neutropenia
      are also common. In patients with cirrhosis, acanthocytes and echinocytes are reported.
      Acanthocytes, also termed spur cell, are large erythrocytes covered with spike-like
      projections which are associated with severe hemolytic anemia. In advanced cirrhosis,
      acanthocytes may account for 20 to 30% of red blood cells. The spiky morphology of
      acanthocytes results from an abnormal surface area to volume ratio and an altered membrane
      lipids composition. These changes in red blood cell membranes render the cell more prone to
      destruction and hemolysis. The true incidence of spur cells in cirrhosis is not known
      precisely but may avoisinate 45%, typically in patients with advanced cirrhosis.The presence
      of spur cells usually predicts lower survival rates. The liver is a very susceptible organ to
      oxidative-related cellular damage, and low antioxidants, such as vitamin E, in cirrhosis
      participate in cellular membrane alterations. Vitamin E is an antioxidant compound that is a
      component of biological membrane that helps to maintain integrity of lipid bilayers. Vitamin
      E deficiency leads to erythrocyte hemolysis, which is improved by supplemental vitamin E.
      Tocofersolan (Vedrop) is a water-soluble derivative of alpha-tocopherol, and thus an orally
      bio-available source of vitamin E. Vitamin E supplementation appears safe in liver diseases
      and provides histological benefit in NASH.

      Aim and endpoints I. To determine the effect of tocofersolan on red blood cell membranes
      lipid composition in adult patients with cirrhosis and vitamine E deficiency II. To determine
      the effect of vit E on anemia, hemolysis and acanthocytosis; on lipid peroxidation and
      oxidative stress; the safety of a 4 week treatment of 700 mg/day

      Duration: selection period: 1 week; active treatment: 4 weeks; follow-up period. 3 weeks.
      Evaluation time-points: baseline and after 4 weeks of treatment Methodology/Design: phase II
      pilot trial on 27 patients, single arm study
    
  