
    
      This present research is a randomized controlled clinical trial to be held in Clinics
      Hospital of Medical School of Ribeirão Preto - University of São Paulo (HCFMRP-USP) including
      men with confirmed diagnosis of prostate cancer by biopsy and having clinical indication for
      radiotherapy treatment (RT) who follow-up in the HCFMRP-USP and voluntarily consent to
      participate in this research. After consent, each patient must sign the consent term and then
      will be allocated by randomization in one of the following study groups:

        -  Training group (TG): the group of patients undergoing radiotherapy and submitted to
           pelvic floor muscles training;

        -  Control group (CG): the group of patients undergoing radiotherapy only. This research
           consists in four assessment: (1) Assessment 01: before started of radiotherapy; (2)
           Assessment 02: after two weeks started of RT; (3) Assessment 03: 03 months after started
           of RT (4) Assessment 04: 06 months after started of RT. All these assessments will be
           common for the participants of the research independently from the group they belong.

      In each assessment, images of the pelvic floor muscles will be acquired by nuclear magnetic
      resonance. Parallel to the MRI, there will be a clinical assessment of the patient which
      consist of anamnesis and physical examination, where the assessment of pelvic floor muscle
      function will be tested objectively using a perineometer to evaluate the peak and the mean
      contraction as well as the duration of the performed sustained contraction. Data will be
      collected from three contractions, whose mean value will be used for this study. The
      myoelectric activity will be evaluated using electromyography biofeedback with
      electromyography anal probes. The patient will also answer a quality of life questionnaire
      (EORTC QLQ-C30 e PR25) and the others questionnaire: ICIQ-SF, QS-M and Jorge-Wexner Scale.

      The patient of TG will be included in a supervised training protocol of the pelvic floor
      muscles. This protocol will be conducted in conjunction with the radiotherapy sessions.

      The supervised muscle training will be conducted once a week with 45 minutes each session
      during the RT (12 weeks - 3 months). In addition to the supervised sessions, patients in this
      group will be instructed about the practice of home exercises and receive a guidance booklet
      of exercises with explanations of each exercise to be performed. These exercises must be
      performed daily and should be written down in the worksheet when they are performed. After
      this 3 month period, the patients will be encouraged to continue the exercise protocol at
      home without supervision. They must attend monthly to monitor adherence to home exercises.

      The control group (CG) patients will not be instructed to perform pelvic floor exercises,
      instead they will only be assessed within the stipulated time.
    
  