
    
      Although flexible sigmoidoscopy (FS) as a screening tool has a much higher test sensitivity
      than fecal occult blood tests (FOBT) for colorectal cancer and high-risk adenomas, randomised
      trials with long-term follow-up are missing. The primary aim is to evaluate the effect on CRC
      mortality and morbidity by screen detection of CRC and removal of precursor lesions
      (polypectomy of adenomatous polyps)

      Secondary aims:

        1. Evaluation of cost/effectiveness of screening for CRC and significant, benign lesions
           using flex-sig only compared to flex-sig in combination with faecal tests

        2. To evaluate to which extent (and in which direction) the study may influence overall
           endoscopic activity in the general population in the screening areas and in areas where
           controlled screening is not established

        3. Determine the prevalence of known types familial CRC in a general population and try to
           define other groups with intermediate increased risk

        4. Clarify possible psychosocial effects of endoscopic screening and how it may influence
           lifestyle and lifestyle related morbidity and overall mortality

      Population:

      21,000 men and women, aged 50-64 years, living in the city of Oslo or the county of Telemark
      are drawn by randomisation (approx. 1:5) from the population registry and invited to have a
      flexible sigmoidoscopy examination. The control group constitutes 79,000 individuals. Those
      invited for flexible sigmoidoscopy are further randomised (1:1) to bring or not to bring 3
      successive stool samples for FOBT on attendance for FS.

      Method:

      This is a once-only screening concept with bowel cleansing being limited to a 240 ml Sorbitol
      enema given on attendance. The threshold for work-up colonoscopy is low as a positive
      screening test is defined as any polyp >9mm, any histologically verified adenoma irrespective
      of size and a positive FOBT. The screening phase is limited to the period January 1999-
      January 2002 and the first follow-up results will not be reported until all entries have
      passed the 5-year mark (i.e. in early 2007).
    
  