
    
      This is an individually randomised trial, where Working Out Dads (WOD) will be delivered as a
      group intervention.

      The primary aim of this study is to test the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of WOD in
      reducing fathers' mental health difficulties in early parenthood. A second aim is to identify
      barriers and facilitators for sustained use and scalability of the WOD program and its
      adaptation across Victoria and Australia in the future.

      Participants will be 280 fathers of young children (0-4 years) who are experiencing mental
      health difficulties or at risk of poor mental health and suicide. Approximately 140 fathers
      will be randomised to WOD, and 140 fathers randomised to usual care.

      Fathers will be recruited from four Victorian Local Government Areas (LGAs): Wyndham,
      Whittlesea, Geelong, and Ballarat. Within these sites, fathers will be recruited through
      maternal and child health, medical and family support services.

      Data will be collected via self report surveys at baseline, 10 weeks, and 24 weeks. The
      assessment at 24 weeks will also include a telephone interview with a researcher (blinded) to
      assess mental health.

      Participants will be randomised in a 1:1 ratio to the two treatment arms. A statistician not
      directly involved in the analysis of the trial results will prepare the randomisation
      schedule using permuted block randomisation, stratified by LGA, using a random number
      generator on a computer. The schedule will be held by the independent statistician and
      embedded within the web-based data management system.

      Treatment arms:

      Intervention condition - WOD: Fathers will attend a WOD group within approximately two weeks
      of randomisation and within four weeks of baseline assessment. WOD is a 6-week group-based
      peer support intervention. WOD's weekly sessions consists of 1-hour group discussion focused
      on common challenges and risk factors for poor mental health in early fatherhood, followed by
      a 30-minute group exercise session. Fathers in the WOD intervention condition will also have
      access to online resources and a father-managed WhatsApp group.

      Usual care condition: Fathers will receive the clinical care typically provided by an early
      parenting or community health service to parents experiencing mental health difficulties.
      Within two weeks of baseline assessment, Tweddle's Clinical Manager will conduct a brief
      telephone consultation to: (a) enquire about mental health symptoms and conduct a risk
      assessment for suicidal ideation; (b) provide referral options to telephone support services
      (e.g., PANDA, MensLine); and (c) encourage visiting a general practitioner to discuss
      accessing a mental health care plan.
    
  