
    
      X-linked hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia (XLHED) is a disorder of ectoderm development in
      which sweat and other secretory gland hypoplasias predispose affected infants to serious and
      potentially life-threatening hyperthermia and pneumonia. Those XLHED patients who survive
      infancy face a host of ectoderm-related clinical conditions including failure to thrive,
      oligodontia and misshapen teeth, mid-face hypoplasia, eczema, chronic dry eyes, asthma,
      respiratory infections, sinusitis and chronic nosebleeds. XLHED is caused by inherited
      defects in the ectodysplasin gene (EDA, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/omim) resulting in a deficiency
      of the ectoderm signaling protein EDA-A1. As is the general case with X-linked disorders,
      hemizygous XLHED males are more consistently and severely affected, while heterozygous XLHED
      females have a more variable phenotype.

      In normal development, EDA-A1 acts as an ectoderm signaling molecule that binds specifically
      to the EDA-A1 receptor (EDAR) triggering initiation and maturation of ectodermal appendages
      into sweat and other secretory glands, tooth buds and hair follicles. In the case of XLHED,
      EDA-A1 deficiency results in the absence or functional hypoplasia of the ectoderm appendages.
      There are no therapies currently available for XLHED that prevent or correct the underlying
      ectodermal abnormalities.

      EDI200 is a fully humanized EDA-A1 replacement molecule under development as a novel
      therapeutic for XLHED. EDI200 comprises the human IgG1 Fc domain linked to the human EDA-A1
      receptor-binding domain. On-target EDI200 activation of the EDA-A1/EDAR signaling pathway in
      vivo is evidenced by the remarkable phenotypic response in preclinical models. In
      XLHED-affected animals, EDA-A1 deficiency is corrected by a single course of EDI200 therapy,
      administered either prenatally (mice) or postnatally (newborn mice and dogs), resulting in a
      significant and sustained improvement in the health of the treated animals. Postnatal studies
      in both mice and dogs demonstrated a consistent and restricted window of efficacy. These
      results support the clinical development of EDI200 as a therapeutic to be administered to
      XLHED-affected patients in the neonatal period or earlier.

      ECP-002, a Phase 2, international, first-in-neonate EDI200 study is enrolling
      treatment-naïve, XLHED-affected male newborns in the first two weeks of life. All subjects
      will meet entry criteria including documentation of an EDA mutation associated with XLHED.
      Following Baseline evaluations, EDI200 dosing is initiated between day-of-life 2 and 14, with
      each study subject receiving a single course of study drug administered at 2 doses/week for a
      total of 5 doses. The treatment study protocol incorporates comprehensive safety,
      pharmacokinetic (PK), immunogenetic, and pharmacodynamic (PD)/efficacy evaluations continuing
      through age 6 months.

      The goal of the ECP-002e extension study is to continue the evaluation of all EDI200-treated
      ECP-002 subjects up to age 10 yrs. No additional study drug administration is planned. The
      efficacy evaluations will incorporate growth and development parameters, frequency of
      infections and hospitalizations, and age-appropriate assessments of ectoderm-derived organ
      function. The safety evaluations will include physical examinations, adverse events and
      concomitant medication documentation, and laboratory testing.
    
  