
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia and it is a rising problem for
      patients in Western countries. AF is a costly public health problem with hospitalizations as
      the primary expenditure. The disease and treatment is complex and requires a high degree of
      patient adherence to prevent complications (stroke and major bleedings) and the burden of
      symptoms due to irregular heartbeat often leads to poor health related quality of life.
      Consequences of AF also often lead to impairment of physical functioning and mental health.

      When illness is considered a family affair it is important for patients and their families to
      have a chance to talk about issues of hope, suffering and coping. A family will need support
      and solutions when successfully adjusting to having a family member with a chronic illness.
      Little is known about how families experience habituate life with AF, their concerns and
      feelings and their needs for support. FFN based on The Calgary Family Assessment model (CFAM)
      and the Calgary Family Intervention Model (CIFM) used as a theoretical model have been shown
      to be effective in family focused nursing interventions supporting patients and families in
      adjusting to life whit a disease. The effect of these models have never been tested in
      nursing interventions towards patients with AF and their families.

      The aim of the study is to examine how AF- patients and families are influenced by AF and to
      test if involving family members in a FFN intervention with group education improves outcomes
      for patients with AF.

      The study will consist of three sub-studies:

      A phenomenological qualitative explorative study with family unit interviews, a study of
      focus group interviews with members of the family analyzed with content analysis, and a
      quantitative fidelity study (n=100/50 in standard care/50 in the intervention group)
      evaluating the effect of a family focused nursing intervention with improvement of quality of
      life living with AF as the primary outcome. Relevant statistical analyzes will be used.

      The two qualitative studies will gather new knowledge about families need of support which
      will be used to shape the family focused intervention.

      The study inclusion criteria are: Men and women > 18 years with newly diagnosed AF. Family
      members who participate in interviews and in the intervention program are defined by the
      patient: e.g. spouse, son, daughter, near friend or neighbor. Patients with heart failure
      will be excluded.

      The intervention begins with a two hour group session for AF-patients and family members
      designed by the PhD student and the project nurses based on clinical guidelines of
      AF-management and theory from multifamily group intervention. Project nurses who are also
      Nurse specialists will facilitate knowledge to patients and family members about AF and how
      to support self-management in their daily living. Furthermore the FFN intervention will
      consist of 3 -5 Family Strength Orientated Therapeutic Conversations (FAM-SOTC) accordingly
      to the needs of patient and the family. The FAM-SOTC conversations will be used as health
      promoting conversations and a way to enhance family health and psychological resilense.
      Before the FFN intervention the two project nurses and the PhD student will be trained
      theoretically and practically in performing health promoting family conversations at Linné
      University in Sweden.

      It is expected that the study will provide a new understanding and evidence based knowledge
      on how to incorporate a family focused intervention and education of patients with AF and
      their families into the AF management and care.

      In the future, results from the studies can be used to design a randomized controlled trial
      which could determine the possibilities and limitations of a tailored health promotion
      intervention for patients with AF.

      The study is expected to be initiated in February 2019 and it will be completed in three
      years.

      The Danish Data Protection Agency and The Scientific Ethical Committee will be asked to what
      degree the study has a duty to notify the agency.

      Participants in the sub-studies will receive written and oral information about the project
      and must give written informed consent regarding participation which they can retract at any
      time. All data will be treated confidentially and anonymized. All data are stored securely
      and locked in safe electronic files.
    
  