
    
      Staff performing echocardiography exams work in a physically demanding environment. The
      physical and psychosocial demands of the work environment place a significant amount of
      stress on the physical well being of the employee. The nature of the work involved includes
      repetitive movements and static holds while applying intense pressure. These compounded by a
      challenging ergonomic work environment, often leads to physical tension, pain, and fatigue.
      Staff and patient characteristics, in particular obesity, present greater ergonomic
      challenges. In this setting, optimal ergonomics can be difficult to achieve. Repetitive
      actions in an ergonomically challenging environment can have an accumulative effect that can
      lead to injury.

      Massage therapy has been noted to decrease levels of anxiety and fatigue which is essential
      to maintaining efficient care in a dynamic environment. Repetitive use, typically leads to
      shortened, tight muscles that fatigue over time. Once the massage therapy has released the
      connective tissue tension and restored muscle imbalances, exercise focused on core, trunk
      strength and those muscles which oppose the repetitively used muscles can further assist the
      therapeutic benefits of massage.

      The cardiac sonographer is usually sitting and reaching forward or to the side, and the
      musculoskeletal imbalances show up primarily superior to the hips. Massage Therapy research
      for alleviating musculoskeletal symptoms has been with the use of table massage whereas chair
      massage research has focused on gaining physiological benefits. Chair massage therapy impacts
      the head, back, neck shoulders, arms and hands so does impact the areas of musculoskeletal
      imbalance of the cardiac sonographer. In addition, a massage chair is easy to set up, does
      not need a great deal of space, and can be provided in semi-private area, as the participant
      remains clothed. Chair massage literature to date has focused more on physiological responses
      and albeit positive, not as much on musculoskeletal responses.
    
  