
    
      Importance of the research Orthodontic treatment is no longer limited mainly to children and
      adolescents. With increasing number of patients from older age groups seeking orthodontic
      treatment; there has been an increasing demand for esthetic alternatives to conventional
      fixed stainless steel appliances. Some issues associated with conventional fixed appliances
      for treatment are: 1) unaesthetic appearance of brackets especially for adult patients, many
      of whom are unwilling to wear braces, 2) conventional systems compromise the ability of the
      patient to maintain good oral hygiene; 3) increase the risk of periodontal breakdown due to
      constant accumulation of plaque around the brackets, wires and ill-fitting bands; 4) require
      many follow-up visits for appliance reactivation and adjustment if the teeth do not move as
      desired; 5) iatrogenic root resorption, a major medico-legal concern also poses significant
      problems for the clinician. Increased use of self-ligating brackets and clear aligners from
      Invisalign (Align Technology, Inc., Santa Clara, CA) are some of the recent developments in
      orthodontics that have tried to address these concerns. However clinical evidence
      highlighting their efficacy has not been quiet forthcoming. Present knowledge is primarily
      based upon case reports, case series, surveys, anecdotal reports and retrospective studies.
      In such a scenario it is imperative to find an optimized evidence-based treatment strategy
      that leads to predictable outcome with complete patient satisfaction during and after
      treatment while minimizing the risk for root resorption and periodontal breakdown.

      RESEARCH DESIGN & METHODS:

      Screening procedure:The partcipants were selected from the Division of Orthodontics,
      Department of Craniofacial Sciences, University of Connecticut, Health Center by two
      investigators: 1) faculty member supervising the 'clinical component' of the research and 2)
      faculty member supervising the microbiological and radiological part of the research.

      Only after gaining approval from both the faculty members a participant was selected for the
      study. The participants and their parents were provided with a written explanation on the
      background of the study, its objectives, and their involvement. In addition to the consent
      form for routine orthodontic care currently used in the investigator's clinic; the patient or
      parent/guardian of every participant was given a second consent form specifically related to
      this study. The following were the inclusion criteria, which were based on previous studies
      and the investigator's clinical research experience:

        1. All the participants should be physically healthy with no relevant allergies or medical
           problems.

        2. All participants ≥ 12 years of age.

        3. There should be less than 8mm of anterior crowding or spacing and adequate buccal
           interdigitation. Patients with posterior edentulous spaces will only be included if
           treatment does not entail space closure.

        4. Participants should have all permanent teeth present, except third molars.

        5. Demonstrable ability to maintain adequate oral hygiene.

        6. Show optimum dental health without immediate need for restorations.

      Following will be the exclusion criteria:

        1. Skeletal anterior-posterior discrepancies between the maxilla and mandible (ANB ≥ 5°).

        2. Centric relation (CR)- Centric occlusion (CO) discrepancies of greater than 3 mm.

        3. Anterior or posterior open bites.

        4. Participantswho are pregnant, diabetic or using mouth rinses or interacting medications,
           including antibiotic therapy.

        5. Presence of active periodontal disease.

        6. Presence of impacted teeth.

        7. Smoking

      The participants who fulfilled the above criteria were randomly assigned to one of the
      treatment groups. The statistician on this project used a computer-generated random numbers
      ('Rand' function, Microsoft, Excel 2011) for allocation of the sequence. This ensured even
      distributions of the participants in all the groups. Computer generated random numbers also
      randomized the right and the left sides of the maxilla for selecting the experimental side.

      Sample size From previous studies, it was inferred that a mean colony forming unit (CFU) unit
      difference of approximately one log (standard deviation (SD) = approximately 1) would result
      in a clinically significant increase in S.mutans counts. Therefore the sample size of 15
      participants per group, at α = 0.05, yielded a statistical power of approximately 0.80 for
      this study. To account for a 10-25% patient drop out and data loss due to other unavoidable
      circumstances, we will enroll 68 patients for this study.

      Specific aim #1: Measuring the gingival health

      Periodontal measurements were recorded specifically for the upper maxillary lateral incisor
      and second premolar.One individual took all study related periodontal measurements at three
      different time intervals:

      T0: before treatment, T1: after 9 months of treatment &T2: after 18 months of treatment.

      During all the measurements, the examiner was blinded from the previous scores. Prior to the
      start of the research, all participants received standardized oral hygiene instruction to
      ensure a healthy periodontium.

      Goal 1: Measuring the gingival Status The gingival index (GI) developed by Loe and Silness
      was used.Grades of the severity of gingivitis was scored by clinical inspection based on the
      size, color, and texture of the gingival margin adjacent to the bracket and bleeding on
      probing.

      Goal 2: Measuring the plaque index (PI) The PI was assessed according to the plaque
      accumulation in the gingival area in four grades by guiding a probe gingivally over the
      buccal surface of the selected teeth.

      Goal 3: Measuring the papillary bleeding index (PBI) Bleeding on probing (BOP) tendency was
      measured at the proximal buccal side of the selected teeth, 20 seconds after probing the
      depth of the pocket/gingival sulcus. The PBI will be assessed in five grades by guiding a
      probe carefully along the marginal sulcus while observing bleeding intensity.

      Specific aim #2: Estimating the total bacterial and Streptococcus mutans count in the plaque
      sample.

      Goal 1: Collection of plaque specimen After isolating the teeth from saliva with cotton rolls
      and gently drying them to prevent contamination, the supragingival plaque was carefully
      removed without traumatizing the gingiva, as this would increase the production of gingival
      crevicular fluid. 52 The plaque-sampling investigator used a standardized protocol to collect
      specimens at all the three time intervals. Plaque specimens were collected from the labial
      surfaces immediately surrounding the orthodontic brackets with a sterilized dental scaler
      with the same tip dimensions (#8/9 Orban DE hoe scaler, Hu-Friedy, Chicago, Ill). Because the
      area of increased decalcification was generally immediately adjacent to the brackets, four
      passes, 1 each along the tooth at the bracket interface at the gingival, mesial, distal, and
      occlusal aspects, were made to avoid overloading the instrument tip. For the invisalign group
      a single circular stroke around the center of the clinical crown was made. All specimens from
      each tooth were placed into individual tubes with anonymous coding and sealed for transport
      to the laboratory. The coding of the specimens ensured blinding of laboratory personnel and
      help minimize experimental bias.

      Goal 2: Microbial sampling Each specimen was diluted in 2 ml of phosphate buffered saline
      (PBS) dilute yeast extract and the samples will be sonicated for 10 sec before doing serial
      dilutions. Then 1 ml was submitted to tenfold serial dilution in 9 ml of yeast extract. After
      each serial dilution the test tubes were vortexed for 10 sec. Ten microlitre (10 μl) of
      supernatant was then plated onto Tripticase soy agar supplemented with 5% sheep bovine blood
      (BBL) for total bacterial evaluation and mitis salivarius-bacitracin agar specific for S.
      mutans. The samples were processed within 2 hours and the plates incubated for 24 hours at
      37°C. The number of total CFU (Colony forming unit), specific to S. mutans was identified and
      counted by the blinded investigator which represented the total recoverable facultative
      flora.

      Specific aim # 3: Estimating the external apical root resorption (EARR) of the maxillary
      incisors For each patient periapical films of the maxillary incisors and the premolars &
      orthopantographs (OPG) were taken at the two different time points (T0 & T2). All the
      periapical films were developed under similar conditions (Dentax 810 Basic) scanned with a
      ruler to a computer, calibrated and measured in a 1:1 ratio with Adobe Photoshop software
      (Adobe, San Jose, Calif) for measurement purposes. If required for better interpretation the
      image of the tooth was enlarged and/or printed.

      Measuring root resorption Root and crown length was measured with a sliding caliper to the
      nearest 0.1 mm The enlargement factor of the second film was adjusted to the first film in
      each case by reference to the registered crown length, which is assumed to be unchanged by
      orthodontic treatment.

      The 'rule-of-three formula' was applied to calculate root length changes due to orthodontic
      treatment. It was assumed that during orthodontic treatment the crown length does not change
      (unless it is fractured). Therefore, the ratio between the initial crown length (C1) and the
      final crown length (C2) determined the enlargement factor. If no change occured in the root
      length during treatment, the ratio between the initial root length (R1) and the final root
      length (R2) should be equal to the C1/C2 ratio. If during treatment the root was shortened,
      the amount of OIIRR was R1-R2 (C1/ C2).

      All research data was identified by unique identifier (Patient1, Patient 2 …) that contained
      no PHI. Specifically, all data collected from the experiments was not associated with the
      participant's name, medical ID number, or any other identifier, which could readily identify
      the participant. All participant data that was gathered was transferred immediately to a
      secure database where the data was identified only by unique identifiers that were created
      for each participant.
    
  