
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether the addition of short-term androgen deprivation (STAD) to prostate
           bed radiotherapy (PBRT) improves freedom from progression (FFP) (i.e., maintenance of a
           prostate-specific antigen [PSA] less than the nadir+2 ng/mL, absence of clinical
           failure, and absence of death from any cause) for 5 years, over that of PBRT alone in
           men treated with salvage radiotherapy after radical prostatectomy.

        -  To determine whether STAD, pelvic lymph node radiotherapy (PLNRT), and PBRT improves FFP
           over that of STAD+PBRT and PBRT alone in men treated with salvage radiotherapy after
           radical prostatectomy.

      Secondary

        -  To compare secondary biochemical failure, the development of hormone-refractory disease
           , distant metastasis, cause-specific mortality, and overall mortality at five years.

        -  To compare acute and late morbidity based on Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse
           Effects (CTCAE), v. 3.0.

        -  To measure the expression of cell kinetic, apoptotic pathway, and angiogenesis-related
           genes in archival diagnostic tissue to better define the risk of FFP, distant failure,
           cause-specific mortality, and overall mortality after salvage radiotherapy for prostate
           cancer, independently of conventional clinical parameters now used.

        -  To quantify blood product-based proteomic and genomic (single nucleotide polymorphisms)
           patterns and urine-based genomic patterns before and at different times after treatment
           to better define the risk of FFP, distant failure, cause-specific mortality, and overall
           mortality after salvage radiotherapy for prostate cancer, independently of conventional
           clinical parameters now used.

        -  To assess the degree, duration, and significant differences of disease-specific
           health-related quality of life (HRQOL) decrements among treatment arms.

        -  To assess whether mood is improved and depression is decreased with the more aggressive
           therapy if it improves FFP.

        -  To collect paraffin-embedded tissue blocks, serum, plasma, urine, and buffy coat cells
           for future translational research analyses.

      Tertiary

        -  To assess whether an incremental gain in FFP and survival with more aggressive therapy
           outweighs decrements in the primary generic domains of HRQOL (i.e., mobility, self care,
           usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression).

        -  To evaluate the cost-utility of the treatment arm demonstrating the most significant
           benefit (in terms of the primary outcome) in comparison with other widely accepted
           cancer and non-cancer therapies.

        -  To assess associations between serum levels of beta-amyloid and measures of cognition
           and mood and depression.

        -  An exploratory aim is to assess the relationship(s) between the American Urological
           Association Symptom Index (AUA SI) and urinary morbidity using the CTCAE v. 3.0 grading
           system.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to seminal vesicle involvement (yes vs no),
      prostatectomy Gleason score (≤ 7 vs 8-9), pre-radiotherapy PSA (≥ 0.1 and ≤ 1.0 ng/mL vs >
      1.0 and < 2.0 ng/mL), and pathology stage (pT2 and margin negative vs all others). Patients
      are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      Follow-up occurs 3, 6, and 12 months after the completion of radiation therapy, then every 6
      months for 6 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  