
    
      In the current clinical trial, participants with BRCA-related metastatic pancreatic cancer
      will receive a combination of melphalan, BCNU, low-dose ethanol, vitamin B12b, and vitamin C
      in conjunction with autologous stem cell infusion. The drug combination is designed to
      address multiple mechanisms of melphalan resistance. The purpose of the ethanol is the
      protection of RBC catalase activity.

      Investigational Treatment Description:

        -  Hematopoietic Stem Cell Collection

             1. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, and if needed Plerixafor, will be used to
                mobilize bone marrow stem cells, which will be collected by apheresis.

             2. At least 2 bags of CD34+ cells, each containing at least 2 × 10^6 cells/kg, will be
                prepared and stored.

             3. Mobilization of hematopoietic stem cells will only occur prior to the first cycle
                of investigational therapy.

             4. If there is not a sufficient mobilization of stem cells for at least 2 cycles of
                chemotherapy, then no investigational drugs will be given.

        -  Investigational Drug Therapy and Stem Cell Infusion

             1. All subjects will receive two cycles of investigational drug therapy with stem cell
                infusion unless precluded by adverse reactions.

             2. Subjects will receive on day -2:

                  1. Melphalan (100 mg/m^2 I.V.).

                  2. BCNU (150 mg/m^2 I.V.).

                  3. Vitamin B12b (1450 mg/m^2 I.V.).

                  4. Vitamin C (a dose-escalation schedule will be employed beginning with 3 g/m^2
                     I.V. and escalating to a maximum of 8 g/m^2 I.V.).

                  5. Ethanol (3.5 g/m^2 I.V. as cosolvent with the BCNU infusion, followed by 0.5
                     g/h I.V. for 23 h).

             3. On day 0, at least 2 × 10^6 CD34+ cells/kg will be infused as per the institution's
                standard procedures.

             4. Subjects will receive supportive care as per the institution's standard procedures
                before, during, and after the investigational drug therapy and stem cell infusion.

        -  Additional Cycles a. Subjects will receive a second cycle of the investigational
           treatment described immediately above in "Investigational Drug Therapy and Stem Cell
           Infusion," with an interval of approximately 6 weeks between cycles.
    
  