
    
      The overall goal of this project is to understand the role of genetics in the etiology and
      prevention of upper gastrointestinal cancer, primarily esophageal cancer, but also cancers of
      the gastric cardia and body.

      Esophageal cancer is the fourth most common cause of cancer death in China and the seventh
      most common cause of cancer death worldwide. Evidence suggests that genetic factors may play
      an important role in the etiology of this malignancy, and identification of esophageal cancer
      susceptibility genes may allow screening of populations to identify persons at particularly
      high risk, who could then be targeted for prevention strategies (e.g., chemoprevention or
      early detection). There are several lines of evidence supporting the idea that there is
      genetic susceptibility for esophageal cancer in high-risk Chinese populations, including an
      association of positive family history with increased risk, evidence of familial aggregation
      of cases, and segregation analyses suggesting Mendelian inheritance in high-risk families.

      Five different but complementary approaches will be used to identify esophageal cancer
      susceptibility genes. (Because of etiologic similarities and for logistic reasons, parallel
      efforts will be made with gastric cardia and body cancers.) First, a tumor/non-tumor study
      will be conducted in which a biological specimen bank consisting of samples (tumor,
      non-tumor, venous blood, finger stick blood, and buccal cells) from several hundred cases of
      esophageal, gastric cardia, and gastric body cancers will be developed in Taiyuan that can be
      used for the identification of esophageal (as well as gastric cardia and body) cancer
      susceptibility genes and potential early genetic markers of these cancers. High-density
      genome-wide scans with microsatellite markers will be used in a limited number of cases to
      identify potential hot spots followed by further testing of these hot spots and other
      candidate markers in additional tumor/non-tumor samples. Premalignant morphologic lesions
      will also be examined. Second, blood samples for DNA will be collected from several hundred
      healthy individuals from high-risk (Yangcheng County) and low-risk (Beijing) areas to examine
      potential population differences in polymorphisms for selected genomic markers. Third, a
      large case-control study with cancers of the esophagus, cardia, and body of stomach will be
      conducted to evaluate polymorphisms in the candidate markers identified in other components
      of this project, and to evaluate gene-environment interactions. Fourth, a family study will
      be conducted to evaluate linkage of candidate markers with cancer in families having 2 or
      more cases with cancers of the esophagus, cardia, and/or body of stomach. Finally, an
      endoscopic study will be conducted to obtain specimens from a morphologic spectrum of disease
      ranging from normal to early invasive disease in order to characterize molecular progression.
    
  