
    
      People who inject drugs often experience multiple layers of stigma when they are living with
      HIV. Stigma is defined as the social exclusion and dehumanization of individuals in an
      undesirable social category. Interventions to help affected people who inject drugs living
      with HIV cope with the dual stigma related to HIV and substance use have not been studied
      specifically in this population. Among people living with HIV, stigma adversely impacts all
      aspects of the care cascade: timely HIV testing, diagnosis, treatment, adherence and
      retention in care. Among people who inject drugs, drug use may add to adverse social factors
      and create particular stigma vulnerability. Russia is a country where people who inject drugs
      and other HIV key populations are highly stigmatized and face discrimination. Further
      qualitative findings suggest that in the absence of public anti-stigma campaigns in Russia,
      stigma reduction interventions should address internalized stigma and their determinants to
      help affected people cope with the dual stigma. Stigma interventions should be adapted to
      address not only affected people's shame and guilt, but also their felt hopelessness. These
      emotions and related feelings such as avoidance and fear of being rejected may negatively
      affect people's agency and mental health. We are proposing Acceptance and Commitment Therapy
      (ACT) as a potential behavioral intervention to target the emotions underlying internalized
      stigma and thus empower affected people. ACT has been shown to increase engagement in
      addiction care. Its use and efficacy to reduce stigma has not yet been explored among
      HIV-positive people who inject drugs. The objective of this study, "Stigma, Risk Behaviors
      and Health Care among HIV-positive Russian People Who Inject Drugs (SCRIPT),"is to implement
      and evaluate, the feasibility of ACT as an intervention to reduce dual HIV and substance use
      stigma via a two-armed randomized controlled trial among 100 HIV-positive people who inject
      drugs. The central hypothesis is that SCRIPT is feasible and can be delivered to decrease HIV
      and substance use stigma scores.
    
  