
    
      Subjects age >/= 19 years with the diagnosis of CD for >/= 6 months, currently in remission
      based on the Harvey-Bradshaw Index score (</=4 points) and C-reactive protein (<5 mg/L) will
      be recruited from two academic hospitals and affiliated gastroenterology outpatient clinics
      (St. Paul's Hospital, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; Alfred Hospital, Melbourne,
      Victoria, Australia).

      The study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial that consist of a 2-week
      run-in period followed by a 4-week study period. Prior to study entry, a screening visit will
      be required for all potential participants. If a participant meets the inclusion criteria,
      they will be randomized to either a placebo (0.55 g total fructans/GOS), a moderate
      oligosaccharide group (3.25 g total fructans/GOS) or a high oligosaccharide group (5.43 g
      total fructans/GOS) through a computed-generated scheme within each respective center. During
      the run-in period, enrolled subjects will undergo the following: 1) Laboratory analyses (CBC,
      routine biochemistry, CRP and fecal calprotectin); 2) Stool collection for fecal calprotectin
      analysis; 3) tolerability assessment including overall gastrointestinal symptoms and specific
      symptoms (abdominal bloating, abdominal pain, gut rumbling, flatulence) utilizing a 100mm
      visual analogue scale (VAS, 0 = no symptoms; 100 = worst symptoms ever experienced); 4)
      fatigue assessment utilizing a multi-dimensional fatigue impact scale (FIS); 5)
      health-related quality of life (HRQOL) assessment utilizing the Short Form 36-Item Health
      Survey (SF-36) and 6) Mood assessment utilizing the Spielberger State-Trait Personality
      Inventory (STPI). Participants will also meet with a registered dietitian to quantify
      baseline oligosaccharide consumption by completing a prospective 5-day diet diary alongside a
      validated food frequency questionnaire (FFQ), the Monash University Comprehensive Nutritional
      Assessment Questionnaire (CNAQ) that assesses oligosaccharide intake in addition to the usual
      nutrients [49]. Once the initial dietary assessment is complete, participants will begin
      up-titration of their oligosaccharide supplementation in a step-wise fashion until they reach
      their required daily amounts defined by their treatment group allocation. Once this is
      achieved, they will enter the 4 weeks of treatment or at time of relapse. Participants will
      undergo re-assessment during the study period at 2 weeks (Visit #3), and at study completion
      (Visit #4).

      If a participant undergoes a CD flare during the run-in period, they will be withdrawn from
      the study. The end point of the study will be at 4 weeks of treatment or at time of relapse.
    
  