
    
      The study considers changes in SDF-1α levels in response to treatment of cardiac disease
      (myocardial infarction, heart failure or atrial fibrillation). SDF-1α levels will be measured
      at the acute stages of the disease, after stabilization and at longer term as detailed below.
      Levels of SDF-1α will be correlated to the outcome of disease.

      BLOOD SAMPLING AND MEASUREMENT OF SDF-1Α A blood sample of about 5 ml will be sampled by
      peripheral venepuncture and anticoagulated with heparin. Blood samples will be spun for 15
      minutes at 1000g within 30 minutes of collection. The resulting plasma will be stored at
      -80°C until analysis. Levels of SDF-1α in the plasma will be determined using a commercially
      available ELISA kit according to the manufacturer's instructions.

      Analyses will be performed at the Clinical Research Centre, Copenhagen University Hospital
      Hvidovre.

      PATIENTS Patients are included from the in-patient department of the Department of
      Cardiology, Hvidovre University Hospital. Patients are eligible for inclusion if diagnosed
      with myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation or heart failure, provided they do not suffer
      from malignant disease, diabetes mellitus types I or II and have a life expectancy of at
      least one year.

      Exclusion criteria are based upon the fact that serum SDF-1α levels are elevated in malignant
      diseases as SDF-1α contributes to neoangiogenesis of the tumour mass, and SDF-1α levels have
      recently been demonstrated to be elevated in diabetes.

      The investigators will include 20 patients with each of the cardiac conditions mentioned as
      well as a control group of 20 subjects without cardiac disease (including hypertension),
      diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, and malignant disease.

      PATIENTS WITH MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION Patients presenting with non-ST elevation myocardial
      infarction (NSTEMI) are included. The diagnostic criteria are symptoms of cardiac ischaemia
      (angina or angina-equivalent symptoms) and elevated troponin T (above 14 ng/mL) and/ or ECG
      changes of ischemia (horizontal or downsloping ST depression ≥ 0.5 mm at the J-point in ≥ 2
      contiguous leads).

      Patients are excluded if they are diagnosed with a "type 2 myocardial infarction", i.e.
      myocardial ischaemia due to mismatch between myocardial oxygen demand and supply due to
      conditions such as severe anaemia, arrhythmia or hypotension. Patients are also excluded if
      they are not referred for coronary angiography, if they have atrial fibrillation or if they
      have cardiac failure with LVEF ≤ 40%.

      The SDF-1α levels of patients will be measured on the first day of hospitalization, after
      coronary angiography, before discharge (approximately day 3-5), and three months after
      inclusion.

      PATIENTS WITH ATRIAL FIBRILLATION Patients presenting with ECG-documented atrial fibrillation
      are included if unstable, i.e. if heart rate exceeds 100 and in-patient treatment is
      indicated. Patients are excluded if they suffer from unstable ischaemic heart disease
      (unstable angina or myocardial infarction), heart failure with LVEF ≤ 40% or if the
      arrhythmia is secondary to another condition such as an infection.

      SDF-1α levels will be measured on the first day of the hospitalization, at the time of
      discharge (after medical or electrical cardioversion or after stabilization of the heart
      rate) and three months after inclusion.

      PATIENTS WITH CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE Patients are included if presenting with decompensated
      heart failure. They must have symptoms of heart failure (dyspnoea and/ or oedema) severe
      enough to warrant in-patient treatment. The diagnosis must be confirmed by echocardiography
      showing LVEF ≤ 40%. Patients are excluded if suffering from unstable ischaemic heart disease
      (unstable angina or myocardial infarction) or atrial fibrillation.

      The SDF-1α levels of will be measured on the first day of the hospitalization, after medical
      stabilization at the time of discharge, and three months after inclusion.

      PATIENT INCLUSION AND DATA COLLECTION Patient inclusion will take place during three
      consecutive months. Patients are included within the first day of hospital admittance. Each
      day, members of the project group will screen all patients admitted within the last day and
      personally contact those eligible for inclusion. Patients will be informed verbally and given
      the written participant information. Patients will be given time for consideration and if
      they accept participation, they will be asked to sign the consent form. Due to the project
      design, according to which the first blood samples are to be taken within the first day of
      hospitalization, patients are asked to consent to project participation on the day of initial
      contact with the research group member. Conversations will be held in a private setting in
      the department, and patients are invited to bring relations, if they so prefer.

      As regards the control group, these will be included from patients initially referred for
      outpatient evaluation at the Department of Cardiology, but in whom no cardiac disease is
      found. Members of the project group will screen the patients in the Outpatients Department
      and personally contact those eligible for inclusion in the control group. The control group
      will be selected so as to be age-matched with the patients. Information about the project
      will be provided as for the patients.

      Based upon information in the patients' medical files, it will be registered whether patients
      suffer from hypertension, peripheral vascular disease, stroke, transient cerebral ischaemia,
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or renal insufficiency.

      Medication at time of admittance to hospital and medication given during the hospitalization
      will be registered. Clinical status (dyspnoea, palpitations, oedema, blood pressure and heart
      rate) at the time of inclusion and at the time discharge from hospital will be noted. This
      information will be sought from patient files and the Kiso system used for recording vital
      parameters in patients.

      The recorded information (pre-existing conditions, medication and clinical status at the two
      time-points) will be available for the project group. This information will be used for
      background demographics, in the evaluation of how levels of SDF-1α correlate to clinical
      status, and to allow for correction of factors, such as medication, on the levels of SDF-1α.

      FOLLOW-UP All patients are expected to be seen in the Outpatients' Department 2-3 months
      after discharge from hospital. This appointment is part of the standard treatment and control
      plan for patients with AF, CHF and NSTEMI, respectively and not arranged as a part of the
      project. Certain information will be registered from the patient files at the time of
      follow-up: Clinical status (NYHA class, oedema, pulmonary congestion, and angina), heart
      rhythm, medication, and any intercurrent hospital admissions.

      One year after inclusion, patient files will be reviewed and the following information
      registered: Whether the patient is alive and any cardiovascular rehospitalisation. In the
      case of hospitalization, the date of admission, duration and diagnosis will be registered.
      Statistical considerations and data analysis Baseline data of SDF-1α levels and patient
      demographics (including comorbidities and use of medication) will be evaluated using
      descriptive statistics. Normally distributed data will be presented as mean and standard
      deviation, whereas skewed data will be presented as median and range. If necessary, skewed
      data will be transformed.

      The influence of patient characteristics (such as age, sex and comorbidities) on SDF-1α
      levels will be evaluated using multiple regression analysis with SDF-1α level as dependent
      variable and patient characteristics as explanatory variables. SDF-1α levels will be compared
      between the patient groups using analysis of variance (ANOVA).

      Within each group of patients, the changes in SDF-1α levels over time (three time points)
      will be analysed using ANOVA.

      The investigators have previously measured SDF-1α levels in patients with various types of AF
      (permanent versus paroxysmal). Based upon these results (SDF-1α levels and standard
      deviations in the different groups), the investigators have estimated that the proposed
      sample size of 20 patients in each disease group will confer the study sufficient statistical
      power.

      The statistical analyses will be performed in collaboration with statistician Steen Ladelund
      (Clinical Research Centre, Hvidovre University Hospital).

      THE RESEARCH GROUP

      The study will be conducted in close collaboration between the Department of Cardiology and
      the Clinical Research Centre at Hvidovre University Hospital. The research group will consist
      of the following persons:

      Dr L. Vimal Hurry, MD, is project responsible. He is a junior doctor at the Department of
      Cardiology and doing research work beside his clinical employment.

      Dr Ulrik Dixen, MD, PhD, is a consultant at the Department of Cardiology. Dr Ulrik Dixen has
      conducted AF research for several years and is experienced in planning and conducting
      clinical studies, as well as in supervising junior researchers.

      Dr Nadia Landex, MD, PhD, is training in cardiology, currently at Roskilde University
      Hospital. She did her PhD in histochemistry and has used her experience in basic research to
      initiate research in biomarkers in AF at Hvidovre University Hospital, including research
      topic, project planning and the initial laboratory work.

      Medical student Maha Alsawaf has written her bachelor thesis in the cardiology research group
      and has basic research experience. Maha Alsawaf will assist with inclusion of the patients.

      Medical student Ema Rastoder is experienced in clinical research and skilled in patient
      communication. Ema Rastoder will assist with inclusion of patients.

      Project members from the Clincial Research Centre are:

      Head of Department Ove Andersen, MD, PhD, who has extensive experience in biomarker research
      at all stages from project development to implementation of research results.

      Anne Langkilde, MSc, PhD, is likewise experienced in biomarker research, particularly in the
      prognostic importance of biomarkers in disease. Anne Langkilde has been a close collaborator
      in the initial projects regarding measurement of biomarkers in AF.

      Together, the research team has experience of biomarker research as well as access to
      research laboratory with highly skilled laboratory technicians.
    
  