
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety of the combined treatment of talimogene laherparepvec and
      panitumumab.

      II. To determine the preliminary efficacy of the combined treatment of talimogene
      laherparepvec and panitumumab, in comparison to single-agent panitumumab by historical
      control.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the clinical efficacy of panitumumab in combination with intratumoral talimogene
      laherparepvec in terms of immune-related progression-free survival (irPFS) at 12 months,
      progression-free survival (PFS) hazard ratio, overall response rate (ORR), 1-year survival,
      overall survival (OS) and time to resectability.

      II. To measure the pathologic complete response rate to panitumumab combined with talimogene
      laherparepvec.

      III. Assess the response of injected and non-injected tumor deposits after panitumumab and
      talimogene laherparepvec.

      IV. Assess the time to initial response. V. Assess the durable response rate.

      VI. To analyze the following molecular correlates with response to therapy to confirm
      mechanism of action, and identify potential future targeted strategies and biomarkers of
      response:

      VIa. Mutation load in tumor tissue by next generation sequencing. VIb. Deoxyribonucleic acid
      (DNA) mutation signature in tumor tissue pre- and post-therapy by next generation sequencing.

      VIc. Messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) signature in tumor tissue pre-and post-therapy by
      Nanostring technology.

      VId. Immune cell populations and immune profile in pre- and post-therapy tumor tissue and
      peripheral blood by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry (IHC).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive talimogene laherparepvec intratumorally (IM) on day 1. Patients then receive
      talimogene laherparepvec IM and panitumumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 22.
      Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive up to 3 additional cycles of treatment per
      physician discretion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 2
      months for 2 years.
    
  