
    
      Most surveys of emergency physicians indicate that smoking cessation counseling rarely occurs
      in routine clinical practice. Prochazka and colleagues (1996) studied 196 members of the
      Colorado Chapter of the American College of Emergency Physicians and found that only 27%
      reported routinely asking patients to quit smoking. We conducted a similar survey study and
      found that only 19% of emergency physicians practicing in an urban teaching hospital reported
      that they routinely counseled their tobacco using patients to quit. A study of 63 adult
      smokers presenting to the ED with symptoms of acute respiratory illness found that only 9%
      were offered any assistance with quitting (Bock et al., 2001). Clearly, more research was
      needed to investigate smoking interventions initiated in the ED.

      Currently, not much is known about how best to intervene with smokers in the ED. This
      proposal describes a pilot study designed to explore two interventions. Research that expands
      our knowledge of ED-initiated tobacco interventions has tremendous public health potential,
      especially for the under-served populations that are over-represented in the ED patient
      population.This study is designed primarily to yield effects size parameters so a larger RCT
      can be planned. For this reason, it is not powered specifically to detect a given difference,
      but, rather, simply to provide an idea of the size of the effect so we can determine how many
      subjects would be needed in a future trial in order to demonstrate statistical significance
      and clinical utility. It will also be used to refine the study design, protocols, and
      treatment manuals for the future trial.

      This study will be a randomized, single-blind, controlled trial that will compared two types
      of ED-initiated tobacco treatment to treatment-as-usual. 75 ED patients who meet all
      inclusion and exclusion criteria will be randomly assigned to one of three groups using a
      2:2:1 ratio: Group One: Enhanced Care (n=30), Group Two: Dynamic Referral (n=30), or Group
      Three: Clinic Referral (n=15). This assignment ratio is being used to maximize experience
      with the treatments. The two interventions will be delivered by trained counselors and are
      described below. Baseline measures of smoking and other related variables will be taken
      during the ED visit. An interviewer blind to study group assignment will conduct follow-up
      assessments via telephone at 1- and 3-months after the ED visit. We expect a 25% attrition,
      yielding follow-up data at 3-months on 23, 23, and 11 patients, respectively, for each Group.

      Primary outcomes will include: sustained abstinence from the ED visit to the follow-up time
      periods and 7-day point prevalence abstinence. Secondary outcomes will be: presence of a quit
      attempt >= 24 hours and readiness to change.
    
  