
    
      The pandemic COVID-19 does not have an established treatment. Although small studies have
      demonstrated some successes of few antiviral and immunomodulatory agents, either their data
      so far are not very encouraging (e.g. Hydroxychloroquine and Antiretroviral Protease
      Inhibitors) or clinical trials of newly introduced drugs are currently in progress and not
      available in Nepal. Review of literature suggests the transfusion of convalescent plasma has
      been used successfully in small observational and retrospective studies. A recent metanalysis
      showed that convalescent plasma reduced mortality by 57% compared to matched-patients
      receiving standard treatments. While multiple antiviral drugs are undergoing clinical trials
      and there is no established antiviral agents against COVID-19, the infectious diseases
      guidelines suggest use of Remdesivir among hospitalized patients with severe COVID-19
      patients (Conditional recommendation, moderate certainty of evidence). Clinical study done by
      NIH which included 1059 patients indicated that those who received Remdesivir had a median
      recovery time of 11 days as compared with 15 days in those who received placebo. Remdesivir
      has received emergency use authorization for COVID-19 by US FDA, European Commission, and
      Indian Health Service. Remdesivir appears to demonstrate the most benefit in those with
      severe COVID-19 on supplemental oxygen. The NIH Panel recommends using Remdesivir for 5 days
      or until hospital discharge, whichever comes first. The interim analysis of WHO's SOLIDARITY
      trial, however, failed to show mortality benefit with Remdesivir.The objective of initial
      clinical protocol (Convalescent Plasma study) was to provide a coordinated approach for
      collection and preparation, distribution and guidance for safe and effective administration
      of convalescent plasma with antibodies against SAR CoV-2 for treatment of patients with
      COVID-19 infection who are most likely to benefit from this investigational treatment. On
      August 9th, 2020, the Government of Nepal gave permission to use Remdesivir in COVID-19
      patients of Nepal only as a study drug when the original protocol was been amended to add a
      second study arm for use of Remdesivir for treatment of patients with moderate to severe
      COVID-19. The enrollment goal of these two protocols have been reached and collection of
      study data will be completed by the end of October 2020. On October 18th, the GoN MoHP also
      announced and directed to provide access for Remdesivir directly through the pharmacies.
      Therefore, this registry study has been designed to replace the compassionate use study of
      Remdesivir and Convalescent plasma.
    
  