
    
      Gastroschisis is a congenital birth defect where the fetal abdominal organs (typically the
      intestines) protrude through a defect in the abdominal wall, just to the right of the
      umbilicus. For babies born with gastroschisis, once the child is considered to be
      hemodynamically stable, surgery can be performed to reduce the bowel back into the abdominal
      cavity. Typically the use of immediate or delayed closure of the abdominal cavity is based on
      the child's condition, the size of the defect and the amount of bowel that is outside of the
      abdominal cavity. Most often the placement of a surgical silo can enable gentle reduction of
      the contents back into the abdomen, allowing for surgical closure of the abdominal opening.
      Due to the exposure of the baby's bowel to the mother's amniotic fluid during fetal
      development in the womb, the bowel can become matted and edematous. This often prevents
      normal bowel motility and can act as a functional bowel obstruction, making it difficult for
      the baby to pass the meconium at birth or initiate normal stooling. In more severe cases
      fibrous bands of tissue can develop along the bowel, causing a mechanical bowel obstruction
      that requires operative management.

      Most often these functional and mechanical obstructions are treated
      conservatively/non-surgically for upwards of 6 weeks (i.e., nasogastric (NG) tube
      decompression, nothing per mouth (NPO) and intravenous (IV) fluids). If resolution has not
      occurred after this time period the parents/guardians can request elective surgery, after 6
      weeks and when the baby is stable, to help resolve the obstruction. The waiting period
      between surgical closure of the contents back into the abdomen and the initiation of feeding
      is a critical time as the baby typically experiences bilious vomiting and an aversion to
      feeding which can impact their physical development.

      Gastrografin is a hyperosmolar water-soluble contrast agent that has a therapeutic benefit of
      stimulating the mobility of the intestines and drawing water from the bowel walls into the
      lumen. Gastrografin is used as a therapeutic agent in a number of obstructive clinical
      scenarios including small bowel obstruction in paediatric and adult populations and in
      meconium ileus and meconium plug syndrome in the neonate. Patients with gastroschisis have a
      similar symptomology as the previously mentioned patients and therefore may benefit from the
      therapeutic use of Gastrografin. This study will be the first known study to examine the use
      of Gastrografin in this population.

      This is a single centre open-labeled clinical trial that is investigating a new indication
      for an approved prescription drug by the FDA and Health Canada. The drug used in this study
      is called Gastrografin, it is marketed as a radiopaque contrast agent that has a mild
      laxative effect due to its osmolarity. This study looks to further study this laxative
      property to alleviate bowel obstructions in babies born with gastroschisis. This study has
      two parts: first, the Gastrografin group will be recruited between October 1st, 2017 and
      September 30th, 2019 as part of this clinical trial. Second, the Gastrografin group will be
      linked to a cohort of gastroschisis patients who have been collected as part of an ongoing
      approved observational study at Western University (REB# 2436) between May 1st, 2010 and May
      1st, 2019. The ongoing study is part of the Canadian Neonatal Network (CNN) and the Canadian
      Pediatric Surgery Network (CAPSNET). The May cut-off date is required because that is when
      the data collected at our site is uploaded and made available for research purposes. The
      patients in the Gastrografin group will be matched to the non-Gastrografin group on age,
      birth weight, sex, and the Score for Neonatal Acute Physiology (SNAP) at 12 hours after
      admission, to ensure that the groups are representative of one another. Since these babies
      are born with gastroschisis and are treated immediate from birth, there is no pre-screening
      visit and once consent is obtained from the caregivers the baby will be entered into the
      Gastrografin protocol. The study period will last from admission to discharge, there are no
      follow-up time points in this study where data will be collected. Patients will be seen in
      clinic for follow-up as per standard procedure for gastroschisis.
    
  