
    
      Thrombosis plays a significant role in both acute coronary syndromes (ACS) and early
      saphenous vein graft (SVG) failure. Women with coronary heart disease have higher levels of
      the inflammatory mediator thromboxane, which is produced by platelets, monocytes, macrophages
      and the endothelium. Data show that higher levels of urinary thromboxane (UTXB2) are
      associated with SVG failure 6 months after Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG). Women in the
      study cohort had higher levels of UTXB2 and higher odds of graft failure when compared to
      men. The elevated urinary thromboxane seen in the women in our study cohort may represent a
      marker and/or an etiology of thrombosis.

      Are the levels of UTXB2 higher in women due to hormonal differences? In a prior pilot study
      we investigated whether hormonal levels are associated with changes in urinary thromboxane.
      We looked at hormonal and urinary thromboxane levels in 48 postmenopausal and 52
      premenopausal women. We found that postmenopausal women had higher levels of UTXB2 than did
      premenopausal women (2495 vs. 2299, p=.02) and that in premenopausal women a higher
      estrogen/progesterone ratio was associated with the highest levels of urinary thromboxane.

      The goal of the current study is to measure the response to seven days of aspirin
      administration as it relates to urinary thromboxane levels in pre and post-menopausal women.
      With this study we will be able to examine the change in UTXB2 comparing the premenopausal to
      post menopausal women. We will also be able to see if the change in UTXB2 in response to
      aspirin is affected by hormone levels in the premenopausal women. Lastly this study will
      provide reference data for more far-reaching studies exploring how global changes in hormonal
      balance (as seen in pregnancy or menopause) or in the level of inflammation (as seen in aging
      or with Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) risk factors), affect UTXB2 and platelet
      hyperreactivity.
    
  