
    
      Background. First Nations peoples in Canada carry an increased respiratory health burden
      compared to non-First Nations. They are often exposed to high rates of indoor air pollution
      and cigarette smoke; and although there is a high use of acute health care services for
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), this disease is not "on the radar" in many
      First Nations communities. This may be because there is little accurate information of how
      many First Nations people have COPD, especially in remote and rural areas. The current
      estimates of prevalence of COPD in First Nations are based on self-report surveys, which are
      known to underestimate the true number threefold. Although it is well-known that cigarette
      smoking causes COPD, there has been less attention paid to the contribution of residential,
      historical/community/cultural, and occupational factors to the burden of COPD in First
      Nations people.

      Goal & Aims of the Study. The goal of this study is to estimate the burden of COPD in remote
      and rural First Nations communities. This project is a partnership between the University of
      British Columbia (UBC), Carrier Sekani Family Services (CSFS), and 13 First Nations
      communities in northern BC.

      Aim 1: Estimate the prevalence of COPD and the magnitude of underdiagnosis. Aim 2:
      Characterize the relationship between inhaled pollutants (from residential, occupational, and
      community/cultural sources) and: 1) symptoms; 2) airflow obstruction; and; 3) health care
      utilization.

      The Primary Outcome is the prevalence of COPD.

      Methodology. The investigators will recruit adults from randomly-selected households in 13
      First Nations communities in northern BC. The investigators will collect detailed
      measurements of lung function, symptoms, self-reported exposure to lung irritants, and
      healthcare use. The investigators will also collect indoor air quality measures from homes
      and community buildings. For Aim 1, the prevalence and underdiagnosis of COPD will be
      estimated by measuring lung function using post-bronchodilator spirometry and comparing the
      presence of airflow obstruction with the diagnosis of COPD in the electronic health record.
      For Aim 2, the investigators will explore the relationship between inhaled indoor air
      pollutants and 1) current cough, wheeze, and dyspnea; 2) airflow obstruction; and 3)
      respiratory-related primary care visits or hospitalization, adjusting for age, sex, and
      smoking history.

      Expected Outcomes. This study will provide an accurate estimate of the prevalence of COPD
      and, using a culturally-relevant community-based research approach, will identify the
      contribution of risk factors to COPD in First Nations communities. The Primary Outcome is the
      prevalence of COPD.

      Significance of this Project. This project is a novel partnership between UBC, CSFS and
      partner Nations to explore the prevalence and risk factors of COPD, using a Indigenous
      approach to health research. This study is unique in being able to address the risks of COPD
      in remote and rural First Nations communities, which will lead to further work to identify
      strategies to reduce these risks and improve lung health.
    
  