
    
      Long-term anticoagulation therapy with warfarin is recommended for patients with atrial
      fibrillation/flutter (AF), left atrial thrombus, deep vein thrombosis (DVT), pulmonary
      thromboembolism (PE), mechanical heart valve replacement, cardiomyopathy, and ischemic
      stroke. Warfarin, a coumarin derivative, produces an anticoagulant effect by interfering with
      the vitamin K 2,3 epoxide reductase (VKOR) enzyme and γ-carboxylation of vitamin K-dependent
      clotting factors such as II, VII, IX, and X. However, management of warfarin therapy is
      complicated with interindividual differences in drug response, delayed onset of action,
      difficulty with reversal and a narrow therapeutic window leading to increased risk of
      life-threatening hemorrhagic adverse events or thromboembolism. Furthermore, in order to
      determine safe and effective loading dose during the early phase of therapy and maintenance
      doses require frequent laboratory monitoring and adjustments to compensate for changes in
      patients' age, body size, vitamin K intake through diet, disease state, comorbidities,
      concomitant use of other medications, and patient-specific genetic factors.

      Poor anticoagulant control may cause fatal complications such as thromboembolism with
      undertreatment or bleeding with excessive anticoagulation. Indeed, the risk of major bleeding
      in patients on warfarin is between 1% and 5% per year. Identifying the optimal therapeutic
      range and managing the dose of therapy to achieve the maximal time in therapeutic range are
      two of the most important determinants of therapeutic effectiveness and of reducing
      hemorrhagic risk. Currently, there have been substantial efforts to improve the safety of
      warfarin anticoagulation therapy. Recent warfarin pharmacogenetic studies have largely
      focused on two candidate genes: CYP2C9, responsible for warfarin metabolism, and VKORC1,
      which encodes vitamin K epoxide reductase, the site of warfarin action. Current evidence is
      clear that polymorphisms in either CYP2C9 or VKORC1 affect warfarin sensitivity.

      We aimed to use pharmacogenetic information in clinical practise which may lead to rapid,
      efficient, and safe warfarin dosing in this observational prospective study. In this context,
      we plan to develop an algorithm for estimating the appropriate warfarin dose that is based on
      both clinical and genetic data from the Turkish study population. This study is unique not
      only investigating clinical factors, demographic variables, CYP2C9, and VKORC1 gene
      variations which contribute to the variability among patients in dose requirements for
      warfarin but also including thrombogenic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in the same
      patient population. Thus, warfarin would be a good example by being the first cardiovascular
      drug for pharmacogenetic guided "personalized medicine" applications.
    
  