
    
      Follicular lymphomas FL has been traditionally approached either by an initial watch and wait
      policy in the asymptomatic patient, or with single agent treatments with the purpose of
      maintaining a good quality of life for a prolonged time.

      During the last decades, treatment strategies have changed due to the continuous development
      and introduction of novel therapeutic approaches (including immunotherapy with
      interferon-alpha or monoclonal antibodies, the combination of immunotherapy with
      chemotherapy, and radioimmunotherapy with radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies).

      For the asymptomatic patients with advanced-stage, but low tumor burden, randomized studies
      have confirmed that systemic treatment can be deferred until development of symptoms or organ
      failure (which generally occurred within 2-3 years from diagnosis) without any overall
      survival impairment and a watchful waiting policy has long remained a widely accepted
      approach.

      For the symptomatic patients with more advanced tumor burden, in need of initial treatment,
      the combination of rituximab and chemotherapy, possibly followed by rituximab maintenance
      became a new standard in many countries.

      In this setting of a chemotherapy-free strategy, the clinical study of rituximab combinations
      with other immunotherapies or with novel targeted agents is obvious relevant. Promising
      results have also been reported with the combination of rituximab and lenalidomide.

      The combination of rituximab and ibrutinib has been tested in clinical trials and appeared to
      be well tolerated and active. Since ibrutinib seems to achieve better results when
      administered for prolonged time as shown in CLL, the investigators have chosen to compare its
      combination with rituximab to the prolonged rituximab-only schedule that was already shown to
      be very active in the SAKK 35/03 trial.

      SAKK has a long tradition in treatment of FL patients with chemotherapy-free treatment based
      on rituximab. This is a worldwide special situation, which creates cooperation between
      important partners for clinical trials in this area.

      The aim of the study is to investigate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of the treatment
      combination of Ibrutinib and Rituximab for patients with advanced follicular lymphoma in need
      of therapy.
    
  