
    
      Pre-intervention assessment Pain intensity during stairs climbing using VAS 1-100 numerical
      rating scale. Analgesics consumption. Quality of life using WOMAC questionaires. A physician
      will further examine them and will enroll them signing an informed concent.

      A diagnostic block with lidocaine 2% (2ml for each nerve - total volume of 6ml per knee) of 3
      genicular nerves (upper medial and lateral and lower medial branches) will be performed,
      guided either by ultrasound or by fluoroscopy.

      Participants will be asked to fill in a VAS questionnaire shortly (up to one hour) after
      undergoing the diagnostic blocks.

      Participants achieving a relief of >50% in pain intensity during stairs climbing will be
      considered to have responded to the diagnostic block and will be randomized.

      Randomization

      Recruited participants will be randomized into two groups:

        1. Heated RF ablation

        2. Pulsed RF ablation

      Blinding Both the patient and the assessing physician will be blinded to the group to which
      the patient has been allocated. The physicians performing the treatment will be blinded as
      well.

      Intervention

      Heated RF ablation of the genicular nerves will be performed as follows:

        1. In the supine position, aseptic preparation of the skin and sterile coverage of the
           procedure area will take place.

        2. After the administration of local anesthesia to the skin with lidocain 2% (1-1.5cc for
           each injection site, fluoroscopy guided placement of three 22 gauge 50mm or 100mm
           straight RF cannulas in the proximity of 3 of the genicular nerves: 2 on both sides of
           the distal femoral shaft-epiphysis border and one on the medial proximal tibial
           epiphyseal-shaft border.

        3. Sensory stimulation at 50 Hertz will be used to test the proper position of the needle,
           expected to generate paresthesia in the distribution of the affected nerve, at a voltage
           in the range of 0.3-0.8 Volts. Motor stimulation at 2 Hz will be used to exclude
           proximity of the cannula to motor nerves.

        4. 1 ml of 2% lidocaine will be injected into each cannula.

        5. 180 sec 80 degrees heated RF ablation of the nerves will be performed. Needles will be
           left in place for additional 420 seconds to match the treatment duration of the pulsed
           RF group.

        6. Injection of a total amount of 80 mg methylprednisolone and lidocaine 2% 2cc to the 3
           intervention sites.

      Pulsed RF ablation of the genicular nerves will be performed similarly to the heated RF
      ablation with the only difference being that the treatment will include a 600 sec of 42
      degrees heating of the three-genicular nerves.

      Blinding Both the patient the assessing and performing physicians will be blinded to the
      group to which the patient has been allocated.

      Post-procedural assessment Participants will be assessed 3 days and 30 days after the
      procedure (phone questionnaires) and a clinical follow-up visits in 3 and 6 months after the
      procedure.

      The assessment will include:

        1. Two telephone interviews, in which the patient will report the average severity of pain
           on a 1 to 100 numerical rating scale and will fill up a WOMAC questionnaire regarding
           the treated knee in the prior 24 hours.

        2. Two clinic follow-up visit, during which the patients will fill-in a questionnaire of
           pain intensity after stairs climbing using VAS 1-100 numerical rating, analgesic
           consumption, quality of life measures using the WOMAC questionaire. Questionnaires
           filling-in will be aided and supervised by research assistants blinded to the
           intervention the participants have received.
    
  