
    
      The significant morbidity and mortality associated with acute kidney injury in critical care
      patients and after cardiac surgery is well-known. Studies have demonstrated between 1 to 30%
      postoperative mortality, and even higher rates of up to 70% when patients develop kidney
      failure and require dialysis. Even small increases in creatinine between 0 to 0.5 mg/dl can
      result in a greater than two-fold rise in 30-day mortality. Despite efforts to improve
      outcome, there has been no proven effective pharmacological interventions to treat acute
      kidney failure. Most recommendations are aimed at prevention by identifying high-risk
      patients, avoiding nephrotoxic drugs and minimizing intraoperative hypotensive insults.

      There are few studies that have assessed renal blood flow using transesophageal
      echocardiography (TEE). Yang et al. examined the left renal artery of 60 patients using TEE
      during cardiac surgery and evaluated the feasibility of using TEE as a method to measure
      renal blood flow intraoperatively. Although they were only able to include 60% of the
      subjects due to technical difficulties, they did demonstrate less than 10% variability
      between measurements and therefore good reproducibility using TEE.

      Renal blood flow may not be the best method to predict sufficient renal perfusion. Renal
      autoregulation is not preserved under general anesthesia even with the maintenance of
      adequate mean arterial blood pressure and cardiac output. Renal blood flow is further
      worsened by hemodilution and hypothermia. In addition, due to its pulsatile nature, the
      diameters of the renal arteries vary during the cardiac cycle and are a source of calculation
      error when determining renal blood flow as a function of renal blood velocity and arterial
      diameter.

      Renal resistive index (RI) is a measure of intrarenal hemodynamics that is calculated using
      the blood flow velocities of segmental or intrarenal vessels and correlates with renal blood
      flow and renovascular resistance. The renal artery is not used because the flow varies and is
      inconsistent between systole and diastole. RI becomes elevated in pathological conditions and
      is associated with increasing creatinine, renal injury and dysfunction. As blood flow and
      creatinine clearance decrease through the renal vasculature, the resistive index increases.
      Resistive index may be a better gauge of renal dysfunction rather than renal blood flow
      because it is easier to assess and less dependent on obtaining a Doppler beam view that is
      oriented perfectly parallel to the blood flow. Because RI is a ratio of the renal blood flow
      velocities [RI = (peak systolic velocity - peak end diastolic velocity)/peak systolic
      velocity], the margin of error created by non-parallel Doppler beams cancels out.

      Traditionally, resistive index is obtained by transabdominal Doppler ultrasonography (USG)
      although there have been transesophageal studies that have used RI as a secondary endpoint
      when examining renal blood flow. There is currently no technique that routinely uses TEE to
      intraoperatively monitor resistive index as a determination of adequate renal blood perfusion
      and an indication of renal compromise.
    
  