
    
      A Comparison of Hormonal Therapy:

      Tapering Regimens for Mediating Hot Flashes

      Clinicians have been asking for years whether a tapering dose of HT would make a difference
      in the frequency and severity of vasomotor symptoms after menopausal women stop HT therapy.
      This planned randomized, placebo-controlled trial (RCT) seeks to evaluate whether there is a
      difference in the proportion of women who report a worsening severity of their hot flashes
      between three tapering schedules for one accepted HT/ET regimen. Secondarily, we hope to
      evaluate whether there is a difference in the frequency (number of occurrences per week),
      severity (defined as a subjective scale mild, moderate, or severe), and "Severity Index" (SI,
      equaling the product of both) of hot flashes between three tapering schedules for one
      accepted HT/ET regimen.

      All participants will be randomized to one of the three arms (taper arm, placebo arm, and
      "cold turkey" arm). Each patient's gynecologist will be aware of the patient's involvement in
      the study and will assist by providing baseline safety information. All patients will be
      taken off their current HT/ET regimen and will be placed on study medication (1 mg of
      Estradiol PO every day for 8 weeks, "stabilization" phase). After the 8-week stabilization
      period, all participants will begin the therapy corresponding to the arm to which they were
      randomized. Each patient in the taper or placebo arm will take one capsule per day. The
      patients in the "cold turkey" arm will discontinued acutely after the stabilization.

      The patients will keep a diary of the number and frequency of symptoms during the study.
      Patients will be contacted by phone to confirm that they are completing their diaries and
      that they have not developed side effects or complications that could force their
      discontinuation from the study.

      Patients will be followed for several additional weeks, after discontinuation from treatment
      or placebo, to monitor for symptoms. At the end of the study, our coordinator will contact
      the patient to assure that Medroxyprogesterone acetate, MPA, was taken properly by those
      women who have a uterus. They will also confirm that no other symptoms, complications, or
      questions have arisen. At that time, they will be able to return to their prior therapy as
      deemed appropriate by them and their physician.

      Patients will be recruited by invitation upon presenting for care to their physician. With
      invitations at recruitment, all patients will be given a study form. Reasons for
      ineligibility or refusal will be noted. After expressing interest, the physician or practice
      of record will sign a form acknowledging that their patient has had an annual physical exam
      (including pelvic exam) within the last 12 months and that a mammogram has been reported as
      negative (BIRADS I or II) within the last 24 months. An appointment will be made with one of
      our study personnel or coordinators. The patient will bring the signed form to this visit. At
      this enrollment / consent visit, their eligibility criteria will be reviewed. All patients
      will sign the informed consent, and be randomized to a group.
    
  