
    
      Interventions: Two different KT interventions with the same curriculum will be evaluated: 1.
      Stakeholder-Hosted Interactive Problem-Based Seminar (SHIPS), and 2. Online Problem-Based
      course (ePBL). SHIPs will consist of face-to-face PBL (Problem-based Learning) (2½ days) with
      outcome measure developers as facilitators, using 6 problems generated in consultation with
      participants. The ePBL will consist of a 6-week web-based course with 6 generic problems
      developed by content experts.

      Outcome Measures: Baseline predictors including demographics, knowledge, attitudes/barriers
      regarding outcome measures and Readiness to Change will be assessed by self-report.
      Immediately post-intervention and 6 months later these will be re-administered. Primary
      qualitative and quantitative evaluations will be conducted 6-months post-intervention to
      assess the relative effectiveness of KT interventions and to identify elements that
      contribute to changing clinical behavior. Chart audits will determine the utilization of
      outcome measures (counts). Incorporation of outcome measures into clinical reasoning will be
      assessed using an innovative technique: chart-stimulated recall.

      The Study Sample: Physical and Occupational Therapists (n=144; 80% power to detect an effect
      size of 0.5; alpha=0.05) will be recruited in partnership with the national professional
      associations.

      Methods: SHIPS will be conducted in three urban centers in Canada. Participants will be block
      allocated by a minimization procedure to either of the two interventions to minimize any
      prognostic differences. Trained evaluators at each site will conduct chart audits and
      chart-stimulated recall. Trained interviewers will conduct semi-structured interviews focused
      on identifying critical elements in KT and implementing practice changes. Interviews will be
      transcribed verbatim.

      Analyses: Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), with baseline scores as a covariate, will be used
      to compare chart-stimulated recall scores at 6-months post-intervention. Secondary analyses
      will also use ANCOVA with the remaining potential predictors. Qualitative content analysis
      will be conducted iteratively until saturation is achieved.

      Knowledge Impact and Transfer: A strategy for optimal transfer of health outcome measures
      into practice will be developed and shared with multiple disciplines involved in primary and
      specialty management of musculoskeletal and childhood disability. In addition, we will work
      with national professional organizations and Ministries of Health to use the knowledge from
      this study to support national initiatives on implementation and to assist with best KT
      practices in health service education.
    
  