
    
      Recent studies have shown synergy between demethylating agents and histone deacetylase
      inhibitors. In my laboratory, we have developed in vitro models using HL-60 and MOLT4
      leukemic cells to study the effects of the combination of decitabine (a 5-azacytidine
      analogue) and valproic acid. Valproic acid is an antiepileptic agent with histone deacetylase
      inhibitory capacity. These results indicate that the addition of valproic acid to decitabine
      has an additive effect on growth inhibition, induction of apoptosis, induction of p57KIP2 and
      p21CIP1 expression independent of cell cycle arrest. These results were dependent on the dose
      and duration of treatment but not on the sequence used. Based on this data, we developed a
      phase I/II study of the combination of decitabine and valproic acid (2003-0314) in patients
      with leukemia that has shown that valproic acid can be safely administered up to doses of 50
      mg/kg orally for 10 days in combination with decitabine, and that this combination has
      significant activity in patients with relapsed/refractory AML and MDS. All-trans retinoic
      acid (ATRA) is a biological agent that has been shown to induce cell differentiation in
      leukemia cell lines and has significant clinical activity in acute promyelocytic leukemia
      with minimal toxicity. In vitro, the combination of ATRA with either a hypomethylating agent
      or a histone deacetylase inhibitor has been shown to restore ATRA sensitivity in resistant
      cells. More recently, a German group has reported that the combination of valproic acid and
      ATRA has activity in patients with MDS and an excellent toxicity profile. 5-azacytidine is a
      nucleoside analogue with hypomethylating activity that has been shown in a randomized study
      to benefit patients with MDS, including an improvement in quality of life. Based on this
      data, this agent was recently approved by the FDA for its use in patients with MDS, and has
      become the first line agent for patients with MDS that required therapy.

      The objectives of the clinical trial are the following:

        -  To determine the maximal tolerated dose of valproic acid (VPA) in combination with
           5-azacytidine (5-aza) and all-trans retinoic acid.

        -  To determine the clinical activity of the combination of 5-azacytidine, valproic acid
           and all-trans retinoic acid in patients with AML and MDS.

        -  To determine the in vivo molecular and biological effects of this combination. These
           will include analysis of changes in Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation, histone
           modifications, and gene expression.
    
  