
    
      Statement of problem:

      Dental caries has been recognized as a dynamic process that results from an imbalance between
      the physiologic demineralization and remineralization of tooth structure. It has been well
      established that tooth undergoes cyclic demineralization of enamel crystals with periods of
      remineralization resulting from re-precipitation of calcium and phosphate ions from the
      saliva. If the process of demineralization dominates, caries result. However, if
      remineralization dominates along with removal of bacterial infection, enamel integrity gets
      restored. This basic knowledge of carious process brings us to an understanding that by
      controlling the amount, pattern and rhythm of demineralization and remineralization, carious
      lesions can either be controlled from progressing further or can be reversed. Several decades
      ago it was noted that clinically detectable white-spot lesions could be hardened; various
      scientific methods have been advocated for arrest and the reversal of incipient caries lesion
      by either decreasing the solubility of the mineral present or by increasing the mineral
      content of the previously demineralized tooth. Since remineralization occurring naturally in
      oral environment is often inadequate for maintaining strong decay free enamel and dentin, the
      process needs to be augmented by using some external means. It has been proposed that a
      simultaneous supply of calcium, phosphate and fluoride ions might serve as an invaluable tool
      to remineralize and strengthen the tooth structure by formation of calcium fluorapatite.
      Fluoride as a constituent of drinking water and in the form of various topically applied
      products especially over-the-counter toothpastes have a long successful history of use as a
      caries preventive agent.

      NovaMin is claimed to release calcium and phosphate ions intraorally to help the self-repair
      process of enamel. A silica-rich surface layer forms through poly-condensation of hydrated
      silica groups on which precipitation of ions happens which crystallizes over time to form a
      hydroxyl-carbonate apatite. Although it is used extensively as a desensitizing agent reports
      also claim that the chemical reactions that promote apatite formation may enhance the
      remineralization. But there is limited clinical research to ascertain if there is any
      synergistic effect on combining anti-cariogenic activity of fluoride ions with these
      remineralization systems.

      Direct benefit of the research to the human volunteer:

        -  Have better remineralization for initial white spot carious lesions using recent Novamin
           technology.

        -  Gain the other advantages for Novamin technology on the gingival health as well as
           dental health.

        -  Patient will know the proper brushing technique as he would be given instructions about
           this during the study.

        -  Patient will get to know the difference in efficiency of different over-the-counter
           toothpastes especially those assigned in the investigator's study.

      Scientific value and social Benefits:

        -  Determine whether the new Novamin technology results are worth and have good efficient
           remineralization potential or not.

        -  Know more conservative mean for repair of demineralized areas in teeth.

        -  Have proper data base about difference in over-the-counter toothpastes.

      Research question:

      Will recent over-the-counter toothpaste (Novamin & Fluoride) be better than regular
      over-the-counter toothpaste (Sodium Fluoride) in remineralization of white spot lesions in
      adult patients who are having initial white spot carious lesions?
    
  