
    
      Malaria is a preventable and treatable disease caused by Plasmodium species. In 2015, It was
      estimated that, about 1.8 million cases of malaria and about 400, 000 deaths were reported,
      90% of which are in Africa. Those children who do not die may suffer brain damage or
      experience cognitive and learning deficits as a result of the disease severity. Though
      significant progress has been made in the last decade towards achieving global malaria
      targets, the disease burden is still relatively high in sub-Saharan African countries,
      especially among children <5 years of age.

      Injectable artesunate (Inj. AS) is a life-saving medication indicated for the treatment of
      severe/complicated malaria either intravenously or intramuscularly. The current version (3rd
      edition) of the World Health Organization (WHO) Guidelines for the Treatment of Malaria
      strongly recommends, based on high-quality evidence, that adults and children with severe
      malaria should be treated with "intravenous or intramuscular artesunate". Injectable
      Artesunate is prequalified under the WHO Prequalification Scheme. It has received marketing
      authorization in nearly all malaria-endemic countries and millions of doses have been
      distributed for use in the management of severe malaria.

      Despite the widespread usage of Inj. AS, the safety database for the product is nearly empty
      with the WHO Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSR) database containing only 2622 reports to
      artesunate including Inj AS. Inj AS is considered a safe product even though there have been
      reports of rare but serious haematological reactions in relation to its use including
      post-treatment haemolysis and subsequent anaemia, some of them life-threatening and requiring
      blood transfusion. Experts agree that the benefits of Inj. AS far outweigh any risks it may
      pose and this formed the basis for the WHO recommendation for the use of Inj. AS as the first
      product of choice for treating severe malaria except where it is not available and in which
      case parenteral artemether is recommended conditionally. In view of the millions of doses of
      Inj AS deployed and used each year, it is important to undertake focused, intensive safety
      surveillance of the medicine to obtain continuous evidence on its benefits-risk profile and
      also to prevent undocumented or rare but serious adverse events acting as barriers to its
      uptake.

      Apart from the detailed well-collected safety information obtained during clinical trials,
      there is no published information on the real-life safety experience of Inj. AS in large
      cohorts of patients. This study is therefore designed to obtain real-life safety experience
      of Inj. AS when used in actual practice settings in 4 African countries - Ethiopia, Ghana,
      Malawi and Uganda. The study is designed as a prospective, observational, longitudinal cohort
      study of patients administered Inj AS in the course of normal clinical practice. The method
      used is cohort event monitoring which has been deployed for the study of antimalarials and is
      being suggested as a key method for several post-authorisation safety studies
    
  