
    
      CIPNM is one of the most frequent clinical problems encountered in a general ICU. Inflicted
      patients are characterized by generalized muscle weakness, areflexia, delayed weaning from
      mechanical ventilation and subsequent increased duration of ICU stay. So far, no therapeutic
      or preventive tool has been proposed for CIPNM.

      Electrical muscle stimulation (EMS) has been proposed as an alternative exercise modality in
      patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and chronic heart failure, who
      cannot perform active exercise. The role of EMS in ICU patients has not been evaluated so
      far.

      We designed a randomized intervention study to assess the efficacy of EMS, as a preventive or
      therapeutic tool in CIPNM. The study consists of two cohorts. In the preventive cohort,
      patients with Apache II admission score ≥ 13, after stratified (age, gender) randomization,
      are assigned on the second day after admission to the EMS group or to the control group. In
      the observation cohort, patients with Apache II < 13 are followed clinically until
      interruption of sedation. Patients who regain consciousness and are cooperative are assessed
      clinically for CIPNM. If they are diagnosed with CIPNM, they undergo stratified randomization
      (age, gender, diabetes mellitus, malignancy) to EMS group or to the control group. EMS will
      be applied to both lower extremities of the EMS-group simultaneously (quadriceps femoris
      muscle and peroneus longus) on a daily basis. EMS sessions will continue until patient
      discharge or death. EMS sessions are supplementary to standard physiotherapy practice applied
      to all ICU patients.

      Primary end point is the diagnosis of CIPNM. Secondary end points are 1) the duration of
      weaning from the ventilator, 2) time to ICU discharge, 3) muscle mass preservation, 4) muscle
      strength, 5) muscle properties and structure. The primary and secondary endpoints will be
      assessed as follows: medical research scale (MRC) for clinical evaluation of muscle strength,
      handgrip dynamometry, muscle mass evaluation with ultra-sonography, muscle biopsies, maximal
      inspiratory pressure, tissue oxygen saturation assessed with near infrared spectroscopy
      (NIRS), muscle microdialysis, electromyography (EMG).
    
  