
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate at the end of 2 cycles of therapy with rituximab,
      lenalidomide, and ibrutinib in patients with high risk newly diagnosed non-germinal center
      B-cell-like diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (non-GCB DLBCL).

      II. To determine the complete response rate at the end of 6 cycles of therapy with rituximab,
      lenalidomide, and ibrutinib combined with chemotherapy (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin
      hydrochloride [hydroxydaunorubicin hydrochloride], vincristine sulfate [Oncovin], prednisone
      [CHOP] or etoposide, prednisone, vincristine sulfate [Oncovin], cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin
      hydrochloride [hydroxydaunorubicin hydrochloride] [EPOCH]) in patients with high risk newly
      diagnosed non-GCB DLBCL.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate, landmark survival outcomes (progression free and
      overall survival), and safety of lenalidomide and ibrutinib with chemotherapy (CHOP or EPOCH)
      in patients with high risk newly diagnosed non-GCB DLBCL.

      II. To evaluate descriptively the complete response rate in rituximab, lenalidomide,
      ibrutinib (RLI)-CHOP and in RLI-EPOCH.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the baseline and therapy induced changes in the profile of mutations, gene
      expression, minimal residual disease clonotype levels, immune cell subsets, and tumor protein
      expression in tumor biopsy and blood samples in patients with high risk newly diagnosed
      non-GCB DLBCL.

      OUTLINE:

      SMART START: Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) over 4-6 hours on day 1,
      lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-10, and ibrutinib PO QD on days 1-21.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (RLI WITH EPOCH): After SMART START therapy, patients receive rituximab IV over 4-6
      hours on day 1, lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-10, and ibrutinib PO QD on days 1-21. Patients
      also receive etoposide IV over 24 hours on days 1-4, prednisone PO QD on days 1-5,
      vincristine sulfate IV over 24 hours on days 1-4, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 24 hours
      on days 1-4, and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 5. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (RLI WITH R-CHOP): After SMART START therapy, patients receive rituximab IV over 4-6
      hours on day 1, lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-10, and ibrutinib PO QD on days 1-21. Patients
      also receive prednisone PO QD on days 1-5, vincristine sulfate IV over 1 hour on day 1,
      doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1 hour on day 1, and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day
      1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, and
      then every 4 months for another year.
    
  