
    
      Fibromyalgia is among the most common diffuse pain syndromes, affecting about 1 of every 10
      rheumatology patients. People with fibromyalgia experience widespread chronic pain and
      fatigue that negatively influences their activity participation (causes disability) and
      overall quality of life.

      The purpose of this 3-year study is to use a cognitive-behavioral intervention to facilitate
      adoption of a wellness lifestyle in people with fibromyalgia. Specifically, we will test the
      efficacy of a health promotion computer program (Balance Center) used in conjunction with a
      wearable sensor (SenseWearTM) for developing a wellness lifestyle and improving the quality
      of life of adults with fibromyalgia. Balance Center software is a health promotion computer
      program that helps consumers to: (1) establish goals in the areas of physical activity,
      nutrition, participation in meaningful, productive activities, sleep, stress-reducing
      activities, and emotional state; (2) monitor progress toward established goals; and, (3)
      assess the relationship between these areas in one's daily life. In addition, based on
      consumer input, it offers suggestions for developing a wellness lifestyle. SenseWearTM,
      provides objective data about activity level and stress level for consumers to use in
      combination with the self-assessment data provided by the Balance Center.

      In this randomized controlled clinical trial, the Experimental (Balance Center + SenseWearTM)
      Intervention is compared to a Usual Care, control group. Seventy-two adults (36 =
      Experimental; 36 = Control) with fibromyalgia will be randomized and followed for 6 weeks,
      exclusive of Baseline and Posttesting. The hypotheses to be tested are: Participants
      randomized to the Experimental Condition will demonstrate significantly (a) more physical
      activity, (b) a healthier, wellness lifestyle, and (c) fewer symptoms of fibromyalgia. In
      addition, the relationship between the decrease in fibromyalgia-related impairment on daily
      life and physical activity and a wellness lifestyle will be stronger at Posttesting than at
      Baseline in the Experimental Group, compared to the Control Group. The anticipated outcome of
      the intervention is more effective self-management of lifestyle and symptoms so that one can
      "live well with fibromyalgia."
    
  