
    
      Background:

      Depression is a common mental disorder with a negative impact on mental well-being, quality
      of life, and social and work-related functioning both in the short and longer term.
      Additionally, depression is associated with increased morbidity, mortality, health care
      utilization and health care costs. On a population level, depression is one of the most
      costly diseases. The economic costs of depression were estimated at €136.3 billion (EU25) in
      2010 in the EU and are still rising. European health care systems face the challenge of
      improving access to cost-effective treatments while simultaneously working to sustain
      budgetary stability in times of economic austerity.

      Internet-based depression treatment appears a very promising alternative to current routine
      depression treatment strategies. Meta-analyses have demonstrated the clinical effectiveness
      and potential cost-effectiveness of Internet-based treatment for depression in controlled
      research setting. Internet-based treatment thus has the potential to keep depression
      treatment affordable, as it enables mental health care providers to reach out to large
      populations needing depression treatment at a better cost-effectiveness than those of
      standard treatment as usual (TAU), but with similar levels of clinical efficacy and quality
      of care. The trials will be conducted in 8 European countries.

      Objective:

      To compare the clinical impact and cost-effectiveness of blended Cognitive Behavioural
      Therapy (CBT) for adults with major depressive disorder (MDD) with treatments as usual
      (TAU)-face to face CBT in expert centres specialized in depression.

      Study design:

      The study is a two-arm randomized controlled non-inferiority and cost-effectiveness trial.
      The trial will be conducted in expert centres in France. A total of 150 patients with MDD
      will be assigned to one of two treatment arms: 1) blended CBT, 2) TAU. Respondents in both
      arms will be followed until 12 months after baseline (measures will be taken at baseline, 3
      months, post- treatment (17 weeks), 6 months and 12 months).
    
  