
    
      Atrial fibrillation and sudden cardiac death assessments, as well as blood analyses, will be
      conducted on the entire VITAL Study population, and ECG analyses will be limited to the
      Clinical and Translational Science Center (CTSC) sub-cohort of 1,054 VITAL participants who
      live near the Boston area and agree to participate in a series of ancillary studies in
      addition to the main trial.

      Investigators will ascertain atrial fibrillation events utilizing self-report of physician
      diagnoses of atrial fibrillation received on annual questionnaires from study participants
      supplemented by outpatient and hospital visits for AF identified through Centers for Medicare
      and Medicaid Services (CMS) data linkage. Investigators will also ascertain additional
      information regarding atrial fibrillation diagnosis from supplementary questionnaires, and
      seek consent to review all inpatient and outpatient hospital records pertaining to atrial
      fibrillation diagnosis and evaluation. Atrial fibrillation events will be confirmed by an
      endpoint committee composed of cardiologists, which will also make a determination on atrial
      fibrillation subtype and pattern. Questionnaires that inquire about recurrent atrial
      fibrillation events, pattern of AF, latest medical record evaluation and treatments for AF
      will be sent to participants with confirmed atrial fibrillation. Medical records will be
      requested and reviewed an endpoint committee to determine atrial fibrillation subtype and
      progression. An intention-to-treat analysis examining the 5-year treatment effects of omega-3
      fatty acids and vitamin D on incident atrial fibrillation, as well as subtypes at the time of
      diagnosis will be performed to address the primary aims. We will repeat these analyses at the
      end of extended follow-up to assess cumulative and post-treatment effects of omega-3 fatty
      acids and vitamin D and AF subtypes two years after diagnosis.

      Electrocardiograms will be obtained at baseline and again after two years of treatment and
      follow-up among a sub-cohort of 1,054 patients being enrolled in VITAL at the CTSC.
      Investigators will utilize these ECG data to evaluate whether treatment with omega-3 fatty
      acids and vitamin D3 have significant effects on ECG measures. The ECGs will also be utilized
      to estimate the prevalence of asymptomatic persistent atrial fibrillation in our population
      not detected by our atrial fibrillation surveillance methods.

      Investigators will examine baseline blood samples for participants with confirmed atrial
      fibrillation for the purpose of exploring whether the effect of vitamin D3 or fish oil
      supplementation on atrial fibrillation risk varies by the baseline blood levels of these
      nutrients.

      Investigators will also seek additional information necessary to classify deaths as sudden or
      arrhythmic in origin, and cardiac deaths will be reviewed by an endpoint committee of
      cardiologists. Once these results have been compiled investigators will explore whether
      omega-3 fatty acids and/or vitamin D might have an effect on sudden and/or arrhythmic cardiac
      death.
    
  