
    
      The objective of this clinical investigation is to evaluate, in a controlled setting, the
      long-term safety and efficacy of the LifeStream Peripheral Stent Graft System in clinical
      settings post CE-certification when used according to the indications of the IFU with focus
      on the treatment of complex TASC C and D iliac lesions.

      Patients will be selected based on the investigator's assessment, evaluation of the
      underlying disease and the eligibility criteria. The patient's medical condition should be
      stable, with no underlying medical condition which would prevent them from performing the
      required testing or from completing the study. Patients should also be geographically stable,
      willing and able to cooperate in this clinical study and remain available for long-term
      follow-up. A patient is considered enrolled in the study after obtaining the patients
      informed consent, if there is full compliance with the study eligibility criteria and after
      successful guidewire passage through the study target lesion.

      Prior to the index procedure the following tests and clinical data will be collected:
      informed consent for data collection, demographics, medical history, medication record,
      physical examination, clinical category of chronic limb ischemia (Rutherford category) and
      resting ankle-brachial index (ABI).

      During the procedure, the vascular access can be achieved to the investigator's standard
      clinical practice. After successful lesion passage, diagnostic angiography of the lesion area
      and distal run-off is performed and angiographic measurements (vessel diameter, percentage
      stenosis and lesion length) are collected. At the physician's discretion, the patient
      receives at least 1 LifeStream Peripheral Stent Graft System. Pre- and post-dilatation are
      according to the physician's discretion. No other adjunctive therapies (atherectomy, laser)
      are allowed. The complete iliac vasculature should be treated in one single session, staged
      interventions are not allowed. All outflow-limiting lesions must be treated according to the
      hospital treatment standard.

      The regular follow-ups are necessary to monitor the condition of the patient and the
      stent/procedure. Patients will be invited for a follow-up visit at 1, 6 and 12 months after
      the index procedure. The following data will be collected during these follow-up visit:
      medication record, physical examination, rutherford categorization, ABI and color flow
      doppler ultrasound.
    
  