
    
      The investigator's team consists of five members, each have their own specific tasks and
      divided by two groups, which are ER group (first time encounter, informed consent, and
      intervention) and polyclinic group (routine wound care). All of the data are primary data.
      Data registry were taken by the team without involving any other party. Any intervention done
      to the participants were also done only by the team(suturing, wound care). Appointment for
      routine wound care was also made by contacting the participant through their cellphone
      numbers which were collected when they come to the ER.

      The data of each of the participant was registered on a form which was pre-made by the
      investigators. It recorded the identity of the patient, history taking, physical examination,
      and also to record more detailed information about our intervention, such as the amount of
      stitches and how many and what kind of resources that have been spent on the participant.

      Every sample will be categorized into 3 randomized groups of intervention; honey,
      povidone-iodine, and paraffin gauze, which will also be categorized by location of their
      wound; face and neck, upper extremity, and lower extremity. Participants on each intervention
      group are distributed evenly using stratified block randomization. Photos of the wound will
      be taken before and after the wound is cleaned, and after the wound has been sutured. Every
      patient will be asked to attend a predetermined schedule for wound care assessment. The wound
      will be evaluated by photos before and after the wound is cleaned, debrided, or have its
      sutures removed. Parameter of evaluation will be duration of wound healing per anatomical
      region, infection, cleanliness of wound, odor, exudate level, pain, itch, and total cost of
      wound care.

      Every paper consists of participants' data that were collected on colored maps based on the
      intervention group (red: povidone-iodine, yellow: honey, blue: paraffin). At the end of the
      study, three of the team's members converted the data to be analyzed using Microsoft Excel
      and SPSS.

      The investigators prepared beforehand the Standard Operational Procedures regarding any
      possibilities of adverse events, such as lidocaine toxicity and honey hypersensitivity and
      were already approved by the hospital's committee.

      The investigators determined the target of the sample size with the total sample of 36
      participants, distributed evenly based on intervention groups and wounds' location using
      stratified block randomization
    
  