
    
      Bacterial infection of the amniotic cavity, termed "chorioamnionitis", is a major cause of
      perinatal mortality and maternal morbidity. Early administration of broad-spectrum antibiotic
      therapy in the laboring patient with chorioamnionitis has both neonatal and maternal
      benefits. Less known is the ideal postpartum antibiotic regimen - or if postpartum
      antibiotics are even required at all - needed to decrease febrile morbidity. Current practice
      has seen a wide range of practice styles ranging from no treatment to antibiotic prophylaxis
      for up to 48 hours after delivery.

      If antibiotics are prescribed, there is good evidence to support one additional dose of
      antibiotics as compared to 24 hour dosing to decrease the rate of endometritis. Less clear is
      whether antibiotics are required at all for the properly treated patient with
      chorioamnionitis who requires a cesarean delivery. One study comparing continued antibiotics
      versus no-treatment failed to show a difference in the rate of postpartum endometritis. The
      conclusion from this study was that continuation of preoperative clindamycin and gentamicin
      in the postoperative period did not reduce the risk of endometritis compared to a single
      preoperative dose however this study was terminated early due to failure to recruit their
      stated sample size.

      Puerperal endometritis rates vary by mode of delivery but it is known that the rate is lower
      in vaginal deliveries as compared to cesarean delivery. The patient with chorioamnionitis
      that requires a cesarean delivery makes an excellent study target. Given the lack of studied
      protocols, there currently are many acceptable methods for treating the patient with
      chorioamnionitis. Our proposed study plans to evaluate the two most common methods of
      treatment to determine the most effective regimen. If post-delivery antibiotics do not show a
      benefit to these highest risk subjects, it is likely inferred that patients that undergo a
      vaginal delivery will not require antibiotics as well.

      Specific Aims There is conflicting data regarding the necessity of post-delivery antibiotics
      for patients with chorioamnionitis who undergo cesarean delivery. The primary objective of
      this study is to determine if postpartum antibiotics are necessary for antepartum treated
      cases of chorioamnionitis in patients undergoing a cesarean section.
    
  