
    
      Emerging evidence showed that chronic inflammation and neuro-progression underlie bipolar
      disorder (BP). There were several neurobiological similarities between neuro-progression in
      BP and aging. Patients of BP also had many changes that were associated with early
      senescence. Meta-analysis showed that the association between dementia and BP were stronger
      than those with major depressive disorder, too. Therefore, some researchers proposed the
      theory of bipolar disorder as an illness of accelerated aging. However, BP is frequently
      under-recognized and misdiagnosed, especially bipolar II disorder (BP-II). Although the
      lifetime prevalence rate of BP-II ranges around 3-11%, many with BP-II were misdiagnosed as
      major depressive disorder and did not receive appropriate treatment. Therefore,
      neuro-progression may be found after decades of disease onset. The neuro-progression process,
      as accelerated aging process, may occur in the middle age period in BP-II patients, and
      contribute to the cognitive deficits, which were typically shown in old aged subjects with
      neurocognitive disorder. However, most of the past studies focused on bipolar I disorder
      (BP-I), there were few studies to investigate the early neuro-progression process in BP-II.
      Treatments for the cognitive deficits in middle-to-old aged BP-II patients were also lacked
      in literature.

      Memantine (MM) has neuroprotective effects through the mechanisms of reducing
      neuroinflammation and increasing neurotrophic factors. The previous study showed that add-on
      low dose MM with mood stabilizers may attenuate inflammatory status and improve metabolic
      dysregulation in BP patients. Therefore, the investigators hypothesized that add-on MM 5
      mg/day may reduce chronic inflammation, and subsequently improve neuro-progression process
      and cognitive function in middle-to-old aged BP-II patients. In current proposal, the
      investigators will conduct a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study. The
      investigators will recruit 100-120 patients with BP-II who are older than 40 years old in
      three years, and allocate them to add-on MM or placebo plus standard valproic acid treatment
      in a 1: 1 ratio. The investigators will follow up the participants for 12 weeks and measure
      the severity of mood symptoms, neuropsychological tests and inflammatory markers to evaluate
      the therapeutic effects of add-on MM. The current proposal will provide the important data in
      whether add-on MM is able to improve the cognitive deficits due to neuro-progression in
      BP-II, and to prevent disease progression to a more severe form of neurocognitive disorder.
    
  