
    
      Background: Respiratory failure is not only the most important reason for admission of
      patients to a medical intensive care unit (ICU), but also a common reason for the
      deterioration of patients already treated in the ICU. It is a very serious condition
      associated with significant mortality. Heart failure is a common reason for respiratory
      failure in both circumstances. Unfortunately, the rapid and accurate differentiation of heart
      failure from other causes of respiratory failure in the ICU remains a clinical challenge.
      After evaluation of symptoms, physical examination, arterial blood gases, ECG, and chest
      x-ray, the clinician is often left with a considerable diagnostic uncertainty that results in
      misdiagnosis and delay in the initiation of appropriate therapy. In addition, misdiagnosis of
      heart failure causes morbidity, and increases total treatment time and treatment cost,
      because treatments for heart failure may be hazardous to patients with other conditions such
      as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and vice verse.

      B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) is a 32-amino acid polypeptide secreted from the cardiac
      ventricles in response to ventricular volume expansion and pressure overload. BNP levels are
      significantly higher in patients with congestive heart failure as compared to patients with
      respiratory failure due to other causes. Therefore, rapid measurement of BNP might be very
      helpful in establishing or excluding the diagnosis of heart failure in patients with
      respiratory failure in the ICU.

      Aim: The aim is to test the hypothesis that a BNP guided diagnostic strategy would improve
      the evaluation and management of patients presenting with primary (on admission) or secondary
      (while in the ICU) respiratory failure in the ICU and thereby reduce total treatment time and
      total cost of treatment.

      Endpoints: Primary endpoints: Time to discharge and total cost of treatment. Secondary
      endpoints: ICU length of stay, ICU cost, In-hospital mortality, 30-day mortality,
      cost-effectiveness, 6 and 12 month mortality, 6 and 12 month dyspnea score.

      Patients and Methods: The trial is designed to enroll 286 patients presenting with primary
      (on admission) or secondary (while in the ICU) respiratory failure in the ICU. Patients will
      be randomly divided 1:1 into a clinical group using evaluation of patients according to local
      standards without the use of BNP (or other natriuretic peptides) and to a BNP group with
      early testing for BNP.

      Expected results: The researchers hypothesize that a BNP guided diagnostic strategy will
      improve the evaluation and management of patients presenting with respiratory failure to the
      ICU and thereby reduce time to discharge and total cost of treatment.

      Significance: If in fact, BNP testing could be shown to improve the evaluation and management
      of patients with respiratory failure in the ICU, this would represent a major advance in the
      clinical care of seriously ill patients, and as well, highlight the potential for
      considerable cost-saving. Accordingly, if this study would have a positive result and in fact
      demonstrate that a BNP guided diagnostic strategy reduces total treatment time and total cost
      of treatment, it would be the first randomized controlled trial demonstrating that a new
      diagnostic test improves the evaluation and management of ICU patients. Given the enormous
      expenses associated with intensive care, such a study seems overdue.
    
  