
    
      Despite significant improvements in clinical results associated with the current use of
      stenting and pharmacologic agents there has been little modification in hospitalization
      duration after percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI). The main reasons associated with
      prolonged hospitalization after PCI remain 1) the fear of abrupt vessel closure and its
      associated morbidity 2) the need for prolonged bed rest in case of femoral approach even
      after use of device closures.

      The introduction of coronary stents has been associated with a dramatic decrease in vessel
      closure once it was recognized that stent deployment required higher pressure balloon
      inflation and increased antiplatelet therapy. Trans-radial coronary interventions appear
      safer and more cost-effective than femoral PCI. However, the current use of IIb-IIIa
      inhibitors prohibits the early discharge of patients following PCI because their pharmacology
      generally imposes to pursue drug infusion between 18 and 24 hrs following PCI which does not
      allow same day discharge from the hospital. With Abciximab, however, pharmacologic data
      indicate that prolonged platelet inhibition (≥ 80%) occurs after a single bolus. Based on the
      EPIC trial results, it has been recommended to prolong platelet inhibition by a 12 hrs
      perfusion. By analyzing carefully the EPIC trial results, we hypothesized that after optimal
      stenting result, a single bolus of Abciximab would suffice. We aim to demonstrate that (1)
      with trans-radial coronary stenting at least 50% of the entire population referred for PCI
      could be safely discharged after a few hours observation; (2) a single bolus of Abciximab is
      at least as effective as current recommended treatment with a bolus + 12 hrs perfusion after
      uncomplicated stenting. This new regimen could significantly affect current practice,
      decrease hospital costs and increase patient satisfaction after PCI.

      STUDY DESIGN

      A prospective randomized single-center study comparing same day hospital discharge to
      overnight hospitalization after uncomplicated trans-radial coronary artery stenting.
      Out-patients will be randomized after successful stent implantation to same day discharge or
      will remain hospitalized at Laval Hospital until the next morning. Hospitalized patients will
      be randomized after successful stent implantation to either same day discharge at home or to
      overnight hospitalization (either at the referring center or at Laval Hospital). All eligible
      patients will be treated with Abciximab that will be administered according to 2 different
      arms: For patients randomized to same-day discharge, only a bolus of Abciximab will be given,
      whereas for all remaining patients, Abciximab will be given according to current practice
      i.e. bolus + 12 hrs perfusion. All patients which will not be eligible post-PCI will enter a
      registry.
    
  