
    
      The intervention will be assessed using a non-randomized stepped wedge trial design. A
      stepped wedge design allows for the intervention to be rolled out at different times, thus
      allowing us to control for differences between study sites (vertical control) and secular
      trends (horizontal control) during the study period. This is the gold standard when a
      conventional randomized controlled trial is not possible.

      The stepped wedge study design is based on a staggered implementation of the intervention in
      the intervention sites. This will be done over a 12 month period, starting with a three month
      control period in all EDs (planned start-up February 1st, 2021). This period allows for
      baseline data collection before the intervention. After this period, we will consequtively
      roll out the intervention at three months interval to the EDs. We will start in Tromsø which
      is the largest ED, continue with Bodø and finnish with Harstad, which is the smallest of the
      three EDs. After nine months, all EDs wil have clinical pharmacists. When the intervention is
      implemented in an ED, it will continue until the trial is terminated (planned January 31th,
      2022).

      This is a multicentre study including three EDs in Northern Norway Health Authority region;
      the University Hospital of North Norway (UNN) Tromsø, Nordland Hospital (NLSH) in Bodø and
      UNN Harstad with approximately 15 000, 12 000 and 6000 patients presenting annually in the
      respective EDs. These numbers include patients being admitted more than once to the ED. The
      three EDs operate similarly and receive patients who need immediate health care in case of
      acute illness or injury. Norway has a well-functioning primary care system, including
      municipal urgent care clinics providing ambulatory care outside of general practitioner (GP)
      office hours. In order to be admitted to the ED, the patients need a referral either from GP
      or from a physician at an urgent care clinic. At the ED, the patient is met by an ED nurse
      and an ED physician (either an intern or a resident in specialty training), who perform the
      initial examinations and assessments of the patient. A senior physician is always on call in
      case of the need for a consultation. NLSH is the only ED with senior physicians situated in
      the ED during day-time. From the ED, patients are either admitted to a hospital ward,
      transferred to a municipally run health institution or discharged to their homes.

      All patients presenting to the EDs during the study period will be included. Patients
      presenting during the control period, will be allocated to the control group (n≈14400), while
      patients presenting during the intervention period will be allocated to the intervention
      group (n≈19200), independently of whether they receive clinical pharmacist services or not.
      Patients for whom data is not available retrospectively, will be excluded.
    
  