
    
      STUDY DESIGN Study protocol Study Start (expected FSFV (First subject first visit )) at
      August 1 2016 Study Stop (expected LSLV (Last subject last visit)) at February 29 2019 150
      Patients with confirmed VSA who had over 3 episodes of angina per week during a over 2 week
      qualification period are randomly assigned to receive either amlodipine therapy (NORVASC 10
      mg/day) or amlodipine/atorvastatin combination (CADUET 10/20mg) for 6 months. The starting
      dose of the drung is either 5mg amlodipine or 5/20mg CADUET. After 4 weeks, if the 5mg
      amlodipine is well tolerated, the dose is titrated to 10mg and 10/20mg CADUET. All other
      antianginal medications are proscribed during the study period except long-acting nitrates
      and sublingual nitroglycerin as required. Long-acting nitrates are permitted during the study
      period if they had been taken at a constant dosage for over 2 weeks before study entry.
      Participants are allowed to take sublingual NTG as needed for episodes of chest pain.

      Study design. Patients with VSA who had over 1 angina episodes/week confirmed by ergonovine
      provocation test Acquisition of written consent Randomization to NORVASC 10 mg/day or CADUET
      10/20 mg Baseline SAQ, angina diary, FMD, EPC, CFR assessments are performed. Medication
      start with either 5mg NORVASC or 5/20mg CADUET. After 4 weeks, if the 5mg amlodipine is well
      tolerated, titrate to 10mg and 10/20mg CADUET. Routine visit with the scheduled reservation
      (2 or 3 months interval) After 6-months treatment, follow-up SAQ, angina diary, FMD, EPC, CFR
      assessments are performed (mandatory).

      After 12-months treatment, follow-up SAQ, angina diary, FMD, EPC, CFR assessments are
      performed (optional).

      Efficacy assessments. The primary efficacy variable is the change of summary score of SAQ-7
      between NORVASC 10mg/day and CADUET 10/20mg, and the weekly average frequency of
      self-reported angina episodes during the 6-months treatment phase. Difference of Summary
      score of SAQ 7 is calculated between the baseline (at the enrollment before randomization)
      and the after 6-months treatment. The study staff at each clinical site will review the
      angina and nitroglycerin use diaries with the patient at each study visit.

      Assessment of patient responses by short form SAQ at baseline and after 6 months treatment.

      The Seattle Angina Questionnaire (SAQ) is a validated disease-specific instrument for
      assessing the health status of patients with coronary artery disease. Although the SAQ has
      been frequently used in clinical trials and registries, its use in routine clinical care has
      been limited by its length (19 questions) and the absence of a single summary score that
      facilitates an overall assessment of patients' health status.

      Recently, 7-item from the Physical Limitation, Angina Frequency, and Quality of Life domains
      for the shortened version of the SAQ (SAQ 7), as well as an overall summary score was
      developed and validated in patients with stable coronary artery disease, undergoing
      percutaneous coronary intervention, and presenting with acute myocardial infarction.
    
  