
    
      Considering the current global pandemic, just like any other countries it is becoming very
      difficult for Bangladesh to fight the COVID-19 spread. An increased number of testing is
      needed in Bangladesh and to cope with this demand an increase in assay kits are needed
      urgently in the country.

      Currently we are totally dependent on imported test kits. At the time when the whole world is
      facing a shortage of RT-PCR test kits, import from other countries seems to be very
      difficult. Primarily, countries manufacturing these kits are focused on meeting the demand in
      their own countries first and thus those countries impose a ban on exporting these kits. So,
      availability of the kits will become a big problem for Bangladesh to increase testing in the
      country.

      Secondly, due to lockdown situation worldwide, transporting these kits from another country
      seems second big issue we are facing right now. The kits are stranded in the airports for
      weeks before reaching in our country. Not to mention, the quality of the test kits is being
      jeopardized in the whole uncertain transportation process. The RT-PCR test kits are very
      temperature sensitive and maintaining the cold chain is mandatory in order to perform the
      test properly.

      Once approved, this qualitative RT-PCR based kit can be a principal tool for Bangladesh in
      effective diagnosis and clinical management of COVID-19 along with collective actions made by
      the govt. of Bangladesh. Being developed and manufactured in Bangladesh means that there will
      be no shortage of testing kits during this pandemic and it will also be possible to export
      the kit after fulfilling domestic needs. The kit will definitely be cost-effective compared
      to other commercially available kits & the price will be around 30% less than the
      commercially available kits in the country. Current purchase price of Bangladesh govt. per
      test of the imported COVID-19 RT-PCR test is approx. Tk. 2780/= & RealDetect™ COVID-19 RT-PCR
      per test cost will be approx. Tk. 1940/=

      However, this type of performance evaluation study on RT-PCR method for the detection of
      SARS-CoV-2 virus has not yet been done in our country. This is

      the rationale why we have designed this protocol for performance evaluation of RealDetect™
      COVID-19 RT-PCR kit in Bangladesh for the SARS-CoV-2 virus.

      Hypothesis:

      RealDetect™ COVID-19 RT-PCR will be an effective diagnostic tool for the detection of SARS
      CoV-2 virus using nasopharyngeal swab specimens.

      Methodology:

      Study type & purpose:

      This is a case control study. This study is expected to validate whether the locally
      developed RealDetect COVID-19 RT-PCR kit is suitable for the use in Bangladesh for the
      detection of SARS-CoV-2 in specimens collected from suspected COVID-19 patients.

      Study Population and samples Testing and analysis of a total of 120 specimens will be carried
      out. Of the 120 samples, 60 will be stored samples (30 COVID-19 positive samples and 30
      COVID-19 negative samples) from IEDCR. The positive/negative status of the samples will be
      blinded before sending to ideSHi. The samples have already been stored at -80 degree Celsius
      in the IEDCR freezer.

      In addition, 60 fresh specimens which will be tested at IEDCR will also be tested at ideSHi
      using RealDetect on a real time basis. These samples will also be blinded by IEDCR and sent
      to the testing laboratory (ideSHi) as they become available. Of these 60 samples, 30 will be
      COVID-19 positive and 30 COVID- 19 negative samples. These fresh samples will be provided to
      ideSHi for testing and analysis for performance evaluation of RealDetect COVID-19 RT-PCR kit.
      The PI will coordinate these activities.

      IEDCR will provide ideSHi with the samples needed for the performance evaluation study of
      RealDetect RT-PCR Kit for COVID-19 detection. It should be mentioned here that IEDCR is the
      government reference laboratory for COVID-19 detection in Bangladesh. There is a MOU between
      ideSHi and IEDCR and these two organizations have been doing collaborative work from 2014.
      Thus IEDCR has been involved in this study.

      To avoid biasness, ideSHi (CRO) investigators will be blinded to the samples provided by
      IEDCR. That is, ideSHi investigators will not know which of the 60 samples are positive and
      which of the 60 samples are negative. After RT- PCR run using RealDetect RT-PCR Kit, ideSHi
      will send the results to the Principal investigator. The Principal investigator will also
      receive IEDCR results for the same samples. Finally, the PI will compare the results from
      ideSHi and IEDCR and determine the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and
      negative predictive value.

      Study Design: Case control study.

      Statistical Basis of Sample Size:

      Formulae:

      Variable Notations:

      Α (the probability of type I error) (significance level) is the probability of rejecting the
      true null hypothesis (0.05) Β (the probability of type II error) (1 - power of the test) is
      the probability of failing to reject the false null hypothesis (0.80).

      PA (proportion of discordant pairs of type A), proportion of discordant pairs of type A among
      discordant pairs (1/4) PD (proportion of discordant pairs) among all pairs (0.11)

      Npairs, required sample size pairs 2x60=120 A matched-pair design is used, with one patient
      in a matched pair assigned to RT-PCR positive for COVID-19 and the other one to RT-PCR
      negative for COVID-19. How many matched pairs need to be enrolled in the study to have a 95%
      chance of finding a significant difference using a two-sided test with type I error = 0.05?
      So, we will use a total of 120 samples; 60 COVID-19 positive samples and 60 COVID-19 negative
      samples.

      Diagnostic Criteria for selection of COVID-19 positive and negative specimens:

      IEDCR uses many different kits for COVID-19 detection. These kits include, (1) A*Star
      Fortitute Kit 2 for COVID-19 detection (Singapure), (2) Sansure Biotec Limited (China), (3)
      ModularDx Kit (TIB Molecular Biology, Germany, and (4) DaAn Kit (China). Among these 2 kits,
      A*Star Fortitude Kit 2 has been known as the best kit in IEDCR depending on its performance
      because it rarely generates false positive or false negative results.

      A*Star Fortitude Kit 2 is used for confirmation of any discordant results for other kits in
      IEDCR. That is, IEDCR uses A*Star Fortitude Kit for COVID detection as the Gold Standard. In
      our case, this is the main reason for the selection of this kit in order to compare the
      performances of RealDetect™ COVID-19 RT-PCR kit.

      Consents from the patients are not required. Specimens will be obtained from IEDCR and so
      there is no requirement of patient's enrollment and consents from the patients.

      All specimens will be diagnosed as COVID-19 positive on the basis RT-PCR positive results
      with Ct value ≤ 30 for the viral RNA. If the respiratory

      specimens give positive results upon RT-PCR analysis at the lab targeting the conserved viral
      gene(s) for SARS-CoV-2, it will be considered as confirmed positive case for COVID-19.

      On the other hand, if the respiratory specimens give negative results with no amplification
      upon RT-PCR analysis at the lab targeting the conserved viral gene(s) for SARS-CoV-2, it will
      be considered as confirmed negative case for COVID-19.

      Place of study: Institute for Developing Science & Health Initiatives (ideSHi) ; Mohakhali,
      Dhaka.

      Sample Collection Site(s): Virology Laboratory, Institute of Epidemiology, Disease Control
      and Research (IEDCR), Mohakhali, Dhaka

      Note: IEDCR will provide ideSHi with the samples needed for the performance evaluation study
      of RealDetect RT-PCR Kit for COVID-19 detection. It should be mentioned here that IEDCR is
      the government reference laboratory for COVID-19 detection in Bangladesh. IEDCR has its own
      stored samples in - 80°C. There is a MOU between ideSHi and IEDCR and these two organizations
      have been doing collaborative work from 2014.

      Data Collection Procedure: COVID-19 positive samples will be confirmed by laboratory findings
      of positive RT-PCR results for the viral RNA. Selection of the specimens will be carried out
      following the inclusion and exclusion criteria. After data collection, data will be stored in
      an Excel sheet for later analysis.

      Data Analysis:

      The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value of
      RealDetect™ RT-PCR kit will be determined. Alongside sensitivity, specificity, positive
      predictive value and negative predictive value, Kappa coefficient, positive likelihood ratio,
      and negative likelihood ratio will also be calculated

      Unpaired t-test, Wilcox's test, Rank test, compare test, Mean test, Sensitivity/Specificity
      test, Regression analysis and Geometric mean with 95% CI will be used to analyze the data. It
      will need to conduct a univariate analysis. A p value of ≤0.05 will be considered as the
      level of significant association. The sensitivity, specificity, kappa coefficient, positive
      predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV), positive likelihood ratio (LR+),
      negative likelihood ratio (LR-) and efficiency will be calculated using the following
      formulae in which TP is the number of true positives, FP the number of false positives, False
      negative (FN) the number of false negatives and True Negative (TN) the number of true
      negatives: Sensitivity = True positive (TP)/[TP + FN]; Specificity = TN/ [TN + False positive
      (FP)]; Kappa coefficient K=(Observed Agreement (OA)- Agreement by Chance (AC)/ (1-AC);
      Accuracy = [TP + TN]/ [TP + TN +FP + FN]; Positive predictive value (PPV) = TP/[TP + FP];
      Negative predictive value (NPV) = TN/[TN + FN]; LR+= sensitivity/ [100 - specificity] and LR-
      = [100 - sensitivity]/specificity

      Utilization of Results:

        1. Bangladesh Medical Research Council (BMRC) ethical clearance is needed for performance
           evaluation study of the RealDetect™ COVID-19 RT-PCR kit.

        2. This will help for further processing of RealDetect™ COVID-19 RT-PCR kit for Director
           General of Drug Administration (DGDA) regulations to legally market the products in
           Bangladesh.

      Facilities:

      The Principal Investigator and other investigators of the Bangladesh University of Health
      Sciences (BUHS) will be coordinating the evaluation and data analysis and publication.
      However, the testing will be carried out in a separate organization using blinded specimens
      from IEDCR at the ideSHi. It is one of the Government selected organizations which has been
      assigned for COVID-19 testing to provide services and is also a registered Contract Research
      Organization (CRO). The institute has international standard Biological Safety Levels (BSL) 2
      plus and BSL facilities with sophisticated equipment like real time PCR machine which is
      required for real time RT-PCR for COVID-19 detection.

      Approval of the Head of the Department/Institute:

      This collaborative study will be carried out in the following institutes:

      Institute of Epidemiology, Disease Control and Research (IEDCR), Mohakhali, Dhaka (For sample
      collection & sample storage) And Institute for Developing Science & Health Initiatives
      (ideSHi); Mohakhali, Dhaka (For sample analysis, data collection, data analysis)

      Ethical Implications:

      To avoid the biasness, the study will be blinded to ideSHi researchers who will be involved
      in the study.

      Permission will be taken from Bangladesh Medical Research Council.

      The privacy and confidentiality will be strictly maintained during and after data collection
      and data storage.
    
  