
    
      Marfan Syndrome (MFS) is a rare autosomal-dominant connective tissue disorder with
      pleiotropic manifestations primarily affecting the skeletal, ocular, and cardiovascular
      systems. Despite MFS affecting multiple organ systems, cardiovascular manifestations are the
      most serious and life threatening. Approximately 80% of adult MFS patients will have a
      dilated aortic root by age 40 years with aortic aneurysm and dissection the leading causes of
      morbidity and mortality. However, there is limited evidence worldwide on health-related
      quality of life (HRQoL) and psychosocial aspects of the recovery of MFS patients undergoing
      surgical intervention. Undergoing a heart operation can be a stressful and life-threatening
      experience involving a lot of uncertainties, long periods of absence from work and social
      activities as well as limitation on physical activities which can potentially lead to
      psychosocial problems and poor health-related quality of life. Therefore, there is a specific
      need for high quality descriptive and exploratory research in this area.

      The overarching aim of this prospective observational cohort study is to explore the
      psychosocial and HRQoL effects of surgical interventions for aorto-vascular manifestations of
      MFS in three large UK cardiac centres. Potential participants will be recruited from the
      outpatient pre-admission clinic. HRQoL and psychosocial factors will be determined and
      quantified using validated questionnaires before surgery and at various time points after
      surgery (at 6 weeks after hospital discharge and at 6 and 12 months after surgery). The
      questionnaires will be delivered either in paper or electronic format, depending on
      participant's preference. In-hospital post-operative morbidity burden following
      aorto-vascular surgery using cardiac post-operative morbidity score (C-POMS) tool will also
      be determined from the patients and clinical records and its association with psychosocial
      and HRQoL outcomes will be examined.

      The outcome of the study will significantly contribute to the UK and international
      evidence-base on the HRQoL and psychosocial impact of the aorto-vascular surgical
      interventions on MFS patients and will provide clinicians with the foundation that will serve
      as basis for appropriate interventions. The result will also be useful to better understand
      the condition and potentially guide the researchers in devising a patient care pathway that
      includes this aspect of care as well as develop a holistic and comprehensive service for this
      patient group.
    
  