
    
      Background:

        -  Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) facilitates the adaptation of normal and tumor tissue
           to oxygen deprivation. HIF-1 is frequently overexpressed in cancer cells, where it is
           involved in the upregulation of many gene products essential for invasion, migration,
           angiogenesis, and survival, including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF).
           Blocking HIF-1 activity inhibits the expression of VEGF, resulting in the inhibition of
           tumor growth in vitro and in vivo.

        -  EZN-2968 is an antisense oligonucleotide that specifically targets HIF-1 alpha, one of
           the subunits of HIF-1. Safety and preliminary suggestion of activity have been
           demonstrated in two Phase I trials; one patient with hepatocellular carcinoma, one with
           renal cell cancer, and one with angiosarcoma of the face treated with EZN-2968 had
           objective evidence of shrinkage of large masses. In vivo data show evidence of
           intracellular uptake of EZN-2968 into tumor cells, and in the Phase I trial, preliminary
           data show that eleven patients had prolonged stable disease (>90 days duration on
           study), three of which had objective evidence of tumor shrinkage, thus demonstrating
           proof of principle for this approach.

      Primary Objective:

      - Determine the modulation of HIF-1alpha mRNA in tumor biopsies pre- and post-administration
      of EZN-2968.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  Assess the safety of EZN-2968 in patients with advanced solid tumors.

        -  Determine the modulation of HIF-1 alpha protein levels in tumor biopsies pre- and
           post-administration of EZN-2968.

        -  Evaluate anti-tumor response as determined by RECIST.

        -  Evaluate the expression of HIF-1 alpha target genes by real-time PCR in tumor biopsies.

        -  Assess tumor angiogenesis using DCE-MRI.

      Eligibility:

        -  Adult patients with histologically or cytologically confirmed solid malignancies will be
           included in the study.

        -  Patients must have disease that is not amenable to potentially curative resection.

        -  Patients must have failed at least one line of prior therapy for metastatic disease or
           have a disease for which no standard curative therapy exists.

        -  Lesion must be amenable to biopsy.

      Design:

        -  EZN-2968 will be administered as a 2-hour IV infusion at a dose of 18 mg/kg once a week
           for 3 consecutive weeks followed by a 3-week period without drug. Each cycle will be 6
           weeks, i.e., 3 weeks of therapy followed by 3 weeks without drug.

        -  Tumor biopsies and other correlative imaging and pharmacodynamic studies will be
           performed at baseline and after the third dose. Tumor restaging will be performed every
           2 cycles.
    
  