
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the overall survival of patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck
      cancer treated with standard platinum-based chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess toxicities with the addition of bevacizumab to each platinum-doublet
      (cisplatin/docetaxel, carboplatin/docetaxel, cisplatin/fluorouracil [5-FU],
      carboplatin/5-FU).

      II. To compare the objective response rates and the progression-free survival achieved with
      the above therapies.

      III. To collect blood samples before and after therapy for future correlative studies.

      IV. To collect tumor tissue samples available at baseline from prior diagnostic procedures
      for future correlative studies.

      OUTLINE: After the physician decides which chemotherapy doublet to use, patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms for that chemotherapy combination.

      ARM IA: Patients receive chemotherapy comprising docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and
      cisplatin IV over 1-2 hours on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM IB: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and docetaxel and
      cisplatin as in Arm IA.

      ARM IIA: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day
      1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM IIB: Patients receive bevacizumab as in arm IB and docetaxel and carboplatin as in Arm
      IIA.

      ARM IIIA: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1-2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV
      continuously on days 1-4. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM IIIB: Patients receive bevacizumab as in Arm IB and cisplatin and fluorouracil as in Arm
      IIIA.

      ARM IVA: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and fluorouracil IV
      continuously on days 1-4. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM IVB: Patients receive bevacizumab as in Arm IB and carboplatin and fluorouracil as in Arm
      IVA.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  