
    
      Additional data available to this project will come from contemporaneous and historical drug
      treatment clinical trials and treatment programs conducted at HUSM with similar populations
      of patients and proposed/described as other components of the cluster of research projects
      described in the overall Research University Team Grant proposal. Comparisons of treatment
      process and outcome measures collected in this proposed clinical trial with data collected in
      contemporaneous and historical controls will enhance our ability to evaluate the potential
      efficacy of minocycline as treatment agent for co-occurring opioid and amphetamine-type
      stimulant (ATS) dependence. Data from patients receiving other drug treatments at HUSM will
      be used as reference points to evaluate potential effect sizes of treatment effects
      associated with minocycline treatment. The preliminary data on treatment retention data,
      patient satisfaction, potential adverse effects, and efficacy will be used as
      preliminary/pilot research when designing and applying for funding support for future large
      scale randomized clinical trials aimed at the development of effective medically based
      treatments of opiate and ATS abuse or dependence.

      Over the past decade, amphetamine-type stimulant (ATS) has also emerged as a major drug
      problem. Globally, ATS is now the second most commonly used illicit drug type and is more
      widely used than heroin. ATS abuse is especially prevalent and problematic in the Asian
      region, where ATS production, use, drug seizures, and demand for treatment have continued to
      increase. Injection of methamphetamine has been reported in Malaysia (Chawarski et al, 2006)
      and other south-east Asian countries (McKetin, 2008). In the most recent survey of
      out-of-treatment heroin IVDU in cities across Malaysia, more than 60% report current ATS use,
      and 29% inject ATS (Chawarski et al, 2012).

      ATS use is associated with increased HIV transmission behavioral risks. The connection of
      heroin, methamphetamine and HIV in Malaysia is well documented (Chawarski et al, 2006).
      Increased needle sharing and risky sexual behaviors lead to increased prevalence of HIV
      infection. ATS use exacerbates HIV transmission risk through a number of mechanisms: ATS
      users report engaging in more frequent and more risky sexual behaviors while using ATS and in
      more frequent needle sharing. ATS is also associated with impairments of mood and executive
      functioning that may persist for prolonged periods and may contribute to relapse to drug use,
      thus all other problems.

      Drug abuse has been a major problem in Kelantan for the past several decades (Suarn &
      NorAdam,1993) and ATS has been gaining momentum over the past decade. The number of
      individuals arrested annually for ATS in Kelantan increased over the past 5 years from 2900
      in 2007 to 5300 in 2010. For the past 5 years, Kelantan has also led Malaysia in having the
      highest population prevalence of HIV infection, at 47 per 100,000 in 2008, nearly 4 times the
      prevalence reported for the rest of Malaysia. Kelantan also has the highest number of women
      with HIV in Malaysia with more than 1200 reported in 2008, suggesting that HIV is making the
      transition to the general population. A large proportion of treatment seeking drug users in
      Kelantan are HIV positives and are susceptible to high mortality (JKNK, 2012).

      Minocycline is a broad-spectrum antibiotic derived from tetracycline. Minocycline is
      substantially more lipid-soluble than other tetracyclines, thus minocycline readily crosses
      the blood-brain barrier, and its potential efficacy for treating ATS dependence derives from
      its effects on dopamine on glutamate neurotransmission in the brain and its
      anti-inflammatory, neuro-protective and cognitive-enhancing effects in the brain (Dean et al,
      2012). Glutamate along with dopamine plays a key role in the rewarding and addictive effects
      of amphetamine, methamphetamine, and other stimulants. Input from glutamatergic pathways in
      brain reward centers enhances dopaminergic transmission in these pathways and reward.
      Blockade of glutamate receptors in these regions prevents many of the behavioral effects of
      ATS or other stimulants and prevents reinstatement of stimulant use in animal studies.
      Glutamate plays a key role in learning and memory, and blockade of glutamate interferes with
      consolidation of memory for the rewarding effects of stimulants.

      Minocycline, one of the very few medications affecting glutamate transmission, attenuates
      many of the behavioral effects of stimulants in animal models, attenuates release of dopamine
      in brain reward pathways in response to stimulants. It has cognitive-enhancing effects in
      humans, and improves stimulant-induced and phencyclidine-induced cognitive impairments. In
      animal models, minocycline improved stimulant-induced or phencyclidine-induced impairments of
      object recognition, sensorimotor gating, and visuospatial memory. A study of nicotine
      addiction showed greater reduction in craving for cigarettes while on minocycline as compared
      to placebo (Sofuoglu et al, 2009).

      In another study (Sofuoglu et al, 2011), minocycline attenuated the subjective, rewarding
      effects of amphetamine administration in healthy human volunteers, reduced plasma cortisol
      levels following amphetamine administration, and improved reaction times on a cognitive
      performance task testing attention. The cognitive-enhancing effects of minocycline have been
      found in individuals with schizophrenia, who showed improved working memory, cognitive
      flexibility and cognitive planning in response to minocycline. Addition of minocycline early
      in the treatment improves negative symptoms in patient with schizophrenia (Chaudry et al,
      2012).Minocycline exerts neuroprotective effects but under certain circumstances, also have
      neurotoxic consequences (Plane et al, 2010). Reserchers in Japan reported a case of a female
      patient whose psychotic symptoms in methamphetamine use disorder were successfully improved
      by minocycline, even though the precise mechanisms were not understood then (Tanibuchi et al,
      2010).

      Very rarely, minocycline is associated with some severe problems, including colitis,
      infection with non-susceptible organisms, liver damage, (MacNeil et al,1997), benign
      intracranial hypertension, skin rashes, autoimmune disorders or allergic reactions. Although
      these problems occur very rarely, we plan to monitor patients for adverse effects closely
      throughout the study to ensure early detection and prompt treatment of any serious advere
      effect, if one should occur. Additionally, patients treated for acne with minocycline may be
      treated with minocycline for many years, while in the proposed study we are planning to treat
      patients with minocycline for a very limited period, 4 months. We anticipate that, if it is
      found to be efficacious for treating ATS abuse or dependence, minocycline would be used in
      the initial phase of treatment to help patients consolidate a period of abstinence from ATS
      and develop healthy, drug-free life styles; we do not anticipate that minocycline would be
      used for the long-term maintenance treatment of ATS abuse or dependence.

      In addition to detoxification and treatment medications, a manual-guided educational drug and
      HIV risk reduction counseling (EDRC) will be provided to all participants. EDRC provides
      education about medical understanding of opioid and ATS addiction, highly effective
      strategies used in successful drug recovery efforts, medical and other harmful consequences
      of drug use includingHIV and other infectious disease transmission, as well as about
      effective prevention of all negative consequences of illicit drug use (Chawarski et al,
      2008). It helps patient to remain in treatment, adhere to prescribed medications, abstain
      from or reduce illicit opioid and ATS use and HIV risk behaviors, and make life-style changes
      fostering sustained recovery. It also teaches basic cognitive and behavioral coping skills
      that increase the patients' chances to reach sustained and prolonged recovery from drugs. For
      HIV positive patients, EDRC encourages patients to attend the HIV clinic and adhere to
      monitoring, medication, and other treatment recommendations. EDRC will be provided by trained
      and supervised nursing personnel, drug counselors, or therapists. It will be offered in
      individual format with the frequency ranging from 3 times per week during detoxification to
      once per week during the outpatient phase of treatment.
    
  