
    
      OBJECTIVE. No existing devices have proven effective in preventing falls in at-risk
      individuals. The objective of this study was to determine whether the FallSaver device
      reduces falls and fall-related injuries in elderly skilled nursing facility (SNF) residents.

      DESIGN. This was a randomized, prospective, open-label, cross-over study conducted over a
      six-month period.

      SETTING: The study took place in a 100-bed State Veterans SNF in Washington State.

      PARTICIPANTS. Forty-four subjects with anticipated institutional stays of at least 120 days
      participated in the study. The subjects' mean age was 82.2 + 7.1 years and all were rated
      high fall risks using the Morse scale.

      INTERVENTION Subjects were randomly assigned to the FallSaver device or no device
      (Observation) for 60 days. Following the end of the 60-day period subjects were crossed over
      to the opposite treatment. The device, enclosed in an adhesive patch, was applied to the
      subject's thigh.

      MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE The primary outcome measures were falls and fall-related injuries.
      Secondary outcomes were falls resulting from documented attempts to stand or ambulate without
      assistance, skin-tolerance to the patch, and compliance.

      RESULTS. Total patient-days for the FallSaver and Observation phases were 1,923 and 2,299,
      respectively. A total of 37 falls occurred in 18 subjects. Thirteen falls occurred during the
      FallSaver phase and 24 during Observation (p = < 0.05). A total of 7 fall-related injuries
      occurred; one during the FallSaver phase and 6 during Observation (p = < 0.01). Nineteen
      falls resulted from documented attempts to stand or ambulate without assistance, six during
      the FallSaver phase and 13 during Observation (p = < 0.05). The patch was well tolerated and
      no serious adverse effects were observed.

      CONCLUSION. The FallSaver device reduced the frequency of falls by 50% and fall-related
      injuries by 82% in elderly at-risk SNF residents. The device and associated patch enclosure
      was well tolerated and devoid of serious problems. Significant cost savings and fewer
      reductions in quality of life are possible if fall-related injuries can be reduced.
    
  