
    
      At least one in three patients is affected by atrial fibrillation (AF) after cardiac surgery,
      with most episodes occurring in the first five postoperative days. AF occurrence is
      associated with increased morbidity, short and long-term mortality, intensive care unit (ICU)
      and hospital stay and cost of care. Persistence of these associations after adjustment for
      potential confounding factors suggests that they may be causal. The incidence and prevalence
      of AF and its associated costs are expected to increase as the surgical population ages.
      Extensive effort is undertaken to prevent AF after cardiac surgery from occurring, but
      clinical practice in this area is highly variable and the evidence base for most
      interventions is sparse.

      Potassium plays an important role in cardiac electrophysiology. Serum potassium
      concentrations ([K+]) are commonly low following cardiac surgery, and appear marginally lower
      in those suffering atrial arrhythmias in non-surgical cohorts. Despite an absence of proof
      that this association is causal, efforts to maintain serum [K+] in the 'high-normal' range (≥
      4.5 mEq/L), as opposed to just intervening if potassium drops below its lower 'normal'
      threshold (<3.6 mEq/L), are considered 'routine practice' for AF prevention in post-surgical
      patients in many centres across the world.

      From the (unpublished) data from our Tight-K Feasibility Study, all 160 patients would have
      required at least one dose of potassium to supplement their levels to this high-normal range
      and 45.5% of all serum [K+] measurements were below 4.5mEq/L at some point. Data from the
      same pilot study show a median number of potassium doses given in the 'tight' group
      (high-normal serum potassium target) of seven, compared to a median of one, with most
      patients not receiving any potassium supplementation at all, in the 'relaxed' group. This
      demonstrated for the first time ever, that the practice does achieve a separation in serum
      potassium levels between the two groups, so the protocol is indeed effective in achieving
      higher serum potassium levels.

      The efficacy of the practice of maintaining high-normal serum potassium levels for the
      prevention of AF after cardiac surgery, however, remains unproven and data supporting it are
      extremely limited, being derived from observational studies rather than randomised trials.
      Indeed, no data exist to demonstrate that maintaining a high-normal potassium level is
      beneficial in these circumstances, or that aggressive replenishment of potassium in these
      patients improves outcome.

      Meanwhile, potassium supplementation may cause discomfort or harm. Routine central venous
      potassium administration in the early post-operative period, when oral supplementation is not
      possible, is time-consuming, costly and associated with clinical risk: rapid infusion can
      prove fatal, and leaving central venous catheters in situ for the sole purpose of potassium
      replacement increases infection risk. Oral replacement (when feasible) is commonly associated
      with profound nausea and gastrointestinal side effects, and is very poorly tolerated by
      patients. The annual costs of intravenous potassium exceed those for other drugs in many
      cardiac surgical units due to the large quantities administered. Nursing time (e.g. for drug
      checks and administration) will add to this cost.

      The routine maintenance of serum [K+] ≥ 4.5 mEq/L is a costly practice of unproven efficacy
      that is unpleasant and may be hazardous for patients. The investigators shall address this
      issue, performing the first appropriately powered non-inferiority multicentre randomised
      trial of potassium supplementation in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery.
    
  