
    
      According Paracetamol is often insufficient and it is necessary to switch to level 2
      analgesics (tramadol, codeine). NSAIDs are used in short courses.

      It is crucial to reassure the patient about the benign nature of the condition and to insist
      on maintaining activities. Bed rest should never be recommended, let alone prescribed. The
      usual activities of daily living should be maintained as much as possible within the limits
      allowed by pain. A work stoppage may be considered if the professional constraints are
      greater than those of daily life. The return to work has no deleterious effect and must be as
      early as possible.

      It is useful to detect early chronicization factors, especially psychosocial ones. Finally,
      in order to prevent lumbar disability, patient education, based on the bio-psycho-social
      model, must be an important part of patient care. The content of the physician's speech
      strongly influences the patient's beliefs and behaviour. However, if the information can be
      provided by the therapist, it can also be provided via brochures.

      This is why the Health Insurance launched a public information campaign in November 2017 to
      improve the management of low back therapeutic education, pain, spine sections], the French
      Society of Rheumatologyk pain. The French Society of Rheumatology, The French Society of
      Rheumatology, therapeutic education, pain, spine sections], the French Society of
      Rheumatology physical and rehabilitation medicine and the college of general medicine have
      worked together to publish a "booklet back": I suffer from low back pain: what is it and what
      to do? whose main objective is to fight against false beliefs concerning inter alia "the
      benefits of strict rest", to promote physical activity, and to recall the true indications of
      complementary examinations (radiography, CT, or MRI of the spine) Thus, the back booklet
      intended for the patient is distributed to general practitioners via the visits of the
      delegates of the Health Insurance. Nearly 1,600,000 brochures were printed and made available
      to delegates for distribution to health professionals, with 30 brochures per general
      practitioner. The brochure is also available for download on ameli.fr in the "insured" and
      "health professionals" sections (doctors, physiotherapists, care institutions, health
      centres). In this study, one of the 2 participating centres is the Groupe Hospitalier Paris
      Saint Joseph (GHPSJ), emergency department. Also, we contacted the health insurance to
      receive brochures. To our knowledge, there is no other emergency service that has done this.
      The 2nd service centre participating in the study is the general practitioner consultation
      centre at the Marie-Thérèse health centre (CMT).
    
  