
    
      Anesthesia has three elements: immobility, painlessness, and amnesia. To achieve these three
      factors depends on the balance between multiple factors, so multiple parameters need to be
      used for evaluation. In terms of subcortical function, pain indexes such as analgesia
      nociception index, surgical pleth index, etc. can be used to evaluate. By monitoring the
      parameters and comprehensive evaluation during the operation, the patient's condition can be
      fully understood. Opioids act on the central nervous system, making the nerve response slow
      and analgesic The effect is good, but there are many side effects, such as nausea and
      vomiting, drowsiness, respiratory depression, constipation, endocrine disorders, etc., and
      the central nervous system is suppressed by opioids, but the surrounding tissues are still
      damaged, releasing inflammatory mediators, causing immune dysfunction. Therefore, it is
      necessary to suppress inflammation and reduce the use of opioids, but also to effectively
      relieve pain. Nerve blockade is a powerful tool for this purpose. Local anesthetics are
      applied next to the nerves of the wound so that the pain signal cannot be transmitted to the
      central nervous system, reduce inflammatory mediators, reduce acute and chronic pain.

      Breast surgery can be completed by peripheral nerve blockade and intravenous sedation, which
      can reduce the side effects of general anesthesia such as nausea and vomiting, intubation
      discomfort and postoperative pain. The distribution of breast nerves is complex, from the
      superficial cervical plexus, brachial nerve plexus, and thoracic vertebral nerves. At
      present, the commonly used nerve blocking methods include spinal nerve block, thoracic muscle
      block, brachial nerve block, and superficial nerve block. Blocking methods such as the
      cervical plexus, studies have shown that peripheral nerve blockade can reduce the amount of
      opioid analgesics during surgery.

      This research plan is to design a randomized clinical trial to observe changes in the
      analgesic injury index (ANI), surgical pleth index (SPI), intraoperative and postoperative
      opiate demand, pain index, etc. inpatients with or without regional anesthesia under
      non-intubated breast surgery.
    
  