
    
      Chronic pain is a frequent complication after common surgical procedures such as amputation,
      mastectomy or thoracotomy. A rate between 20 and 60% of patients undergoing thoracotomy are
      reported to develop long-lasting pain.

      The causes of chronic pain after surgery are not fully known but several risk factors have
      been identified including pre and postoperative pain, nerve injury during surgery and
      physicological and genetic factors. The observed symptoms of allodynia and hyperalgesia in
      the periincisional area and evidence of intercostal nerve injury due to rib retraction during
      surgery suggest a neuropathic aetiology.

      Excitatory neurotransmitters, acting through N-metil-aspartate receptor, have been recently
      postulated to play an important role in the development and maintenance of pathologic pain
      states. In experimental pain research, NMDA receptor antagonists reduced wind-up and central
      sensitization. Ketamine is one of the few NMDA antagonists available in clinical practice
      that, administered at subanesthetic doses, would inhibit the spinal processing of nociceptive
      input.

      It has been proposed that analgesic drugs might more adequately prevent central sensitization
      when administered during the entire period of high-intensity noxious stimulation.

      Therefore, the investigators hypothesized that continuous ketamine infusion would potentiate
      epidural ropivacaine and fentanyl-induced analgesia after posterolateral thoracotomy or
      minithoracotomy, reduce periincisional hyperalgesia and long-term postoperative pain. To test
      these hypothesis, the investigators administered a low dose of intravenous or epidural
      ketamine or placebo to patients who received an epidural infusion of ropivacaine and fentanyl
      for postthoracotomy pain.

      The Institutional Review Board of the hospital approved this study, and each patient gave
      written informed consent. The investigators planned to enroll 90 patients who were scheduled
      to undergo posterolateral thoracotomy or minithoracotomy in this double-blind, controlled,
      randomized study. Patients who met the inclusion and exclusion criteria would be included and
      assigned to one of the three groups by a computer-generated schedule. Patients, nurses in
      charge of postoperative care, and staff members, who inform the patient performed analgesia,
      and collected data are blinded to the group.

      The day before surgery patients are instructed on the use of Patient Controlled Analgesia
      pump, Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) and the Quantitative Sensory Testing. Subjective tests
      (VAS, neuropathic pain symptom inventory, pain catastrophizing scale) and QST are also
      performed the day before surgery.

      Anesthetic management is standardized to all study patients. Premedication with sublingual
      diazepam (5-10 mg) is administered 2 hours before surgery. A thoracic epidural catheter is
      placed before induction through the T7-8 interspace. General anesthesia is induced by
      fentanyl (3 mcg/kg), propofol (2mg/kg) and cisatracurium (0.15 mg/kg). A double-lumen
      endobronchial tube is placed to perform differential one-lung ventilation. The left radial
      arteria is secured for arterial pressure monitoring and arterial blood sampling. Monitoring
      included electrocardiography, haemoglobin oxygen saturation, end-tidal carbon dioxide tension
      and invasive arterial pressure. A bolus of ketamine or placebo, intravenous or epidurally,
      according to the group of study is administered before skin incision. The study drug is
      prepared and placed by a nurse who does not participate in the anesthesia or evaluation of
      postoperative pain. Anesthesia is maintained by sevoflurane 1.5-2%, fentanyl and
      cisatracurium titrated according to the patients´needs. At the end of the skin closure, 5-7
      ml of ropivacaine 0.2% is administered epidurally followed by epidural infusion of
      ropivacaine 0.15% and fentanyl 2mcg/ml and epidural or intravenous infusion of ketamine or
      placebo according to the group. Patients are extubated in the operating room and transferred
      to the postanesthesia care unit.

      Epidural infusion is maintained for 48 hours at a rate of 3-6ml/h, boluses of 2-3 ml are
      allowed every 20 minutes.The protocol for rescue analgesia consisted of the first
      administration of iv metamizol 2g per 8 hours. The second rescue analgesia line consisted of
      the adjunction of subcutaneous methadone 3-6 mg per 8 hours. Patients remained in the
      postanesthesia care unit for 24 hours. Pain at rest and on coughing is assessed with VAS at
      1-4-8-12-24-72 hours. Side effects including cognitive effects such as nightmares or
      hallucinations, blurred vision, sedation (not arousable except by persisting verbal or
      tactile stimulation), or haemodynamic effects (hypertension over 20% their basal values).
      Subjective test and QST are performed at 72h, 7 day, 3 and 6 months after surgery.

      The investigators considered 30 patients per group in order to obtain 3 points of difference
      of the ratio between the hyperalgesia area and the incision length, considering a SD of
      differences of 3.5, type I error of 0.05 and statistical power of 0.9.
    
  