
    
      <Patients> After obtaining the agreement of Chang Gung Medical Foundation Institutional
      Review Board, the investigators retrospectively included patients from July 2013 to September
      2017. There were 39 patients treated for AO by the same dermatologist with suction-assisted
      cartilage shaver at the Department of Dermatology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung,
      Taiwan. There were 28 females and 11 males, ranging from 14 to 52 years of age. The
      participants were all bothered by the axillary osmidrosis, which had a huge impact on their
      daily life with the embarrassing malodors. Operations were performed under local anaesthesia
      and in an outpatient basis.

      <Operation> During the procedure, both of patient's axillae were exposed with the patient
      lying supine and arms abducted to avoid injury to the brachial plexus. The investigator cut
      the axillary hair short for better visualizing the region of apocrine glands, which are
      located near the hair follicles. The hair bearing elliptical region of axilla was marked
      before hair cutting. Tumescent solution was prepared with 0.1% lidocaine, 1:500,000
      epinephrine and 10mEq/L sodium bicarbonate. The investigator injected the tumescent solution
      to the subcutaneous level of each axilla in view of the hydro-dissection ability of tumescent
      and minimizing the bleeding.

      A 0.5-cm long incision was made in the center of identified elliptical surgical area at each
      axilla for the better access of arthroscopy to remove the apocrine glands located at
      dermo-subcutaneous junction, and for hiding the scar in the skin crease to make it less
      noticeable. A suction-assisted cartilage shaver (E9005 System, Linvatec Corporation, Largo,
      Florida, USA) was introduced through the incisions to remove of the subcutaneous tissue
      containing the apocrine glands radially. The investigator set the system to keep the inner
      cannula at 1500 rotations per minute in oscillation mode. After defatting, the incisions were
      closed primarily with 4-0 polyglactin. The investigator anchored the defatting skin to the
      axillary fascia by using 4-0 nylon sutures instead of the tie-over dressing used in the
      conventional shaver procedure, and the investigator also made several drainage holes by
      inserting an 18G needle obliquely into the defatting skin rather than placing the drainage
      tubes used in the conventional shaver procedure. Therefore, draining tubes were no longer
      needed. The investigator will remove the stitches at the 8th day after the operation.

      <Efficacy assessments> The participants' medical history, physical examinations, and vital
      signs were carefully collected before the operation. The investigators retrospectively
      evaluated the pre- and post-operative clinical efficacies with a patient-centered scoring
      method. The severity of AO before the operation was classified from 1 to 5 to indicate the
      least severe to the most severe condition, from undetectable, mild, moderate, severe, to
      unbearable of malodor. The clinical efficacy was classified to 5 grades: poor (0%-20%), fair
      (21%-39%), acceptable (40%- 59%), good(60%-79%), and excellent (80%-100%), which was
      evaluated based on the elimination of malodor and the post-operative satisfaction. To
      evaluate the safety, adverse reactions such as hematoma, seroma, infection, wound necrosis,
      skin necrosis or perforation, and scar formation were recorded.
    
  