
    
      Musculoskeletal disorders and degeneration represent injuries or pain in the body's joint
      ligaments, tendons, muscles, nerves, and skeletal elements that support extremities, spine
      and related tissues. Direct injuries and aging contribute to breakdown and inflammation of
      these tissues, leading to debilitation and loss of function in these areas. This has major
      impact on quality of life, occupational/recreation limitations, and psychosocial
      implications.

      Many therapies have been employed including medications, physical therapy, occupational
      therapy, and a variety of surgical interventions each of which have distinct limitations,
      often covering the issues versus providing actual healing and return to function. Many
      reports are now available utilizing self-healing options which include use of stem/stromal
      cells (either from adipose or marrow) using targeted placement of cells, matrix and platelet
      concentrates. This is termed Biocellular therapy, and typically is optimized by use of
      ultrasound guidance. It is proposed that use of cellular isolates derived from the largest
      deposit of these cells (adipose greater than marrow), may use in conjunction with targeted
      placement or as a stand alone methodology of parenteral use.

      This study is designed as a interventional means to examine the safety and efficacy of the
      use of cellular stromal vascular fraction (cSVF) in musculoskeletal pain, dysfunction
      degeneration or inflammatory disorders. The important cellular components represent, not the
      adipocyte, but the heterogeneous cell group associated with the peri-vasculature. The group
      does include certain cells referred to as "stem" or "stromal" cells, and are considered key
      elements of cellular and biocellular treatments. The carrier microvascular tissue, adipose,
      has been shown to not participate in wound healing or cellular replacement per se. It is well
      established that those perivascular (adventitial) cell types are found in essentially all
      tissues of the body, but in highest numbers in the easily accessed depots with the subdermal
      fat. It is proposed that areas of these groups are responded to as a result of "signaling" to
      permit a chemotactic request for needed growth factors and cytokines which effectively
      contribute to the healing capability at failing or damaged sites. This Trial will investigate
      the safety/efficacy of either combining specific targeting (ultrasound) with and/or without
      systemic parenteral route introduction.

      This study includes closed syringe, disposable microcannula harvesting of subdermal fat
      tissues for obtaining the native perivascular stromal elements (extracellular matrix (ECM)
      and periadventitial cells shown to be multipotent (in potentials), incubation, digestion and
      isolation of cSVF. This isolated and concentration of stem/stromal cellular pellet (without
      actual extracellular matrix or stromal scaffolding elements) is then suspended in 500 cc
      sterile Normal Saline (NS) and deployed via peripheral intravenous route. Evaluations of
      safety issues are measured at intervals (both severe and non-severe categories) and by
      ultrasound and imaging studies.

      Biocellular treatments are defined as use of tissue stromal vascular fraction (tSVF) obtained
      within adipose tissue complex (ATC), combined with high density platelet rich plasma (HD PRP)
      concentrated from standard blood draw. Concentration in FDA approved platelet concentrate
      devices to achieve levels of >4 times patient's own measured baseline levels. Such
      concentrates have been shown to provide important growth factors and cytokines (signal
      proteins) naturally involved in wound healing and repair functions. A form of Cell-Enriched
      Biocellular Therapy (CEBT) is available as a component of this study, in which the tSVF + HD
      PRP can be enhanced in cellular numbers via the process of isolating and concentrating cSVF
      discussed above. Many small case series and case reports have been published in the peer
      reviewed medical literature which suggest that these interventions are both safe and
      effective at relieving musculoskeletal disorders included in the study.

      This study in intended to provide evidence of a non-drug safety and efficacy using both of
      these interventions. Evaluation and tracking of adverse events or severe adverse events (SAE)
      will be tracked according to intervals described. Examination of the optimal numbers of
      cells, viability of such cells, and evaluation of the efficacy will be statistically studied
      reported relative outcomes.
    
  