
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine if using an over-the-counter, commercially
      available sleep noise machine playing pink or white noise will reduce the incidence of
      delirium in hospitalized patients over the age of 65. Delirium is an acute change in
      cognition which commonly occurs in hospitalized older adults, and is linked with sleep-wake
      cycle disturbance. Delirium is associated with increased morbidity and mortality as well as
      longer hospital stays. This project will record Nursing Delirium Screening (Nu-DESC) scores
      for those receiving the intervention and comparing them to baseline data. Reducing delirium
      rates using a noninvasive, inexpensive method in a hospital setting could have a significant
      impact on patient outcomes and potentially reduce costs associated with longer hospital
      stays.

      This protocol is based on two concepts. The first is that white/pink noise aids in promoting
      both sleep quality and quantity and the second is that poor sleep is associated with
      delirium. Therefore, it stands to reason that improving sleep may decrease the rate of
      delirium. It is well documented that the elderly are affected by delirium more than other
      demographics, therefore the benefits to this group would be the greatest in terms of
      decreasing morbidity and mortality.

      White/pink noise was first described as a successful sleep intervention more than 30 years
      ago in a cardiac intensive care unit study. From that time to present there have been many
      studies that describe positive effects on sleep by noise machines as a single intervention,
      but typically they are bundled with other interventions such as earplugs and eye masks.
      Within the last 5 years, there has been a resurgence in the clinical study of white/pink
      noise on sleep quality and many of these studies use the gold standard of polysomnography,
      which employs many sensors to continuously monitor brain waves and sleep patterns. These
      studies also show a positive impact on both duration and quality of sleep.

      More than 15 recent studies were identified that found a correlation between the sleep cycle
      and delirium. In these studies, sleep disturbance is present in the majority of patients with
      delirium. There is a clear link between sleep-wake cycle disturbance and delirium, but it is
      unclear whether an interrupted sleep-wake cycle causes delirium or vice versa. Despite the
      uncertainty, studies do show that sleep-enhancing interventions decrease rates of delirium
      and the duration of the delirium. The principal investigator would like to determine if
      white/pink noise can improve sleep quality and/or quantity, thereby decreasing the incidence
      of delirium.
    
  