
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Examine the effectiveness of a restorative yoga (RY) intervention vs home yoga practice
           in patients undergoing chemotherapy for ovarian cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Examine the effectiveness of RY vs home yoga practice on depression, distress, and sleep
           quality in these patients.

        -  Examine the acute (pre- and post-yoga class) effects in these patients.

        -  Test the feasibility of using behavioral strategies to enhance yoga intervention
           adherence.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

        -  Arm I (restorative yoga intervention): Patients attend 45-minute group yoga classes
           every 3 weeks on the days they are scheduled for chemotherapy for approximately 5-6
           sessions. Patients are provided with a yoga DVD, a manual with photos and written
           descriptions/guidance to practice yoga postures at home, and basic yoga equipment (yoga
           mat, strap, block, yoga blankets) and instructed to practice to the DVD 3 times per week
           (twice weekly during week of group yoga class) for ≥ 45 minutes. Patients record yoga
           practice time/activity at the third yoga session of each week.

        -  Arm II (home yoga practice): Patients are provided with a yoga DVD, a manual with photos
           and written descriptions/guidance to practice yoga postures at home, and basic yoga
           equipment (yoga mat, strap, block, yoga blankets) and instructed to practice to the DVD
           3 times per week for ≥ 45 minutes. Patients record yoga practice time/activity at the
           third yoga session of each week.

      All patients complete questionnaires at baseline, at weeks 9, 18, and 22. Self-report
      measures include Distress Thermometer, Positive and Negative Affect Schedule, Center for
      Epidemiologic Studies-Depression Scale, M.D. Anderson Symptom Inventory, Functional
      Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Ovarian, Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy
      (FACIT) - Spiritual Subscale, FACIT- Fatigue Subscale, State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, Women's
      Health Initiative Insomnia Rating Scale, Medical Outcome Study-Social Support Survey,
      Integrative Medicine Use, Pre- and Post- Class Ratings, and Intervention Feedback .

      After completion of study, patients are followed at 4 weeks.
    
  