
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the effects of a rewards-and web-based physical activity intervention that
      includes structured social interaction between participants to the same web-based physical
      activity intervention that does not include structured social interaction on fitness among
      children and adolescents following treatment for cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the effect of a rewards-based, socially interactive web-based physical
      activity intervention on markers of cardiometabolic health among children and adolescents
      following treatment for cancer (compared to the same web-based physical activity intervention
      without social interaction).

      II. To evaluate the effect of a rewards-based, socially interactive, web-based physical
      activity intervention on physical activity, quality of life, fatigue, and school attendance
      among children and adolescents following treatment for cancer (compared to the same web-based
      physical activity intervention without social interaction).

      III. To determine if the effect of a rewards-based, socially interactive, web-based physical
      activity intervention on markers of cardiometabolic health is mediated by changes in fitness
      among children and adolescents following treatment for cancer (compared to the same web-based
      physical activity intervention without social interaction).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive educational handouts about physical activity and are encouraged to
      increase physical activity to at least 420 minutes per week. Patients wear Sqord activity
      monitor daily and upload data at least once a week to the Sqord website. Patients also access
      the limited version of Sqord website to get basic information related to their physical
      activity. Patients will not be told of the details of earning of monetary incentives. Their
      activity will be monitored during the 6 month intervention period and will receive all earned
      gift cards or prizes after the intervention period ends. The patient will be encouraged to
      continue to wear the device for the remainder of the study, although they will no longer be
      earning monetary incentives.

      ARM II: Patients receive educational handouts about physical activity and are encouraged to
      increase physical activity to at least 420 minutes per week. Patients wear Sqord activity
      monitor daily and upload data at least once a week to the Sqord website. Patients also access
      the full version of the interactive-reward based Sqord website to see their activity, earn
      activity points, see other Sqord player's activity, and interact with other Sqord members.
      Patients will receive additional details about how to earn gift cards or prizes for engaging
      in the intervention and will be rewarded for all earned incentives throughout the 6 month
      intervention period. The patient will be encouraged to continue to wear the device for the
      remainder of the study, although they will no longer be earning monetary incentives.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 24 and 48 weeks.
    
  