
    
      Experiencing mild anger and aggression in frustrating situations is typical in childhood;
      however, over time most children develop the capacity to regulate their anger in emotionally
      provoking situations. Those who continue to struggle with emotional and behavioral regulation
      are at heightened risk for social isolation, delinquency, substance abuse, and academic
      problems later in life. Moreover, adults who were aggressive as children experience poor
      physical and mental health, and may find limited career opportunities.

      Although anger regulation is a common and clinically significant psychiatric concern for
      children and adolescents, effective treatment options are limited. As a result, clinicians
      increasingly rely on psychotropic medications to blunt anger. Psychotropic medications can
      reduce anger and aggression in the short term, but they fail in the long-term goal of
      teaching self-regulation, and carry the risk of serious side-effects, including obesity,
      metabolic syndrome, and type II diabetes. However, engaging youth with anger issues in
      therapeutic treatments can be difficult, with high rates of attrition. These difficulties
      underline the need for innovative treatments that can effectively engage patients and enhance
      their ability to control their emotions and behaviors.

      In response to this need, clinicians at Boston Children's Hospital developed Regulate and
      Gain Emotional Control (RAGE-Control), a therapeutic videogame that requires players to
      maintain low levels of physiologic arousal while rapidly reacting to incoming stimuli and
      inhibiting erroneous responses. It was initially designed for use with Cognitive Behavioral
      Therapy (CBT) to motivate children to remain engaged in therapy, and to foster the learning,
      practice, and generalization of self-regulation skills in the midst of frustrating or anger
      provoking situations. Pilot data from an open label trial of RAGE-Control on a pediatric
      psychiatric inpatient unit demonstrated improvement in patient self-reported anger and
      aggression after 5 sessions of CBT with RAGE-Control, when compared with a treatment as usual
      group. A subsequent outpatient randomized controlled trial comparing CBT with RAGE-Control to
      CBT with a sham videogame demonstrated that patients who participated in the RAGE-Control
      intervention had significantly greater improvements in overt aggression and oppositionality,
      parental stress, and family atmosphere. The participants in the RAGE-Control group also had
      fewer drop outs, and twice as many treatment responders as the participants in the control
      arm.
    
  