
    
      Although the number of spinal surgeries has been increasing for many years, the methods for
      perioperative pain relief have remained limited. According to some report show that surgery
      of the lumbar spine is characterized by diffuse and severe postoperative pain.
      Pre/postoperative oral opioids, gabapentinoids, nonsteroidal antiinﬂammatory drugs are
      frequently included in multimodal analgesia for spinal surgery, but the effect was not
      satisfactory. The ultrasound-guided thoracolumbar interfascial plane block (TLIPB) is a
      peripheral nerve block, which injecting local anesthetic between the muitifidus and
      longissimus muscles at the level of 3rd lumbar vertebra and can block the dorsal rami of
      thoracolumbar nerves. TLIPB have the potential to provide long-lasting postoperative
      analgesia and reduce opioid consumption while minimizing the motor block associated with
      neuraxial and plexus blocks. However, a new approach of the TLIPB technique by injecting
      local anesthetic between the longissimus and iliocostalis muscles, that is the Lateral TLIPB.
      Comparing with the TLIPB, Lateral TLIPB have some advantages, first; ultrasonographic
      identiﬁcation of the multiﬁdus and longissimus muscles may be difﬁcult, and it is easier to
      find the plane between the longissimus and iliocostal muscles, so, the success rate of
      puncture is higher; secondly; lateral to medial needle advancement can cause inadvertent
      neuroaxial puncture. A medial to lateral approach may be safer to perform to avoid dural
      puncture. So, the purpose of this study is to investigate the efficacy and safety of the
      Lateral TLIPB combined with patient controlled intravenous analgesia (PCIA) is superior to
      PCIA in reducing postoperative pain in patients undergoing spinal surgery.

      This study was approved by the institutional review board of the First Affiliated Hospital of
      Chongqing Medical University. The protocol design is in accordance with Consolidated
      Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) statement. All potentially eligible participants will
      be asked to give written informed consent before they are enrolled in this study. This study
      is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trial guided by the standard
      of good clinical practice (GCP), and eligible participants are divided into two groups: group
      Lateral TLIPB and group PCIA, and primary assess the outcomes of the intensity of acute pain
      after Lumbar disc surgery.

      Participants in group Lateral TLIPB will receive a single injection local anesthetic at the
      level of third lumbar vertebra between the longissimus and iliocostalis muscles on either
      side of the spine, and combined with PCIA post-operatively.

      Participants in group PCIA will receive the equal volume of 0.9% normal saline between the
      longissimus and iliocostalis muscles on either side of the spine and PCIA post-operatively.

      The primary outcome of this study is the intensity of acute pain after Lumbar disc
      surgery.The secondary outcomes of this study rescue medication and adverse events associated
      with the post-operative analgesia.

      This study will be conducted under the supervision of an independent auditor. Every week, the
      auditor checked the data of the participants the day after the surgery was conducted.
      Assessment of pain intensity and prognostic outcomes must be confirmed by the auditor in
      sample population. When there is disagreement between surgeon and anesthesiologists in
      evaluating the prognosis of patients, the auditor must solve this disagreement by discussion
      with evaluators. Data will be double-entered by two statisticians with limitation of access
      and locked during statistical analysis.
    
  