
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety of paclitaxel and ifosfamide followed by dose-escalated,
           dose-intensive paclitaxel, carboplatin, and ifosfamide with autologous peripheral blood
           stem cell support in patients with cisplatin-resistant germ cell tumor. (Phase I)

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of paclitaxel, carboplatin, and ifosfamide when
           given with a high-dose treatment program in these patients. (Phase I)

        -  Determine the efficacy of this regimen when given as salvage therapy in the second-line
           or third-line setting, in terms of complete response, in these patients. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of paclitaxel, carboplatin, and ifosfamide
      followed by a phase II, open-label study.

        -  Phase I:

             -  Paclitaxel, ifosfamide, and autologous peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC)
                collection: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1 and ifosfamide IV
                over 2 hours on days 1-3. Patients undergo leukapheresis on days 11-13. Patients
                also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) twice daily beginning on day 3
                and continuing until leukapheresis is completed. Beginning on day 14 or 21,
                patients may receive a second course of paclitaxel, ifosfamide, and G-CSF. Patients
                may also undergo additional leukapheresis.

             -  Paclitaxel, carboplatin, ifosfamide, and autologous PBSC transplantation: Patients
                receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours, high-dose carboplatin IV over 30 minutes, and
                ifosfamide IV over 4 hours on days 1-3. Patients also receive G-CSF SC beginning on
                day 3 and continuing until blood counts recover. Patients undergo reinfusion of
                autologous PBSCs on day 5. Treatment repeats every 21-28 days for 3 courses in the
                absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of paclitaxel, carboplatin, and ifosfamide
      until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose
      preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive treatment as in phase I with paclitaxel, carboplatin, and
           ifosfamide at the MTD determined in phase I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 1 year and then
      annually thereafter.
    
  