
    
      All the procedures will be made in the outpatient clinic of the removable prosthodontics
      department, faculty of oral medicine, Cairo University except the CBCT will be performed in
      the Oral radiology department, faculty of oral medicine, Cairo University.

      The selected patients will be informed of the nature of the research work and informed
      consent will be signed by each one of them. Only motivated patients who showed co-operation
      will participate in the study. Patients will be randomly divided into 2 groups.

      Clinical examination and investigations will be carried out for the eligible patients
      including TMJ examination and intraoral examination for oral mucosa. Diagnostic charts will
      be prepared with full medical and dental history as well as radiographic records. The upper
      and lower study casts were mounted on a semi-adjustable articulator to evaluate the interarch
      space and the occlusal plane.

      Abutment teeth will be evaluated regarding mobility, caries, existing restoration, over
      eruption, and malalignment. Pocket depth around the abutment teeth will be measured buccally,
      lingually, and proximally. Radiographic evaluation of all abutment teeth will be carried out
      to assess the amount of bone support, crestal bone height, continuity of lamina dura,
      periapical pathosis, crown/root ratio, and root form. Panoramic radiograph also to evaluate
      the bone quality and quantity in the lower anterior region.

      All the patients will be motivated for meticulous oral hygiene.

      In (Group I) The design of the finished partial overdenture will be as follows; two rests on
      principle abutments and lingual plate major connector. The trial of the metallic framework
      will be carried out for proper seat and fit.

      Patients will receive anterior single implant in the mandibular sympheseal region.

      The locator attachment will be inserted into the implant fixture, leaving the attachment base
      protruding at least 2 mm above the tissue surface. The partial overdenture will be filled
      with resin, and the patient will be guided to occlude in centric occlusion. The partial
      overdenture will be removed after the resin curing and adjusted accordingly to assure a
      comfortable fit.

      In (Group2) The design of the finished removable partial denture will be as follows; double
      Aker clasp on mandibular second premolar and first molar, with no indirect retention and
      lingual plate as major connector .
    
  