
    
      This blinded, randomized control trial is being performed at the University of Cincinnati
      Medical Center.

      Patients will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups: Group One will be
      comprised of patients treated with fracture site injection containing 20 mL of 0.5%
      ropivacaine with an 18-gauge needle (150 mm length), Group Two will be comprised of patients
      treated with fracture site injection containing 20ml of normal saline. The injection will be
      administered by the orthopaedic trauma team after the insertion of the final intramedullary
      implant and skin closure prior to final surgical dressing application. The injection will be
      performed in a standard fashion with aspiration of hematoma followed by the injection. All
      postoperative management will be per standard of care.

      The size of the hematoma will have no effect on the procedure. When a hematoma block is
      utilized in the care of orthopaedic trauma patients, its aim is to infiltrate the anesthetic
      to the fracture edges and injured soft tissue to allow for pain control and fracture
      manipulation without additional sedation. Aspiration of the hematoma tells the clinician that
      the tip of the needle is near the fracture site and not in a neurovascular structure.

      The maximal single dose of ropivacaine without vasoconstrictor is 2-3 mg/kg.9 0.5%
      ropivacaine has 5 mg/mL of ropivacaine. 20 mL of 0.5% ropivacaine has 100 mg of ropivacaine.
      100 mg of ropivacaine can be toxic to a patient less than 33-50 kg or 73-110 lb. If a patient
      weighs less than 110 lb, the ropivacaine dose will be scaled down below 2 mg/kg.

      Regional anesthesia including nerve blocks is not routinely used in the setting of traumatic
      femoral shaft fractures. A nerve block would compromise the patient's neurologic examination
      in the immediate postoperative period.

      Randomization will be performed via Microsoft Excel to generate random numbers. Allocation
      will be concealed and revealed to the surgical team in the hour prior to the procedure. The
      patients and the nursing staff who assess postoperative pain will be blinded to the treatment
      allocation.

      An a priori power analysis was performed to determine the sample size for the primary outcome
      measure. Prior literature has indicated that a difference of 1.3 on a VAS is clinically
      significant.5 Therefore, it was determined that a total of 44 patients were necessary per
      group to detect a 1.5-point difference on the VAS (power = 80%, p = 0.05).
    
  