
    
      The study is a randomized controlled trial investigating a multimodal postoperative pain
      management protocol which will include use of ice therapy and scheduled opioid-sparing
      medications for pain control after minimally invasive gynecologic surgery. The study will
      include women >/= 18yo who speak English and are admitted for observation after a qualifying
      laparoscopic or robotic gynecologic procedure. The investigators will identify potential
      participants from the operating schedule, screen for any exclusion criteria, and approach
      those eligible for inclusion on the day of surgery. All participants will receive a pain
      regimen with medications commonly used to manage post-surgical pain including nonsteroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), acetaminophen, and prescription opioids. Participants
      randomized to the intervention arm will receive prolonged scheduled NSAID and acetaminophen
      (96 hours instead of 24 hours) and will receive 24 hours of intermittent ice-therapy (20
      minutes every 2-3 hours) on their abdominal incisions beginning within 1-2 hours after
      surgery. On post-operative day or day 1, a study investigator will administer a study
      questionnaire to all participants which will include a pain score, satisfaction score, and
      quality of recovery validated survey (the QoR-40). After discharge, participants will
      complete short web-based survey questionnaires on day 2 and 3. On day 4 a final and more
      comprehensive web-based survey will be sent to all participants which will include the
      24-hour assessment in addition to the QoR-40 questionnaire, a final satisfaction
      questionnaire, and pill counts of left-over discharge medications. The day 4 survey completes
      the participants active part in the study. On or after day 30 a chart review will be
      performed to assess for post-operative complications, emergency room visits, telephone calls,
      unexpected office visits, and refill requests. An Ohio Rx Reporting System (OARRS) report
      will further screen for any additional narcotic prescriptions in the 30 day postoperative
      period. This will mark completion of participation in study. The completion of the study
      questionnaires is anticipated to take about 1.5 to 2 hours in total time throughout the
      study. There are no additional clinic visits or costs associated with participation in this
      study.
    
  