
    
      The primary endpoint will be to determine the safety and feasibility of administering ovarian
      cancer peptides to women who have undergone debulking surgery and systemic chemotherapy, with
      the secondary objectives of evaluating immune response as measured by ELISPOT to the
      immunizations, to compare the immune response as measured by ELISPOT achieved by the two
      different dosing strategies and to assess disease relapse survival. Two cohorts of 9 patients
      each will be treated with different doses of the OCPM vaccine. They will receive the peptide
      vaccine subcutaneously on weeks 0,1,2,3,5 and6 and then receive the immunizations every 1
      month for 6 months or disease recurrence. The first 9 patients will be entered into the first
      cohort; if 1 or fewer patients experience Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) then the next 9 will
      be enrolled into the second cohort. DLT is defined as any Grade 3 or greater hematologic or
      non-hematologic toxicity or autoimmune disease (except for fever, skin reaction, or alopecia
      which would be grade 4) occurring at any time from the first immunization until 30 days after
      the last immunization. Toxicity will be assessed at each dose level using CTC toxicity
      criteria. Ovarian cancer peptide-specific immune response will be measured by ELISpot. Time
      to disease relapse will be based on composite assessment of clinical signs, objective exam
      findings, radiologic imaging, and CA125 results. A dosing scheme will be considered safe if
      <1 of the first 9 subjects treated at a dose level experience DLT (as described above). A
      subject will be considered evaluable for safety if treated with at least one immunization. A
      T cell response will be considered positive by ELISpot if: the mean number of spots in six
      wells with antigen exceeds the number of spots in six control wells by 10 and the difference
      between single values of the six wells containing antigen and the six control wells is
      statistically significant at a level of p ≤ 0.05 using Student's t test.
    
  