
    
      Background:

        -  Although Hodgkins lymphoma (HL) is considered a highly treatable cancer, patients with
           relapsed and chemotherapy refractory disease represent a major therapeutic challenge.

        -  Only 30-65% of relapsed patients will achieve long-term disease free survival with the
           current standard of care high-dose chemotherapy with autologous hematopoietic stem cell
           transplant (ASCT).

        -  The malignant Reed-Sternberg cells of HL and the surrounding benign T cell infiltrates
           often express CD25, the high affinity interleukin-2 receptor (IL-2R alpha).

        -  In study NCI-97-C-0110, we treated 30 patients with CD25-expressing relapsed or
           refractory HL with radioimmunotherapy (RIT) using (90)Y-labeled daclizumab (anti-CD25),
           and achieved a 63% response rate including 12 complete responses with few serious
           adverse events other than MDS in 4 patients.

        -  We propose integrating (90)Y-labeled daclizumab RIT into the induction regimen of ASCT
           in an effort to improve the response and disease-free survival in relapsed and
           refractory HL.

      Objectives:

      Phase I Primary Objectives:

        -  To assess the safety and adverse events associated with (90)Y-daclizumab (humanized
           anti-CD25) radioimmunotherapy (RIT) in combination with high-dose BEAM (carmustine,
           etoposide, cytarabine, [Ara-C, cytosine arabinoside] and melphalan) chemotherapy and
           autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (ASCT) in patients with relapsed or
           refractory Hodgkin s lymphoma (HL) with adverse prognostic factors.

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose in mCi of (90)Y-daclizumab RIT in combination
           with high-dose BEAM chemotherapy and ASCT in patients with relapsed or refractory HL.

      Phase II Primary Objectives:

        -  To assess the frequency of the failure to engraft, myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS),
           secondary leukemia for the development of abnormal bone-marrow cytogenetics in
           refractory or relapsed HL patients treated with (90)Y-daclizumab RIT in combination with
           high-dose BEAM chemotherapy and ASCT.

        -  To estimate the response rate (the number of complete and partial responses) in patients
           with refractory or relapsed HD to (90)Y-daclizumab RIT administered in combination with
           high-dose BEAM chemotherapy and ASCT.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must have a confirmed diagnosis of relapsed or refractory HL with at least 10%
           of malignant Reed-Sternberg cells or infiltrating T-cells expressing CD25 (IL-2R alpha).
           A. Patients must have at least one of the following: (1) had an initial relapse less
           than 12 months after achieving a complete response (CR) with primary chemotherapy for
           HL; (2) were Staged at III/IV at diagnosis; (3) exhibited chemotherapy resistant disease
           or (4) did not achieve a CR with cytoreductive chemotherapy prior to a planned
           transplant. B. Patient must have a lesion of at least 1.0 cm in its greatest diameter.
           C. Patients with lymphocyte predominant HL are excluded. D. Patients with pre-existing
           myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or marrow cytogenic abnormalities will not be eligible to
           participate.

        -  Omission of cytotoxic chemotherapy or other systemic therapy of HL for at least 4 weeks
           prior to entry into the trial.

        -  No prior ASCT or allogeneic stem cell transplant.

      Design:

        -  A single institution non-randomized open-label phase I/II trial.

        -  Patients will undergo peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) mobilization with
           granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF, filgrastim) and Plerixafor followed by
           apheresis to collect a target dose of 4 x 106 cluster of differentiation 34 (CD34)
           cells/kg (minimal dose of 2 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg) of actual body weight.

        -  Phase I study will be carried out using a standard 3 + 3 cohort dose-escalation design:

             -  Dose level 1: Patients will receive a single dose of 15 mCi 90Y-daclizumab RIT (day
                -15 2 days) followed by high-dose BEAM chemotherapy (beginning Day -6) and ASCT
                (Day 0).

             -  Dose levels 2-7: Patients will receive two doses of 90Y-daclizumab RIT 6 weeks
                apart (Day -56 and -15 2 days) followed by high-dose BEAM chemotherapy (beginning
                day -6) and ASCT (Day 0). The first dose of 90Y-daclizumab will be fixed at 15 mCi.
                The second dose will be escalated in 15 mCi increments from 15 mCi until maximum
                tolerated dose, not to exceed 90 mCi.

        -  Phase II: All patients will receive two doses of 90Y-daclizumab (Day -56 and -15 2 days)
           followed by high-dose BEAM chemotherapy (beginning Day -6) and ASCT (Day 0). The first
           dose of RIT will be 15 mCi. The second dose will be the maximum tolerated dose as
           determined from phase I.

           111In-daclizumab (5 mCi) imaging may be performed concurrently with each 90Ydaclizumab
           RIT and at day 100 after ASCT.
    
  