
    
      Participants in this study are already scheduled to have major abdominal or pelvic cancer
      surgery.

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will exercise on a stationary bicycle, while
      breathing through a mouthpiece and wearing a nose clip, before your surgery. You will be
      asked to pedal at 60 revolutions per minute as the resistance to pedaling gradually
      increases. During your pedaling, your vital signs will be monitored using a blood pressure
      cuff, electrocardiogram (ECG) leads (to measure the electrical activity of the heart), and a
      pulse oximeter. The mouthpiece is used to analyze the inhaled vs the exhaled breaths. The
      nose clip is to remind you to breathe through the mouthpiece. This will help researchers
      learn the level of oxygen uptake during exercise, before surgery.

      You will stop the test when you become tired. The length of this test will vary from
      participant to participant.

      You will be asked questions to help rate how well you are able to move physically, based on
      two independent forms. These forms will rate your physical status according to 2 scales ( 0
      to 4, and 10 to 100, respectively), with high scores meaning less difficulty with physical
      movement and lower scores meaning you have more difficulty with physical movement.

      You will be asked to complete a brief form asking 12 questions on your ability to perform
      activities of daily living. Examples include; Can you take care of yourself? Can you climb a
      flight of stairs? You will also be contacted by telephone at 30 days, 6 months, 1 year, and 2
      years after your surgery and asked the same 12 questions. If we are unable to reach you by
      telephone, the questionnaire will be mailed to your home with a return, postage paid envelope
      included. It should take about 5 minutes to complete. Once you have completed the 2-year
      questionnaire, your participation in this study will be over.

      THIS IS AN INVESTIGATIONAL STUDY. Between 180-200 patients per surgical group will take part
      in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  