
    
      Hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) is a rare neonatal condition affecting about 1‰ births
      and with a high rate of death and severe neurological disability despite significant
      improvement of the management of this illness in the last ten years. During the first hours
      and days of life, different examinations are made by neonatologists to guide decisions about
      the management of HIE and to provide information to families. Nevertheless, better knowledge
      about the early and late predictive factors of long-term severe and moderate
      neurodevelopmental outcomes is badly needed.

      This study is a prospective national observational population-based study involving all level
      III intensive care units in France.

      This population-based cohort study will be performed including all moderate or severe cases
      of HIE, occurring between 34 and 42 completed weeks gestation in newborns admitted to a
      neonatal intensive care unit of the participating French regions. Children will be
      followed-up until the age of 3 years.

      Participating centers will be invited to adhere to current HIE management guidelines and/or
      clinical investigations considered optimal to date, to ensure standardize clinical practice.
      The study will ensure high quality data collection.

      About indications, timing and characteristics of treatments and investigations will be
      elaborated by the scientific committee during the preparation stage of the cohort study. This
      professional advice will have the double advantage of enabling us to record more homogeneous
      and high-quality data, and to standardize and improve clinical management and investigations
      among newborns with HIE.

      Within this main study, an ancillary study will be performed by 21 centers to address the
      first secondary objective (predictive value of very early - first 6 hours of life -
      neurological examination and biological investigations, including specific new biomarkers
      such as Interleukin-6, Metalloproteinase-9, TIMP-1, Albumin modified by hypoxia, troponin I,
      acylcarnitins and amino acids).
    
  