
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common malignancies in western countries. Most of
      the CRC diagnosed are candidates for surgical resection with curative intent. Cure rates
      after surgery vary between 92 % and 67 % depending on the tumor stage. However, colorectal
      surgery is associated with some complications that could be life-threatening.

      Antibiotic prophylaxis is commonly used prior to the admission for the prevention of this
      postoperative complications. Several studies have shown that antibiotic administration
      reduces the risk of infections associated with surgery. Nevertheless, this intervention does
      not modify the mortality and severity of other complications detected. Further, antibiotic
      prophylaxis could change the intestinal microbiota and promote adverse inflammatory outcomes
      in CRC patients after surgery.

      Fungal polysaccharides have attracted attention because of their role in gut microbiota
      modulation. It seems that this type of polysaccharides could reduce pathogen levels and
      stimulate the growth of beneficial microorganism. Anti-inflammatory activity has also been
      described for these fungal polysaccharides. It seems the combination of different fungal
      extracts would send multiple stimuli to the immune system increasing intracellular reactions
      and interactions. Thus, the fungal extract nutraceutical MICODIGEST 2.0 could be used to
      reduced the complications after CRC surgery. MICODIGEST 2.0 is available since 2016 without
      any adverse effect reported.

      For all these reasons we have designed a double-bind randomized clinical trial to evaluate
      the effect of MICODEGIST 2.0 on the complications after surgery with curative intent for CRC.

      Apart from this purpose, we have also set the following secondary objectives:

        -  To evaluate the safety of MICODIGEST 2.0 in CRC patients.

        -  To evaluate the effect of MICODIGEST 2.0 on feal microbiome composition and diversity.

        -  To evaluate the effect of MICODIGEST 2.0 on inflammatory pattern, dietary pattern and
           quality of life.

        -  To analyze the effect of microbiome, inflammatory and dietary pattern on complications
           after surgery.
    
  