
    
      Undernutrition is widespread in Bangladesh. In 2011, according to the Bangladesh Demographic
      and Health Survey, 41.3 per cent of children under age five were stunted, 36.4 per cent were
      underweight, 15.6 per cent were wasted, and more than 50 per cent were anaemic. Prevalences
      were even higher among extremely poor households. Meanwhile, evidence from South Asia shows
      that high rates of economic growth and reduction in poverty have not led to similarly large
      reductions in undernutrition (see 1, 2, 3). These findings have suggested that improvements
      in income alone may not be sufficient to improve nutritional status. Extensive research has
      also shown that the critical window for nutritional interventions is during the "first
      thousand days" of life (see 4, 5), from the time when a child is in utero until about two
      years of age. Based on this accumulated evidence, growing attention has come to introducing
      nutrition interventions that target children's "first thousand days" alongside household
      poverty reduction programmes. In particular, there has been growing emphasis on nutrition
      interventions that aim to improve infant and young child feeding practices-through increasing
      nutritional knowledge of women who are pregnant, lactating, or likely to be pregnant in the
      future-as well as to improve the nutritional status of these women themselves.

      Although there exists considerable evidence assessing the effectiveness of various
      livelihoods interventions and other social protection programmes, as well as some evidence on
      the effectiveness of various direct nutritional interventions, little research directly
      assesses how an integrated livelihoods and nutrition programme might compare with livelihoods
      support alone. There are several reasons why the combination of nutrition and livelihoods
      support may have nutritional benefits over and above livelihoods support only. First, a key
      constraint to improved nutritional status may be insufficient knowledge of appropriate infant
      and young child feeding practices (for example, the appropriate duration of exclusive
      breastfeeding, the appropriate frequency and diversity of child feeding thereafter, etc.). If
      this is the case, then improving income alone will not necessarily lead to improved feeding
      practices. Second, there may be synergies between the two types of support. For example, even
      if a mother's knowledge of infant and young child feeding practices improves, she may still
      need access to sufficient resources for undertaking those practices (such as income to
      purchase the recommended types of food), which can be facilitated through a livelihoods
      intervention. Third, there may be other dynamics shifted through the direct nutrition
      intervention that mediate how the livelihoods intervention affects nutritional status. For
      example, if a direct nutrition intervention targeting women improves women's bargaining power
      within the household, and if women tend to prefer devoting more resources to young children's
      nutrition (e.g., Quisumbing and Maluccio 2003), the result may also be larger impacts on
      nutritional status than livelihoods support alone.

      The DFID Programme to Accelerate Improved Nutrition for the Extreme Poor in Bangladesh aims
      to improve nutrition outcomes for young children, pregnant and lactating mothers, and
      adolescent girls. Its approach is to integrate direct nutrition interventions into the
      livelihood support currently provided to extremely poor households in Bangladesh through
      three existing programmes: the Chars Livelihoods Programme (CLP), the Shiree Economic
      Empowerment of the Poorest Programme (Shiree or EEP, within which the investigators focus on
      the Concern subproject), and the Urban Partnership for Poverty Reduction Programme (UPPR).

      In order to rigorously and independently assess the impacts of these integrated nutrition and
      livelihoods programmes, DFID has collaborated with research partners and implementation
      partners to undertake a mixed methods impact evaluation, entitled "Impact Evaluation of the
      DFID Programme to Accelerate Improved Nutrition for the Extreme Poor in Bangladesh." The
      evaluation team includes IDS (the lead organisation), IFPRI, ITAD, CNRS, and BRAC University.
      The evaluation uses mixed quantitative and qualitative methods within a strong theory-based
      design to assess the impacts of the integrated programmes on nutritional status.

      The quantitative impact component involves a baseline survey (conducted in September-November
      2013) and an endline survey (to be conducted in November-December 2015). The
      exploratory/explanatory component includes a qualitative subcomponent (for which the first
      phase of fieldwork has been ongoing since February 2014), as well as a process evaluation
      subcomponent (ongoing since July 2014, final results not yet available). The cost
      effectiveness component began in August 2014 and will be completed in early 2016 following
      the quantitative endline survey completion.

      The three key research questions regarding programme impact that will be addressed are:

        1. What is the impact on nutrition outcomes of receiving a combination of livelihoods and
           direct nutrition interventions (denoting this scenario (L+N)), relative to receiving a
           livelihoods intervention only (denoting this scenario (L))?

        2. What is the impact on nutrition outcomes of receiving a combination of livelihoods and
           direct nutrition interventions (L+N), relative to receiving no intervention (denoting
           this scenario (C) for control)?

        3. What is the impact on nutrition outcomes of receiving a livelihoods intervention only
           (L), relative to receiving no intervention (C)? This will pertain only to the urban
           group served by UPPR.

      In order to construct a proxy for the (L+N) households in the counterfactual (L) scenario,
      randomisation is used. Among the households that already receive the livelihoods intervention
      at baseline, half are randomly assigned to additionally receive the nutrition intervention
      after the baseline (denoted the (L+N) group). The remaining half continue to receive only the
      livelihoods intervention (denoting the (L) group). Randomisation is conducted at the level of
      primary sampling units (PSUs) that cover an entire locality, rather than at the level of
      individual households. The randomisation makes it very likely that characteristics of the (L)
      and (L+N) groups will on average be similar at baseline. (L) is then a valid proxy for (L+N),
      and average differences between the groups at endline can be interpreted as impacts caused
      only by the addition of the nutrition component rather than pre-existing differences.

      In order to construct a proxy for the (L+N) households in the counterfactual (C) scenario of
      no intervention, non-randomised approaches are used. Since none of the original livelihoods
      interventions was rolled out following a randomised control trial design, there is no obvious
      set of comparable non-beneficiaries to serve as the counterfactual. Because a control group
      is nonetheless required to assess the absolute benefits of either (L) or (L + N)
      interventions, attempts were made to construct the best possible control group out of
      non-randomly selected non-beneficiaries. It is important to emphasise that a non-random
      control group is not expected to be on average identical to beneficiary households. In the
      baseline survey, the objective was simply to sample a group of non-beneficiaries as similar
      as possible to the beneficiaries except for receipt of the intervention.

      Major topics areas covered by the qualitative data collection tools include the following:

        1. Social, economic, institutional and political context of the community

        2. Local practices, resources, customs in regards to health, hygiene, nutrition and care of
           children, pregnant and lactation mothers, adolescent girls

        3. For (L) and (L+N) sites: Perceived impact of the livelihood intervention

        4. For (L+N) sites: Perceived synergies and disconnects between the nutrition and
           livelihood interventions in the communities

        5. For (L+N) sites: Micro-dynamics of the nutrition intervention at the community level and
           how beneficiaries perceive/experience the intervention
    
  