
    
      AS is a developmental disorder that affects movement, speech, and social demeanor. The
      disorder is caused by a deficiency of a maternally transmitted gene and is inherited at
      birth. Children with AS, however, are often not diagnosed until they are between 3 and 7
      years old. Symptoms of AS may include, but are not limited to, functionally severe
      developmental delay; speech impairments; movement or balance problems; and behavioral
      uniqueness, including any combination of frequent laughter or smiling, apparent happy
      demeanor, easily excitable personality, hand flapping movements, and short attention span.
      There are four molecular variations of AS, but past clinical studies have been inconsistent
      in highlighting the phenotypic differences between them. This study will gain a better
      understanding of the disease progression and clinical features of AS by observing children
      with AS over a period of 5 to 10 years. The study will also attempt to establish
      genotype-phenotype correlations, which might aid in future clinical care of AS patients.

      Participation in this observational study will be limited to current or future patients at
      one of the five study sites. A clinical evaluation will be performed at baseline, including a
      general patient history, physical and neurological examinations, a nutritional assessment,
      neuro-imaging, electroencephalography, laboratory testing, and neurodevelopmental testing. A
      blood sample or mucosal sample will also be taken at baseline to acquire DNA for potential
      genetic testing. All assessments except the neuro-imaging, electroencephalography, and blood
      sampling will be repeated at yearly study visits for as long as funding can be secured. In
      addition, participants will be photographed and perhaps videotaped on a yearly basis in order
      to document clinical phenotypes and any neurologic abnormalities. Participants may be
      followed-up for a total of 10 years.
    
  