
    
      The primary objectives of this study is to establish the safety and tolerability of single
      doses of MDX-1100 administered in dose-escalating cohorts to patients with active ulcerative
      colitis (UC).

      The secondary objectives include:

        1. to characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of MDX-1100,

        2. to determine the pharmacodynamic effects of MDX-1100 on CXCL10-related surrogate
           markers,

        3. to obtain preliminary evidence as assessed by the Ulcerative Colitis Disease Activity
           Index (DAI),

        4. to determine the immunogenic response to MDX-1100, and

        5. determine the safety and efficacy of repeat doses in patients who respond to a single
           dose of MDX-1100.

      This is a Phase I, multicenter, dose-escalation study of MDX-1100 (anti-CXCL10 human
      monoclonal antibody) in patients with UC, as defined by standard clinical, endoscopic and
      histological criteria and a DAI greater than or equal to 4 and less than or equal to 9. Three
      to six patients will be entered into each of 4 cohorts (0.3, 1.0, 3.0 or 10mg/kg). Starting
      with the lowest dose cohort (0.3mg/kg), patients will be administered a single dose of
      MDX-1100 at Day 1 and will be followed until 70 days from the last dose. Dose escalation may
      proceed when the third patient in the cohort has reached Day 29 and if no dose-limiting
      toxicities (DLTs) have occurred. Dose escalation may proceed when the sixth patient reaches
      Day 29 and <2 DLTs have occurred in the cohort. Dose escalation will continue until the last
      cohort is enrolled or the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined.

      Patients who respond to the initial dose, as defined by a decrease in the UC disease activity
      index (UCDAI) by greater than or equal to 3 points at Day 29 compared to baseline, will be
      offered the option of receiving up to 3 additional doses of MDX-1100 at their originally
      assigned dose level. Re-dosing will be permitted at the time of disease flare which is
      defined as a worsening of the modified UCDAI of greater than or equal to 2 compared to the
      prior nadir. In order to obtain PK data, the first re-dose may not be administered until Day
      43 and all subsequent doses may be great than or equal to 28 days apart. A response in the
      repeat dosing phase will be defined as a decrease in the mUCDAI of greater than or equal to 2
      as compared to the previous baseline mUCDAI. For the second infusion, the comparison will use
      the mUCDAI calculated at Day 29 or subsequent nadir.

      The study will terminate approximately 70 days after the last patient has received the last
      dose of MDX-1100. It is anticipated that the maximum total time on study for any patient will
      be less than 1 year.
    
  