
    
      OVERVIEW:

      The proposed work will achieve the three specific aims (two confirmatory, one exploratory) in
      the context of a 4-arm translational experiment. Assessments of neurocognitive mechanisms of
      high-level construal, as well as of two candidate pathways and treatment-as-usual control,
      will be completed at baseline and endpoint sessions. The 240 participants enrolled in the
      study will complete a multimodal battery that will assess neural, behavioral, and self-report
      indices relating to the three processes of interest - construal level, down-regulation of
      craving, and up-regulation of goal energization - and then are randomized to one of three
      experimental conditions related to those processes or a control condition. This design is
      highly advantageous because it allows for the establishment of the mechanisms of the
      construal-level intervention, to compare them with the mechanisms of the other two processes,
      and to test whether, and to what extent, our potentially novel affect regulation strategy
      engages and alters those mechanisms (Aim 1); and to identify individual differences in the
      effects of that novel strategy (high-level construal) on patterns of brain activation, affect
      regulation, and cessation outcomes (Aim 2). Though the translational experiment design is not
      intended to be an intervention per se (because the evidence base does not yet support a
      full-scale trial and materials for such an intervention still need to be developed), the
      investigators will nonetheless quantify the effect size of high-level construal on changes in
      smoking so future RCTs have that information and can be adequately powered to detect an
      effect.

      ASSIGNMENT OF PARTICIPANTS TO CONDITION:

      Participants will be randomly assigned to a condition using the randomizer function in the
      RedCap participant tracking and management software. This assignment will happen only after
      participants are screened, consented, enrolled, and complete the baseline session. In other
      words, all 240 participants will be treated in exactly the same way through the end of the
      baseline session, and only at that point will RedCap be used to assign participants to their
      condition. All participants will have equal probability of being assigned to the conditions
      (i.e., 25% chance of assignment to each). The study coordinator will know which participant
      is enrolled in each condition, but researchers involved in data analysis (i.e., Drs. Berkman,
      Fujita, Chavez, and Weston, as well as the graduate students) as well as the research
      assistants who interact with the participants will be blind to condition during data
      gathering and analysis.

      METHODS FOR SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION AND DATA ANALYSIS:

      The method for selecting the sample size was based on a power analysis of the least sensitive
      test - Aim 2. The key statistical tests for the three aims are as follows. For Aim 1, the
      test of neural similarity between conditions is essentially a paired-samples t-test on
      similarity scores (e.g., pattern correlations calculated within subjects). This is a
      high-powered comparison because the covariance within subjects of the scores is high. For Aim
      2, the individual difference analyses are between-subjects correlations and regression (or
      partial regression or logistic regression) coefficients relating neural similarity to affect
      regulation scores, responses to trait and individual difference surveys, and smoking behavior
      as measured by cigarettes per day. This family of test has relatively low power because it is
      entirely between subjects. For Exploratory Aim 3, the key test is the condition-by-time
      interaction (i.e., difference of the high-level construal vs. the TAU group in change in
      smoking behavior from pre-to-post training). This test is a within-between (sometimes called
      "mixed") ANOVA analysis that is more powerful that the individual difference analyses for Aim
      2 but less powerful than the fully within-subjects tests for Aim 1.

      INTERVENTION CONTENT:

      The content for all four training arms is a set of brief (<160 character) messages designed
      to enable participants to practice one specific affect regulation strategy (experimental
      arms) or receive information and motivational messages that are already in use as part of the
      NCI's SmokefreeTXT program (treatment-as-usual control). In brief, all messages in the
      experimental arms are generated by a large group of mTurk workers who are smokers; the
      process of message generation and validation has already begun. During the award period the
      investigators will add even more messages to the corpus and validate them. In the high-level
      construal condition, workers compose messages that encourage thinking about purpose of
      quitting and future goals (e.g., "What would quitting mean to you and your future?"). In the
      down-regulation of craving condition, workers compose messages that encourage effortful
      inhibitory or attentional control of cravings (e.g., "When you feel an urge to smoke, think
      about the health consequences"). And in the up-regulation of goal energization condition,
      workers compose messages that tie one specific core value (which the mTurk worker ranked as
      within his or her top three core values) to the goal of quitting (e.g., for the core value of
      "family", a message might be, "Quitting will help you model a healthy lifestyle for your
      family"). The content for the up-regulation of goal energization condition is matched to
      participants' own top three core values.

      INTERVENTION DELIVERY:

      All participants receive text messages and complete biweekly online "booster" sessions for 8
      weeks.

      Beginning on their quit date, participants will be sent messages via SMS text messaging 5-6
      times each day for 14 consecutive days, then 3-4 times each day for the following 42 days.
      The investigators chose to increase the messaging frequency in the first month of cessation
      given the higher likelihood of relapse during this period. The order of the messages will be
      pseudo-randomized such that each message will be seen no more than three times across the
      8-week training period, separated by at least 10 days. The timing of the messages will be
      adjusted for each participant to be evenly spaced starting at wake-up and ending 15 minutes
      before bedtime and adjusting for weekday/weekend differences. Participants will reply to each
      message and use a 5-point scale to rate its perceived helpfulness. Participants can also text
      "SOS" to the system at any point to initiate support via text if they feel tempted to smoke.
      Daily text messaging is an ideal delivery format for this training because it allows for in
      vivo participant contact at moments when smoking decisions are being made. Text messaging has
      very high adoption rates in the United States even among underserved communities that are
      typically difficult to sample densely for extended durations, and low SES users are
      comfortable receiving texts throughout the day. The investigators have used text messaging
      for experience sampling and for theory-based intervention in a community sample (see
      Preliminary Studies 5 and 6). Participants will provide their mobile phone number at the
      baseline session; those without a text message-enabled phone or those who do not wish to use
      their own, will be provided a prepaid phone at the end of the baseline session.

      In addition to the text messaging, participants will complete biweekly online "booster"
      sessions using Qualtrics with a custom, personalized link sent to the participant via email
      and text. The booster sessions are designed to reinforce the active interventions (high-level
      construal, goal energization, down-regulation of craving) and provide opportunities to
      practice the assigned affect regulation strategy. In the sessions, participants will be
      reminded of their assigned strategy and write brief responses to specific prompts (e.g.,
      "What are two specific ways that quitting now will change your future life?", "Why is
      quitting important to you today?", and "What are two ways you can change how you think to
      reduce your craving for cigarettes?"). Participants will also generate triggers to smoking
      (situations or cues) and practice using down-regulation of craving when they see those
      triggers. This exercise helps form the habit of deploying the strategy in everyday life.
      Participants in the control arm will visit a website with information about the dangers of
      smoking and benefits of quitting. Not all participants have computer access, so, as in
      previous studies, participants will be provided access in the lab and the research team will
      work with the local library system to ensure all study sites are accessible from their
      computers.

      BOOSTER COMPLETION AND RETENTION:

      Dr. Berkman is currently using similar "booster" sessions, which are programmed in and are
      delivered via Qualtrics, in a current translational experiment on healthy eating (R01
      CA211224). The automated reminders and links, which can be sent via email and text messaging
      depending on participant preference, greatly increase completion of the boosters. Together
      with the reminders, graded incentives (e.g., a monetary bonus for completing >90% of the
      boosters during the study) have greatly increased completion of the at-home booster sessions.
    
  