
    
      Persistent symptoms after concussion or mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), such as pain and
      sleep difficulties, may be related to altered patterns of brain electrical activity,
      including changes in amplitude and frequency. The purpose of this study is to evaluate a
      noninvasive, closed-loop, acoustic stimulation neurotechnology, High resolution, relational,
      resonance-based, electroencephalic mirroring, with standard operating procedures, HIRREM-SOP.
      This intervention is intended to improve symptoms by supporting self-optimization of brain
      electrical activity. Put more simply, musical tones will be played to echo, or mirror one's
      own brainwaves, in real time, allowing opportunity for auto-calibration, self-adjustment, and
      equilibration of that brain activity. The hypothesis is that over the course of ten 90-minute
      sessions, symptoms related to mTBI, will improve much more with musical tones linked to
      brainwaves than with random tones.

      Participants will be enrolled at Uniformed Services University/Walter Reed National Military
      Medical Center in Bethesda, MD, and Womack Army Medical Center, Fort Bragg, NC. The 106
      participants in the first part of the study can be active duty or recently retired service
      members, or their family members, who have had a mTBI at least three months and not more than
      ten years ago, with related symptoms. Participants will be randomized to either musical tones
      that reflect their own brain activity, or random tones. A technologist will oversee each
      session in which the tones are presented. Participants and those analyzing outcomes will be
      blinded to the nature of the acoustic stimuli received. The primary outcome will be the
      change in Neurobehavioral Symptom Inventory scores at three months, and the final follow-up
      will occur be at six months. Changes in sleep, pain, dizziness, and general quality of life
      will also be measured.
    
  