
    
      Approximately 50% of all patients with a subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) die due to the
      hemorrhage or subsequent complications. There are several major causes for this course, such
      as in-hospital rebleed in 21.5% which most frequently occurs within the first 6 hours after
      the primary hemorrhage ("ultra-early rebleed"). A major part of the patients with a rebleed
      die during hospital admission and when they survive, they develop more severe cognitive
      dysfunctions. Reducing the rebleeds by ultra-early administration of tranexamic acid (TXA)
      could be a major factor in improving the functional outcome after SAH.

      To evaluate whether SAH patients treated by state-of-the-art SAH management with additional
      ultra-early and short term TXA administration have a significantly higher percentage of
      favourable outcome after six months (score 0-3 on the Modified Rankin Scale) compared to the
      group treated by up-to-date SAH management without additional TXA.

      To evaluate whether: 1) TXA reduces in-hospital rebleeds and case fatalities; 2) TXA causes
      more ischemic stroke 3) TXA causes more complications (such as thromboembolic events,
      hydrocephalus, extracranial thrombosis or hemorrhagic complications) during treatment,
      admission and follow-up; 4) there is a difference in causes of poor outcome between groups;
      5) there is a difference in discharge locations between groups; 6) there is an association
      between the time between hemorrhage and TXA administration and outcome; 7) TXA increases
      (micro)infarctions after endovascular treatment; 8) TXA reduces health-care costs between
      discharge and six months after hemorrhage; 9) TXA improves quality of life at six months
      after hemorrhage; 10) there are differences in rebleed rates and outcome between genders or
      groups with different WFNS scores at admission.

      Multicenter, prospective, randomized, open label treatment with blind endpoint assessment.

      Adult patients (18 years and older) included within 24 hours after SAH. Group one: standard
      treatment with additional administration of 1 g TXA intravenously in ten minutes, immediately
      after the diagnosis SAH, succeeded by continuous infusion of 1 g per 8 hours until a maximum
      of 24 hours. Group two: standard treatment with no TXA administration. Both groups undergo a
      standardized and validated interview at discharge and six months after hemorrhage to assess
      the modified Rankin Scale score, and both groups receive a questionnaire to evaluate
      health-care costs and quality of life.

      Primary: modified Rankin Scale score after six months, dichotomized into favourable and
      unfavourable outcome. Secondary: rebleed and case fatality rate, complications during the
      first six months after hemorrhage, (micro)infarctions at MR imaging after endovascular
      treatment, health-care costs from discharge until six months, quality of life at six months
      and differences in rebleed rates and outcome between genders or WFNS score at admission.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Subjects are randomly allocated to ultra-early TXA therapy or standard
      treatment. Complications are minor and the expected benefit is large compared with separate
      studies done with antifibrinolytic medications. In these studies, the safety of the use of
      these medications in this study population is confirmed. In this patient group there are
      adequate, disoriented and comatose patients on admission, so a part of the studied patients
      are incapacitated when undergoing the study. To extrapolate the conclusions of this study to
      clinical protocols it is necessary to include patients with a SAH in all different severity
      grades. Weighing carefully the benefits versus the burden and risks, it is assumed that
      patients will benefit from ultra-early TXA administration with minimal burden during therapy.
    
  