
    
      The goal of this observational case-control study is to validate the Margin of Stability
      (MoS) and Dynamic Postural Stability (DPS) measures using a motion capture gait laboratory
      and wearable device in patients with Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis (AIS).

      These measures will provide a consultant with objective data about a patient's movement and
      balance that the consultant and other healthcare professionals can use to infer about their
      spinal deformity progression or improvement. This research is an early step for working
      towards providing a distance medicine, non-invasive outcome measure that can be used
      alongside or in the absence of current clinical measures and radiography. Use of this data
      could reduce the frequency with which radiographs are required and so reduce the impact of
      radiation exposure. This wearable device could complement and improve upon existing outcome
      measures in the treatment of spinal deformity, reduce the need for radiographs and ameliorate
      the need for distance patient monitoring methods. A motion capture gait laboratory will be
      used as the gold-standard comparison.

      A pilot study has been carried out on healthy participants with a simulated spinal deformity
      in a kinematic gait laboratory and using the wearable device, which showed altered balance in
      the simulated scoliosis group compared to controls.

      The aim of this project is to:

        1. To see if there's a difference in MoS and DPS between children with AIS and controls,

        2. To see if a difference can be detected using motion capture gait analysis and a wearable
           device,

        3. To see how similar results from the wearable device are to the motion capture gait
           laboratory,

        4. To test the ability of the wearable device to measure a scalable difference between
           radiographic curve magnitude in patients with AIS.

      Participants will attend one data collection appointment where they will walk across level
      ground and on a treadmill. No follow-up is required.
    
  