
    
      Objectives

      Among smokers who wish to quit at some time but do not plan to quit in the next month:

      Major Hypotheses

      Major Hypothesis 1: A treatment to reduce cigs/day that does not include nicotine replacement
      therapy (NRT) will increase the incidence of a quit attempt (yes/no outcome).

      Major Hypothesis 2: A motivational treatment based on the USPHS's 5 Rs will increase the
      incidence of a quit attempt (yes/no outcome)

      A comparison of the two active conditions is not an objective of the study.

      The current application focuses on new clinical interventions to increase quit attempts. One
      recent method to increase quit attempts in ambivalent smokers has been reduction of cigs/day.
      This method typically includes teaching ways to reduce cigs/day with the aid of nicotine
      replacement therapy (NRT). Recent reviews and meta-analyses have concluded reduction aided by
      NRT among ambivalent smokers consistently increases the probability of future quit attempts
      and abstinence.

      Another recent clinical method to prompt quit attempts is motivational treatments. The USPHS
      treatment guidelines recommend smokers not ready to quit receive a briefer, somewhat
      different motivational treatment focusing on the "5 Rs;" i.e., a) personal relevance of
      smoking, b) risks of smoking, d) rewards from smoking cessation, d) roadblocks to quitting
      and e) repetition.

      Rationale for Proposed Studies: We now propose to test the efficacy of a non-pharmacological
      reduction treatment for two reasons. First, many smokers are not willing to use NRT for
      reduction. Another reason for testing a non-pharmacological treatment for reduction is that
      prior studies of NRT- aided reduction have been interpreted to indicate that reducing
      cigs/day will increase later quitting; however, since many(but not all)recent studies suggest
      pretreatment with NRT alone improves quitting, it is unclear whether reduction or
      pretreatment is the cause of any increase quitting in prior studies.

      We also propose a replication test of our 5 Rs intervention because, although the counseling
      technique of reviewing Relevance, Risks, Rewards, Roadblocks, and Repeat (5R's) have been
      part of the last two USPHS Guidelines (most recently updated in 2008), our search of PubMed,
      PsychINFO, NIH RePorter (database of NIH grants) and clinicaltrials.gov in 11/11 indicates no
      published and no current or planned test of the 5 Rs, other than our study (Carpenter et al.,
      2004). Clearly, more than one test of the approach recommended for >80% of smokers who are
      not ready to quit (Wewers, Stillman, Hartman, & Shopland, 2003) is needed. Another reason for
      our replication test is that our prior Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology (JCCP)
      study of the 5 Rs used a no treatment control group; thus, we wish to increase clinical
      relevance and methodological rigor by employing a usual care comparison condition.

      Study Design Design and Rationale for Methodological Decisions: We will use a three-group (n=
      560 total)Randomized Control Trial (RCT) to test whether a reduction and a 5 Rs motivational
      intervention each increases the incidence of a quit attempt (Table 2). The reduction and 5 Rs
      interventions will be time-matched with an initial 15 min call at baseline followed by two 10
      min calls at 2 and 4 weeks later (total = 35 min). The usual care condition will receive a
      brief (< 5 min) call and mailed information about risks of smoking, self-quitting and
      treatment resources at the same time-points. Monitoring of cigs/day and abstinence will be
      via weekly online questionnaires.

      Timing of treatments and measure Counseling calls Usual care: at baseline only Reduction:
      baseline, Week 2, Week 4 5Rs: baseline, Week 2, Week 4

      Measures for all 3 groups--all asked weekly x 4 then monthly x 5 cigs/day quit attempts
      abstinence mediators Subject Selection Subjects will be current smokers who do not plan to
      quit in the near future; i.e., about 70% of all smokers, because the purpose of our treatment
      is to prompt new quit attempts among ambivalent smokers.

      Vulnerable Populations Not applicable

      Number of Subjects 560 current smokers. We will consent 560 in an effort to have 516 who
      complete at least one counselor call.
    
  