
    
      <Ethical considerations> This research protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee of
      Nagano Children's Hospital before this research is being conducted. Recruitment is undertaken
      by the neonatologists in the unit. They provide written and oral information about the study
      when they explain infants' condition to their parents at admission. The parents are given
      sufficient time to consider their participation. The informed consent will be asked within 7
      days from the birth, otherwise the infant will be excluded from this study. At least one of
      the parents should sign the informed consent before enrolment. At the time of agreement,
      investigators give the infant an anonymous number to protect personal information.

      < Power calculation > The sample size should be decided by the number of parents as the
      primary outcomes are for parents. Investigators plan to include 110 couples or families; the
      power calculation showed that investigators could detect a 2.5 difference in the mean
      Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS) score of longer and shorter presence groups (with
      power 0.8 and alfa 0.05) with this number of parents.

      <Measures and data collection> Diary record Parents make a record on daily diary from the
      next day of agreement to one day before discharge. Parents make a record about duration of
      these four topics; presence, skin-to-skin contact (SCC), participation in infant care, and
      any other interaction with their infants.

        -  "Care taking" includes the followings; breast feeding, bottle feeding, milking, tube
           feeding, changing diaper, wiping body, bathing, and any other essential care for baby.
           However, any care taking during "SCC" mustn't included in this section.

        -  "Other interaction with baby" includes the followings; hugging, holding, touching,
           watching, talking, reading books, playing, making something or writing diary for baby,
           and any other approaches for baby. However, any interaction given during "SCC" or "care
           taking" mustn't included in this section.

      Investigators use the modified Parent-Infant Closeness Diary. The original diary includes
      three items for each mother and father; presence, holding and SCC. Investigators have changed
      these items into our own settings as above and changed the used language into Japanese.
      Investigators already have got the permission from the developers of this diary. This diary
      has one day per page including all the four topics for both parents. Mother and father
      respectively draw a line on the blank of specific items they do. They should fill all the
      corresponding blanks when they do things for multiple babies. The start and the end times
      should be put in 5-minute increments. The validity of Parent-Infant Closeness Diary has
      already been proven.

      Perinatal Data Collection Perinatal information of the infant includes sex, gestational age,
      birth weight, height, head circumference, mode of delivery, parity and plurality of mother,
      and Apgar score at 1, 5, and 10 minutes. Investigators will also find out if the infant meets
      the criteria for small for gestational age (SGA), which is defined as both birth weight and
      height are <10th percentile.

      Perinatal information of the family members includes the first meeting days with the infant
      and the first SCC days, for mother and father respectively.

      Background information of the family includes family composition, presence of mother's
      supporter, the number of siblings living with parents, and required time from home to the
      hospital.

      Background information of the parents includes the age, the educational background, the
      smoking history at pregnant, occupation and parental leave, history of depression or any
      other mental health problem before and during pregnancy and the history of medication for
      that disease, and the degree of social support, which is measured by the Multidimensional
      Scale of Perceived Social Support (MSPSS) as mentioned below. These are risk factors of
      postpartum depression.

      Short version of Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support in Japanese (MSPSS-Js)
      The Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support (MSPSS) is widely used self-report
      measure of subjectively assessed social support. There have been several modifications for
      MSPSS and now it consists of 12 questions with 7-point rating scale ranging from very
      strongly disagree (1) to very strongly agree (7) for each question. There is Japanese version
      of MSPSS (MSPSS-J), whose reliability and validity have proven. Investigators use short
      version of MSPSS-J (MSPSS-Js), which consists of only 7 questions with 7-point rating scale
      ranging from 1 to 7 and has high correlation with full version. The total score varies from
      minimum 7 to maximum 49, and higher scores indicates to have better social support.

      Data Collection of the clinical course The information of the clinical course includes days
      of invasive ventilation, days of non-invasive ventilation, days of any respiratory support
      including oxygen, the history of patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) operation, the history of
      surgical treatment of abdomen, age of full feeding (the amount of enteral nutrition
      >=100ml/kg/day), the history and the degree of intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH), and the
      history of retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) treatment.

      Evaluation at 36 weeks postmenstrual age (PMA) and discharge Investigators measure the weight
      (g), height (cm), head circumference(cm), the frequency of breast feeding (per day), and the
      type of nutrition (exclusive, partial, or no breast milk) at 36 weeks PMA and when the infant
      discharges home or leaves our NICU to another hospital or ward to prepare for discharge.
      Investigators also calculate the length of hospital stay (days) and the growth rate of
      physical measurements between the time of admission and discharge. If the infant leaves our
      NICU before 36 weeks PMA, investigators use the data at that point as an evaluation at 36
      weeks PMA.

      The Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS) and Japanese version of Mother-to-Infant
      Bonding Scale (MIBS-J) for mother and father All mothers and fathers of the infants enrolled
      in this research undergo the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS) and Japanese version
      of Mother-to-Infant Bonding Scale (MIBS-J) at least twice. Almost all mothers who deliver in
      Nagano Children's Hospital usually undergo the EPDS and MIBS-J at 2 and 4 weeks postpartum at
      the maternity outpatient clinic. Investigators additionally carry out the EPDS and MIBS-J for
      fathers in NICU once within a month postpartum, and for both fathers and mothers at discharge
      of their infant for the purpose of this research.

      The EPDS is a screening method for mothers to detect postpartum depressive symptoms. It
      comprises 10 self-report items, each of which is scored on a four-point scale (0-3). The
      total score varies from minimum 0 to maximum 30, and higher scores indicates to have more
      depressive symptoms. Investigators use Japanese version of the EPDS, whose reliability and
      validity have already proven. The cutoff score for Japanese people to indicate probable major
      postpartum depression should be eight and nine, which is lower than that usually used in
      western countries.

      Mother-to-Infant Bonding Scale (MIBS) is an assessment method for the feelings of a mother
      towards her new infant, but investigators use Japanese version of MIBS (MIBS-J), whose
      reliability and validity have already proven. MIBS comprises eight self-report items, but
      MIBS-J have ten self-report items, each of which is scored on a four-point scale (0-3). The
      total score varies from minimum 0 to maximum 30, and higher scores indicate a problematic
      bonding between a mother and her infant.

      The main risk factors of mothers' postpartum depression are prenatal depression and anxiety,
      previous depression or other mental problems, lower income and occupational status,
      multiparity, presence of other children, poor marital relationship or without partner, lack
      of social support, stressful life events, negative image toward pregnancy, and experiences of
      early mother-infant separation. In addition, the risk factors vary depending on when to
      evaluate postpartum depression. The depression scores in mothers and fathers of preterm
      infants is at its highest just after delivery and will reduce over time, which shows
      different change compared with term birth. This is why investigators have to adjust these
      confounding factors when investigators evaluate the EPDS and MIBS-J of the parents.

      Long-term developmental assessment after discharge (birth weight <1500g) The development of
      the infants whose birth weight <1500g are assessed by Kyoto Scale of Psychological
      Development (KSPD) at 6 and 18 months of corrected age, and 3 years old at the outpatient
      clinic of Nagano Children's Hospital. KSPD is one of the assessment methods to evaluate
      developmental quotient and it is known to be well correlated with Bayley III. KSPD consists
      of three subscales: Cognitive-Adaptive, Language-Social, and Postural-Motor.

      <Outcomes> The primary outcomes are the EPDS and Japanese version of Mother-to-Infant Bonding
      Scale (MIBS-J) of the parents. Investigators hypothesize that longer parents' presence
      decreases the EPDS score and MIBS-J score. Investigators will divide mothers and fathers into
      two groups respectively (longer and shorter presence groups) based on the distribution of the
      time of parents' presence, and compare the difference of the mean EPDS score and MIBS-J score
      between these two groups at each point in time measured.

      The secondary outcomes are the followings; (1) length of stay (days), (2) physical
      measurements at 36 weeks (g or cm) and growth rate from birth to discharge home (g or cm /d),
      (3) breastmilk-feeding (exclusive, partial, or no breast milk) and the frequency of
      breastfeeding directly from breast at 36 weeks PMA and at discharge (average frequency per
      day), and for the infants whose birth weight <1500g only, (4) developmental quotient (DQ) at
      6 and 18 months of corrected age, and 3 years old assessed by KSPD. Investigators hypothesize
      that longer parents' presence, SCC, participation in infant care, or any interaction with
      infant improve these outcomes. Investigators will divide mothers and fathers into two groups
      respectively (longer and shorter presence groups, SCC, participation in infant care, or any
      interaction with infant) as mentioned above and compare the difference of these outcomes
      between these two groups. In addition, investigators also correct the data from the diary as
      the followings; presence of at least one of their parents, SCC with at least one of their
      parents, participation of at least one of their parents in infant care, and any interaction
      with at least one of their parents, and consider the outcomes in the same manner.
      Investigators will also consider (5) the difference of the mean EPDS score and MIBS-J score
      between longer and shorter SCC, participation in infant care, or any interaction with infant
      groups.

      <Statistical analysis> As a statistical analysis, investigators will use a mixed effect model
      for the EPDS score and MIBS-J score, a linear regression model for other continuous variables
      (length of stay, physical measurements, growth rate, the frequency of breastfeeding and DQ),
      and a logistic regression model for binary variable (type of nutrition). Potential
      confounders will be adjusted.
    
  