
    
      The investigators will conduct a prospective cohort study to investigate usability of
      implementing ﾄ値os across 50 advanced cancer patients within the Duke Cancer Institute and
      University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill Cancer Center. The investigators will obtain a
      Data Transfer Agreement prior to enrollment at the University of North Carolina. Usability
      testing evaluates a technology system's capacity for practical implementation in the field
      including logistical, social, financial, regulatory, and time considerations. The Usability
      test will also build foundational data needed to design a future, multi-site controlled trial
      evaluating the efficacy of ﾄ値os alongside exploring real-world implementation issues to
      address prior to undertaking the larger trial.

      To conduct the study, the investigators will consecutively approach two populations: adult
      advanced cancer patients (defined as any Stage IV solid tumor malignancy, or Stage III
      pancreas or lung cancer) in the GI, GU, and Thoracic Cancer Clinics with a diagnosis made in
      the preceding eight weeks. The investigators will primarily evaluate usability through
      evaluating subject-reported perceived usefulness. .

      The investigators will also measure change in patient self-efficacy and change knowledge of
      palliative care scores alongside obtaining baseline data on palliative care referral rates.

      To evaluate perceived usefulness, the investigators will use the Perceived Usefulness Scale
      and Ease of Use subscales of the System Usability Scale, common tools used in health
      technology evaluations30 and a single item "I feel prepared for the palliative care visit".

      Lastly, the investigators will measure subsequent referrals to palliative care, comparing the
      ﾄ値os cohort with a non-intervention cohort. the investigators will compare three cohorts: 1).
      ﾄ値os intervention cohort; 2). An age-, disease-, and stage-matched cohort of usual care
      patients during the same time period as the intervention; and 3). A similarly-matched cohort
      who received usual oncology care six months prior to the study. The latter control cohort
      evaluates palliative care referral practices prior to any intervention taking place to reduce
      contamination. The investigators will use these preliminary data on referral rates to
      determine the effect sizes needed to calculate the sample sizes for an Alliance CCDR protocol
      for a NCORP trial.
    
  