
    
      Introduction: One out four people experience any long-lasting health problem in Europe.
      Individuals with chronic diseases often experience work-related problems, leading to negative
      consequences at individual and societal level. The rising prevalence of chronic diseases as
      well as the current economic recession made this issue even more problematic, requiring
      action in terms of innovative strategies to improve the participation of these persons in the
      labor market.

      The PATHWAYS objectives are:

        1. To identify integration and re-integration strategies that are available in Europe and
           beyond and to determine their effectiveness (systematic literature review)

        2. To assess the specific employment related needs of persons with chronic diseases and
           mental disorders (e-survey including people with chronic health conditions)

        3. To develop guidelines supporting the implementation of effective professional
           integration and reintegration strategies. (expert consultation survey)

      Methods:

      PATHWAYS is a multi-informant approach study. Information will be gathered from different
      sources:

        1. Systematic literature review,

        2. An expert consultation study (Including NGOs, patient's organizations and advocacy
           organizations operating at European Level). Experts will be searched by Internet.
           Questionnaire will be completed by e-mail

        3. an e-Survey including people with chronic health conditions. The Clinical Record Form
           (CRF) will be online (Google forms). Participation will be free. Any people who meet the
           inclusion criteria can log in and complete it. The dissemination of the CRF will be done
           via relevant patient's associations. The CRF will be also published in the patient
           association's websites, if possible

      Hypothesis:

        -  Literature will focus on the negative points of experiencing chronic health problems in
           the workplace rather than analysing the professional needs of people with these health
           conditions

        -  There will be a set of professional needs that will be shared across different chronic
           health condition groups and that can be targeted in common preventive strategies

        -  There will be a considerable gap between the existing employment strategies (i.e.
           services, systems and policies) and the real employment needs of people with chronic
           health conditions
    
  