
    
      Obesity and related complications (non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), type 2 diabetes
      mellitus (DM)) have become an important public health problem. Their prevalence continues to
      increase worldwide in children. Therefore, estimating potential biomarkers that can cause
      obesity and related complications can be important in their treatment.

      Irisin, a myokine, first described by Boström et al. (5) in 2012, is released into the
      circulation as a product of Fibronectin type III domain-containing 5 (FNDC5) gene activated
      by increased expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-ɣ coactivator-1'
      (PGC1)-α in the muscle cell along with exercise. The circulating irisin increases the
      expression of UCP1 mRNA in WAT cells. As a result, WAT cells are converted into BAT cells.
      Thus, irisin is involved in termogenesis and energy consumption.

      Conflicting results have been reported in studies investigating the relationship between
      irisin level and obesity and related complications. Irisin was thought to play a role in the
      development of obesity. It has been suggested that it may be an alternative treatment agent
      for obesity and glucose tolerance. In some studies, irisin levels were found to be higher in
      obese children and adults than in healthy controls, low in some, and not different in others.

      There is limited data in the relevant literature about the relationships between childhood
      obesity and irisin, as well as between NAFLD and irisin. In our study, we aimed to determine
      whether serum irisin levels are related to anthropometric measurements and metabolic and
      biochemical parameters in obese children with and without NAFLD.

      Sixty obese pubertal patients (31 girls, 29 boys), aged between 11-18 years, admitted to the
      pediatric endocrinology outpatient clinic of our hospital wiil be included in the study.
      These patients will be divided into two groups with and without NAFLD. Patients with another
      disease or any drug use will be not included in the study. The control group consisted of 28
      healthy children (14 girls, 14 boys) who will be similar in age and sex to the obese group.

      Physical examination will be done in all children. Body weight (BW) and height will be
      measured. Body mass index (BMI) values will be compared with BMI curves according to age and
      gender. BMI≥95.p will be considered as obese. Subcutaneous fat thickness will be measured
      from the triceps and biceps regions by using a caliper. Waist circumference will be measured
      in the horizontal plane midway between lowest rib and the iliac crest. Hip circumference will
      be measured over the widest area of the hips. Waist-to-hip ratio will be calculated.

      After one night fasting, two venous serum samples will be taken for irisin levels and
      biochemical analysis. Glucose, total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG), low density
      lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C), high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C), ALT, AST, GGT
      levels, insulin levels will be determined.

      Venous serum samples for the irisin levels will be stored at -80°C until the analysis. Serum
      irisin levels will be measured.

      The homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) will be calculated using the
      following formula: fasting insulin level (uIU/ml) x fasting glucose (mg/dl) / 405. A HOMA-IR
      value >5.22 in males and >3.82 in females will be considered having IR.

      Hepatobiliary ultrasound (US) will performed for NAFLD
    
  