
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Congenital heart defects (CHDs) are thought to result from genetic and environmental factors
      that disturb cardiac embryogenesis. Because families with multiple members affected with
      atrial septal defects (ASDs) and atrioventricular canal defects (AVCDs) have been described
      in previous studies, and the paramembranous ventricular septum is in part completed by the
      formation of the atrioventricular cushions, this project describes a genetic-epidemiologic
      study of ASDs, paramembranous ventricular septal defects (VSDs), and AVCDs

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study is one of several subprojects within a Specialized Center of Research (SCOR) in
      Pediatric Cardiovascular Disease. Three groups of subjects, each with surgically- or
      echocardiographically-confirmed diagnoses of ASDs, VSDs or AVCDs have been identified for
      study at the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, and at Wolfson Children's Hospital in
      Jacksonville, Florida. A fourth group of older subjects with ASDs and their progeny will be
      studied at Iowa because of the reported high recurrence of heart disease in the offspring of
      subjects with ASDs. The strategy calls upon the molecular genetic capacities available at the
      University of Iowa to carry out genome-wide searches for genetic loci involved in these
      defects. Several candidate regions have been identified for ASDs, VSDs and AVCDs. In
      addition, three well-recognized syndromes provide additional candidate regions - Down
      syndrome, Holt-Oram syndrome and 8p-syndrome. Parent-affected child trios will be genotyped
      for closely-spaced markers within these regions and linkage disequilibrium analysis will be
      used to narrow or exclude these candidate intervals. A genome-wide association study of the
      trios will employ a parsimonious technique in which DNA from cases with the same CHD
      phenotype will be pooled, and compared to the pooled DNA from their parents. Loci will be
      identified where the allele frequency distributions in the affected children and their
      parents are significantly different. When such loci are identified, a finer localization of
      the chromosomal area will be undertaken using a high-density set of short tandem repeat
      polymorphic markers that spans each of the candidate intervals.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  