
    
      Preoperative chemoradiation (CRT) with fluoropyrimidine (5-fluorouracil or capecitabine) is
      now regarded as a standard treatment option in patients with locally advanced resectable
      rectal cancer, and pathologic response rates and tumor regression grades after preoperative
      CRT have been proved to be important prognostic factors for survival outcomes. Several
      studies of preoperative CRT with fluoropyrimidines plus other agents, such as oxaliplatin,
      irinotecan, cetuximab, and bevacizumab, have been performed to improve pathologic response
      rates; however, they have failed to show improved results compared to those with
      fluoropyrimidine alone. Thus, fluoropyrimidine alone is a standard chemotherapeutic strategy
      in patients with locally advanced resectable rectal cancer who will be treated with
      preoperative CRT at present; further studies are needed to find effective combination for
      improving pathologic responses other than fluoropyrimidines alone in these patient
      population.

      Temozolomide is an oral alkylating agent, and has been proved to be effective in patients
      with glioblastoma or high grade anaplastic glioma when administered with concurrent
      radiotherapy either as adjuvant or recurrent settings, and also seemed to be effective in
      patients with malignant melanoma either as monotherapy or combination chemotherapy.
      Temozolomide has been known to deplete O6-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT), which
      is one of the DNA repair enzymes, and recent studies have shown that lower expression (by
      immunohistochemistry) or hypermethylation (by methylation-specific PCR) of MGMT could be a
      predictive marker of better responses to treatment with temozolomide in patient with
      glioblastoma, high grade anaplastic glioma or malignant melanoma.

      Silencing of MGMT by promoter hypermethylation has been known to involve colorectal
      carcinogenesis pathway by the association with KRAS mutation and low-CIMP (CpG island
      methylation phenotype), and hypermethylation of MGMT promoter could be detected in 29% to 46%
      of tumor tissues from sporadic colorectal cancer patients. Nagasaka et al. showed notable
      results that MGMT promoter methylation status was associated with microsatellite instability
      and hypermethylation of MGMT promoter could be a predictive factor of low recurrence in
      colorectal cancer patients with adjuvant oral fluoropyrimidine chemotherapy after curative
      surgery. In addition, Shacham-Shmueli et al. showed that temozolomide could be an additional
      treatment option in a small group of patients with chemotherapy-refractory metastatic
      colorectal cancer which had lower MGMT expressions.
    
  