
    
      Women have double the odds of getting depressed as men and commonly experience depression
      during the childbearing and early parenting years. Many new and expectant mothers who
      experience depression never receive help.

      Alma is a new program, collaboratively developed by a team of researchers, clinicians, and
      mothers who have personal experience with depression, to support women experiencing
      depression during pregnancy and the postpartum period. We call this program Alma because the
      meaning of the word, in English and Spanish, captures what we hope moms will feel when they
      connect with this program. In English, the meaning comes from the Latin word for "nourishing"
      and "kind," and in Spanish, the meaning is "soul." Through the unique synergy of science and
      community, the Alma program provides the tools and support needed to nourish moms in
      supporting their own well-being.

      In the Alma program, mothers who themselves have experienced and recovered from depression
      during the perinatal period, are trained to provide peer mentoring to depressed new and
      expectant mothers. Peer mentors are trained to provide 6-10 mentoring meetings with each of
      the new and expectant mothers with whom they are paired. The peer mentors are trained by
      professionals who are experts in using skills to recover from depression. These skills are
      informed by an evidence-based framework called Behavioral Activation (BA). Peer Mentors are
      trained to support and encourage self-monitoring, scheduling activities, solving problems,
      and bridging to informal and formal professional support. Peer mentors draw on their training
      and own lived experience to provide hope and reduce the social isolation and stigma
      associated with perinatal depression. Among the evidence-based approaches to help people
      recover from depression, Alma uses BA as a lens because many studies have demonstrated that
      these skills are effective in recovering from depression. It has been provided in a
      self-guided format and by lay counselors and licensed mental health providers. Peer mentors
      do not provide psychotherapy and are not licensed mental health providers.
    
  