
    
      Study Design and Methods:

      The investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial evaluating the difference in
      postpartum pain control in women receiving two different amounts of oxycodone after cesarean
      delivery.

      Primary outcomes

      • The primary outcome is the percent of patients who refill their narcotic prescription after
      cesarean delivery.

      Secondary outcomes

        1. Duration of use of narcotic after cesarean delivery, as assessed by the Post Cesarean
           Pain Control Survey (see attachment).

        2. Amount of narcotic unused after cesarean delivery, measured in number of remaining
           pills, as assessed by the Post Cesarean Pain Control Survey.

        3. Disposition of unused drug, as assessed by the Post Cesarean Pain Control Survey.

        4. Patient satisfaction with pain control after cesarean delivery, as assessed by the Post
           Cesarean Pain Control Survey.

      Patients will be identified by one of the investigators or designated research staff as
      either scheduled to undergo repeat cesarean delivery or status post cesarean from review of
      postpartum delivery lists. If they meet inclusion and exclusion criteria, they will be
      approached for enrollment in the study. If they consent they will be randomized on the day of
      discharge to group A or group B via sequentially numbered, sealed, opaque envelope. All
      patients will be provided standard education regarding pain control in the form of a fact
      sheet regarding trajectories of pain resolution, normative opioid consumption post cesarean,
      as well as risks, benefits and alternatives to opiates. If unable to purchase over the
      counter medications, prescriptions for ibuprofen and acetaminophen will be provided, as well
      as phone numbers for contact should any concerns arise between the time of discharge and post
      operative assessment. The patient will be scheduled for a postoperative wound check 10-14
      days postpartum.

      Postoperative wound evaluation will be performed in the research site's OB clinic setting at
      which time the survey will be completed by the patient regarding satisfaction with pain
      control, length of opiate treatment, number of opiates left in prescription and need for
      refills.
    
  