
    
      The standard of care for children with DIPG includes external beam focal radiotherapy (RT)
      but outcomes have remained dismal despite this treatment. The addition of oral Temozolomide
      (TMZ) concurrently with focal irradiation followed by maintenance monthly TMZ was also found
      to be safe but ineffective. However, in the context of an immunotherapy strategy, it might be
      beneficial to use TMZ as an adjuvant therapy during and following radiotherapy. Recent
      pre-clinical and clinical studies in adults with have shown that both myeloablative (MA) and
      non-myeloablative (NMA) chemotherapy induce a profound but transient lymphopenia and,
      somewhat counterintuitively, vaccination during recovery from this lymphopenic state and/or
      the adoptive transfer of tumor-specific lymphocytes into lymphodepleted hosts leads to
      dramatic in vivo T cell expansion and potent immunologic and clinical responses. Therefore,
      the study team expects that tumor-specific lymphocytes, expanded ex vivo with the use of
      TTRNA-pulsed DCs may provide a source of lymphocytes that preferentially expand in this
      lymphopenic environment following TMZ, and serve as a source of responder cells to subsequent
      DC vaccination.

      Although TMZ does induce profound lymphopenia in children with central nervous system (CNS)
      tumors, it has not been conclusively shown to help in augmenting vaccine-induced immune
      responses in this population. Therefore, patients in this study would either receive
      concurrent TMZ during RT and immunotherapy during and after maintenance cycles of
      dose-intensive TMZ (Group A) or focal radiotherapy alone and immunotherapy without
      maintenance DI TMZ (Group B). Immune responses during cycles of DC vaccination with or
      without DI TMZ will be evaluated in both treatment groups. The immunotherapy regimen will
      consist of TTRNA-DC vaccines alone followed by adoptive cellular therapy consisting of ex
      vivo expanded tumor-reactive lymphocytes coupled with TTRNA-DC vaccines and autologous HSCs.

      Patients in Group B will not receive DI TMZ, however, they will receive lymphodepletion with
      cyclophosphamide + fludarabine after DC vaccination and prior to the intravenous infusion of
      ex vivo expanded tumor-reactive lymphocytes, as T cell engraftment and persistence has been
      shown to be augmented by lymphodepletion in numerous studies. TTRNA-pulsed DCs will be given
      in conjunction with the adjuvants GM-CSF and tetanus-diphtheria toxoid (Td) vaccine which the
      study team have shown can significantly enhance clinical responses to DC vaccination.
    
  