
    
      Migraine headache is one of the disabling conditions that occurs more in young women. It is
      usually associated with decreased quality of life, as well as anxiety and depressed in the
      affected individuals. Currently, therapeutic approach to migraine is mostly based on
      medication therapy in two phases of prophylaxis and acute attacks. However, some
      investigators consider it not only as a biologic disease, but also a multidimensional
      condition that may be accompanied by anxiety and depressive symptoms. Considering migraine as
      a biopsychosocial condition means that psychological therapies, such as cognitive-behavioral
      therapy and relaxation, may be efficient in controlling the disease. According to previous
      studies, cognitive therapies, including cognitive-behavioral therapy, have been efficient in
      decreasing frequency and severity of migraine, however, there are some challenges in applying
      these kind of interventions for patients: the costs of such treatments are usually not
      covered by insurance companies; presence of multiple commodities may lead to confusion and
      bewilderment for both therapist and patient while applying the technique; training
      psychologists for this intervention is costly and not enough psychologists know how to handle
      the condition.

      The trans-diagnostic approach, however, can facilitate some challenges with the previous
      method. Since it is not focused on a single condition, trained psychologists with this
      approach can apply it for a wide range of conditions, including migraine. Also, the
      trans-diagnostic approach leads to lower chances of confusion and bewilderment for therapist
      and patients.

      The trans-diagnostic approach is somehow similar to the classic cognitive-behavioral therapy.
      however, it focuses on therapeutic modules instead of constant similar therapeutic models.
      The five cores of trans-diagnostic approach are emotional awareness, cognitive flexibility,
      recognizing and preventing emotion avoidance and maladaptive emotion driven behaviors,
      awareness and tolerance of emotion-related physical conditions, and introceptive and
      situation-based emotion-focused exposure. This method was first designed to replace
      cognitive-behavioral therapy for emotional disorders, due to its feasibility and
      applicability.

      The trans-diagnostic approach has been investigated by several researchers so far, however,
      most of those researches evaluate the efficacy of the technique on psychiatric disorders. It
      has also been investigated for treatment of headaches in adolescents. But no other study on
      other clinical problems or migraine has been conducted. Considering the high rates of
      comorbid anxiety and depressive symptoms in migrainous patients and the feasibility and
      efficacy of trans-diagnostic cognitive-behavioral therapy in other conditions, we aimed to
      evaluate its efficacy on controlling headache and related symptoms among migrainous patients.
    
  