
    
      Infection with Herpes Virus Simplex type 2 (HSV-2) is likely to represent the main cofactor
      involved in HIV transmission, either through clinical episodes or asymptomatic genital
      shedding. However, the definite proof of this concept has never been made through randomised
      controlled trials. Furthermore, the natural history of HSV-2 infection is poorly documented
      in sub-Saharan Africa, as well as the efficacy of the antiviral drug on virus transmission.
      The latter can be measured by HSV-2 genital shedding as a proxy.

      The objectives of this research programme are to assess the impact of a suppressive treatment
      for genital herpes on HIV genital shedding among co-infected patients receiving HAART or not
      needing antiretroviral (ARV) drugs.

      In order to achieve these objectives, we propose to perform 2 randomised double blind
      controlled trials nested within the ongoing cohort of sex workers in Bobo-Dioulasso.

      While the increase of HIV transmission by HSV-2 infection stands as our main working
      hypothesis among HIV positive persons, the specific rationale for individuals taking ARV is
      the following: Does the potential cofactor effect of genital herpes on HIV remain present
      when the immunity is built up by ARV? In other words, is HSV-2 infection a public health
      issue in this group of people. The role of ARV on HIV transmission will also be assessed.

      These 2 trials will be performed using exactly the same methodology and the same study
      treatment. We will use a parallel design with a baseline phase to take into account the
      important inter-individual variability of genital shedding. Each participant will be its own
      control. The baseline phase and treatment phases will each consist of 6 visits performed at a
      2 weeks interval. The participants will receive either placebo or Valacyclovir 1g/day during
      the treatment phase (3 months).

      The outcomes will be measured using both a qualitative and a quantitative measure of HIV
      shedding. The analysis will be conducted using an "intention to treat" and a "per protocol"
      approach.

      At the end of our project, the working hypothesis will be much documented in women taking ARV
      or not. Furthermore, our results will constitute a reference for an upcoming therapeutic
      vaccine trial.

      This work results from the collaboration of the Centre Muraz, the UMR 36 "AIDS and associated
      diseases" (Montpellier) and the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine.
    
  