
    
      Cancer diagnosis and treatment causes a huge psychosocial impact on breast cancer survivors.
      Psychosocial treatments in cancer survivors have already demonstrated their effectiveness in
      reducing emotional distress and improving quality of life although the access to them still
      presents important barriers, such as poor early detection, long waiting times for diagnosis
      or treatment, as well as other restrictions related to work, mobility or economic situation.
      In addition, the current digitization of screening, monitoring and psychosocial treatment
      poses a revolution in the improvement of the quality of care and the reduction of its
      economic burden. The objectives of this study are, first, to assess the clinical efficacy of
      an e-health platform that includes integrated and stepped psychosocial services, in
      comparison to usual psychosocial care, and second, to examine its cost-utility.

      The study methodology is that of a multicentre randomised controlled trial with 2 parallel
      groups (experimental versus control group). Approximately 193 patients diagnosed with breast
      cancer in the acute survival phase will be recruited from 3 University hospitals in Catalonia
      (Spain) and will be randomised to one of two treatment conditions. All participants will be
      evaluated at the beginning of the study (T1: recruitment), 3 months from T1 (T2), 6 months
      from T1 (T3) and 12 months from T1 (T4). Primary outcome measures will include detection of
      clinical cases, amount of waiting time from detection to psychosocial intervention, and
      proportion of cases solved in the different steps of the intervention, as well as outcomes
      related to emotional distress, quality of life, post-traumatic stress and growth and
      therapeutic alliance. Secondary outcomes will include the acceptability of the platform by
      patients through satisfaction questionnaires and the usability of the platform. For the
      cost-utility analysis, the investigators will assess quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and
      costs related to the number of days of sick leaves, healthcare utilization, adherence to
      pharmacological treatment, health professionals' costs, infrastructure and transport costs.

      The study will provide an important advance in the treatment of breast cancer; in the long
      term, it is expected to improve the quality of patient care and the treatment efficacy and to
      reduce waiting lists as well as direct and indirect costs associated with the treatment of
      the disease in Spain.
    
  