
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of ribociclib in combination with 160 mg of
      enzalutamide. (Phase Ib)

      II. To determine efficacy with respect to the proportion of subjects that achieve a >= 50%
      reduction in prostate-specific antigen (PSA) at 12 weeks. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. PSA progression-free survival.

      II. Radiographic progression-free survival.

      III. Safety.

      IV. Pharmacokinetics.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the expression of retinoblastoma (RB) in circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and
      tumor tissue.

      II. To evaluate other mechanisms of castrate resistance (such as androgen receptor
      [AR]-variant [v]7) in tumor tissue and CTCs.

      III. To explore resistance mechanisms of cyclin dependent kinase (CDK)4/6 inhibitors in tumor
      samples in patients that progress on enzalutamide and ribociclib.

      IV. Explore the use/correlation of circulating deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)/exosomes in
      castrate-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) patients treated with enzalutamide with and without
      ribociclib.

      V. Androgen profiles and correlation to clinical outcomes. VI. Development of model explant
      systems to correlate with the clinical outcome.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of ribociclib followed by a phase II study.

      PHASE Ib: Patients receive enzalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and
      ribociclib PO QD on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive enzalutamide PO QD on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive enzalutamide PO QD on days 1-28 and ribociclib PO QD on days 1-21.
      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 24 months.
    
  