
    
      Because of contradictory data in the literature with regards to the efficiency of
      physiotherapeutic techniques to prevent and treat radiation-induced trismus, we believe there
      is a need to better investigate the efficiency and the quality of life resulting from the
      different prophylactic physiotherapeutic techniques for radiation-induced trismus in patients
      with HNC. After the conclusion of this research, we hope to suggest a suitable
      physiotherapeutic protocol to prevent this complication thereby allowing for an improvement
      in patients' quality of life.

      Data collection:

      All patients who begin Radiotherapy the Hospital will attend a group meeting with the nursing
      staff in order to receive information about their treatment. In the groups, we will identify
      patients who meet the study inclusion criteria and explain the Informed Consent Form. After
      we explain to patients their rights in accordance with resolution 196/96 of the National
      Health Council and they agree to take part by signing the consent form, we will begin
      gathering data.

      The gathering of data will be done always by the same researcher, who will assess the patient
      twice; the first assessment will take place before the onset of radiotherapy treatment,
      preferably on the day that the patient undergoes simulation (baseline), the second assessment
      will take place immediately after the last session of radiotherapy (post radiotherapy), third
      assessment will take a place six months after radiotherapy and the late follow-up one year
      after the radiotherapy treatment. Each patient will have a different total duration of
      radiotherapy regarding the dosage of radiation and type of tumor. It is expected that the
      total duration of radiation will vary between 45 to 60 days.

      Prior to that, all patients will be interviewed on a one-to-one basis in the premises of the
      Radiotherapy Service to provide their medical history. Other information such as tumor site,
      neoplastic histological type, staging,radiation field, dosage for each radiotherapy session,
      bilateral or unilateral presentation and aim of treatment (palliative or curative) will be
      taken from the patient's hospital records.

      The physical examination will take place in accordance with the guidelines and specifications
      of the Research Diagnostic Criteria for Temporomandibular Disorders - RDC/TMD, which
      evaluates variables such as the range of motion of the temporomandibular joint (TMJ), joint
      sounds and level of pain when pressed by the fingers and to the mastication muscles. RDC/TMD
      is widely used in the scientific and clinical practice for assessment of temporomandibular
      dysfunction, as it has been officially translated into 18 languages, including Portuguese.

      After recording the patient´s medical history and carrying out a physical examination, the
      patient will receive the University of Washington Quality of Life Questionnaire, version 4.

      After undergoing assessment, patients will be given instructions about the physiotherapy
      exercises to be performed with the aid of an assistant physiotherapist. Patients will be
      randomly placed into 3 Groups.

      The control group will not receive any of the protocols tested in the study, but together
      with the other groups, will receive the regular treatment offered by the institution, which
      is made up of guidance and advice given by the hospital´s nursing team about the radiotherapy
      treatment.

      In order to assess patients' compliance with the protocol, they will be given a training
      calendar at baseline in order to record their compliance or not with the regime. Completed
      calendars will be collected at post radiotherapy.

      Sample Size:

      The sample size has been determined with the aid of the software PEPI (Programs for
      Epidemiologists) version 4.0 and based in the works of Tang et al.

      (2011) and Buchbinder et al. (1993). In order to achieve a significance of 5%, a power of 90%
      and an effect size of one standard deviation amongst the groups, we have obtained a total of
      at least 23 patients in each of the 3 groups, with a grand total of 69 patients.

      Randomization:

      The randomization will be done by the software PEPI (Programs for Epidemiologists),
      subcategory RANDOM, which will draw the random numbers in each group. The allocation will be
      kept secret by the existence of a randomization list which will be kept in an isolated venue.
      The sequence of numbers to be used in the randomization will be kept confidential and will
      only be disclosed at the exact moment when intervention begins.

      Statistical Analysis:

      The quantitative variables will be described by standard deviation and mean while the
      qualitative variables will be described by absolute and relative frequency.

      The Kolmogorov-Smirnov Test will be used to verify data normality. In order to compare intra
      and inter groups, the two-way Variable Analysis (ANOVA) for repeated measures with Bonferroni
      post-hoc test will be applied. In order to compare the means amongst the groups at the
      baseline, the one-way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) with Tukey´s post-hoc will be used. If
      asymmetry is detected, we will apply the Kruskal-Wallis test supplemented by Mann-Whitney
      test.

      In order to compare distribution, the Pearson chi-square test supplemented by the adjusted
      residuals will be applied. In order to compare the domains of Quality of Life, the Analysis
      of Variance (ANOVA) with Bonferroni post-hoc will be used for repeated measurements.

      In order to assess the correlation between continuous variables, the Pearson linear
      correlation test will be used. If asymmetry is detected, the Spearman correlation will be
      applied.

      The significance level adopted will be that of 5% (p<0,05) and the analyses will be done
      using the software SPSS (Statistical Package for the Social Sciences) version 17.0.
    
  