
    
      For this randomized controlled trial, a random number generator will be used to randomly
      assign subjects to either the Placebo/Stretching group or the Exercise group. Study
      physicians will be blinded to group assignment. Each subject will be given a subject ID
      number and will complete a brief medical history. They will then be escorted by a designated
      health care professional who is either the site-coordinator or another health care provider
      trained in the administration of the Buffalo Concussion Treadmill Test (BCTT) to the
      treadmill. There, they will be fitted with an ActiGraph activity monitor to be worn
      throughout their recovery period. The ActiGraph is a small, non-invasive unit that measures
      human rest and activity cycles. It will be worn similarly to a wrist watch and secured in
      place with a disposable wristband. Resting heart rate variability (HRV) will be assessed
      using the Elite HRV app for smartphone. Trained research personnel will assist the subject
      with fitting the Polar H7 heart rate sensor and finding a comfortable seated position. The
      heart rate sensor will then connect with the Elite HRV app for smart phone. Once connected,
      it will take approximately 2 minutes to record the data. Subjects will complete the BCTT in
      the clinic at the first available testing session no earlier than 48 hours following injury.
      VOMS and Y-Balance test will also be administered and recorded.

      Stretching/Placebo Group Subjects assigned to the Stretching/Placebo group will be given a
      stretching protocol and instructions to report to their athletic trainer on a daily basis as
      soon as possible. Prior to the beginning of each intervention session, subjects will be
      assessed using standard of care protocols which include verbal feedback, symptom scale, and
      visual-analog scale (VAS). Subjects with a self-reported VAS of ≥7 will not stretch that day.
      Subjects with a score of ≤ 6 will then complete a 15-25 minute stretching program under
      supervision by the athletic trainer or other designated research personnel. Following
      completion of the stretching program for that day, the athletic trainer will record exercise
      duration and heart rate (HR) (as monitored by the Polar H7 Heart Rate Sensor). The stretching
      protocol will be progressive and will change weekly as subjects continue their recovery.

      Exercise Group Subjects in the exercise group will be prescribed exercise at a target heart
      rate (THR) of approximately 80% of the achieved heart rate during the BCTT. They will be
      given this prescription in writing to provide to their athletic trainer. Prior to the
      beginning of each intervention session, subjects will be assessed using standard of care
      protocols which include verbal feedback, symptom scale, and visual-analog scale. Subjects
      with a self-reported Visual Analog Scale (VAS) of ≥ 7 will not exercise that day. Subjects
      with a score of ≤ 6 will then complete 30 minutes of daily exercise (including 5 minutes of
      warm up and 5 minutes of cool down) on an exercise bike or walking and supervised by an
      athletic trainer. Subjects will be instructed to terminate exercise at the first sign of
      symptom exacerbation or after 30 minutes, whichever occurs first. Athletic trainers will
      instruct subjects to cease exercise if additional symptoms appear or if symptoms worsen. This
      program may be modified by increasing heart rate threshold 5-10 beats per minute per week by
      the athletic trainer as the heart rate for symptom exacerbation increases. The supervising
      athletic trainer will record exercise duration and THR (as monitored by the Polar H7 Heart
      Rate Sensor).

      Due to medical ethics, subjects will undergo any other individualized rehabilitation
      recommendations made by the physician or treating physical therapist throughout their
      individual treatment period. Common rehabilitation interventions include vestibular,
      oculomotor, cervicogenic, and balance exercises. Subjects may undergo one or all of these
      depending on their individual needs. Therefore, the exercise protocol identified in this
      application is a supplement to their standard care provided by medical personnel.

      All Subjects All subjects will complete the Symptom Form daily for the duration of their
      symptom presentation. In addition to reporting to their athletic trainer, subjects will be
      provided with a link to a secured website on which they will be asked to enter their symptoms
      at approximately the same time each evening. An option will be to provide the surveys and
      envelopes to complete these in hard copy.

      When symptoms are no longer reported to the athletic trainer by the subject, the athletic
      trainer will complete the clinical battery associated with their respective concussion
      protocol prior to the subject's appointment with the study physician to seek clearance for
      return to play. The study physician will conduct a standardized physical exam and determine
      if the subject has met the following criteria for clinical recovery:

        1. normal or baseline Standardized Assessment of Concussion;

        2. normal neurological exam; and

        3. can complete the BCTT without symptom exacerbation.

        4. VOMS and Y-Balance

      Prior to the clearance BCTT, subjects will have Heart Rate Variability (HRV) measured using
      the Elite HRV app for smart phone. Trained research personnel will assist the subject with
      fitting the Polar H7 heart rate sensor and finding a comfortable seated position. The heart
      rate sensor will then connect with the Elite HRV app for smartphone. Once connected, it will
      take approximately 2 minutes to record the data.

      The subject will then begin at Stage 3 of the stepwise return to sport (RTS) strategy as
      outlined in the Berlin guidelines and full RTS will be allowed when the subject has completed
      each step of the stepwise RTS criteria without symptom exacerbation. Number of days from date
      of injury to full RTS (including days in the Berlin RTS) will be recorded, analyzed, and
      compared for the Placebo/Stretching group and the Exercise group.
    
  