
    
      A Phase Ib trial design will be employed in patients with metastatic PC who have failed prior
      androgen ablation and docetaxel. CTX will be administered also on Day 1. All patients will
      receive RT (800 cGy in a single fraction) to up to 3 bone metastatic sites on Day 4 in the
      AM. Anti-OX40 at 0.4 mg/kg IV will be given on days 4, 6 and 8. The timing of CTX, RT and
      anti-OX40 are based on the pre-clinical models and the observation that the synergies of CTX
      and RT are reduced when they are given more than one week after anti-OX40 and are maximized
      when given within 3 days of starting anti-OX40. The proposed radiation dose is commonly used
      to palliate bone pain in PC and generally will not induce significant cytopenias. The CTX
      dose will be escalated in successive cohorts of 3 - 6 patients to assure patient safety. The
      dose levels of CTX will be 300, 600 and 900 mg/m2 intravenously in the initial stage of the
      study. The range of CTX doses is commonly used in general oncology practice and is not
      expected to induce prolonged myelosuppression, although transient cytopenias are likely.
      Concurrent CTX and RT has been well-tolerated at much higher dose-intensities than the
      investigators are proposing (52-54), thus the investigators are not expecting significant
      adverse events from the combination before anti-OX40. As a safety consideration, the
      investigators are not giving CTX and RT on the same day as a high proportion of men with
      prostate cancer have bone metastases in the pelvis. RT to the pelvis could cause radiation
      cystitis that would be exacerbated by the metabolites of CTX (e.g., acrolein) that can
      accumulate in the bladder in the 24-36 hours after administration. After the dose-escalation
      portion of the trial then up to 20 additional patients can enroll in the study at the maximum
      tolerated CTX dose if clinical responses are seen, for a maximum total of 37 patients using a
      Simon two-stage design (see Section 10 for details).

      The main clinical objective of the trial will be to characterize toxicity and estimate the
      response rate of the combination of anti-OX40, CTX and RT. Both radiographic and PSA
      responses will be followed. RECIST will be used for radiographic assessment and a significant
      PSA response will be defined as a 50% or greater decrease from baseline measured at 3 and 6
      weeks after the start of treatment based on the PCWG2 guidelines (55).

      Patients will enroll consecutively to each cohort assuming no dose-limiting toxicities. Three
      patients will be treated per cohort and if there are no dose-limiting toxicities, then
      enrollment to the next cohort can begin. If a dose-limiting toxicity is encountered in the
      first three patients in any cohort, then an additional three patients will be enrolled in
      that cohort.* This dosing strategy will allow for a three-fold escalation of CTX.

      The main hypothesis of this study is that CTX and RT will induce tumor breakdown providing a
      source of antigen for self-vaccination and anti-OX40 will amplify CD8-mediated effector
      responses across a broad spectrum of prostate cancer antigens resulting in further regression
      of prostate cancer. The investigators predict that anti-OX40 will not increase circulating or
      intratumoral Treg, and this should help to further augment immune responses.

      *For the dose escalation portion of the study, the first 2 patients in any cohort can be
      treated on consecutive weeks. If there are no Dose Limiting Toxicities, then the third
      patient can begin treatment 28 days after the second patient has completed anti-OX40. If the
      third patient has no DLT, then the next cohort can open 28 days after the third patient has
      completed anti-OX40. If a DLT occurs with patient 3 in any cohort, then up to 3 more patients
      will enroll to the same cohort at a frequency of one patient every 28 days after the previous
      patient has completed anti-OX40 assuming no DLT.
    
  