
    
      This is a single-center, randomized (1:1), parallel-group, manikin trial comparing times of
      execution and quality of life-saving procedures performed by residents while wearing PPE for
      CBRNe events versus no PPE. The trial was deemed exempt from review by the local Ethics
      Committee (No. 0045954/2019). The study was conducted aiming to reduce carbon footprint and
      increase sustainability.

      Study Population The trial involves Senior Emergency Medicine (EM) and Anesthesiology and
      Critical Care (ACC) residents (PGY-4 and -5) from the residency programs of the University of
      Padova (Padova, Italy), recruited via email by the study coordinator (GM) without selection.
      Eligible residents are certified as proficient at the procedures described in the next
      section by the respective residency board, being this a prerequisite to qualify as a PGY-4
      and -5 in Italy. The subjects participating in the study don't receive any incentives.
      Written consent is asked prior to the beginning. The study is organized at the "SIMULARTI"
      medical simulation center of the University of Padova in Padova, Italy.

      Interventions and Procedures Residents are involved in performing the following procedures on
      the ground on high fidelity manikins: two rescuers CPR (SUSIE - Gaumard Scientific, Miami,
      FL); tactical tourniquet application (with a Combat Application Tourniquet速, CAT Resources,
      Rock Hill, SC; on a Trauma Hal - Gaumard Scientific, Miami, FL); tension PNX needle
      decompression (Truman Trauma X - TruCorp, Lurgan, N. Ireland); positioning of peripheral
      venous access, intraosseous vascular access (with EZ-IO速 - Teleflex, Wayne, PA), and drug
      preparation and administration (Code Blue III Adult - Gaumard Scientific, Miami, FL). Each
      procedure is accomplished by the algorithms collected in an operations manual made available
      to the researchers only, and verbally disclosed to the participants before their attempt (see
      Online Supplement 1). The participants do not receive any feedback, neither verbal nor
      visual, during the execution of the procedures. Subjects in the intervention group wear a
      Tyvek pro-tech速 "C" gear (Bonetti, Milano, Italy), a full visor SGE 400 mask (EN 136:98 CL3)
      connected to an A2B2E2K2-P3 R filter (Spasciani, Milano, Italy), and well-fitting,
      non-sterile Mapa Ultranitril 480 gloves (Mapa SAS, Colombes, France). Subjects in the control
      group only wear well-fitting, medical examination nitrile gloves.

      After the end of the procedures under investigation, participants from the control group are
      given the possibility to perform the procedures wearing CBRNe PPE, since this is a training
      session part of their curricular activities. Finally, an anonymous questionnaire was
      administered to the participants to evaluate their perception of the experience (Online
      Supplement 2). The questionnaire was composed of 10 items - 7 positive and 3 negative - that
      participants had to rate using a 5 point Likert scale (1=totally disagree; 2=disagree;
      3=uncertain; 4=agree; 5=totally agree). The internal consistency of the questionnaire was
      measured using Cronbach's alfa.

      Randomization For the 1:1 allocation of the residents, a computer-generated list of random
      numbers is used. Participants are randomly assigned following variable block sizes of 2 and 4
      to either the intervention group (in which they wore CBRNe PPEs) or to a control group (in
      which they used only one pair of nitrile gloves) (Figure 1). Also, the participants perform
      each procedure in a random order according to a computer-generated sequence. Randomization is
      prepared by a researcher not directly involved with the experiments. The allocation of
      subjects and order of the procedures are concealed by using sequentially numbered, opaque,
      stapled envelopes, and upheld until each participant was in the simulation rooms. The
      experiment coordinator (MP) opens the envelopes and assigns participants to group and
      procedures. Blinding of participants and researchers involved in the experiment is
      unfortunately not possible. Only the outcome assessor and data analyst (SS) is kept blinded
      to the allocation.

      Outcomes The primary outcome is the difference in sternum to spine chest compressions (CCs)
      depth during CPR between the two groups. Secondary outcomes are the differences in CCs
      average rates per minute, percentage of CCs full release, times for completion of tourniquet
      positioning, PNX decompression, positioning of a peripheral venous catheter and intraosseous
      access, and drug preparation and administration. As tertiary outcome, the overall
      participants' perception of this CBRNe simulated training at the end of the session is
      measured.

      Data Collection In each scenario, a researcher collects times with a stopwatch and monitors
      the correct execution of procedures. In case of errors, the participant is stopped and
      granted a second attempt, but is excluded from the study. As for CPR, data are collected
      using UNI速 Unified Simulator Control Software ver 2.41.1.0 (Gaumard Scientific, Miami, FL).

      Sample Size and Statistical Analysis The investigators calculated that group sample sizes of
      18 and 18 would be required to detect a difference of 5.0 mm in CCs depth with a standard
      deviation (SD) of 5.0 mm, at a significance level (alpha) of 0.05 and at least 80% power,
      using a two-sided Mann-Whitney test, assuming that the actual distribution could be
      non-normal. Qualitative data are analyzed descriptively through their distribution frequency.
      Quantitative data are tested with a Shapiro-Wilk test for normality. Results are presented as
      mean with SD, and differences tested with independent t-test in case of normally distributed
      data with equal variance (tested with Levene's test; if not true: Welch test). Otherwise,
      results are presented as median and interquartile range (IQR), and differences are tested
      using a Mann-Whitney test. All tests are two-sided and p values <0.05 are considered
      statistically significant. An estimated difference with 95% confidence interval (CI) is
      reported for the difference between testing conditions. Statistical software JASP (ver
      0.11.1; JASP Team, 2019) is used to analyze the results.
    
  