
    
      Latino men who have sex with men (MSM) continue to be disproportionately affected by HIV.
      Experiences of stigma, discrimination, marginalization, sexual objectification, negative
      cultural perceptions of homosexuality, and cultural values such as 'familismo' and 'machismo'
      elevate their vulnerability to HIV infection. Many Latino MSM use substances as a way to cope
      with or alleviate these stressors, further increasing their risk. Although efficacious
      interventions for Latino MSM have been developed, not a single one has focused on Latino male
      couples, despite strong evidence from White MSM that HIV infection often occurs within
      primary couple relationships. Findings from the investigators formative study with Latino MSM
      suggest that the factors driving HIV risk for White male couples also operate among Latino
      male couples. For instance, Latino men in male couples were more likely to report condomless
      anal sex and problematic alcohol use than those who were not in a relationship. Developing
      and testing tailored interventions for Latino male couples, as the investigators are
      proposing, is warranted.

      The proposed study builds on the PI's post-doctoral research which adapted an evidence based
      intervention for Black MSM couples, Connect 'n Unite (CNU), for Latino male couples using
      methodologically rigorous adaptation procedures. The adapted intervention, Conectando Latinos
      en Pareja (CLP), expands the prevention alternatives offered in previous interventions by
      incorporating biomedical prevention methods such as pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP);
      promoting engagement in care, adherence to treatment regimens and viral suppression (TasP)
      for HIV-positive individuals and/or couples; and encouraging routine HIV testing, if
      appropriate given the couple's serostatus. The investigators have proposed a two-phase study
      to determine the preliminary efficacy of Conectando Latinos en Pareja to increase the
      proportion of anal sex acts that are HIV protected (i.e. anal sex acts in which condoms,
      PrEP, TasP, or combination thereof reduce risk of HIV transmission). During Phase 1, the
      investigators will develop and finalize the intervention manuals and assessment instruments,
      pilot test the intervention, and conduct the necessary preparatory activities for launching a
      randomized control trial (RCT). During Phase 2, the investigators will conduct a RCT to
      examine whether participants assigned to CLP report an increase in the proportion of
      HIV-protected anal sex acts compared to those assigned to a Wellness Promotion (WP), a
      time-matched attention control (the investigators will use an algorithm that incorporates use
      of condoms, PrEP, and/or TasP, depending on the serostatus of the couple to compute the
      dependent variable).

      The investigators will recruit 150 Latino male couples (where at least one member of the dyad
      self-identifies as Latino) in the corridor between Philadelphia, PA and Trenton, NJ - an area
      with porous borders where many diverse subgroups of Latinos live. The investigators will
      randomly assign couples to CLP or WP. The investigators will assess sexual, alcohol and drug
      use behaviors and other psychosocial factors (e.g., depressive symptoms, anxiety symptoms) at
      baseline, 3, and 6 months post-intervention. Participants who consent to optional HIV/STI
      testing will be tested for HIV, chlamydia, and gonorrhea at baseline and at 3 and 6 months
      post-intervention. The primary assessment and project management activities will be conducted
      at GALAEI, a large Latino-serving CBO in North Philadelphia. Recruitment and screening will
      be done at community and internet venues. Intervention activities will be conduct at GALAEI,
      Temple University, and other safe spaces convenient to study participants.
    
  