
    
      The UK OAGB/MGB collaborative group of 12 consultant bariatric surgeons was founded in 2017
      and the data of 925 OAGB/MGB procedures were retrospectively collected and analysed in this
      cohort study. The treatment pathway is the SAME at each NHS centre. The indications for
      referral, consultations, and follow up after surgery are similar. This is agreed bariatric
      practice governed by British Obesity and Metabolic Surgery Society's [BOMSS] guidance.

      The patients' age, BMI, presence of T2DM, comorbidities, Gastro-oesophageal reflux and hiatus
      hernia, Barrett's oesophagus, family history of upper gastro-intestinal cancer, and the
      patient choice were the main factors to influence the decision to the procedure type. Each
      centre is offering Roux en Y Gastric Bypass (RYGB), Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy (LSG),
      MGB/OAGB and Adjustable Gastric Band (AGB). The allocation of the procedure is finalised
      after mutual agreement between the patient and the surgeon taking in consideration the above
      factors and patient's choice. The data was retrospectively collected by the surgical team at
      each institution and sent to the lead of the collaborative group. The follow up is conducted
      by clinical visits, blood tests and radiology [ultrasound, computed tomography ] when needed.

      The procedures were performed between September 2010 and May 2018. A long gastric pouch of
      average 15cm was constructed over a 34-36F bougie using laparoscopic staplers. The start
      point of stapling is at the crow's foot. The omentum was only divided in selected cases such
      as male patients with a very high Body Mass Index (BMI). After identifying the
      duodeno-jejunal junction, a BPL ranging from 150-300 cm was measured. The end-side /side-side
      gastro-jejunostomy was made using a combined hand-sewn /stapled technique. Use of drains and
      closure of Petersen's space varied between different surgeons. The patients were discharged
      after 2-3 nights. The follow up was ranged from 6 months to 3 years. In the UK the NHS and
      private practice are following National Institute of Clinical Excellence [NICE] guidelines in
      management and post operative follow up. Thus there is very strict follow up for two years
      after the operation. The patients are seen two weeks after the primary surgery at which
      clinical examination, dietary assessment and baseline post operative blood test is performed.
      Then the patients are seen one month after that, then 3 monthly period for the initial year,
      and 6 monthly for the last year. During all these visits, clinical, dietary and routine
      biochemical assessments were conducted. For patients who developed complications, a different
      and longer pathway of follow up is adopted until they recover and then, discharged to their
      general practitioners (GPs). The paper was written to comply with STROCSS guidelines
      (www.strocssguideline.com).
    
  