
    
      Background:

      Two signatures of the microenvironment were recently identified that are predictive of
      outcome in patients with newly diagnosed DLBCL treated with R-CHOP. These signatures, called
      stromal 1 and stromal 2 , are associated with genes expressed by infiltrating mononuclear
      cells. The stromal 2 signature, which includes genes associated with angiogenesis, is
      predictive of an inferior outcome. Based on these observations, we are interested in
      targeting the reactive cells in the microenvironment as a therapeutic strategy in patients
      with relapsed and refractory DLBCL. Along the same principles, we are also including patients
      with relapsed Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). The surrounding reactive cells around Hodgkin Reed
      Sternberg (HRS) cells are now not thought to be bystander cells and they appear to provide
      important survival signals to HRS cells.

        -  CD52 is one such promising target that is highly expressed in most of these infiltrating
           cells and on most DLBCL although not on HRS cells specifically. Anti-CD52 antibodies may
           have therapeutic value by depleting reactive B and T cells, and monocytes from the
           microenvironment.

        -  The dose of alemtuzumab in combination with DA-EPOCH is 30 mg IV, as determined by a
           prior study done in patients with untreated peripheral T-cell lymphoma. The main
           toxicities of this combination are myelosuppression and opportunistic infections.

        -  An important component of this study will be to obtain tumor tissue for gene expression
           profiling and to assess microenvironment signatures and look at other molecular
           signatures and targets before treatment and in patients who progress and ultimately
           correlate response and outcome with these various end-points.

      Objectives:

      - Assess response, progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in
      relapsed/refractory DLBCL and Hodgkin Lymphoma.

      Eligibility:

        -  Previously treated orrefractory classical large B-cell lymphomas, Grey-zone lymphoma and
           Hodgkin lymphoma, including Lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin Lymphoma (LPHL).

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years with adequate organ functions.

        -  HIV negative and no active CNS lymphoma.

      Study Design:

        -  Patients will receive 30mg of Alemtuzumab on day 1 of therapy, followed by Rituximab on
           day 1 and dose-adjusted EPOCH chemotherapy days 1-5, up to six cycles of therapy.

        -  Tumor biopsies will be done before treatment, after 1 cycle of therapy and at relapse.

        -  It is anticipated that up to 10-15 patients per year may be enrolled onto this trial.
           Thus, accrual of up to 52 patients is expected to require approximately 4-5 years.
    
  