
    
      A major attraction of K+-sparing diuretics may be the absence of risk of new-onset diabetes
      (DM). Since they have not been compared in hypertension outcome trials, and DM has not been
      an endpoint in heart failure studies of spironolactone or eplerenone, we do not know for
      certain whether they are clean in this respect. Short-term studies suggest they are.49
      Interestingly in INSIGHT there was no excess of DM in patients receiving HCTZ 25mg, which was
      combined with amiloride 2.5mg, but increased by 30% in patients on HCTZ/amiloride 50/5mg.44
      In the proposed study we shall use the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) to provide an
      endpoint for each subject. This strategy has recently been employed to demonstrate a
      difference after just 12 weeks of dosing with a thiazide diuretic50. Hyperkalaemia has been
      the traditional concern about K+-sparing diuretics. We expect to demonstrate that in patients
      with eGFR ≥45, the risk of hyperkalaemia is nullified by combination with a thiazide. Instead
      then of amiloride being used mainly in trace doses to balance the hypokalaemia of thiazides,
      practice might reverse to thinking of thaizides as the "partner" used to negate risk of
      hyperkalaemia.

      The challenge to designing this study is to compare several options among the diuretics while
      achieving clear cut answers to:

        1. the comparison of combination with single diuretics and

        2. the comparison of K+-sparing diuretics with thiazide.

      A study of sufficient duration to establish efficacy and tolerability (especially upon
      glucose tolerance) cannot be crossover in design and therefore requires a large number of
      subjects to compare the options. In order to maximize recruitment whilst also maximizing
      sensitivity to detect changes in OGTT, we will open the trial to most of those patients with
      hypertension in whom diuretic is a reasonable next option, providing they have one feature of
      the metabolic syndrome - additional to hypertension.
    
  