
    
      A substantial number of cancer survivors who receive chemotherapy report mild to moderate
      cognitive impairment following treatment. These impairments have been reported across a range
      of cancer types and chemotherapy agents. Adjuvant treatment has been reported to affect
      multiple cognitive domains, but three domains appear to be most strongly affected (i.e.,
      executive functioning, declarative memory, motor function). Exercise participation, at levels
      that are readily achievable by most adults (3-5 d/wk, 30-45 min/d), preserves and enhances
      cognitive function. Importantly, domains that are enhanced by exercise overlap substantially
      with the domains adversely affected by chemotherapy. Accordingly, we propose a 2 year
      research program that seeks to develop and test a safe, simple, and effective exercise
      intervention to optimize cognitive function following chemotherapy. To begin this research,
      we will: 1) conduct a randomized exercise intervention trial among cancer survivors that
      report persistent cognitive problems following chemotherapy (exercise, n=30 vs. standard of
      care, n=30); 2) explore possible mediators and moderators of the intervention effect on
      cognition; and 3), conduct a cross-sectional study comparing cancer survivors enrolled in the
      trial (n=60) and matched controls (n=40) to evaluate the cognitive status among survivors in
      the intervention. We will employ a proven home-based exercise intervention and state of the
      art cognitive testing of relevant cognitive domains (e.g., Randt Memory Test, Trail Making B,
      Stroop task, T ask switching, Response compatibility) that we have used in preliminary
      studies. We hypothesize that six-months of regular exercise will enhance cognitive function
      among cancer survivors, and that cancer survivors reporting cognitive dysfunction will have
      lower objectively measured cognitive performance than adults who have not received
      chemotherapy. To our knowledge this study would be the first to examine the influence of
      regular exercise participation on cognitive function among cancer survivors that experienced
      cognitive difficulties following chemotherapy. Completion of this project will provide our
      research team with the necessary experience and intervention effectiveness information that
      will be used to conduct future more definitive trials.
    
  