
    
      Despite extensive research, the etiology of most preterm births remains unknown. There are
      significant fetal consequences associated with preterm birth, which include necrotizing
      enterocolitis, fetal respiratory distress and intra-ventricular hemorrhage. Perinatal
      mortality is about 44%, 11% and 5% when deliveries occur between 25-28 weeks, 29-32 weeks and
      33-34 weeks, respectively. While for many years, it was assumed that the cause of the high
      morbidity associated with prematurity was the birth of a neonate with a restricted adaptive
      capacity, it has also been suggested that part of the high perinatal morbidity was the
      consequence of adverse processes affecting the fetus in utero, rather than of prematurity per
      se. Intra-amniotic inflammation present in utero early in gestation may trigger the cascade
      of events leading to preterm birth (i.e. rupture of membranes, cervical ripening, uterine
      contractions) and provide an intrauterine milieu which is unfavorable or even harmful to the
      fetus.

      Most living organisms have developed well-integrated, antioxidant defenses to scavenge free
      radicals and control their intracellular concentration. A loss of balance between free
      radicals and antioxidants (the redox balance) is one mechanism of cell injury in diseases
      associated with inflammation. N-acetylcysteine is an approved anti-oxidant medication drug
      used during pregnancy for treatment of mothers with acetaminophen (Tylenol) toxicity.
      N-acetylcysteine has been safely administered during pregnancy in over 100 women who
      overdosed with Tylenol and to preterm and healthy term newborns for other purposes. It is a
      goal of our trial to prevent free radical formation by administering N-acetylcysteine and to
      further study whether the outcome of preterm deliveries will improve compared to a control
      group which will not receive placebo infusion
    
  