
    
      This protocol is a phase II multicenter, international, non-comparative, open label study
      designed to jointly assess the safety and the efficacy of the association Carfilzomib with
      Cyclophosphamide and Dexamethasone (CCd) as induction treatment and Carfilzomib alone as
      maintenance in newly diagnosed MM patients.

      Patients will be evaluated at scheduled visits in up to 4 study periods: pre-treatment,
      treatment, maintenance and long-term follow-up.

      The pre-treatment period includes screening visits, performed at study entry. After providing
      written informed consent to participate in the study, patients will be evaluated for study
      eligibility. The screening period includes the availability of inclusion criteria described
      above.

      The treatment period includes administration of Carfilzomib, Cyclophosphamide and
      Dexamethasone for 9 4-week courses. In order to assess the toxicity of treatment, patients
      will attend the study centre visits at each scheduled Carfilzomib administration. The
      response will be assessed after each 4-week cycle.

      The maintenance period includes carfilzomib alone on days 1, 2, 15, 16 at 36mg/m2. For
      patients who show evidence of progression during maintenance phase, the frequency of
      Carfilzomib can be increased to days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, 16 at the discretion of the
      investigator. It will be initiated at the end of the 9th course and will be stopped at
      progression or intolerance. The median expected duration of the maintenance treatment is
      approximately 2 years.

      The Long Term Follow Up periods will start after development of confirmed Progression
      Disease, all patients are to be followed for survival during the Long Term Follow Up period
      every 3 months via telephone or office visit.

      Approximately 15 Italian centers and foreign centers will participate to the protocol.

      Patients with symptomatic newly diagnosed MM whose age is ≥ 65 years or who are ineligible
      for autologous stem cell transplantation. Up to 53 patients will be enrolled from different
      centers.

      The duration of the treatment is approximately 9 months. This length of time is required to
      complete 9 courses of CCd. At the end of the first stage (19 patients), the trial will be
      temporarily stopped until all 19 patients complete the toxicity and efficacy evaluation (3
      cycle): if there are more than 7 responses and less than 8 toxicities, a further group of 34
      patients (total=53) will be enrolled. Otherwise, the trial will be definitively stopped or
      the DSMC will recommend testing other doses of the drugs.

      The maintenance period in both phases will start at the end of the 9th course and will be
      stopped at progression or intolerance. The median expected duration of the maintenance
      treatment is approximately 2 years. The duration of follow-up from relapse will be
      approximately 2 years. The occurrence of PD will determine the duration of TTP of each
      patient. The occurrence of death will determine the duration of overall survival. The first
      analysis to evaluate safety and efficacy is planned when the 19 patients enrolled in the
      first stage of the study have completed the third cycle of induction treatment.

      The trial will be stopped if there are < 6 responses, or > 9 toxicities or the Data Safety
      Monitoring Committee recommends testing other doses of the drugs; Otherwise, a further group
      of 34 patients (total=53) will be enrolled. The final conclusion will be negative if there
      are ≤ 23/53 responses, or ≥ 20/53 drug-related toxicities.
    
  