
    
      Rationale: The STEP-UP trial investigated the bronchoscopic lung volume reduction treatment
      using vapor and showed that the treatment group significantly improved after 6 months
      compared to the control group in Lung function and quality of life. The authors also
      concluded that the treatment has an acceptable safety profile. The results of this trial has
      led to the inclusion of this treatment in the COPD GOLD guidelines in 2019. In the
      Netherlands the treatment has not been performed so far but the treatment device has been
      made available to the UMCG hospital to perform emphysema treatments. Yearly, approximately
      600 severe emphysema patients are refered to the UMCG for a bronchoscopic treatment but only
      approximately 10% is suitable for a treatment with endobronchial valves or coils. Some of the
      other patients could benefit from the Vapor treatment and therefore with this treatment we
      will be able to treat patients who have no other treatment options left.

      Objective: The overall aim of this study is to gain experience with the Thermal Vapor
      treatment by investigating the safety and efficacy of the treatment.

      Primary Objective:

      The primary objective is to investigate the change in Lung function (measured by Forced
      Expiratory Volume in 1 second (FEV1)) between baseline and 6 months after the Thermal Vapor
      treatment.

      Secondary Objectives:

      Safety

      • A secondary objective is to investigate the safety of the Thermal Vapor treatment by
      recoding all the adverse events that occur between baseline and 1 year follow up after
      treatment.

      Efficacy • A secondary objective is to investigate the change in Lung function, lung
      hyperinflation, quality of life, dyspnea, CT parameters and exercise capacity between
      baseline and 6 and 12 months follow up after treatment.

      Longterm

      • A secondary objective is to investigate the long term effect of the treatment in terms of
      change in Lung function, lung hyperinflation, quality of life and exercise capacity between
      baseline and up to 5 years follow up after treatment.

      Study designThis study will be a prospective observational, single center study that will
      investigate the safety and efficacy of the InterVapor (Bronchoscopic Thermal Vapor Ablation
      System) that will be introduced in the Netherlands for the first time. All patients that
      undergo the bronchoscopic lung volume reduction treatment using thermal Vapor will be asked
      if their data can be captured in the database.

      Study population: Patients with severe COPD who undergo the Thermal Vapor treatment.

      Main study parameters: The primary objective is to investigate the change in Lung function
      which will be measured by Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 second (FEV1) between baseline and 6
      months after the Thermal Vapor treatment.
    
  