
    
      Intraoperative handover of anesthesia care frequently occurs in clinical routine.
      Communication between the two anesthesiologists plays a pivotal role for the continuation of
      anesthesia care. The outgoing clinician must inform the incoming clinician in a short period
      of time about the important pre- and intraoperative facts and about the surgery while
      continuing to provide patient care. Contributing factors to inadequate communication during
      handoffs include insufficient or misleading information, busy and distractive environment,
      ineffective communication methods, lack of time, lack of standardized procedures, and
      insufficient staffing. It is estimated that the majority of adverse events in health care
      involve miscommunication during the handoff between physicians and perhaps other health care
      practitioners (https://www.jointcommission.org/hot_topics_toc/).

      The goal is to conduct a prospective, national, randomized-controlled, multicenter trial to
      investigate the effect of handover of anesthesia care on the occurrence of adverse outcomes
      in the perioperative period. The investigators hypothesizes that handover of anesthesia care
      does increase the risk for adverse outcomes. The primary outcome parameter is a combined
      endpoint consisting of all-cause mortality, readmission to any hospital, or major
      postoperative complications (including prolonged postoperative ventilation ≥ 48 h, major
      disruption of surgical wound, bleeding, pneumonia, atrial fibrillation, moderate or severe
      acute kidney injury, new onset of hemodialysis, cardiac arrest, myocardial infarction,
      sepsis, stroke, pulmonary embolism, deep venous thrombosis, shock, unplanned return to
      operating room) within 30 days of index surgery. Secondary endpoints are the individual
      criteria of the primary endpoint, hospital length of stay, ICU admission, and ICU length of
      stay. As the currently available data on handover of anesthesia care have not been obtained
      from prospective, randomized controlled trials, the results of the Handicap trial will bring
      new insights to anesthesia care to improve patients' outcome.
    
  