
    
      For weeks 1-8, you will only be receiving FOLFIRINOX via IV infusion. The treatment plan will
      begin with four cycles (8 weeks) of FOLFIRINOX. Each cycle is 14 days long. You will receive
      FOLFIRINOX therapy on days 1, 2 and 3 of each of the four cycles. The FOLFIRINOX treatment is
      broken up into three different drugs. 5-FU will be administered over two hours on day one of
      each cycle, and then continuously with a pump for days 2 and 3. Oxaliplatin will be delivered
      by intravenous (infusion) over 120 minutes. Irinotecan will be given by IV for 90 minutes.
      All parts of this treatment will be received as an outpatient.

      If after 4 cycles of FOLFIRINOX therapy, your tumor has not spread, you will receive a
      further 4 cycles of FOLFIRINOX. If after 8 total cycles of FOLFIRINOX your cancer is clearly
      resectable, you will proceed to phase 2 of treatment with capecitabine and radiation therapy.

      You will take tablets of capecitabine by mouth for a total of 10 days (Monday through Friday)
      during the two weeks after your FOLFIRINOX treatment.

      You will be given a drug diary for capecitabine which contains instructions on how to take
      the drug.

      Short course radiation: You will receive proton radiation treatment for five days (Monday
      through Friday) after your FOLFIRINOX treatment, during the time of your capecitabine
      treatment, or photon radiation for ten days (Monday through Friday for two weeks). You will
      also be assessed at least once during this treatment course for any side effects you may be
      experiencing.

      You will receive study radiation treatment as an outpatient at the Francis H. Burr Proton
      Center or the Clark Center for Radiation Oncology at the Massachusetts General Hospital
      Surgery is expected to occur approximately one to four weeks after completion of capecitabine
      therapy.

      After your surgery, you may receive additional chemotherapy at the discretion of your
      treating physician and be followed as per standard of care.
    
  