
    
      Study Enrollment Procedures Enrollment will be a continuous process with screening and
      enrolling eligible patients admitted through the clinic electively for primary THR. Informed
      consent will be taken from the patient as per routine protocol before the arthroplasty
      procedures in the hospital. Research objectives, methodology, risks, and benefits will be
      explained in detail. Consent for the participation in the study will only be taken by the
      primary investigator at his clinic or the surgical resident on call preoperatively along with
      the consent for the surgical procedure.

      Pre-Randomization Evaluations Screening The screening will involve the routine history taking
      and physical examination by the doctor and nursing staff in the clinic. Screening won't
      involve performing procedures that are not part of routine management. Special attention will
      be given on assessing the dental history and whether the patient is able to chew gum.

      On-study/on-intervention evaluations After screening and eligibility, patients will be
      randomly allocated by a 1:1 ratio to the gum-chewing (gum) or control (no gum) groups using a
      computer-generated randomization sequence by the clinical trials unit (CTU), which they will
      provide to the PI, after patients' admission in the hospital. Patients will be followed from
      the time they reach the ward after surgery until their hospital discharge, which is usually
      around 7 days.

      Data Collection:

      Training of data collectors will be done by the PI to ensure the reliability and validity of
      the study. Data collectors will be recruited, preferably nurses or residents familiar with
      the hospital information management system (HIMS), the medical records and the CTU protocols.
      Training of data collectors will be done, and collectors will be strictly instructed to
      respect the autonomy of participants. Data collection will be done by the data collectors
      under the supervision of the PI and CTU. Questionnaires will be checked for consistency and
      logical data entries. Data entry will be done, and counter checked by the PI at regular
      intervals.

      Data Storage:

      Data collected will be coded and kept confidential without the identifiable information of
      patients. The confidentiality of the study participants will be maintained throughout the
      study period. Data collected will be kept confidential without identifiable information of
      patients who are identified by a number assigned. The hard copy forms will be retained in a
      secured location with the PI after data entry into computer software and will be kept as per
      hospital protocol. The password-protected drives will be used to store data with only the PI
      having access to it. The data will be available for AKU ethical review committee on request
      and might be published in a journal without disclosing any identifiable information of
      patients. Filled questionnaires will be stored for 5 years after the study is completed as
      per the policy of the institute.

      Sample Size:

      To the best of author's knowledge, this is the first research to study the effect of the
      gum-chewing post-arthroplasty procedure on time to flatus. Literature reported numerous
      studies on the same objective but only on post abdominal and colorectal surgery patients
      which gave minimum mean time to flatus post-surgery of 67 hours [3]. In arthroplasty, no
      handling of abdominal viscera is done, and the investigators assume the time of bowel return
      to function is considerably less. Hence, considering the rarity of previous literature and
      the number of cases to be operated in 6 months, investigators decided to recruit and study
      all the eligible patients during the study period from July 2020 to December 2020. The
      expected number of patients will be of 50 patients in each arm.

      Plan of Analysis:

      Statistical analysis will be done by using STATA software version 15. Mean ± SD will be
      computed for all the normally distributed quantitative variables. The median and
      interquartile range would be reported for the non-normally distributed quantitative
      variables. The categorical variables would be expressed in frequencies and percentages.
      Length of stay will be calculated by Kaplan-Meier analysis, with an unadjusted comparison of
      groups by mantel-cox log-rank test. Risk ratios for the time-to-become ileus free and
      time-to-discharge from the hospital will be calculated by cox proportional hazard regression
      model, considering the following independent variables: age, gender, operation type, diabetes
      mellitus, preoperative cardiovascular disease (ischemia /heart failure/dysrhythmias), PCA
      opiate use and presence/absence of chewing gum.
    
  