
    
      Methods Participants Participants from the University of Valencia (Spain) were asked to
      volunteer to participate in this study. Patients were included if they were university
      students and were able and willing to complete the protocol. Participants were excluded if
      they were ≥40 years-old or had a known musculoskeletal lower extremity injury (eg,
      postoperative conditions, musculotendinous or ligamentous problems), previous history of
      neurological problems, balance disorders (eg, vestibular or visual problems) or did some type
      of physical activity programme where balance exercises were performed.

      Study design We conducted a randomized single-blind controlled study investigation. A
      non-stratified randomization list was generated and held centrally in sealed envelopes.
      Therefore, participants were randomly assigned to an experimental group, who received a
      plantar stimulation on the right foot, or to a control group, which did not receive any
      intervention.

      Intervention Plantar stimulation In addition, a plantar stimulation directed at the plantar
      surface of the dominant foot was performed by an experienced physiotherapist, as described
      below. Participants performed one practice trial of plantar stimulation prior to performance.
      The manipulation was performed with the subject in the supine position. The intervention
      lasted ten minutes and consisted of four stages: 5 glide pressures focused on each
      interdigital space and on the internal longitudinal arch of the foot in a caudal direction,
      that lasted 10 seconds in duration, (2) 5 compression-decompression of each
      metatarsophalangeal joint, until a slight tension was perceived by the researcher at the
      joint, (3) 5 glide pressures applied for 5 seconds each, on the region of metatarsal heads,
      and (4) 5 static pressures applied for 10 seconds each, focused on four points of the sole:
      the head of the first and the fifth metatarsal head, the heel and the medial side of the
      midfoot (Figure 3). Duration of pressures was assessed by using an on-line metronome.
      Furthermore, all pressures, both static and glide, were measured by a strength dynamometer
      and the mean force of pressure was 48N. After the stimulation, given to the negative effects
      of the sudden standing-up on several study results, participants stood quietly for 20 seconds
      before balance tests.
    
  