
    
      This study will be a two arm, cluster-randomized controlled trial to determine whether year
      round weekly household visits by CHWs to detect and test people of all ages with fever or
      history of fever with RDTs (and offer diagnosis and referral or treatment of diarrhea and
      pneumonia for children under 5 years), and offer treatment with an ACT for those who test
      positive compared to standard passive iCCM by CHWs (which includes malaria case management
      for all ages in Zambia), is associated with a greater reduction in confirmed malaria cases
      and parasite prevalence over a 2-year follow-up period.

      Randomization will occur at the level of the CHW catchment areas. Thirty-three clusters will
      be enrolled in each arm for a total of 66 clusters. Primary study outcomes will be evaluated
      based on household-level cross-sectional surveys conducted at baseline and end-line and
      confirmed malaria case data collected through the health system throughout the study period.

      Primary objectives:

        1. Assess whether year-round weekly proactive iCCM compared to passive iCCM with malaria
           case management for all ages reduces the prevalence of patent (by rapid diagnostic test
           (RDT)) and subpatent (by PCR) parasitemia detected at the household level in cross
           sectional household surveys.

        2. Determine whether the confirmed malaria case incidence (detected by CHWs (either
           proactively or passively) and at health facilities) decreases over time in communities
           with weekly proactive iCCM compared to passive iCCM by comparing the difference in slope
           of confirmed malaria incidence in proactive vs routine arms using an interrupted time
           series analysis

      Secondary objectives:

        1. Assess whether access to care (proportion of the population with fever in the past two
           weeks who received care from a qualified health provider, including community health
           worker), promptness of care (within 24 and 48 hours of symptoms), access to diagnostic
           malaria testing (proportion of the population with fever in the past two weeks who
           received a diagnostic test for malaria), and treatment with artemisinin-based
           combination therapy (ACT) if RDT is reported positive, is improved by proactive iCCM
           compared to passive iCCM

        2. Describe the incidence of febrile disease, by arm, as well as the incidence of
           symptomatic malaria infection (febrile persons with a positive RDT), detected during
           proactive iCCM visits

        3. Compare the incidence of malaria, by arm, detected at health facilities

        4. Compare the proportion of malaria cases detected at community vs health facility, by arm

        5. Determine if proactive iCCM reduces severe disease (malaria in all ages, diarrhea and
           pneumonia among < 5) compared to passive iCCM identified at health facility and
           community level)

        6. Compare level of parasite exposure in intervention and control arms using multiplex bead
           based assay for long, medium and short duration antibodies

        7. Determine programmatic cost per additional case detected and treated at the community
           level with proactive iCCM

        8. Describe the feasibility, challenges, and benefits of proactive iCCM from the
           perspective of the facility health worker, CHW, and community members

        9. Describe the benefits and challenges associated with incorporating diagnosis and
           treatment of pneumonia and diarrhea for children under 5 years
    
  