
    
      Given the public health importance of increased P levels in the general population and
      specifically in patients with chronic kidney disease, it is of great importance to evaluate
      the ability of a medical food such as K2CG to reduce elevated serum P levels. In patients
      with CKD receiving dialysis it has been estimated that sustained control of serum P may
      result in an approximate 17% reduction in mortality.

      The investigators have conducted a previous pilot double blind randomized controlled study of
      K2CG 20 mg and 40 mg BID for 4 weeks in 90 patients with ESRD. In this initial study the
      investigators did not observe a statistically significant reduction in either serum P or
      salivary P with active therapy as compared to placebo. However, a clear trend towards a
      reduction in serum P was seen in the randomized phase of the study with the active gum
      administered twice a day. During the open-label period where the gum was administered
      thrice-daily the investigators did see a statistically significant reduction in serum P of
      0.3 mg/dL. Moreover, in patients with CKD not on dialysis, the investigators observed a
      reduction in mean serum P of approximately 0.2 mg/dL. While not statistically significant,
      this trial was not powered to detect this level of change in serum P and was underpowered to
      do so.. Differences in this range (0.2-0.4 mg/dL) have been reported in studies utilizing
      dietary manipulation (plant protein versus animal protein) and with the use of Niacin and are
      felt to be clinically meaningful reductions.

      The investigators have previously also conducted a cross-sectional observational study
      evaluating salivary P levels across a wide spectrum of eGFR. The data indicate that mean
      salivary P is uniformly increased (15-25 mg/dL) relative to serum P (2.5- 4.5 mg/dL) being
      approximately 5-7X higher as shown below (group 1 = eGFR > 90, group 7= eGFR < 15).
      Importantly, salivary P was similar across the entire spectrum of eGFR.

      The investigators have previously conducted a clinical trial evaluating several different
      formulations of K2CG with varying amounts of chitosan loading into the gum base, variable
      weights of gum base and 2 different formulations of gum base. In these trials the
      investigators further studied the effects of gum chewing in either the fasted or fed state
      and the effects of varying amounts of gum chewing time. Results from this study have
      demonstrated that the maximal amount of P loading into the K2CG is seen with the 1g chewing
      gum containing 20 mg chitosan and that the maximal effect is seen with 30 minutes of gum
      chewing.

      Based on data from this study the investigators have chosen this strength/formulation for the
      primary efficacy endpoint assessment in the current protocol. Similar efficacy results with
      regard to total P loading per chewing gum were seen with the 2.0 gram, 60 mg chitosan chewing
      gum and there was an indication that subjects had a subjective preference for this
      formulation. As a result, this protocol will also assess (as a secondary efficacy endpoint)
      the reduction in serum P with this strength/formulation during an open label phase only in
      those subjects who have responded during the primary efficacy assessment phase. This will
      allow a comparison of efficacy between the 2 gum sizes/strengths among known 'responders'
      with regard to serum P reduction.
    
  