
    
      B Lymphocyte Stimulator (BLyS (Trademark)) is a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF)
      superfamily of cytokines that is expressed on peripheral blood monocytes and dendritic cells.
      Cellular receptors for BLyS are detected on mature immunoglobulin (Ig) expressing
      B-lymphocytes. In vitro studies show that BLyS increases B cell number, Ig production,
      antigen-specific immunoglobulin response, and induces production of secretory IgA.

      B-cells collected from patients with Common Variable Immune Deficiency show evidence for BLyS
      binding to B cells and enhanced immunoglobulin secretion.

      In 28-day toxicology studies in mice, pharmacological effects were restricted to B lymphoid
      tissues including B lymphocyte hyperplasia, increased splenic weight without significant
      increase in spleen size, and increased immunoglobulin production. Murine models suggest that
      all of the pharmacological effects are fully and rapidly reversible.

      The biological profile of BLyS suggests that it may have therapeutic utility in the treatment
      of immunodeficiency disorders characterized by low or absent immunoglobulin such as selective
      IgA deficiency (IGA-D).

      Risk that BLyS might contribute to IGA-D complications has been assessed. A series of special
      in vitro and short-term in vivo studies have shown BLyS does not enhance tumorigenicity or
      allergy/hypersensitivity. Enhanced autoimmunity with immune complex formation could not be
      ruled out in two mouse studies in which BLyS was administered at higher doses on multiple
      dosing schedules. Renal changes with glomerular protein deposits were noted in a subset of
      mice treated at 0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg in the first study and 0.3 and 3.0 mg/kg in the second
      study. Renal changes have not been reproducible in either of 2 repeat mouse studies designed
      to replicate conditions on the first study. Renal changes were not observed in the GLP
      toxicity study in which mice were treated for 4 weeks with BLyS followed by a 2-week recovery
      period, or in an exploratory monkey study.

      This study is a phase I; single-dose, open-label, non-randomized, dose escalation study of
      BLyS administered subcutaneously to a total of 20 evaluable subjects with IgA-D. Each subject
      will receive a single dose of BLyS.

      The proposed study consists of a screening phase, a 1-day treatment phase with
      pharmacokinetic sampling, day 2 and day 3 follow-up, and 1, 2, 4, 8, and 12-week acute safety
      evaluations. Dose escalation to the next cohort is dependent on results of the 2-week acute
      safety evaluation. Autoimmunity and interim infection history will be evaluated 4-6 weeks and
      6 and 12 months. Long-term data will be collected on incidence of malignancy for a minimum of
      one year.
    
  