
    
      Background:

      Healthcare systems worldwide are not equipped to accommodate for the growing population of
      older people. In Sweden alone the proportion of people aged 65 years and older is estimated
      to increase to 23% by 2030. Furthermore, the number of people aged over 80 years in 2017
      exceeded 500 000 and is expected to increase by around 50% by 2027. People in this age group
      often have an increased risk for developing frailty, multi-morbidity and functional
      impairments. Thus, there is an urgent call for innovative approaches to both promote health
      and to design a sustainable healthcare system that is accessible, resource effective and
      enables health in frail older people. Person-centered care (PCC) and digital health services
      are considered keystones in such a healthcare system redesign, and may enable efficient and
      resource effective teamwork that strengthens a preventive approach and promotes older
      people's self-efficacy. Previous and ongoing studies show that PCC can be delivered at a
      distance, but needs to be further developed from a teamwork aspect. Therefore, the IHOPe
      project focuses on integrating health promotion with and for frail older people by working as
      a team via a digital platform. To the best of our knowledge, no previous research has
      investigated the effectiveness of initiating health planning with and for frail older people
      through a PCC telephone support and eHealth intervention where patients are able to create a
      personal team by inviting informal and formal carers from both health and social care
      services into their health team if needed.

      The overall aim is to describe and evaluate a person-centered eHealth intervention that
      promotes a sustainable partnership between community-dwelling frail older people and health
      and social care professionals.

      Design:

      The IHOPe trial is designed as a randomized, controlled, trial with two parallel groups and a
      primary endpoint 6 month after inclusion. Randomization will be performed through computer
      generated lists with a 1:1 allocation. In addition, the IHOPe project includes a pilot and
      feasibility study, a health economic evaluation and a process evaluation. The project is a
      complex intervention and as such features a multitude of influencing factors. The study
      design was guided by the revised Medical Research Council's (MRC) framework for complex
      interventions. The IHOPe project consists of two phases:

      Phase 1: Develop and test feasibility of a person-centered eHealth intervention and pilot the
      RCT design.

      Phase 2: Evaluate the effects, describe the process and perform a health economic evaluation
      of the person-centered eHealth intervention.

      Studysetting/Context:

      The IHOPe project is conducted in a middle sized city in Sweden and targets community
      dwelling older people, their family and friends and professionals working in local social and
      health care services. The intervention is delivered in an eHealth context and is coordinated
      by designated research nurses.

      In Sweden there is an ongoing redesign of health care services towards good quality local
      health care [nära vård], which aims to strengthen primary care services and self-care. Health
      care costs in medical care are mainly financed through taxes and municipalities are
      responsible for services for older persons according to assessed needs. There are a number of
      actors representing different organizations involved in health and social care targeting
      older people. In addition, to such municipal services there are also private health and
      social care providers. It is also common that older people are receiving support or help from
      significant others.

      Participants and recruitment procedure:

      Participants will be recruited from either an emergency department or a primary care center
      in the western region of Sweden. Potential participants will be screened against inclusion
      and exclusion criteria for eligibility. Frailty screening will be performed by research
      assistants employed in the project at the emergency department or a primary care center if
      possible or otherwise by phone. The FRESH screening tool will be used which includes four
      short questions. If the answer is yes on two or more of these four questions patients is
      applicable for inclusion in the study. A Study Information letter and invitation to
      participate will be sent to eligible patients. After informed consent participants will be
      randomized to the intervention- or the control group.

      Study population:

      The RCT, targets frail older people aged 75 years or older living in ordinary housing. The
      feasibility study and process evaluation also include significant others and carers that are
      invited to the IHOPe platform.

      Control group/usual care:

      The participants allocated to the control group received no intervention. However, they
      could, on their own initiative, approach the usual range of community or health services
      (e.g., home help services, rehabilitation, or medical care).

      Intervention/The eHealth support:

      The IHOPe intervention is provided in addition to usual care for six months. It comprises an
      agreed upon number of person-centered phone calls (stimulating narration) and co-creation of
      care through a digital platform. The intervention aims to initiate partnership-building and
      to promote older people to identify and use their own capabilities and resources such as
      strong will, social relations, etc. During the intervention goals will be formulated and set
      in partnership to promote self-efficacy and the ability to cope with frailty in daily life.
      The older person (at times in collaboration with significant others) will together with a
      dedicated health care professional (HCP) formulate a person-centered health plan, which is
      then uploaded to the IHOPe platform. The health plan will focus on the older persons' goals,
      resources and needs, and experienced need of support from health and/or social care as well
      as family and friends to reach the goals. Depending on agreements during the phone-call
      family and friends and additional health or social care professionals may be invited to
      teamwork on the IHOPe platform. The health plan will be the point of departure for the
      forthcoming dialogue. IHOPe is provided in an eHealth context by designated HCPs trained in
      delivering PCC at a distance. Throughout the study, the HCP and patient (and team) will
      communicate to regularly evaluate the health plan and any need to reformulate the goals. The
      intervention is provided at a distance. If needed one home visit to install the digital
      platform (via the participant's smart tablet, smartphone or computer) will be conducted. A
      health professional will introduce how to use the digital platform and create a personal
      account.
    
  