
    
      Anxiety is a common problem for parents with children under sedation. It has long been known
      that operations, unconsciousness, the risks of the anesthesia and airway problems can cause a
      considerable amount of anxiety. Anxiety is associated with an uncertain psychological
      distress , and may vary to minor disturbances to extreme stress. The study aims to help
      parents improve their satisfaction by reducing their anxiety levels and ensure they have a
      better experience. In addition, anxiety can also prevent active participation of the parents
      during postoperative recovery. The physical and psychological effects of essential oils and
      traditional medicine practices as aromatherapy has been used for a long time and has potency
      to reduce using sedatives. Lavender oil is a fragrance that many of us have experienced in
      growing up at home and is also popular today. The lavender plant belongs to the Labitae
      family and has been used for centuries in dried or essential oil form. Lavender is obtained
      from flower heads and leaves with vapor distillation. This oil has also been specifically
      investigated and is an essential oil scientifically shown to reduce patient anxiety before
      various interventions. Orange oil is an essential oil produced by cells within the rind of an
      orange fruit (Citrus sinensis fruit). In contrast to most essential oils, it is extracted as
      a by-product of orange juice production by centrifugation, producing a cold-pressed oil. It
      is composed of mostly d-limonene. This oil has been investigated and shown to reduce anxiety
      and improve mood before various interventions.The anxiolytic effects of these essential oils
      has not been investigated for parents with children undergoing pediatric dental procedures
      under sedation.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of lavender oil and orange oil diffused
      in the perioperative waiting room of parents with children under sedation.
    
  