
    
      Background:

      Several studies have indicated a potential role for Hydroxychloroquine in the treatment of
      COVID-19 as caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Hydroxychloroquine has demonstrated potent
      inhibition of SARS-CoV-2 in vitro. Hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin together have
      significantly reduced SARS-CoV-2 viral carriage over 6 days compared to a placebo and
      COVID-19 patients who received a 5 day regimen of 400mg/day of Hydroxychloroquine had
      significantly shortened times to clinical recovery characterized by improved pneumonia
      compared with patients who did not receive Hydroxychloroquine.

      Within OSF Healthcare approximately 50% of SARS-CoV-2 infected patients are currently
      receiving some form of Hydroxychloroquine during the course of their hospitalization. The
      utilization of this treatment has been approved by the FDA based upon the limited data
      available.

      Significance:

      The optimal treatment regimen for COVID-19 patients has yet to be defined. Several small
      studies have indicated a potential role for the utilization of Hydroxychloroquine in the
      treatment of SARS-CoV-2 infected patients. However, very little evidence exists around the
      optimal treatment regimen and efficacy with regard to tangible outcomes. This observational
      retrospective/prospective chart review study aims to help provide epidemiological data that
      may help to provide guidance to clinicians for both future patients, as well as provide
      clinicians guidance for study design of more definitive controlled studies. Given the rapid
      spread of this disease, the high mortality rate associated with it and the impact of the
      disease upon society this study is anticipated to have the potential to contribute
      significantly to the treatment of SARS-CoV-2 infected patients.

      Study Design and Methodology:

      The study will be a retrospective/prospective observational study of cohorts of hospitalized
      patients across the OSF Healthcare System who have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and exhibit
      signs or symptoms of respiratory distress during the course of their hospitalization. The
      outcomes of patients who both receive and do not receive Hydroxychloroquine will be compared,
      with particular attention to the timing of administration in relationship to the onset of
      respiratory distress. Respiratory distress will be defined as a low SpO2, an elevated
      respiratory rate or an increased oxygen demand. Hydroxychloroquine administration will be
      defined as a documented administration of the medication on the patient's medication
      administration record (MAR). Administration of Hydroxychloroquine prior to the onset of
      respiratory distress, administration of Hydroxychloroquine on the day of respiratory distress
      and administration of Hydroxychloroquine following the onset of respiratory distress will all
      be assessed and compared across three outcome metrics; progression to an ICU location of
      care, progression to ventilator support and mortality.

        -  Patients at all OSF HealthCare locations across the Ministry that meet
           Inclusion/Exclusion criteria will be cohorted by:

             -  Hydroxychloroquine administered - yes (including the date started)

             -  Hydroxychloroquine - no

        -  For the Hydroxychloroquine administered - yes cohort, further subdivide into 3 cohorts:

             -  Hydroxychloroquine date started was before the date recorded for signs of
                respiratory distress

             -  Hydroxychloroquine date started was the same as the date recorded for signs of
                respiratory distress

             -  Hydroxychloroquine date started was after the date recorded for signs of
                respiratory distress

        -  At this point the investigators would have 4 cohorts:

             -  Hydroxychloroquine - No

             -  Hydroxychloroquine date started was before the date recorded for signs of
                respiratory distress

             -  Hydroxychloroquine date started was the same as the date recorded for signs of
                respiratory distress

             -  Hydroxychloroquine date started was after the date recorded for signs of
                respiratory distress

        -  These 4 cohorts would be compared to determine any difference in the following metrics:

             -  Mortality

             -  ICU Admissions

             -  Ventilator use

        -  Additional study of additional treatment regimens using a similar design may be repeated
           for the following treatments

             -  Hydroxychloroquine + Azithromycin

             -  Remdesivir (This is a compassionate use medication with very limited use in OSF.
                Observational study of this would be significantly limited and therefore unlikely
                to be undertaken)

             -  Non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (some indication that these lead to poorer
                outcomes)

      Study Procedures:

      OSF Data Analytics will pull reports of confirmed positive COVID-19 subjects. The data will
      be kept securely on password-protected computers and analyzed by applicable research
      personnel listed on this study.

      Data Use and Management:

        1. Results of this study will be presented within OSF Healthcare at national meetings
           and/or published in academic journals. The investigators will not disclose any subject
           PHI or identifying personal information in any presentation or publication about the
           study.

        2. The study investigators will be responsible for data safety monitoring. This is an
           observational study which only involves data collection from the hospital/institutional
           sources (e.g., hospital notes, office visit notes,). This study does not dictate any
           specific surgical treatments or medications. All procedures performed on the patients
           are standard of care and the study does not involve any additional hospital visits for
           subject or the parents/guardians. Data that will be collected from patient records will
           be securely stored on password-protected computers accessible only by applicable
           research personnel.

      Data Analysis:

      Data analysis will be performed by the PI and applicable research personnel.

      Oversight and Ethics:

      This study will be conducted in compliance with the Peoria IRB research policies and
      procedures and all applicable laws and regulations. The staff members will perform the study
      in accordance with the protocol, and will report unexpected problems in accordance with the
      Peoria IRB policies and procedures and applicable laws and regulations. Collection,
      recording, and reporting of data will be accurate and will ensure the privacy, health, and
      welfare of research subjects during and after the study.

      Privacy and Confidentiality:

      Study staff will maintain the highest degree of confidentiality permitted for clinical and
      research information obtained from the participants. Medical and records will be maintained
      in the strictest confidence. However, as a part of the quality assurance and legal
      responsibilities of an investigation, the clinical site must permit monitoring
      representatives of various governing facilities to examine clinical records for the purpose
      of quality assurance reviews, audits, and evaluations of the registry safety and progress.
      Unless required by the laws that permit copying of records, only the coded identity
      associated with documents or with other participant data may be copied (and all personally
      identifying information must be obscured). Authorized representatives as noted above are
      bound to maintain the strict confidentiality of medical and research information that is
      linked to individuals. The clinical site will normally be notified before auditing visits
      occur.

      Risks:

      The main risk in this study is the potential breach of privacy and loss of confidentiality.
      There is minimal risk of likelihood of harm. All reasonable safeguards to secure the
      confidentiality of information will be taken by the investigators and their research
      personnel.
    
  