
    
      The body's immune system and a subsequent inflammatory response are triggered during
      infection. The detection of an activated immune system, and an indication of the degree of
      the host response, is helpful to the clinician both in assessing the severity of infection
      and in patient treatment and management. Currently, the white blood cell count and the
      differential are the most common laboratory parameters for measuring host response. The
      sedimentation rate and CRP are also used to detect inflammation. However, these tests are all
      imperfect predictors, and a test providing a better assessment of immune response would be
      helpful to the clinician in patient care. Additionally, understanding host response to
      infection may be helpful in understanding the biology and pathophysiology of sepsis. There
      are other biomarkers and inflammatory markers that may be found early in the initial
      presentation of infection such as cytokines (VEGF IL-1,IL-4,IL-6, IL-10, PAF, TNF, lectins
      iNoS,etc.) and clotting factors (protein C, d-dimer, complements involved in the clotting
      cascade, CRP, etc) that may provide a means of early detection of systemic inflammation, cell
      dysfunction, and related conditions. Early identification of patients at risk for systemic
      inflammatory syndromes, sepsis and septic shock may help direct patients to earlier
      antibiotic administration and early intervention with goal directed therapy. It may also
      serve as a tool for risk stratification when components such as age, comorbid illness and
      infection type are included.

      The endothelium and endothelial cell markers are important in sepsis, yet a somewhat
      under-studied field of research. Additionally, the endothelium is a key regulator of the
      microcirculation, a place where oxygen diffusion occurs. One focus of this study is to
      measure endothelial markers (ie VEGF) and other cytokines with the goal of correlating these
      markers with severity of sepsis. Another focus is to study the response of various components
      in the blood, including the leukocytes, red cells, the endothelium, as well as cellular
      components such as the mitochondria. We will specifically look at alterations in thiamine,
      Vitamin D, CoQ10,l-carnitine and other nutrients as part of (and as related to) the body's
      response. Recently, a non-invasive method of assessing microvascular circulation by
      orthogonal polarization spectral (OPS) imagery has become available using a non-invasive
      technology known as orthogonal polarization spectroscopy. This technique enables direct
      visualization and quantification of microcirculatory blood flow, and represents an important
      surrogate outcome to which endothelial cell marker may be correlated. This will involve
      placing the microscopy probe gently against the sublingual mucosa and collecting a videotape
      of the circulation lasting about twenty seconds. This process involves minimal (or no) risk -
      it is akin to taking a temperature and uses no radiation. This videotape will be examined
      later by a novel software program that quantifies the circulation and used as an important
      surrogate outcome measure. Additionally, we are going to perform echocardiography to better
      understand the heart's response to sepsis, and correlated the molecular responses that we
      find with the changes in the responses by the heart.

      This is a multicenter, observational pilot study which aims to evaluate how early biomarkers
      of infection an inflammation perform in identifying patients at risk for poor outcomes in
      sepsis and septic shock. The study will utilize a cohort of patients presenting to the ED
      with suspected infection as well as non-infected control population.

      These patients will be compared with a non-infected population.

      Enrolled subjects in the infected group will have blood samples and chart review obtained at
      enrollment, 24, 48 and 72 hours. For the control group, only a single blood draw will be
      collected at enrollment.

      Enrolled subjects will also undergo physiologic assessments using echocardiography,
      Microscan, Non-invasive cardiac output monitor (NICOM), extremity temperature as well as
      End-Tidal C02 measurements if a trained researcher is present.
    
  