
    
      Objective: To demonstrate the superiority of a strategy of platelet monitoring (Monitoring
      Arm) with down-adjustment of the dose of prasugrel in high responders and up-adjustment of
      the dose of prasugrel in low responders as compared to a more conventional strategy of a
      fixed dose of 5 mg to every patient without monitoring (Conventional Arm).Rationale:
      Prasugrel 10 mg is superior to clopidogrel in patients with acute coronary syndrome treated
      by percutaneous coronary intervention, reducing significantly the rates of ischemic events.
      Elderly patients appear to be at higher risk of bleeding events and pharmacokinetic data
      suggests that elderly patients are exposed to a higher concentration of the active metabolite
      of prasugrel. A reduced dose of 5 mg of prasugrel is therefore proposed to these patients to
      limit the risk of bleeding. On the other hand, the elderly have also a higher ischemic risk
      and higher levels of platelet aggregation under treatment than younger patients and may
      deserve stronger protection from antiplatelet therapy. Platelet function testing appears to
      be of particular interest in patients at high risk of both ischemic and bleeding events like
      the elderly. Too intense platelet inhibition may expose the elderly patients to an excessive
      bleeding risk. Too low platelet inhibition may expose them to recurrent cardiovascular
      ischemic events. The possibility of bedside monitoring of oral antiplatelet therapy offers
      the opportunity of tailoring prasugrel therapy in elderly patients to optimize their
      risk/benefit ratio. Such strategy has never been evaluated in a randomized and adequately
      powered study. Population: Acute coronary syndrome (STEMI and NSTEMI) treated by PCI-stent
      (bare metal stent or drug eluting stent) in patients aged 75 ≥ year. Methods: Monitoring with
      VerifyNow P2Y12, 2 weeks after initiation of 5 mg of maintenance dose of prasugrel, reduction
      of antiplatelet therapy if there is high on-treatment platelet inhibition (HPI) or increase
      in dosing if there is high on-treatment platelet reactivity (HPR). Patients will be monitored
      again 2 weeks later, only if they do not meet the Verifynow P2Y12 targets at the first
      assessment. Primary endpoint net clinical benefit at 12 months:Composite of Cardiovascular
      death, myocardial infarction, stroke, urgent revascularisation, stent thrombosis and
      bleedings according to the BARC definitions (type 2, 3 or 5) Centers: Approximately 40 French
      high volume PCI centers
    
  