
    
      The prevention of substance use and misuse among adolescents is a national public health
      priority. Universal prevention programs that include parents/guardians (referred to as
      "parents") in this effort have been shown to prevent and reduce substance use problems among
      adolescents. However, the programs that have been most effective are resource and participant
      intensive. In addition, the majority of the current programs are not gender-specific and in
      some cases, long-term effects have been shown for one gender but not the other. The purpose
      of the current study is to test the efficacy of a brief, communication-based, substance use
      preventive intervention for parents of pre/early adolescents. The proposal is based on data
      from a study funded by the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) where the investigative
      team conducted a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) of the intervention among 70
      parents/guardians and their children. The intervention was found to be acceptable and
      feasible to participants and families in the intervention had increased parent-child
      communication about substance use compared to those in the control condition. The purpose of
      the pilot study was to lay the groundwork for a large-scale trial of the intervention with
      500 parent-child dyads. The brief intervention framework utilizes a one-time in-person
      session and a follow-up phone call with a communication specialist to facilitate parents'
      roles as preventionists, which will focus on family interactions at meals, the role of peers
      in substance use, and parent-child communication about substance use. For this in-person
      session, parents will be asked to review a handbook with gender-specific information that
      emphasizes engaging in family meals, communication, and talking with their child about the
      harms of substance use. For the home-based component, tips and reminders with content from
      the handbooks will be sent via text messages throughout the three-month study period. Parents
      in the comparison condition will receive a handbook, similar in length and structure, on
      nutrition and physical activity, as well as receive comparison text messages and meet with a
      study team member. All study materials will be available in English and Spanish. It is
      hypothesized that over the study period, parents randomized to the intervention will have an
      increased frequency of parent-child communication about substance use. It is also
      hypothesized that these parents will have more positive and fewer negative family
      interactions during meals and qualitatively better content of conversations about substance
      use with their children compared to parents in the comparison condition. Furthermore, it is
      hypothesized that compared to children of parents in the comparison condition, children of
      parents who receive the intervention will self-report reduced intentions and willingness to
      use substances, reduced affiliation with substance-using peers, and increased negative
      attitudes and expectancies regarding substance use, and secondarily, lower rates of substance
      use initiation.
    
  