
    
      At present there is no evidence of which antipsychotic treatment would be the choice for
      treating the appearance of a non-affective psychotic disorder. There are a number of
      second-generation antipsychotic drugs that have proven effective in controlling positive
      symptoms of the disease but carry a number of variable side effects so there is no evidence
      on the treatment of choice in the market. Few studies try to assess the adhesion of a first
      episode of psychosis as prolonged treatment in time. Thus the development of experimental
      studies comparing the effectiveness of such treatments in clinical practice is of high
      interest for clinical psychiatrists.

      Study setting and financial support: data for the present investigation are being obtained
      from an ongoing epidemiological and three-year longitudinal intervention program of
      first-episode psychosis (PAFIP) conducted at the outpatient clinic and the inpatient unit at
      the University Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla, Spain. Conforming to international standards
      for research ethics, this program was approved by the local institutional review board.
      Patients meeting inclusion criteria and their families provide written informed consent to be
      included in the PAFIP. The Mental Health Services of Cantabria provided funding for
      implementing the program. None pharmaceutical company supplied any financial support to it.

      Study design: this is a flexible-dose study of two neuroleptics (Aripiprazole and
      Risperidone) assigned at aleatory ratio 1:1. Rapid titration schedule (5-day), until optimal
      dose is reached, is a rule used unless severe side effects occur. At the treating physician's
      discretion, the dose and type of antipsychotic medication could be changed based on clinical
      efficacy and the profile of side effects during the follow-up period. Antimuscarinic
      medication, Lormetazepam and Clonazepam are allowed for clinical reasons. No antimuscarinic
      agents are administered prophylactically. Antidepressants (Sertraline) and mood stabilizers
      (lithium) are permitted if clinically needed.

      Clinical assessment: the severity scale of the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) scale, the
      Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), the Scale for the Assessment of Positive symptoms
      (SAPS) and the Scale for the Assessment of Negative symptoms (SANS) are used to evaluate
      symptomatology. To assess general adverse event experiences the Scale of the Udvalg for
      Kliniske Undersogelser (UKU), the Simpson-Angus Rating Scale (SARS) and the Barnes Akathisia
      Scale (BAS) are used. The same trained psychiatrist (BC-F) completed all clinical
      assessments.
    
  