
    
      Background: Nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) are ubiquitous environmental organisms that
      have been increasingly associated with human disease, commonly involving the lung. Post
      menopausal Caucasian women seem particularly predisposed to the development of peripheral
      nodules and dilated airways (bronchiectasis) associated with these organisms. These women
      have distinguishing body characteristics of being taller and thinner than age and gender
      matched controls yet have no identifiable systemic immune defects. There is, however,
      considerable overlap with genetic disorders of mucociliary clearance such as cystic fibrosis
      (CF) and primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD). The Genetic Diseases of Mucociliary Clearance
      Consortium (GDMCC) is one of 10 consortia in the Rare Diseases Clinical Research Network
      formed under the Office of Rare Diseases in collaboration with NCRR, NICHD, NINDS, NIAMS,
      NIDDK, NHLBI in response to the Rare Diseases Act of 2002. The GDMCC is comprised of 5
      geographically-dispersed clinical research sites that are designed to study rare diseases
      which involve defects in clearance of mucus secretions from the airways (defective
      "mucociliary clearance"). These sites will collaborate in diagnostic, genetic, and other
      studies in patients with impairments of mucociliary clearance, including primary ciliary
      dyskinesia (PCD), variant cystic fibrosis (CF), and pseudohypoaldosteronism (PHA). These
      studies are also applicable to diseases where altered airways clearance may play a primary or
      contributory role such as nontuberculous mycobacterial lung disease, chronic granulomatous
      disease, and the hyper-IgE syndromes. Disorders such as PCD, CF, and PHA reflect genetic
      defects in airway host-defense, and typically result in chronic infection of the airways.
      Patients with these disorders of the conducting airways and sinuses have delayed (or
      incorrect) diagnoses, because diagnostic tests are not readily available. These patients may
      also have sub-optimal management of their clinical disease, because the cause of these
      disorders is not well-defined, and treatment regimens are usually not driven by
      evidence-based medicine.

      Aims: The major aim of this study is to employ a systematic approach to the diagnostic and
      functional evaluation of these patients with chronic airways disease in individual patients,
      better define host susceptibility to infections from environmental organisms such as the
      nontuberculous mycobacteria, and potentially lead to the development of better diagnostic
      techniques, including genetic testing. In addition, we will compare/contrast clinical
      features (phenotype) across these disorders. A rigorous cross-sectional comparison of the
      clinical features will provide better understanding of the clinical disease of these
      disorders; in turn this will lead not only to a better standard of clinical care, but will
      also assist in the identification of novel therapeutic approaches.

      Methods: This is a cross-sectional diagnostic / mechanistic protocol to investigate airway
      host-defenses. The patient populations for these studies include individuals with recurring
      airway infections such as those with nontuberculous mycobacteria lung disease who may have
      defective airway host defenses as a predisposing factor, individuals carrying a tentative
      diagnosis of the three known genetic disorders of mucociliary clearance (PCD, variant CF, or
      PHA), and individuals suspected to have one of these disorders but with inadequate or
      inconclusive diagnostic tests. Individuals in this latter category must have a preliminary
      clinical evaluation to evaluate for other more common disorders that may have similar
      manifestations including classical CF, immunodeficiency, asthma, and severe gastroesophageal
      reflux. The evaluation will include a detailed assessment of clinical features; specialized
      laboratory measurements such as nasal potential difference to evaluate the function of
      chloride and sodium channels associated with CF and PHA, nasal biopsy specimens and nasal
      nitric oxide measurements to assess cilia structure and function which are abnormal in PCD;
      and genetic studies to identify disease - causing mutations in genes associated with CF, PCD,
      and PHA.
    
  