
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) affects around 20% of all hospitalised patient. Previously it was
      believed that recovery from an episode of AKI resulted in full renal recovery and return to
      normal function in the long term. However this assumption may reflect the fact that many of
      these patients did not receive long term follow-up and a failure to return to their baseline
      renal function was not identified. It is now recognised that AKI has both major long-term
      health and socioeconomic impacts. Studies have demonstrated that an episode of AKI can
      significantly increase both risk of development of chronic kidney disease and early
      mortality.

      Episodes of dialysis-requiring AKI in patients with previously normal renal function who were
      not dialysis-dependent on discharge resulted in a 28-fold increase in risk of developing
      severe chronic kidney disease (CKD) stage 4 or 5 and a 2-fold increase in the risk of death
      at one year when compared to non-AKI controls. This was also observed over a 5-year follow-up
      period, during which patients who had suffered an episode of AKI were at a 6-fold increased
      risk of developing both CKD stage 4 or end stage renal failure (ESRF).

      There is also an increased risk of death in patients who have experienced an episode of
      non-dialysis requiring AKI, which remains apparent even with mild AKI stage 1. AKI has a
      long-term impact on patient morbidity and mortality, an effect that appears to persist
      despite 'biochemical resolution'. The size of this impact is dependent upon the degree of
      severity and duration of AKI experienced. However, there is some controversy regarding the
      link of AKI to CKD. At the present time there is no specific therapy for AKI and the
      management of patients is completely supportive. Furthermore, in the absence of more
      sensitive biomarkers, it would appear that even a non-severe episode of AKI already confers a
      worse prognosis with regards to the risk of development of CKD and long term survival in
      patients. Thus perhaps focus should be on prevention of AKI as opposed to cure. This is even
      more pertinent when one considers that the National Confidential Enquiry into Patient
      Outcomes and Death (NCEPOD) report in 2009 identified 30% of cases as being 'preventable' and
      a deficiency of care in 50% of cases. The median length of stay for patients diagnosed with
      AKI was 17.8 days, which was 4.7 days longer than for those without AKI. Marion Kerr, a
      health economist, reported that by avoiding 'preventable' cases a potential saving of
      £130-186 million per year could be made.

      The difficulty lies in identification of patients that are at risk of AKI. Although factors
      such as diabetes, older age and low estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) are all
      associated with increased risk, there is no standardized scoring method for risk. In
      addition, it is not fully clear why some patients suffer AKI while others, with similar
      co-morbidities, do not.

      Arterial stiffness (AS) is defined as 'the unit of pressure required to generate a change in
      volume of one unit' within a specified arterial segment. Clinically it can be assessed
      non-invasively by measurement of pulse wave velocity (PWV. AS varies significantly with age,
      gender and race, and it is only in the last few years that studies have been undertaken to
      attempt to quantify a 'normal' or reference value within various populations. Arterial
      stiffness is also increased in numerous clinical conditions such as diabetes and hypertension
      and there is now increasing evidence that AS may be an important predictor of disease
      progression and potential recovery in a wide spectrum of conditions including cardiovascular
      risk, development of dementia, functional recovery from strokes and in renal disease.
      Increased AS has been shown to be associated with decreased kidney function and to be an
      independent risk factor for cardiovascular events in ESRF and in renal transplant recipients.

      The mechanism of injury in CKD from increased AS is thought to be related to barotrauma
      inflicted on glomeruli in a "stiff" vascular system. However, there is little data with
      regards to the effects of AS in AKI.

      For this initial pilot study, we have selected the cohort of patients who are undergoing
      elective coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) to see if this type of event is
      associated with increased risk of AKI. On average 450 patients per year undergo CABG surgery
      at King's College Hospital (KCH) and of these over 200 are elective operations. All elective
      patients will attend a pre-assessment clinic, which is run weekly with about 20 patients per
      clinic. Many of these patients will have co-morbidities associated with both an increased
      risk of AKI and of AS. We have performed a retrospective analysis of incidence of AKI in
      patients undergoing elective, isolated CABG surgery at KCH from January to December 2012. Of
      a total of 219 patients, 42 patients were classified as having post-operative AKI according
      to serum AKI criteria.
    
  