
    
      Despite considerable evidence for the efficacy of psychological interventions for anxiety and
      depression in children and young people (CYP) (James et al. 2015; Goodyer, 2017) a
      significant proportion of CYP fail to access such treatments (Children's Commissioner for
      England 2016). Reasons for this implementation gap are many but include lack of accessibility
      to Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS) which are operating with long waiting
      times, high symptom thresholds and constraints in terms of what they are able to offer
      (Murphy and Fonagy, 2013). In order to reduce the need to access gap, particularly for young
      people experiencing symptoms of anxiety and depression but whom may not reach service
      thresholds, there is a need for the development of novel interventions which are
      cost-effective and can be disseminated at scale (Milat, King, Bauman, & Redman, 2012; Kazdin
      2019). Single session interventions (SSI), particularly those which can be completed without
      therapist guidance, offer a scalable solution and have been found to be effective for a range
      of psychological difficulties in CYP (Schleider & Weisz 2017). One such SSI targets the
      implicit beliefs CYP hold about the malleability of their personality (known as their
      'mindset') and has been found to reduce adolescent depressive symptoms and parent-reported
      anxiety over a 9-month period, relative to an active control condition (Schleider and Weisz,
      2018). Investigation into trajectories of change found that changes in anxiety and depression
      were predicted by immediately post intervention changes in perceived primary and secondary
      control, indicating a potential underlying mechanism. Replication of these findings, along
      with exploration of predictors of treatment response and diverse opportunities for
      implementation is required and is the aim of the present study.

      This study will test whether an online, self-administered, growth mindset SSI increases
      perceived primary and secondary control and reduces symptoms of anxiety and depression in
      children and adolescents aged between 8 and 16, relative to an active "supportive therapy
      control" condition. Outcome measures will be completed immediately post intervention. A
      secondary aim for the study will be to investigate the role of parental symptoms of anxiety
      or low mood as a potential moderator of treatment outcome. In order to achieve these aims,
      CYP and their parents or caregivers will be recruited through online advertisements,
      charities and schools.
    
  