
    
      Endometrial cancer is an increasingly common gynecologic malignancy. The cumulative 5-year
      survival rate for node negative patients is 94%, 75% in those with metastatic pelvic lymph
      nodes only and 38% in patients with pelvic and paraaortic metastases. The proportion of node
      positive patients in adequately staged patient materials (usually high risk groups) is
      reported in the range of 15-21%. Depending on used risk criteria lymph node metastases occur
      in 1.5-7.8% in low risk patients. Some studies show better overall survival after pelvic and
      paraaortic lymphadenectomy, whereas other studies show increased complications with no
      survival benefit from the lymphadenectomy. Recent articles recommend paraaortic and pelvic
      lymp node metastases (LND) in high risk EC but the therapeutic value related to potential
      complications of nodal staging in EC is debated as well as how to define risk groups. An
      incidence of 0.9-5.2% severe lymphedema and 3.1% chylous ascites requiring treatment has been
      described after robotic pelvic and paraaortic lymphadenectomy.

      The Sentinel node concept has been studied extensively in other cancer forms, for example
      breast and vulvar cancer. With the above mentioned controversy, patients with EC would
      benefit tremendously from a functioning Sentinel node concept. Studies using patent blue or
      radioactive tracer have not shown satisfactory results. The Da Vinci system (da Vinci®
      Surgical System, Intuitive Surgical Inc., Sunnyvale, Ca, USA) with Firefly technique could
      make a new concept possible in which major lymphatic drainage can be displayed and learned,
      hence allowing a standardization of SLN definitions. In our pilot studies, a reproducible
      surgical algorithm has been defined, overcoming and compensating the fact that ICG spreads
      quickly to several nodes.

      Purpose: To develop a reliable Sentinel node Concept using the Firefly system with ICG in EC
      patients based on a defined lymphatic anatomy, a clear definition of a sentinel node and a
      reproducible surgical algorithm.

      Hypothesis: The Firefly system using ICG enables the use of a Sentinel node concept in EC
      patients regardless risk group, so that only patients with pathologically proven lymph nodes
      metastases undergo a pelvic and paraaortic lymphadenectomy.

      Methods of Research:

      375 consecutive EC patients planned for robotic hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy
      and in high risk patients also pelvic and paraaortic lymphadenectomy at Skane University
      Hospital, Lund, Sweden are enrolled in this study prospectively after giving written consent.
      The study is approved by the regional Institutional Review Board. With extended funding, the
      study will be expanded to another University Hospital in Sweden. Data on operative outcome,
      operative and postoperative complications, pathology reports and follow up for 24 months are
      prospectively collected. The use of Indocyanine green (ICG) and the Firefly system has the
      advantage of a fast uptake to lymphatic vessels and lymph nodes. Pilot studies have resulted
      in a new surgical method, standardization of operative technique and a clear definition of
      the Sentinel lymph node which now enables this study.
    
  