
    
      The study will be conducted on 80 adult patients with Acute Ischemic Stroke.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Adult (≥18 years old).

        -  With Acute Ischemic Stroke.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Hemorrhagic stroke.

        -  GCS < 7 on admission.

        -  Clinical signs of infection on admission.

        -  Significant pulmonary disease, angina, myocardial infarction or acute heart failure
           within three months.

      For every eligible patient the following data will be collected:

        -  Demographic data including age & sex.

        -  Vital signs.

        -  Glasgow Coma Score on admission after primary respiratory and hemodynamic stabilization.

        -  Stroke severity on admission assessed by the National Institute of Health Stroke Scale
           (NIHSS).

        -  All patients will undergo a CT scan of the brain on admission. Diagnostic procedures
           such as Doppler ultrasound of the carotid arteries, MRI, and echocardiography will be
           ordered if deemed necessary by the treating physician.

        -  Stroke subtype classification utilizing both the TOAST (Trial of ORG 10172 in Acute
           Stroke Treatment) method and The Oxfordshire Community Stroke Project.

        -  Pre-existing comorbid conditions (any treatment and/or patient's self-report):
           Hypertension, Diabetes Mellitus, Atrial Fibrillation, COPD, CHF, and Current Smoking.

        -  Evidence for any type of dysphagia documented by a standardized dysphagia screening
           test.

        -  Laboratory data: White Blood Cell (WBC) Count, C-reactive Protein (CRP), and Blood
           Glucose will be done daily.

      Grouping The patients will be randomized into 2 groups by conventional method of
      randomization where patients in group 1 (control group) will be selected in odd numbers and
      those in group 2 (patients receiving pulmonary rehabilitation program) will be selected in
      even numbers.

      Stroke management Group 1: (Control group) 40 patients will receive Stroke management based
      on the guidelines of the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association.

      Group 2: (Patients receiving pulmonary rehabilitation program) 40 patients will receive
      Stroke management based on the guidelines of the American Heart Association/American Stroke
      Association in addition to pulmonary rehabilitation program.

      Enrolled patients will be prospectively followed up for:

        1. Primary outcome:

           • The diagnosis of pneumonia within the first 7 days after admission. (Diagnosis will be
           made according to modified criteria of the CDC

        2. Secondary outcome:

             -  In-hospital or 30 days mortality.

             -  Modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at one month.
    
  