
    
      HIV-infected women in South Africa report high rates of sexual trauma, which negatively
      impacts their mental health and potentially influences engagement in HIV care (retention in
      care and adherence to antiretroviral therapy) and risk behaviors. Addressing the traumatic
      stress resulting from sexual trauma could improve these HIV-related outcomes, which in turn
      may prevent HIV transmission through suppression of the virus and reduction in HIV risk
      behaviors. Intervention research among HIV-infected populations with trauma histories in the
      U.S. demonstrates that a coping approach, particularly one that reduces the use of avoidant
      coping strategies, is efficacious in reducing traumatic stress and improving health
      behaviors. Although South Africa faces dual epidemics of HIV and sexual violence, trauma
      treatment has not been well-integrated into the HIV care setting. The proposed 3-year study
      will develop and pilot test an intervention called ImpACT (Improving AIDS Care after Trauma)
      to reduce avoidant coping, traumatic stress, and risk behaviors, and increase engagement in
      care. The intervention will take place in a public ART clinic and will target women during
      the critical period when they initiate ART in order to maximize the impact on engagement in
      care. Qualitative data collection with staff, providers, and HIV-infected female patients at
      the study clinic will elicit feedback on the content and delivery of ImpACT and key aspects
      of the study protocol. ImpACT will then be piloted with 60 women who are new ART enrollees
      with a history of sexual trauma and elevated traumatic stress. Participants will be
      randomized to the control condition (standard of care, or SoC: 3 adherence counseling
      sessions required of all patients initiating ART at the clinic) or the intervention condition
      (SoC + ImpACT), and will complete assessments at baseline, 3, and 6 months
      post-randomization, with care engagement data extracted from medical records at the end of
      the study period. The study has three specific aims: 1) to develop a brief and scalable
      coping intervention for delivery in the South African HIV care setting for women with sexual
      trauma histories; 2) to establish the methodological details of an experimental protocol for
      a robust randomized control trial; and 3) to pilot test the ImpACT intervention with 60
      HIV-infected women with histories of sexual trauma who are initiating ART in order to
      determine feasibility and acceptability in the HIV care setting, and explore the impact on
      avoidant coping, traumatic stress, engagement in care, and HIV risk behaviors. The goal at
      the completion of this study is to have a structured intervention curriculum that is
      culturally relevant for HIV infected women in South Africa, a full experimental protocol that
      is appropriate for the South African care setting, and data on feasibility, acceptability,
      and target outcomes. These products can be leveraged to inform an R01 application for
      rigorous evaluation of the ImpACT intervention. We are confident that this developmental work
      will significantly enhance the probability of success of a larger randomized control trial.
    
  