
    
      Mothers of adolescents with type 1 diabetes experience high levels of depressive symptoms,
      which impair their ability to monitor and manage diabetes treatment effectively. The regimen
      recommended for type 1 diabetes is complex and demanding, and caregivers - especially mothers
      - experience stress related to the burden of treatment management. This stress is associated
      with increased risk for psychosocial problems in caregivers, with rates of clinically
      significant depressive symptoms evident in up to 61% of parents. Further, maternal depressive
      symptoms are one of the strongest predictors of negative outcomes in adolescents, including
      deteriorating glycemic control, problems with adherence, poorer quality of life, and greater
      risk for depression. Given that adolescents are a high-risk population for suboptimal
      glycemic control - with only 17% meeting treatment goals - there is a critical need for novel
      interventions to improve outcomes in adolescents with T1D. Yet, previous behavioral
      interventions for youth with diabetes have had only modest effects on glycemic control, and
      none have directly targeted maternal depressive symptoms. Responding to the American Diabetes
      Association's call to address the psychosocial needs of people with diabetes and their family
      members, the proposed project has the potential to improve outcomes in both adolescents with
      type 1 diabetes and their mothers.

      Building on effective interventions to treat depression in adults, and our own pilot work in
      this population, the proposed study will use a rigorous approach to evaluate the efficacy of
      a cognitive-behavioral intervention for mothers of adolescents with type 1 diabetes to
      promote the use of adaptive coping strategies and positive parenting practices. The aims of
      this study are to: 1) evaluate the effects of the Communication & Coping intervention on
      diabetes-related outcomes; 2) evaluate the effects of the Communication & Coping intervention
      on psychosocial outcomes; and 3) explore the differential impact of the intervention across
      demographic factors. Mothers who are randomized to the Communication & Coping Intervention
      will receive individual cognitive-behavioral therapy sessions by phone, as well as access to
      a Facebook group to augment the material covered in calls and provide social support. Mothers
      randomized to the Attention Control condition will receive educational materials and phone
      check-ins, as well as a Facebook group with educational posts. Adolescents and their mothers
      will be assessed at baseline and again post-intervention, at 3 months, 6 months, and 12
      months. We hypothesize that the adolescents of mothers who receive the intervention will
      demonstrate improvements in diabetes outcomes (i.e., glycemic control, adherence), as well as
      psychosocial outcomes (i.e., improved quality of life, fewer depressive symptoms) compared to
      those in the attention control condition. This approach is innovative by targeting maternal
      depressive symptoms and the quality of parental involvement in mothers of adolescents with
      type 1 diabetes.
    
  