
    
      Depression is among the most common and burdensome diseases worldwide and in Canada. It is
      treatable with effective pharmacological and psychological treatments, but fewer than 50% of
      individuals achieve remission with the first treatment. The unsatisfactory outcomes are at
      least partly due to a gap in evidence on which treatment benefits which individual.

      The two most commonly used treatment modalities for depression are antidepressant medication
      and psychotherapy. However, only a minority of individuals with depression achieve remission
      with each type of treatment. On average, combination of antidepressants and psychotherapy
      achieves better results than either alone, but using two treatments at the same time may be
      wasteful and unnecessary. Several lines of evidence suggest that the apparently superior
      results of combination may be due to some individuals preferentially responding to
      antidepressants and others to psychological treatment. These findings point to the
      possibility that it may be possible to improve outcomes of depression by matching
      psychological and pharmacological treatment to individuals who are most likely to benefit
      from each one. The investigators propose to close this gap using a combination of clinical
      predictors and biomarkers to optimize the choice between psychological and pharmacological
      treatment.

      The investigators have identified that a symptom profile with prominent reduction in interest
      and activity, history of maltreatment in childhood, increase in systemic inflammation, and a
      genetic variant increasing sensitivity to environment predict poor response to antidepressant
      medication. Indirect evidence suggests that the same factors may predict better response to
      cognitive-behavioural psychotherapy.

      The investigators focus on these four predictors with substantial prior evidence:

      Reduced interest and activity. A symptom dimension of interest and activity emerged as the
      strongest predictor of poor outcome of antidepressant medication treatment. This prediction
      replicated with undiminished effect size in the largest study of antidepressant treatment
      carried out to date,4 and additional independent replications confirmed its robustness.
      Cognitive behavioural therapy improves activity and interest better than antidepressant
      medication.

      Childhood maltreatment. A meta-analysis established that a history of maltreatment in
      childhood predicts non-response to antidepressants but not to psychotherapy in adults with
      depression. History of maltreatment may actually predict greater benefits from psychological
      treatment.

      Systemic inflammation. Inflammation may be a pathogenic mechanism in a proportion of
      depression cases. The invesigators found that increased C-reactive protein (CRP), a marker of
      systemic inflammation, predicted non-response to a commonly used antidepressant. Cognitive
      behavioural therapy can decrease CRP and may be the preferred treatment option for
      individuals with high levels of systemic inflammation.

      Genetic sensitivity to environment. A functional polymorphism in the serotonin transporter
      gene makes some individuals more sensitive to positive and negative effects of the
      environment. This gene encodes the molecular target of the most commonly used antidepressants
      and the polymorphism that confers sensitivity to environment also predicts non-response to
      antidepressants. A hypothesis that genetic sensitivity to environment may extend to effects
      of psychotherapy has been proposed and supported by preliminary data.

      Combination of predictors. The above predictors are at least partly independent and may
      combine to a clinically significant prediction of treatment outcomes. Reports of
      gene-environment interactions suggest that a combination of environmental and genetic factors
      may add unique value. Therefore, the investigators propose to evaluate the predictive
      validity of a pre-determined combination of the four factors in predicting differential
      outcomes of psychological and pharmacological treatment.

      Other predictors. The selection of the four predictors described above represents a balance
      between comprehensiveness and complexity, but it is not exhaustive. To maximize the potential
      for integrative analysis, the investigators will also evaluate addition potential predictors
      including anxiety, dysfunctional attitudes, and personality disorders.

      The investigators propose to test whether these four predictors in combination differentially
      predict the outcomes cognitive-behavioural psychotherapy and antidepressant medication with
      clinically significant accuracy. If this hypothesis is supported, the resulting predictor
      will allow personalized selection of treatment for depression, leading to improved outcomes
      and healthcare efficiency. Additional objectives include replication of additional predictors
      and integrative analyses aimed at refining the treatment choice algorithms.

      Depression has been reclassified into two categories: major depressive disorder (MDD), and
      persistent depressive disorder (PDD), which may be associated with distinct etiology and
      treatment response. The investigators will include individuals with MDD and PDD to provide
      results that generalize to both conditions and keep the option of exploring each separately.

      Objective: The invesitagtors' primary objective is to establish whether a predictive score
      based on a pre-determined set of clinical variables and biomarkers differentially predicts
      response to antidepressant medication and to cognitive-behavioural psychotherapy with a
      clinically significant effect size. Secondary objectives include testing each predictor
      separately, testing a gene-environment interaction between the serotonin transporter
      polymorphism and childhood maltreatment, and integrative analyses using multiple predictors
      to derive optimized prediction algorithms.

      Primary hypothesis: A score reflecting loss of interest and activity, history of childhood
      maltreatment, systemic inflammation and genetic sensitivity to environment will predict a
      better response to cognitive-behavioural therapy relative to antidepressant medication among
      adults with major depressive disorder or persistent depressive disorder. If this hypothesis
      is supported, the resulting predictor will allow personalized selection of treatment for
      depression, leading to improved outcomes and healthcare efficiency.
    
  