
    
      Tissue hypoxia can be defined as a state in which tissue oxygen demand is not met by tissue
      oxygen delivery (DO2). The presence and persistence of tissue hypoxia is related to the
      development of organ system failure and subsequent death. However, definite clinical
      indicators of tissue hypoxia are lacking. In experimental conditions, a mismatch between
      oxygen delivery and oxygen demand, resulting from either a progressive decrease of any of the
      components of oxygen delivery (hemoglobin level, arterial oxygen saturation and cardiac
      output) or an increase in oxygen demand, leads to increases in blood lactate levels. However,
      as lactate is a normal end product of metabolism, other processes not related to tissue
      hypoxia have also been linked to increases in blood lactate levels. In clinical conditions
      increased blood lactate levels and a failure to normalize blood lactate levels during
      treatment have been associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Even in
      hemodynamically stable patients with hyperlactatemia, a condition referred to as compensated
      shock or occult hypoperfusion, lactate levels are related to morbidity and mortality. In our
      retrospective pilot study, performed in the general ICU of the Erasmus MC (n= 931), we found
      40% mortality in patients with blood lactate levels of 3 mmol/l or higher in the early hours
      of ICU admission. Blow at al. implemented a treatment protocol to increase oxygen delivery,
      guided by blood lactate levels, in hemodynamically stable trauma patients with occult
      hypoperfusion. Failure to correct hyperlactatemia after lactate-directed therapy correlated
      with increased mortality. Rossi et al. studied lactate-directed therapy in children
      undergoing congenital heart surgery. However, while showing a reduction in morbidity and
      mortality, they used a historical control group. Only one randomized controlled trial has
      been performed evaluating lactate-directed therapy. This study of Polonen et al. showed a
      decrease in morbidity and length of stay in post-cardiac surgery patients using lactate <
      2mmol/l (and mixed venous oxygen saturation [SvO2] > 70%) as goals of therapy. Thus, a
      relevant body of clinical evidence does not yet support routine monitoring of blood lactate
      levels and lactate-directed therapy in all critically ill patients. As some investigators
      have even posed strong arguments that increased blood lactate levels are not related to the
      presence of tissue hypoxia in critically ill patients, some clinicians use increased blood
      lactate levels to guide therapy whereas others hardly measure lactate levels. The limited
      evidence of efficacy and the variable clinical use of blood lactate monitoring in different
      hospitals thus warrants a study on the clinical efficacy of blood lactate monitoring and
      blood lactate-directed therapy in the ICU.

      In general a monitor cannot influence outcome without an associated treatment protocol to
      guide treatment. We will therefore study the clinical efficacy of repeated blood lactate
      measurements in combination with a predefined treatment protocol (aimed at resolving tissue
      hypoxia) during the first hours of intensive care treatment. This pragmatic approach and also
      the early timing of the intervention are supported by the study of Rivers et al., in which
      optimizing the balance between oxygen delivery and demand early in the treatment of patients
      with severe sepsis and septic shock resulted in a 16% absolute mortality reduction.

      The pre-defined treatment protocol will consist of components to

      1) reduce oxygen demand, 2) increase oxygen delivery and to 3) recruit the microcirculation.

        1. Reduction of metabolic oxygen demand has been successfully accomplished by preventing
           hyperthermia, adequate analgesia or sedation, and mechanical ventilation.

        2. Increasing oxygen delivery can be achieved by increasing any of the components of oxygen
           transport (arterial oxygen saturation, cardiac output and hemoglobin level). However,
           the oxygen delivering capabilities of stored red blood cells have been debated and
           adverse effects of red blood cell transfusion have been reported. Best evidence suggests
           a restrictive transfusion policy in the ICU (transfusion threshold 4.34 mmol/l) with an
           exception of severe ischemic cardiac disease.

        3. Administration (after intravascular volume resuscitation) of nitroglycerin, reverses
           microcirculatory shutdown and shunting in septic shock patients. In severe heart failure
           and cardiogenic shock, microcirculatory alterations are also frequently encountered and
           vasodilation may reverse this condition. Although the components of this treatment
           protocol are not innovative (and will also be available in the standard therapy group),
           guiding of this treatment by serial measurements of blood lactate levels is.

      Intensive care extensively impacts on health care resources. Lactate-directed therapy aims at
      prevention of multiple organ failure (MOF) and subsequent death. Patients with MOF account
      for a disproportionately high part of the ICU budget. Moreover, in general costs per ICU day
      are higher for non-survivors than for survivors. Reduction in the use of ICU health care
      resources by lactate-directed therapy could thus result in an important economical benefit.
      In some hospitals, serial lactate measurements are routinely used on intensive care units. In
      our retrospective pilot study we found that in 2004 the Erasmus MC intensive care unit
      performed on average 12 lactate measurements per patient per admission. This resulted in a
      total of 28715 measurements with estimated external budget costs of € 336.000. If
      lactate-directed therapy appears equally or less effective than standard therapy, blood
      lactate measurement in the ICU may not be indicated and resources could thus be saved.
      Therefore, both a positive and negative outcome of this randomized controlled trial would be
      clinically and economically relevant.

      The main research question of this study is, in patients with increased initial blood lactate
      levels on admission to the ICU:

        1. will early lactate-directed therapy reduce mortality? (primary endpoint)

        2. will early lactate-directed therapy reduce morbidity?

        3. will early lactate-directed therapy reduce consumption of health care resources?
    
  