
    
      The design is a placebo-controlled cross-over study. The study has 2 consecutive 16 week
      periods. If a patient satisfies the inclusion/exclusion criteria and consents to participate
      in the study, he/she will enter a 4-week placebo run-in period. This is followed by a 12-week
      treatment period where the patient will be assigned tredaptive or placebo randomly. At the
      end of the treatment period the patient will enter a second 4-week placebo period before
      going onto the second 12-week treatment period. Patients who are randomised to placebo in the
      first treatment period will receive tredaptive in the second treatment period and vice versa.
      Thus all participating patients will receive active medication for one treatment period in
      the study.

      Patients will continue taking statins for the duration of the study, ensuring the
      cholesterol-lowering benefits they have from their usual medication are not compromised.

      Patients will be recruited from the Lipid Clinic at the Manchester Royal Infirmary. The study
      will be explained fully to the patients who will have time to ask questions. Information
      leaflets will be given to patients who will be encouraged to take at least 1 day to discuss
      the study with their families, friends and general practitioners before consenting.

      The study comprises 5 visits. At the first visit, informed consent will be taken from the
      patients. The visit also includes history taking and physical examination. Subsequent visits
      take place at the end of 4th and 16th weeks. This is repeated for the second 16 week period.
      Apart from the first visit, patients will be required to give a blood sample of 50 ml at each
      of the visits. They will be asked to fast overnight (from 22.00 hours) the day before the
      visit and blood sampling will be done before midday the following day. Blood will be taken by
      an experienced doctor or nurse and the only risks involved may be bruising at the puncture
      site.
    
  