
    
      Rationale:

      Although rapid sequence intubation (RSI) is commonly used in the emergency department (ED) or
      operating room (OR) for trauma patients, there is not one induction medication which has been
      deemed the drug of choice for this particular use. There is a wide variation in induction
      agents used by providers performing RSIs, including propofol, ketamine, methohexital,
      midazolam, fentanyl, and etomidate. However, no society guidelines exist on the induction
      agent of choice in trauma for either hemodynamically stable or unstable patients. The purpose
      of this study is to compare the effects of 3 of the most commonly used induction agents
      (propofol, etomidate, and ketamine) for RSIs in adult trauma patients on outcomes, such as
      mortality, and hemodynamic status. Ultimately, the investigators would like to lay the
      groundwork for developing guidelines that define the ideal induction agent for trauma RSIs.

      Intervention: Giving propofol, ketamine, or etomidate as the induction medication for a rapid
      sequence intubation in trauma patients requiring intubation within 24 hours of admission.

      Objectives/Purpose: The purpose of this study is to compare the effects of 3 of the most
      commonly used induction agents (propofol, etomidate, and ketamine) for RSIs in adult trauma
      patients on outcomes such as mortality. Additionally, how each agent effects patients'
      hemodynamic status will be evaluated. Additional outcomes of these medications will be
      studied in three subsets of patients: 1. those with traumatic brain injuries, 2. elderly
      patients (>=65-years-old), and 3. those with a low shock index (<0.9) compared to a high
      shock index (>0.9). Finally, the practices and outcomes of RSIs performed in the ED versus
      the OR will be compared. Ultimately, the investigators would like to lay the groundwork for
      developing guidelines that define the ideal induction agent for trauma RSIs.

      Study population: Adult trauma patients undergoing RSI within 24 hours of hospital admission

      Methodology: A multicenter, prospective observational study will be performed.

      Endpoints: In-hospital mortality, 28-day mortality, ICU and total hospital length of stay,
      complications, hypotension and vasopressor use 30 minutes and 24 hours after intubation,
      mechanical ventilator days, and discharge disposition

      Statistic plan: Data will be entered into a password-protected online data collection tool
      known as RedCap, and analyzed using SAS version 9.4 (SAS Institute, Inc., Cary, NC).
    
  