
    
      Suicide is the second leading cause of death in 15-24 year-olds and accounts for 13% of all
      adolescent deaths annually. According to the CDC, the suicide rate for 10-24 year-olds
      increased in the last decade, with the suicide rate for 10-14 year-olds, 15-18 year-olds, and
      20-24 year-olds increasing 177%, 76%, and 36%, respectfully. There is a critical need to
      develop fast and effective treatment in this highest-risk age group. Therefore, there is an
      urgent need to develop rapid, safe and feasible treatment to decrease suicidality in youth
      admitted to inpatient psychiatry after a serious suicidal attempt.

      This proposal seeks to address this critical clinical gap by conducting an inpatient trial of
      treatment with ketamine vs placebo (saline) for rapid reversal of patients' suicidal state.
      Furthermore, this study will also test whether ketamine facilitates the effectiveness of
      collaborative psychotherapy for an enduring anti-suicidal response. One hundred and forty
      subjects who are medically stable admitted to inpatient psychiatry after a serious suicide
      attempt (defined as any act of self-harm with an intent to die) with continued suicidal
      ideation will be included in the study. After initial assessment, in conjunction with an
      anesthesiologist for any contraindication of using ketamine, patients will be randomized to
      receive either ketamine infusion 0.5 mg/kg over 40 minutes or saline. Ketamine or saline
      infusions on alternate days over two weeks will be given until subject reports no suicidal
      ideation for three consecutive sessions, or a maximum administration of six infusions is
      reached, or until they are discharged from the hospital. Concurrently, weekly sessions of
      CAMS will be started and continued as an outpatient after the patient is discharged until the
      subject also reports no suicidal ideation as an outpatient for three consecutive sessions.
      Monthly assessments for suicidal ideation, attempts and readmissions will be conducted as an
      outpatient for 3 months.
    
  