
    
      The aim of the study is to conduct a preliminary efficacy study of a smartphone based symptom
      management app in a small pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT).

      We will enroll 80 advanced cancer patients with moderate to severe pain needs (10 per month)
      with estimated 40% females. Following informed consent, study staff will administer baseline
      assessments. Subsequently, patients will be randomly assigned via computer-generated
      randomization, to standard care or to the smartphone intervention plus standard care for 3
      months.

      In the intervention arm participants will receive twice-weekly smartphone reminders to fill
      out the APCA POS on their phones. When prompted, participants will be asked to respond to the
      questions with a numerical value on the 5-point scale. Responses of 2 or higher will be
      highlighted on the provider's dashboard and identified, as "needs follow-up." Providers will
      respond to the "needs follow-up" messages (via call or text) and will advise the patients as
      indicated during business hours. The APCA POS score and any adjustment in medications and
      advice given will be noted in the medical record and the study software as outlined.

      In the standard Care arm patients will get the current palliative care provided at the RPCHO.
      This standard care includes regular follow-up phone calls and home visits, though the timing
      of these calls is variable and is selected by the discretion of the team. Patients can also
      contact RPCHO providers on a landline number available during business hours and staffed by
      an on-call palliative care provider.

      For after-hours emergency assistance, patients in both study arms will still have the option
      of contacting the on-call palliative-care physicians for assistance, as they do now.

      A trained study interviewer, who is blinded to patient assignment, will administer the
      baseline, 6-week and 3-month assessments for patients in both arms. In the baseline
      assessment information on patient and disease characteristic (age, sex, marital status,
      diagnosis, place of care, performance status) and family context (living situation) will be
      collected. On follow-up visits at 6 week and 3 month, patient's physical and psychosocial
      assessment will be done through expanded APCA POS (African Palliative Care Outcome Scale).
      APCA POS have been previously validated in the African setting. The APCA POS includes ten
      questions in total, two focused on physical symptoms including pain and assessment of general
      symptoms, five focused on psychosocial needs and three questions focused on the care-giver
      perspective of needs. Because our study is focused on the tracking and monitoring of physical
      symptoms of patients, three additional questions from the Palliative Outcomes Scale - Symptom
      List (POS-S) are added to the APCA POS which include shortness of breath, nausea and
      vomiting, fatigue and constipation.

      The assessment will be completed via paper and pencil and entered by the project coordinator
      into a password-protected, de-identified database, using double data entry, and uploaded to
      an encrypted, password protected, shared database which the PIs will be responsible for
      maintaining. All information pertaining to smartphone messages, including patient and
      provider responses will also be uploaded into the encrypted password-protected software
      maintained by Cornell Tech.

      Primary outcome for the study is difference in pain score as measured by the expanded APCA
      POS in two arms. Secondary outcomes are difference in other symptoms and quality of life
      (QOL) scores from the remaining portion of the expanded APCA POS individually and as
      composite score between the two arms. We will examine the efficacy of the app to improve
      these outcomes at 6 weeks and 3 months, adjusting for baseline scores with intension-to-treat
      analysis. These data will help us determine effect size used for sample size calculation of a
      future large scale RCT.
    
  