
    
      Burn wounds are divided into first degree burns involving the epidermis, superficial second
      degree with lesion of the papillary dermis, deep second degree with lesion of the reticular
      dermis, third degree with lesion to the hypodermis, and fourth degree involves fascia,
      muscle, tendons and bone.

      In burns, development and severity of complications are in direct proportion to the magnitude
      of the burn. The magnitude of the damage depends on three factors, the duration of the
      contact, the intensity of the current or temperature and the resistance offered by the
      tissue. The extent of the burned skin surface is very useful to assess the severity of the
      patient, it is a relevant criterion to develop the prognosis. It is important to have
      comprehensive knowledge of the burned patient and close collaboration with the
      multidisciplinary care team through a careful evaluation that includes mechanism of injury,
      type, extent, degree of affectation and organic repercussion of the burn. The reliable and
      valid evaluation on the depth of a burn wound or the healing potential is essential for the
      decision making in the treatment; to provide a prognosis and to compare the different
      treatment modalities. There is no gold standard in the evaluation of burns.

      Infrared imaging is a non-invasive technique that quantifies the temperature of the body
      surface by capturing the thermal radiation emitted and producing a high-resolution digital
      image called a thermogram. The presence of a disease interferes locally with the heat
      balance, which results in an increase or decrease in the temperature of the skin, in
      comparison to the surrounding regions or the contralateral not affected region. A degree of
      thermal asymmetry between opposite sides of the body (ΔT) of up to 1 ° C has been considered
      indicative of dysfunction. In several previous studies the parameters of initial thermography
      between the wound and healthy skin (delta T) were defined, to decide the therapeutic approach
      of the burns to predict the evolution: ΔT <3º C epithelialized with conservative treatment,
      ΔT 3-5º C should be graft early and ΔT> 5º C should be amputated.Thermography offers a
      feasible option for valuation.

      Methods:

      This is randomized clinical study of patients with different burn depth. All patients will be
      examined using a thermal camera.

      Expected Results:

      In all cases, the investigators obtained infrared images that corroborate clinical findings.
    
  