
    
      In the treatment of CNV (Choroidal NeoVascularization) secondary from AMD (Age Related
      Macular Degeneration) by using ranibizumab, patients who are non-responders can be found in
      approximately 1-10% of treatments. Thus, failure of treatment can lead to loss of vision.
      Growth factors and cytokines, such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), pigment
      epithelium derived factor (PEDF), interleukin 6 (IL-6) and placenta growth factor (PLGF) are
      known to play an important role in the development of CNV angiogenesis.

      The rationale for conducting this study to compare VEGF, PEDF, IL-6 and PLGF cytokine levels
      in the aqueous humor of wet AMD and Polypoidal Choroidal Vasculopathy (PCV) patients who are
      poor responders to anti VEGF treatment and age-matched "good" responders to anti VEGF.
      Ranibizumab poor responders in AMD and PCV, who are treated with a combination of
      PDT/ranibizumab or intravitreous injection of aflibercept (Eyelea®, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals
      Inc. Tarrytown, NY, USA and Bayer, Basel, Switzerland) will be enrolled to the study. An
      aqueous humor sample will be obtained when patient receives intravitreal injection treatment
      and also at 1, 2 months follow up period. VEGF, PEDF,IL-6 and PLGF in aqueous will be
      analyzed and used to compare between the poor response group and age matched patient with
      good response to ranibizumab. Age, gender, visual acuity, central macular thickness by OCT,
      lesion size and fundus autofluorescence data will be collected and used to compare between
      these groups. Subgroup analysis of different treatment comparison with ranibizumab good
      responder group will be evaluated. Factors associated with the non-responders of ranibizumab
      will be analyzed.

      Non-responders to ranibizumab treatment in AMD may have different levels and responses of
      inflammatory cytokines compared to the responder group. Understanding the pathogenesis and
      characteristic of this specific group of patients can help narrow down a specific choice of
      treatment and prevent the reduction of visual acuity of the patient. This study also helps
      identify factors associated to poor responders from ranibizumab treatment for wAMD.
    
  