
    
      All patients who underwent surgery with curative intent or salvage after induction treatment
      during a 8-year time period (2011-2019). Induction treatment with the form either of
      chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy was delivered according to the thoracic multidisciplinary
      team decision which it was based on primary tumor histology and stage. Patients with Pancoast
      tumors were excluded from the study design, because these tumors have different clinical
      characteristics and represent a separate category of NSCLC with a well recognized specific
      treatment plan worldwide.

      Overall 42 patients are included in the study and the recorded parameters in each patient
      are:

        1. Age, gender, comorbidities, histology, location in the lung and stage of tumor at
           presentation, tools used for preoperative staging in each case, any previous surgical
           procedures of other treatments performed before elsewhere, type of induction treatment,
           tools used for tumor restaging.

        2. In each patient were recorded any specific technical details concerning the applied
           surgical procedures, time of surgery and one-lung ventilation (OLV), postoperative
           complications and their management, mortality, pos-resection staging (ypTNM), the number
           of resected lymph nodes in each patient.

        3. Concerning the long term outcomes, overall and disease-free survival, kind of recurrence
           (local, distant, combination) and treatment of recurrences were recorded.

      Interpretation fo the results will include the correlation of surgical details, kind and dose
      of induction treatment with postoperative complications, especially infectious complications
      and prolonged air leaks. Radicality of the resection and response of the tumor to induction
      treatment (ypTNM stage) as it is recorded in histology reports are the two important clinical
      parameters to be studied for their effect on long term survival and recurrences.

      Surgery was applied as salvage surgery in not well responded tumors or as resection of
      downstaged tumors.
    
  