
    
      This is a multicenter, open-label, Phase 1/ 2 study to evaluate the short-term and
      longer-term safety, tolerability, and effectiveness of immunopheresis with the LW-02 device
      in removal of sTNF-Rs from plasma of patients with advanced, refractory TNBC and for disease
      control when employed as monotherapy, or in combination with a low dose weekly taxane
      (paclitaxel) plus carboplatin chemotherapy regimen. A weekly, combination of low dose
      paclitaxel plus carboplatin (paclitaxel+carboplatin) chemotherapy regimen will serve as
      control.

      Part A (n=10 evaluable patients): Overall safety, tolerability, and sTNF-R-removal
      effectiveness of LW-02 device-based immunopheresis monotherapy conducted 3 times per week for
      4 weeks in patients with advanced TNBC. This part is already completed.

      Part B (n=10 evaluable patients): Overall safety, tolerability, and sTNF-Rs-removal
      effectiveness of LW-02 device-based immunopheresis 3 times per week for 4 weeks combined with
      chemotherapy (weekly administration of paclitaxel+carboplatin regimen) in patients with
      advanced TNBC.

      Part C (3 treatment arms; n=50 patients per treatment arm): Randomized comparison of overall
      safety, tolerability, and clinical efficacy effectiveness of (i) immunopheresis monotherapy
      with the LW-02 device 3 times per week for 16 weeks, (ii) or immunopheresis in combination
      with chemotherapy (weekly administration of paclitaxel+carboplatin regimen), and (iii) plain
      chemotherapy (weekly administration of paclitaxel+carboplatin).

      Safety Endpoints

        1. Safety and tolerability - incidence of Adverse Device Effects (ADEs), Serious Adverse
           Device Effects (SADEs) and Unanticipated Serious Adverse Device Effects (USADEs) related
           to immunopheresis procedure as well as Adverse Events (AE) and Serious Adverse Events
           (SAEs).

        2. Safety endpoints of special interest - incidence of tumor lysis syndrome, and systemic
           inflammatory response syndrome.

        3. Patient-Reported Outcomes to evaluate health status and Quality of Life (QoL)
           instruments for patients with TNBC:

             -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) status

             -  EQ-5D-5L index-based scale

             -  EORTC: QLQ-BR23 (breast), and QLQ-C30 (general cancer questionnaire)

             -  6-minute walk test and BORG dyspnea, fatigue scale and hand grip test

             -  Nutritional status will be assessed with PG-SGA scale and via laboratory
                assessments of changes in serum albumin and CRP

      Efficacy Endpoints

        1. Column efficiency and effectiveness in removal of sTNF-Rs from patient plasma without
           clinically-meaningful leaching of capture ligand (SC-TNF-α) - change in sTNF-R and TNF-α
           plasma levels from initiation to the end of each immunopheresis procedure, including
           pre- and post-column measurements, between each treatment, and from baseline to end of a
           treatment cycle (4 weeks - Part A and B, or 16 weeks - Part C).

        2. Clinical endpoints - response in tumor burden - progression-free survival (PFS), disease
           control rate (DCR), objective response rate (ORR), clinical benefit rate (CBR), duration
           of response (DOR), duration of clinical benefit (DOCB), time-to-progression (TTP) and
           overall survival (OS). Serial evaluation of tumor burden/tumor growth is assessed
           according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1).
    
  