
    
      The ADHD360 project develop an integrated platform having as core elements a serious game
      along with a mobile application for monitoring of ADHD behaviors in a SMART (Specific,
      Measurable, Attainable, Realistic and Timely) way. The design of the serious game is based on
      both Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (version V(American Psychiatric
      Association, 2013)) along with neuropsychological tools, easily transferred to game, on a
      specific ADHD behavior. The primary objective of the project is to explore whether the game
      analytics along with the monitoring data could discriminate the ADHD from non-ADHD users. The
      secondary objective is to use the platform as an intervention. To this scope, a two-phase
      pilot study will be performed recruiting at least twenty (20) participants (10 ADHD; 10
      non-ADHD) with ages ranging from 7 to 16 years. In the first stage, participants will undergo
      a neuropsychological evaluation as well as interact with the serious game two times (30-45
      minutes/each time). After all participants have completed the first part of the pilot tests,
      a preliminary analysis of the data will be carried out using modern Machine Learning Methods
      in order to explore the discriminating capacity of the game. In the second stage,
      participants will interact with the platform for ten (10) weeks in total (2-3 times/30-45
      minutes each). At the end of the second stage, the participants will undergo a
      neuropsychological evaluation following the procedures of the first one. The partners
      involved in the implementation of the project are the Intelligent Systems Lab (School of
      Computer Science, AUTH), the MEDPHYS Laboratory (School of Medicine, AUTH) and the Second
      Method (TSM) company. The partners cover the expertise required in data analysis, machine
      learning, medical record keeping, software development and game design (gamification).
      ADHD360 is co-financed by the European Union and Greek national funds through the Operational
      Program Competitiveness, Entrepreneurship and Innovation, under the call RESEARCH - CREATE -
      INNOVATE [Τ1ΕΔΚ-01680].
    
  