
    
      The drug-eluting stents (DESs) are currently used in the majority of percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI) procedures. On the other hand, the problems of the first-generation DES
      (late adverse events, such as very late stent thrombosis) have been pointed out. Dual
      antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) has become a standard regimen after DES implantation and for fear
      of very late stent thrombosis, DAPT is frequently performed for 1 year or longer in clinical
      practice. However, serious hemorrhagic complications associated with a prolonged DAPT
      duration can bring disadvantages to patients, and it is extremely important to clarify an
      optimal DAPT duration after DES procedure. Currently, 1-month DAPT regimen after bare metal
      stent (BMS) implantation is commonly used in clinical practice, producing no major problems.
      Based on a meta-analysis of recent clinical studies, it has also been reported that the use
      of Cobalt-Chromium Everolimus-Eluting Stent (CoCr-EES) reduces the risk of early stent
      thrombosis by half compared to the use of BMS. There is no necessity to extend antiplatelet
      therapy after CoCr-EES implantation longer than after BMS implantation, and it is considered
      possible to use the same 1-month DAPT duration as after BMS implantation. We therefore
      planned a multicenter, randomized, open-label, controlled study, in which the subjects who
      have undergone CoCr-EES procedure will be diveded into the 1-month DAPT and clopidogrel
      monotherapy group and the 12-month DAPT and aspirin monotherapy group. Primary endpoint is
      the incidence of composite events including cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction,
      stent thrombosis, stroke, and bleeding defined by TIMI major or minor bleeding. At first, the
      non-inferiorty about primary endpoint of 1-month DAPT group will be evaluated at 12 months
      after index procedure and secondarily, the superiority about primary endpoint of 1-month DAPT
      group will be evaluated at 5 years after index procedure.
    
  