
    
      At visit 1: the fulfilment of the inclusion criteria. a medical assessment including vital
      signs, and a written informed consent are obtained. A peritoneal equilibrium test (PET) is
      performed at visit 2, which is a semi-quantitative assessment of peritoneal membrane
      transport function in patients on peritoneal dialysis. The PET test will determine if the
      subject has a low, medium or high transport capacity which in turn will dictate the
      Glucose-salt setting required in the CLS UF to achieve the desired ultrafiltration volume.
      The dosage of the Glucose-salt solution is based on an algorithm and according to the
      algorithm, the target osmolarity should be 340 mOsmol/L to obtain an ultrafiltration flow
      rate of approximately 150 ml/h.

      The study session with the CLS UF will be performed both at visit 3 and 4. If the
      prescription of the glucose-salt solution has been changed between treatment sessions 1 and 2
      there is an option of a 5th visit. The patient will perform the ordinary prescribed PD
      therapy until the evening before the study session day, according to the prescription of the
      investigator. The abdomen will be without PD solution during the night. On the morning of the
      study day an initial assessment of the patient will be performed before starting the study
      session and thereafter the abdomen will be filled with a fresh of PD solution, immediately
      followed by a complete drain.

      The study session starts with a fill of the abdomen with 2000 ml of Physioneal 2.27%. The
      sodium concentration of the glucose-salt solution and the glucose dosage required to achieve
      the target osmolarity of 340 mOsm/L in the intraperitoneal fluid is set according to the
      Glucose dosage table (CIP, Table 3). The CLS UF device will then be connected to the catheter
      via the patient line and the device started. The study session is performed for 8 hours and
      Intermittent drains of 180 ml intraperitoneal fluid will be performed hourly to maintain a
      stable intraperitoneal volume of around 2 liters. A new cycle starts directly after each
      drain. The patient can at any time start an extra drain if he/she experience discomfort of
      increased volume in the abdomen. At the end of the session a complete drain of the peritoneal
      cavity will be performed and the volume measured. During the study session blood and
      dialysate samples will be taken according to the case report form (CRF). During the study
      session, the subjects will eat and drink as usual. All intakes and outputs of fluids will be
      measured. After the completed study sessions (visit 3 & 4), the Investigator will perform a
      clinical assessment of the patient and if satisfactory the patient will return home.

      At visit 6, a follow up visit is performed in which the subject's vital signs are performed.
      Adverse events are assessed during study session between visit 3 and follow-up (visit 6). An
      evaluation of the treatment sessions by the subjects is also performed from visit 3 to visit
      6.
    
  