
    
      There is a critical and unmet clinical need for non-invasive techniques that provide early
      diagnosis as well as reliable and sensitive evaluations of ongoing disease activity and
      treatment response in patients with axial spondyloarthritis (axSpA). Imaging plays a key role
      to fulfill this goal and there is an increasing trend of applying imaging techniques in the
      field of axSpA. However, current imaging techniques, including radiographs and MRI, are
      primarily limited to qualitative or semi-quantitative evaluations of disease activity and
      structural damage, which is very crude and subjective with considerable inter-reader
      variation, and has limited sensitivity of detecting early lesions as well as changes in
      inflammatory lesions beyond morphology of bone marrow edema after treatment. Furthermore,
      several recent studies reported data of inflammation (bone marrow edema), fatty deposition
      and new bone formation after TNF inhibitor (TNFi) treatment in patients with axSpA,
      suggesting a complex relationship between inflammation, bone formation, and suppression of
      the TNF pathway. These studies also call for differentiating edema for their characteristics
      (angiogenesis for example) and inflammation stages (acute and chronic), which will provide
      valuable insight on disease pathophysiology as well as on optimizing treatment for individual
      patients with axSpA.

      The long-term goal is to develop novel quantitative MRI measures that will reliably assess
      both inflammation and structural damage, and predict treatment response, remission and
      disease progression in axSpA. Compared to current MRI grading systems, such quantitative
      measures may be used as more sensitive, specific, reliable and faster imaging markers for
      future trials, and eventually for clinical practice to improve patient management in axSpA.
      In this proposal, Investigators will focus on patients with clinically diagnosed active
      Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) and will develop novel imaging and image processing techniques
      using 3 Tesla MRI. The specific aims are two-folds. Firstly, Investigators will develop
      methods that reliably quantify bone marrow edema (BME), fatty deposition (FD) and erosions;
      Secondly, Investigators will develop novel quantitative evaluation of perfusion and
      vascularity of BME (using dynamic Gd-enhanced MRI), which has not been investigated for axSpA
      in the literature.

      Investigators will recruit 20 patients with active Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) using the 1984
      modified NY criteria. Fifteen patients will be recruited from the Ankylosing Spondylitis
      clinic at UCSF, directed by Dr. Lianne Gensler, and five patients will be recruited from
      Rheumatology clinic at the Cleveland Clinic by Dr. Elaine Husni. Drs. Gensler and Husni will
      also reach out to the other academic sites and the community private practices to recruit
      patients as needed who are starting TNF inhibitor therapy with CZP for their AS. Patients
      will be studied at baseline, 4-weeks and 48-weeks after initiation of TNFi treatment.
      Advanced quantitative MRI will be applied to evaluate early treatment response at 4-weeks,
      and long-term outcomes at 48-weeks. The central hypothesis is that quantitative MRI allows a
      fast, specific and reproducible evaluation of disease activity and structural changes in AS,
      and provides more superior diagnostic and prognostic capability compared to semi-quantitative
      MRI grading systems.

      The successful implementation of the proposed study will make significant contributions to
      the research and clinical
    
  