
    
      Cardiac Troponin is recommended as a preferred cardiac biomarker in third universal
      definition of myocardial infraction. The validated high-sensitive cardiac troponin I is also
      considered competent 1-hour algorithm to rule out and/ rule in NSTEMI in 2015 ESC Guidelines
      for the management of acute coronary syndromes in patients presenting without persistent
      ST-segment elevation. However, the diagnostic threshold of 1-hour and 3-hour need more solid
      evidence in Chinese population. This study is to validate 1-hour and 3-hours diagnostic
      strategy using Architect high-sensitivity cardiac troponin I (hs-cTnI) in Chinese patients
      with suspected non-ST-elevation Myocardial Infarction (NSTEMI). The accuracy of 1-hour and
      3-hours algorithm of NSTEMI using Architect hs-cTnI assays will be assessment in China
      emergency patients. This trail is going to determine the optimal diagnostic cut-off value of
      NSTEMI in Chinese population according to 24-hour or even longer clinical diagnosis of MI in
      routine way.

      In primary phase of the present study, 400 patients with acute chest pain, who suspected
      NSTE-ACS, will be enrolled when visiting emergency department of Fuwai hospital. In
      subsequent study, multi center emergency department in China plan to recruit 2000 patients
      suspected NSTE-ACS. The inclusion and exclusion criteria had been described in the following
      eligibility part. All recruited patients undergo an initial clinical assessment including
      clinical history, physical examination, 12-lead ECG monitoring, routine blood measurements
      and echocardiogram. The blood samples of patients will be collected according to standard
      biobank protocol. Cardiac troponin I, CK-MB and myoglobin will be measured at presentation,
      1-hour, 3-hours and 12-hours employing contemporary cTnI and high-sensitive cTnI,
      respectively.

      The diagnosis of each enrolled patient will be made according to routine clinical approach
      and 1-hour and 3-hours clinical approach, respectively. The routine clinical diagnosis will
      be made by cardiologist panel according to third universal definition of myocardial
      infraction through reviewing all available medical records. The NSTEMI diagnosis depended on
      Architect hs-cTnI assessment will be made a senior cardiologist according to 1-hour and
      3-hours clinical approach recommended by 2015 ESC guidelines for the management of NSTEMI.
      When there was disagreement about the diagnosis, cases were reviewed and adjudicated in
      conjunction with a third senior cardiologist.

      Finally, statistical expert will evaluate the diagnostic performance of 1-hour and 3-hours
      clinical approach and diagnostic threshold of NSTEMI when the new hs-cTnI employed.
    
  