
    
      Overview

      This study protocol will be modeled on a consensus protocol developed with the input of
      clinical allergists and other allergy stakeholders to standardize threshold challenge studies
      [5-8]. As per protocol, 30 patients with a known or convincing history of peanut allergy will
      be recruited. After an initial screening visit to verify eligibility, all participants will
      undergo a two-day DBPCFC. Briefly, qualifying participants will be fed increasing amounts of
      peanut masked in a food matrix. On a different day, the participant will be fed the same
      amount of the food matrix without any peanut. Overall, the study will require three visits by
      participants: a screening day to determine if the prospective participants meet eligibility
      criteria, and two days for the DBPCFC.

      Study Procedures

      Screening Visit

      Prospective participants will come to the Allergy Clinic at the McMaster University Medical
      Centre for a screening visit up to 6 months prior to the DBPCFC in order to confirm study
      eligibility. The informed consent form will be reviewed and signed at this time. The allergic
      status of these prospective participants will be characterized by patient history, skin prick
      test (SPT), and peanut-specific IgE, so that they can be related to the overall allergic
      population. Relevant history (all reactions related to peanut and any other foods, other
      allergic co-morbidities, other medical conditions, medications, family history, etc.) will be
      recorded. A physical examination will be performed including skin prick tests to peanut and
      the routine inhalant allergen panel. Blood work will be done as a baseline measure and
      analyzed as described below.

      Skin Prick Test (SPT)

      As a positive SPT is needed to qualify participants for the study, each prospective
      participant will have a SPT during the screening visit. SPTs will be judged and recorded
      based on the size of the wheal (raised welt around prick site) and flare (reddened area
      around wheal) as compared to the positive and negative control skin tests after 15-30 minutes
      [9]. A SPT is deemed positive by comparison to the negative control skin test. Skin test
      reaction wheals with diameters 3 mm greater than those of the negative saline control are
      considered positive. The diameter of the wheal and the diameter of the wheal and flare will
      be recorded. A record of the peanut SPT size will be kept via cellophane tape recording.

      Blood draw

      During the screening visit, a blood sample will be taken from prospective participants in
      order to test the in vitro peanut-specific IgE level. The amount of blood drawn will be
      dependent on the age and weight of the subject (see Appendix III). The blood will be
      separated so that the serum can be submitted for specific testing against peanut proteins.
      Testing for IgE to peanut requires only a few milliliters of serum. The remaining serum will
      be used to identify specific proteins in peanuts that bind IgE from each subject's serum and
      characterization of those peanut proteins. Serum samples will be coded to protect the
      identity of the subjects, stored at McMaster University Medical Centre, and used until
      supplies are exhausted.

      Double Blind Placebo Controlled Food Challenge

      Participants will come to the Allergy Clinic at McMaster University Medical Centre for the
      DBPCFC, which will take 2 days. Each visit will last a minimum of 4 hours with a minimum of
      one week between the food challenge visits. Oral food challenges will occur in a clinical
      setting allowing for prompt medical treatment if necessary during the protocol. Participants
      will be monitored by qualified medical personnel. An IV will be put in place prior to the
      start of the challenge. In the extremely unlikely event that the subject has a severe
      reaction during the challenge, a code cart or special emergency supplies including intubation
      equipment and defibrillator will be available and epinephrine and other medications will be
      administered according to the severity of reaction.

      Each participant will be randomized to receive either peanut on Day 1 and placebo on Day 2 or
      vice versa. The randomization process and challenge materials are described in detail below.
      On the 'peanut' day, participants will be orally challenged with 17 doses of peanut masked in
      a suitable food matrix, such as applesauce or chocolate pudding. To ensure the establishment
      of a NOAEL, the starting dose will be 0.1mg, 50-30 times lower than what has previously been
      reported. The progression of dosing will follow a defined schedule up to 5000g. On a separate
      day, participants will be challenged with an equivalent series of placebo doses.

      To start the challenge, each participant will be given a small amount of either peanut
      (masked in the challenge vehicle) starting at 0.1 mg or placebo. Doses will be given at 20-30
      minute intervals and participants will be monitored continuously between doses. The dose of
      peanut will be increased following the progression above until:

        1. One or more of the following objective findings are observed:

             1. Rash: erythema, morbilliform rash, urticarial, angioedema

             2. Ocular: conjunctival swelling, scleral edema, tearing

             3. Nasal: congestion, rhinorrhea, sneezing

             4. Gastrointestinal: vomiting, diarrhea

             5. Systemic: blood pressure drop by ≥ 20%

        2. The final dose of peanut is reached

        3. Physician's discretion

      All subjective and objective symptoms will be fully recorded on the data collection forms.
      Vital signs (oxygen saturation, blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate) will be
      assessed before every dose, with every new subjective symptom reported, and when objective
      findings are observed. The challenge may be stopped at the discretion of the principal
      investigator if the participant cannot tolerate the subjective symptoms. Once objective
      reactive symptoms are observed, the challenge will immediately be stopped and the participant
      will receive appropriate medication which may include epinephrine, antihistamine, or steroids
      to manage the reaction. Participants will be observed for a minimum of 2 hours after an
      allergic reaction has occurred to ensure that it has been adequately treated and resolved.
    
  