
    
      OUTLINE: This is a phase I/II multi-center study.

      Phase I:

      All patients will receive a fixed dose of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (Doxil) of 40 mg/m2
      administered IV every 28 days. The dose of BIBF 1120 will be escalated in successive cohorts
      of patients. A maximum of 12 cycles of combined therapy will be administered corresponding to
      maximum cumulative dose of PLD of 480 mg/m2. Continuation therapy with single agent BIBF 1120
      may continue for selected patients.

      The escalation phase will follow the standard 3+3 design. Patients will be accrued to each
      dose level in cohorts of up to 3-6 evaluable patients. Escalation will continue until a DLT
      is observed, the highest dose level is reached, or medical judgment indicates. An expansion
      cohort of 3 to 6 patients will be treated at the MTD (or highest dose level if the MTD is not
      reached), in order to ensure tolerability of the regimen prior to initiating the Phase II
      component of the study.

      Phase II:

      Patients will receive a fixed dose of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (Doxil) of 40 mg/m2
      administered IV every 28 days. Patients will be treated at either dose Level +2 or the MTD
      dose level of BIBF 1120 as defined by the Phase I cohort. Each cycle will be 28 days.
      Patients will continue treatment with the combination therapy for a total of up to 12 cycles.

      ECOG Performance Status 0-1

      Life Expectancy: Not specified

      Hematopoietic:

        -  Absolute neutrophil count ≥ 1500 cells/mm3

        -  White cell blood count ≥ 3000 cells/mm3

        -  Hemoglobin ≥ 9.0 g/dL (can be post-transfusion)

        -  Platelets ≥ 100,000/mm3 (can not be post-transfusion)

      Hepatic:

        -  Aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase less than or equal to 2.5 times
           upper limit of normal (ULN)

        -  Total serum bilirubin ≤ 1.5 times ULN

        -  Alkaline phosphatase ≤ 2.5 times ULN

      Renal:

        -  Creatinine levels ≤ 1.5 times ULN

      Cardiovascular:

        -  Baseline left ventricular ejection fraction greater than 50%

        -  International Normalized ratio(INR) ≤ 1.5 times ULN, except patients on stable doses of
           coumadin or low molecular weight heparin NOTE: Patients on stable doses of coumadin or
           low molecular weight heparin are eligible if anticoagulant doses have been stable and no
           bleeding complications were recorded.

        -  Partial thromboplastin time (PTT) ≤1.5 times ULN

      This study was terminated due to drug availability and Phase II never opened.
    
  