
    
      Pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PA) is a solid cancer with a very poor prognosis with overall
      survival, all stages combined, not exceeding 5% at 5 years. The incidence and number of
      deaths caused by this type of tumor have been steadily increasing for two decades. In the
      absence of therapeutic advances, AP will be one of the leading causes of cancer deaths in
      2030. The poor prognosis of PA is explained by a diagnosis often late and by the biological
      characteristics of the tumor, marked by significant heterogeneity, hypovascularization and an
      abundant desmoplastic stroma explaining resistance to different treatments. PA results from
      the successive accumulation of genetic and epigenetic alterations (mutations,
      hypermethylation, overexpression) marking the transformation of the pancreatic epithelium
      into localized adenocarcinoma and then rapidly metastatic. Surgery, the only potentially
      curative treatment, is only possible for 5 to 10% of patients. For these resectable tumors,
      only 20% of fully operated patients are alive at 5 years. At the metastatic stage,
      chemotherapies, used in combination with symptomatic treatments, have limited efficacy. The
      standard treatments are gemcitabine and in recent years, FOLFIRINOX (5-FU combination,
      irinotecan and oxaliplatin), the effectiveness of which is associated with significant
      toxicities that limit its administration to patients with preserved general condition
      (Conroy, 2011). Recently, the Nab-Paclitaxel (albumin-based paclitaxel) has shown an
      interesting efficiency but is still not accessible outside of clinical studies. Despite these
      advances, the results remain modest, with overall patient survival increased by 6 months on
      gemcitabine, 11 months on FOLFIRINOX and 8.5 months on GEMBRAX (gemcitabine + Nab-Paclitaxel.
      Thus, oncologists lack solutions. Therapeutics after Progression to the First Line of
      Chemotherapy Many clinical trials have attempted to combine other chemotherapies or targeted
      therapies with relatively low survival gains.

      In preclinical studies, the search for new therapies initially focused on the pancreatic
      cancer cell by targeting the affected proteins and signaling pathways and then the
      microenvironment was identified as a potential target. Various inhibitors have been
      considered to target the MEK1 / 2, PI3K-mTOR, JAK-STAT and Notch pathways with often
      disappointing clinical results. Other preclinical work requires further studies, such as
      those targeting the CXCR4, TGFb or PARP pathways. Targeting of tyrosine kinase receptors has
      been widely studied but remains relevant with a number of ongoing studies using inhibitors of
      EGFR, IGFR or cMET family members.

      In recent years, researchers and clinicians have now attempted to characterize and understand
      PA as a whole, through the various stages of its carcinogenesis and the analysis of its
      microenvironment. Indeed, the stroma of PA can represent up to 80% of the tumor mass and
      mainly composed of activated fibroblasts (CAF), endothelial and immune cells and
      extracellular matrix (collagen and fibronectin). It is in this sense that research is now
      evolving by identifying targets and interactions at the stroma level. Therapeutic trials
      including SHH inhibitors (Saridegib), hyaluronidases to destroy extracellular matrix
      (PEGPH20), inhibitors of RTK or their ligands (FGFR, VEGFR, PDGFR), or sensitive alkylating
      agents only under hypoxic conditions (1). evofosfamide (TH-302)) were studied. By inhibiting
      this microenvironment, the goal is also to increase the penetration of drugs within the
      tumor. However, the characterization of cell subtypes of this stroma is under study, as the
      pro or anti-tumor role of each cell subtype is not yet well understood. New technologies such
      as the CyTOF that has just been acquired by the ICM and the IRCM will make it possible to
      study these problems and to examine the cellular subpopulations that make up the tumor. On
      the other hand, active research is conducted to disrupt the dialogue between the tumor cells
      and those of the microenvironment. Indeed the stroma is a secretory environment (and
      particularly via activated fibroblasts (CAF)), in constant interaction with the tumor cells,
      which themselves secrete factors that will activate the fibroblasts. It is in this context
      that part of the preclinical research conducted at the IRCM aims to target this dialogue and
      inhibit pro-tumor CAF.

      Finally, immune cells are a major component of this stroma, although in pancreatic cancer the
      microenvironment is highly immunosuppressive, associated with low lymphocyte infiltration and
      increased macrophage-type 2 infiltration, MDSCs, and lymphocytes. T regulators. Current
      results using anti-immune "checkpoint" antibodies are controversial, but the activation of
      the immune system in this pathology nevertheless remains totally relevant.

      Pre-clinical model of AP The search for innovative treatments in pancreatic adenocarcinoma
      requires the use of models of relevant preclinical studies. The most widely used models are
      based on cell lines of human origin used in vitro or in vivo after xenograft in
      immunodeficient mice. Nevertheless, these models are based on a limited number of lines,
      largely selected by performing cell cultures in vitro before their implantation in animals.
      They therefore do not reflect the characteristics of human tumors or their biological
      heterogeneity and do not include a representation of the microenvironment nor the peritumoral
      stroma, which nevertheless plays a major role in the progression of the disease. In parallel
      with cell lines, transgenic mouse models have been developed and have become essential for
      studying the carcinogenesis of PA. These models, although artificial, remain very interesting
      for the fundamental study of pancreatic carcinogenesis (tumor cells and microenvironment) and
      the test of non-targeted therapies that can act on murine cells. However, they remain limited
      to test new targeted treatments specific to human proteins. In addition, the low incidence of
      the adenocarcinoma stage and the window of time between the onset of AP and the death of the
      mouse (a few weeks) remains problematic for the implementation of therapeutic protocols.

      Patient-derived tumors (PTDX) represent another type of promising study model. These PTDX are
      established from small tumor fragments obtained during surgical operations of patients with
      AP and grafted directly and then successively to immunodeficient mice until their
      stabilization. The development of a significant collection of PA xenografts directly
      transplanted to the nude mouse and their conservation represents one of the current solutions
      for obtaining preclinical models as close as possible to the tumors encountered in the
      clinic. Subsequently kept frozen, they can be used as a reliable model because they retain
      the histological and molecular characteristics of the source tumors. The major disadvantage
      is the use of immunocompromised animals in which all immune cells are not active so the role
      of immunity may be only partially studied. The characteristics of the tumor (genotype,
      phenotype, structure) and the cellular heterogeneity seem to be preserved during the passages
      and to stabilize at the passage 3. The human stroma is however progressively replaced by the
      stroma of the mouse. In particular, studies with pancreatic adenocarcinoma PDXs have reported
      that the response rate of PDX to certain drugs (gemcitabine, erlotinib ...) used clinically
      is similar to the response rates of patients enrolled in clinical studies of these agents as
      monotherapy. A number of studies have evaluated the efficacy of targeted anti-tumor,
      anti-angiogenic or anti-stroma therapies from these PDTX models. Personalized medicine
      strategies can be envisioned as well as the study of new biomarkers, drugs or molecular
      mechanisms involved in therapeutic resistance. For several years, the investigators have been
      developing AP PTDX in the INSERM 1194 unit, some of which are in the process of being
      characterized and are the basis of several translational research projects on the IRCM
      website (Targeting study receptors of the TAM family ; Inhibition of the dialogue between CAF
      and tumor cells; Study of resistance to gemcitabine and Folfirinox.
    
  