
    
      Smoking is the single most preventable cause of deaths in Hong Kong and the smoking
      prevalence was about 11.8% (20.5% in males and 3.6% in females) in 2008. It was estimated
      that smoking accounts for about one fifth of all deaths and kills about 5,700 people per
      year. Smoking has been associated with serious damage to health at all ages, leading to
      cancers, heart diseases, stroke, chronic lung diseases, and many other health problems. It
      was estimated in 1998 that a total of US$688 million medical cost were attributed to
      smoking-related diseases annually, with active smoking accounted for 77% and passive smoking
      23% of the total cost. However, it is difficult for smokers to quit smoking without
      assistance because smoking is addictive, and most smokers prefer to try and quit on their own
      rather than seeking treatment, thus it is hard to reach those smokers who do not present
      themselves for treatment. On the other hand, a previous study also indicated that high quit
      rate (38%) could be achieved for those smokers who received a 6-week supply of free NRT plus
      telephone counselling and self-help materials.

      Consistent findings from previous studies demonstrated that social support appears to be one
      of the strongest determinants of success at quitting smoking and remaining abstinent. Ward
      and Klesges showed that social (family) support affects smoking outcome and may influence
      readiness to quit. In a US study, family support was reported to be the most significant
      predictor, compared to peer and significant-other support, on the experiential and behavioral
      processes of change in a smoking cessation program for adult smokers. Similar results were
      also found in a local study on the motivation to reduce smoking among smokers who are not
      willing to quit. It is therefore imperative to involve a family member as the first point of
      contact in the health care system regarding supporting their smoking family members in the
      quitting process.

      In Hong Kong, 33.6% of fathers and 2.6% of mothers smoke. Nevertheless, only 1.8% male
      smokers had tried smoking cessation service and among those who had not tried any, 86.1%
      reported that they would not try the service. Establishing rapport with schools and building
      capacity in tobacco control in students could be a feasible way to engage smokers in tobacco
      control advocacy. This could also help smokers who may not have access to services which
      assists them in quitting smoking.

      To fill those aforementioned gaps, in this proposed project, all primary school students and
      junior forms of secondary school students are mobilized for the establishment of smoke-free
      homes. They play an active role in advocating for a 'Smoke-free Environment' in their home by
      nominating, encouraging and supporting their family members and relatives to quit smoking.
    
  