
    
      Potential subjects will be identified by their physician referral to the pain program and
      after initial evaluation by the medical personnel and physical therapy for appropriate
      inclusion in the pain program. For individuals who meet entry parameters for the pain
      program, this project will be discussed by their physical therapist for consideration of
      voluntary participation. If participants are willing to participate, appropriate consent and
      HIPPA permissions will be obtained.

      After consent, the patient will be randomized to one of the two treatment cohorts which
      consists of utilizing either laser or sham laser before and during pain program
      participation. The principle investigator will be blinded to the treatment allocation group.
      The treating clinician will be aware of their treatment allocation assignment for laser
      application. Each treatment cohort will be completed as assigned. Physical therapy treatment
      in addition to the study intervention will be selected by the treating clinician based on
      participant's specific needs as standard of care would dictate. Outcome measures will be
      collected as described below.

      Testing Schedule:

      The assigned study intervention (LLLT or Sham) will be administered on each of the clinical
      visits for phase 1 and 2 of the study. Outcome measures will be completed on the following
      schedule.

      Phase 1: Conducted during the period between acceptance to pain program and start the of the
      pain program (4 weeks). Baseline testing will be completed at the time of initial evaluation
      and enrollment to the study.

      Phase 1 final testing (4 weeks) will be on the first clinic visit of the formal pain program.
      Phase 2: This phase is the 4-week formal pain program (2 visits/week x 4 weeks, total 8
      visits). Final testing (8 weeks) will be on the final visit of the formal pain program.

      Measurements:

      A. Numerical pain rating scale (NPRS): perceived pain on scale of 0-10 (0=no pain, 10=
      extremely severe pain). Pain during the previous 24-hour period (best, worst, current) will
      be measured at baseline, 4 weeks, and 8 weeks. The average of 3 scores will be used.

      B. Region specific functional outcome measure: A valid and reliable outcome tool of broad
      based physical function based on the body region of interest will be completed. Measured at
      baseline, 4 weeks, and 8 weeks.

      C. Questionnaires of fear avoidance (FABQ, or TKS) and sleep quality (Pittsburg sleep index)
      will be taken as measures of quality of life and impact. Measures will be taken at baseline,
      4 weeks, and 8 weeks.

      All procedures, measurements, and interventions (exercises) are considered to be standard of
      care for rehabilitation and the subject's needs. The experimental aspect of the study is
      derived from the randomized selection of which laser intervention will be utilized before and
      during program participation.
    
  