
    
      OBJECTIVE

      Primary:

      To determine the effect of 5HT7 antagonism on cognition related brain activations and
      cognitive performance in people with bipolar disorder.

      Secondary:

      To examine the effect of 5HT7 antagonism on emotional processing related brain activations in
      people with bipolar disorder.

      To examine the effect of 5HT7 antagonism on behavioral measures of mood.

      Exploratory:

      To determine whether early behavioural 5HT7 antagonist drug effects can be detected which may
      be linked to altered brain activations.

      To explore whether factors, such as baseline measures of cognitive impairment and polygenic
      risk score, predict the extent of JNJ-18038683 related treatment effects on brain activity.

      STUDY DESIGN The study will use a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, cross-over,
      pharmacological functional MRI (fMRI) design to examine the neural and behavioural effects of
      one week's treatment with the 5HT7 antagonist, JNJ-18038683, and placebo. Participants will
      attend four study visits: a screening visit, a baseline visit and two neuroimaging visits.
      Each neuroimaging visit will be identical and comprise structural imaging, perfusion imaging
      with arterial spin labelling, resting state and task-based functional MRI. FMRI tasks will be
      working memory (N-back), emotional processing (faces), and paired associate visuospatial
      learning (PAL). On the neuroimaging visits, a neuropsychological battery will also be
      performed, subjective and behavioural effects will be assessed with standard questionnaires
      and adverse events will be recorded.

      NUMBER OF SUBJECTS 34 cognitively impaired participants with bipolar disorder and 34 healthy
      participants will complete the study. Replacements are allowed in case of drop-out.

      TARGET POPULATION Male and female patients with a current diagnosis of Bipolar Disorder and
      healthy volunteers. All participants will be right-handed. Patients will be primarily
      recruited through South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust clinical services, with
      other trusts potentially contributing to recruitment. Participants will also be recruited by
      public advertising, online and social media and through NIHR Mental Health CRN. Healthy
      volunteers will be recruited through advertisement within King's College London, in the local
      press, online and through contacting participants from previous studies who have expressed an
      interest in further research participation.

      STUDY DRUG (DOSE/ROUTE/REGIMEN) Name of product: JNJ-18038683, an investigational drug, a
      5HT7 antagonist Dose: 20mg once daily Administration: Oral Duration of dosing: One week

      JNJ-18038683 and matching placebos will be provided by Janssen Research and Development, LLC,
      the manufacturer of JNJ-18038683.

      ASSESSMENTS:

      Screening visit (Visit 1):

      Participant's cognitive; mood and physical health suitability will be assessed during this
      visit. Participants will complete the RAVLT to screen for cognitive impairment. Bipolar
      disorder DSM-5 diagnosis will be confirmed using the M.I.N.I. 6.0. Mood and anxiety symptoms
      will be assessed using the HAM-D, YMRS, QIDS-CR, C-SSRS, Altman Self-Rating Mania scale and
      HAM-A mood rating scales. Substance use will be assessed using the cannabis experiences,
      Fagerstrom smoking and AUDIT alcohol questionnaires. All participants will undergo a physical
      examination, ECG, urine drug screen, breath alcohol test, pregnancy test for females,
      urinalysis and blood will be taken to assess hepatic, renal and haematological function and
      to determine bipolar disorder polygenic risk scores.

      Baseline visit (Visit 2) If the screening assessments indicate suitability, participants will
      then attend a baseline visit. They will complete a brief physical health examination
      including recording vital signs, ECG, urine drug screen, breath alcohol test and a pregnancy
      test for females. Mood and anxiety symptoms will be assessed using the HAM-D, YMRS, QIDS-CR,
      C-SSRS, Altman Self-Rating Mania scale and HAM-A mood rating scales. Sleep will be assessed
      using the PSQI. Cognition will be assessed using the ISBD-BANC cognitive battery and
      subjective cognitive impairment will be assessed using the PDQ and FAST questionnaires.
      Participants will be provided with the week 1 study medication pack, determined by
      randomization code, and a study diary to record taking each day's medication and any adverse
      events experienced.

      Imaging visits (Visit's 3 and 4):

      Participants will undergo a brief medical examination, ECG and urine drug screen. Cognition,
      mood, psychosocial functioning and sleep will be assessed at each neuroimaging visit using
      the ISBD-BANC, PDQ, QIDS-CR, C-SSRS, YMRS, FAST and PSQI. A blood sample will be taken at
      each visit to monitor hepatic, renal and haematological functions and so that plasma can be
      stored to potentially measure JNJ-18038683 levels. During each imaging session, participants
      will complete the n-back working memory, paired associate visuospatial learning (PAL), and
      emotional faces recognition fMRI tasks, an arterial spin labelling (ASL) scan to assess
      cerebral blood flow, a resting state scan, and a T1 and T2 structural scan.

      PROCEDURES

      Randomisation:

      Participants will be randomized into the study provided they have satisfied all selection
      criteria. Each participant will be assigned to a sequence of treatment administrations by
      means of a computer-generated, pseudo random code based on stacks of William's Squares, to
      ensure each treatment is equally distributed across each study period. A blinded
      randomization list will be provided by the pharmacist or delegate to the investigator and, in
      accordance with the randomization list, if a participant is withdrawn from the study, the
      replacement participant will be allocated to the same treatment sequence as the subject they
      are replacing. Replacement numbers will be discussed and agreed between the investigator and
      the pharmacist.

      Analytical Plan:

      A brief plan for data analysis is provided in the main body of the protocol. A detailed
      Statistical Analytical Plan will be produced before the end of the data collection phase of
      the study. A brief description of the main endpoints is provided here:

      Primary endpoints:

        1. Change in cognitive task related right superior frontal gyrus and dorsolateral
           prefrontal cortex brain activations associated with JNJ-18038683 treatment.

        2. Change in cognitive performance, as measured by change in International Society for
           Bipolar Disorders Battery for the Assessment of Cognition (ISBD-BANC) test battery
           composite score, associated with JNJ-18038683 treatment (Co-primary).

      Secondary endpoints:

        1. Change in emotional processing related amygdala brain activations associated with
           JNJ-18038683 treatment.

        2. Change in cognitive and emotional network connectivity associated with JNJ-18038683
           treatment.

        3. Change in other behavioural measures of cognition (ISBD-BANC test battery individual
           task scores) and mood scores (Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology, Young Mania
           Rating Scale) associated with JNJ-18038683 treatment.

      Safety:

      Listings, summary tables and graphs will be produced for safety and tolerability assessments.
    
  