
    
      This is a mixed-methods formative program evaluation of the 3 Wishes Project implemented in
      ICUs in Toronto, Vancouver, Los Angeles, and the original center in Hamilton.

      Implementation of the 3WP was aligned with the interests and cultural norms at each center,
      adapted by local clinicians with the resources available, assisted by close contact and
      informational guidance from the original site. Each center implemented the 3WP as both a
      clinical program and research project. Participating ICUs were all located in academic
      tertiary care centers with some differing features.

      Design: This is a multi-center mixed-methods implementation and formative evaluation study.
      Data collection will be quantitative and qualitative (interviews and focus groups).
      Investigators will take a systems-level approach to produce information on how to implement
      the 3 Wishes Project in different settings, each with its own social microcosm, affordances
      and constraints.

      Specific Aims are: 1) For patients, to provide compassionate end of life care consistent with
      their values and preferences; 2) For family members, to evaluate the project's impact on
      family views on end of life care; 3) For clinicians, to explore the project's impact on
      compassion, resilience, moral distress, and views on end of life care; 4) For ICU managers,
      to learn of any barriers to implementation and strategies for facilitation; and 5) For
      hospital administrators, to understand perceived costs and institutional benefits such as
      alignment with priorities for end of life care.

      Investigators will use a case study approach examining particularities of the 'eco-system' of
      each ICU to examine how the 3 Wishes Project operates in each setting. This examination will
      include the constraints, affordances, and impacts available from the staffing model,
      organizational culture, end of life policies and administrative structure. An understanding
      of each ICU will be developed, with comparisons made to illuminate broader findings and
      suggest strategies for expanding the project elsewhere.
    
  