
    
      A total of approximately 140 women will be recruited into the study (70 patients in the
      extended-release oxybutynin chloride group and 70 patients in the placebo group). Safety will
      be assessed by pre- and post- study physical examinations, laboratory analysis, adverse
      events and vital signs. The primary endpoints in this study are the change in daily frequency
      of moderate to severe hot flushes from baseline to Week 12 (corresponding to visit 6 that is
      scheduled from day 78 to day 84) and the change in severity of moderate to severe hot flushes
      from baseline to Week 12. Daily severity score of moderate to severe hot flashes is the sum
      of all moderate hot flashes times 2 and all severe hot flashes (including waking episodes)
      times 3 divided by the total number of moderate to severe hot flashes on that day. Baseline
      severity is the average of all daily severity scores in the 14 days before the first dose of
      study medication. Week 12 severity is the average of all daily severity scores in the 7 days
      before Visit 6 or the 7 days including and before the last double-blind dose if subject
      withdraws before Visit 6. The baseline value for daily frequency is defined as total number
      of moderate to severe hot flashes recorded during pre-randomization period divided by the
      number of days in the corresponding period for which complete diaries are received. The daily
      frequency for Week 12 is defined as the total number of moderate to severe hot flashes
      recorded during the last 7 days prior to last dose of study medication divided by the number
      of days in that week for which complete diaries are received. The secondary endpoints include
      change in daily frequency of moderate to severe hot flashes from baseline to Week 4, change
      in severity of moderate to severe hot flashes from baseline to Week 4, change of daily
      composite score of moderate to severe hot flashes from baseline to Week 4 and Week 12, change
      in daily frequency of any hot flashes from baseline to Week 4 and Week 12, change in severity
      of any hot flash from baseline to Week 4 and Week 12, and change in daily composite score of
      any hot flashes from baseline to Week 4 and Week 12. Other secondary endpoints include all
      scores from the Profile of Mood States, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, Menopause-Specific
      Quality of Life Questionnaire, Short Form-36 Health Survey, and Sleep Disruption Scale, as
      well as the Patient Global Assessment score. Patients were dispensed a diary at the
      Pre-Randomization Visit (Visit 1) and started to record their hot flashes (frequency for each
      severity). The term hot flash is descriptive of a sudden onset of reddening of the skin over
      the head, neck, and chest, accompanied by a feeling of intense body heat and concluded by
      sometimes profuse perspiration. The duration varies from a few seconds to several minutes
      and, rarely, for an hour. The severity of a hot flash was defined as:1. Mild: sensation of
      heat without sweating; 2. Moderate: sensation of heat with sweating, able to continue
      activity; 3. Severe: sensation of heat with sweating, causing cessation of activity. Waking
      episodes (i.e., episodes that wake the patient from sleep) associated with hot flashes were
      recorded separately and were considered severe. Patients will receive either extended-release
      oxybutynin chloride, 15 mg or matching placebo. One tablet will be taken orally every day in
      the morning for 12 weeks.
    
  