
    
      Cancer immunosurveillance in mice and human protects the host from outgrowth of tumor cells.
      This may establish a sufficient rationale for cancer immunotherapy that aims to control or
      eradicate tumor by an induction of effective anti-tumor immunity. The interest in developing
      cancer immunotherapy has intensified by the recent trials results showing durable responses
      in approximately 20% of patients who received various kinds of immunotherapy including
      adoptive transfer of tumor-specific T cells, cancer vaccines, and T cell response checkpoint
      blockade inhibition. Discoveries to date, natural killer (NK) cell function positively
      associates with reduction of cancer risk and with better survival of gastrointestinal stromal
      tumor patients. Interferon-producing killer dendritic cells (IKDCs) are a subpopulation of NK
      cells discovered in the mouse spleen, which can lyse tumor cells and acquire antigen
      presentation cell (APC) activity. We found putative IKDCs in human peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMCs); meanwhile, we also developed a method to expand IKDC-like cells
      from murine bone marrow and human PBMC ex vivo. The expanded human IKDC-like cells are
      cytotoxic toward several human leukemia cell lines and are capable to activate allogeneic T
      cells. For the in vivo anti-tumor activity, we found that two transfers of syngeneic murine
      IKDC-like cells reduced tumor burden in B16/OVA and B16/F10 melanoma and Lewis lung carcinoma
      models, and enhanced interferon (IFN)-γ production by the splenocytes of the tumor-bearing
      mice. Moreover, six transfers of IKDC-like cell significantly prolonged the survival of mice
      bearing B16/F10 melanoma. Based on these preclinical results, we hypothesize anti-tumor
      activity of human IKDC-like cells. We thus propose a phase 1 clinical trial to assess the
      safety of autologous IKDC-like cell therapy in metastatic cancer patients for determination
      of the maximum tolerated dose, and to monitor the immune parameters in patients before and
      after the IKDC-like cell transfer to investigate the therapeutic mechanism and biomarkers.
    
  