
    
      Objectives:

        1. To assess the effect of preventive uterine artery occlusion during laparoscopic
           myomectomy on ovarian reserve parameters;

        2. To evaluate the effect of preventive uterine artery occlusion during laparoscopic
           myomectomy on intra- and postoperative blood loss, operative time, clinical symptoms
           improvement, long-term recurrence of myomas and fertility.

      Materials and methods:

      Design: This is a prospective randomized single blind trial, including 60 women undergoing a
      laparoscopic myomectomy for symptomatic uterine myomas. Patients are randomized into two
      groups: a control group "myomectomy alone" and an experimental group "myomectomy with
      preventive uterine arteries occlusion".

      Setting: The duration of the study will normally be 5 years and will take place at the
      University Hospitals of Geneva. The study will include about 20 women per year and follow-up
      will last 2 years. Inclusion criteria are: women of childbearing age, wishing to retain their
      uterus, having symptomatic uterine myomas and who are eligible for a laparoscopic myomectomy.

      The parameters that will be intraoperatively evaluated are the operation time, blood loss and
      the complications of the surgical technique. Postoperative complications, improving clinical
      symptoms, myomas recurrence and fertility are discussed at short and long term follow-up.

      The ovarian reserve will be evaluated pre- and postoperatively for each patient. It will be
      determined by plasmatic AMH (anti-Mullerian Hormone) and ultrasound antral follicle count.
      Women with undetectable preoperative plasmatic AMH will be excluded from the study. Plasmatic
      AMH and antral follicle count will be measured at 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months during the
      postoperative follow-up.

      Limitations:

      The sample size is calculated in order to demonstrate a significant difference in plasmatic
      AMH before and after myomectomy. Small differences are not highlighted in this study, but
      they probably would not have any impact in clinical practice.

      Impact of the study:

      The results of this study could have a real impact on daily surgical practice. In case of
      persistent alteration of ovarian reserve in the experimental group compared to the control
      group, preventive uterine arteries occlusion during a laparoscopic myomectomy should only be
      indicated in patients who do not wish pregnancy. If there is no significant impact on ovarian
      reserve and a beneficial effect on reducing intraoperative blood loss and long-term
      improvement of symptoms, it should be systematically proposed in all patients undergoing a
      laparoscopic myomectomy.
    
  