
    
      The treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer is unsatisfactory. The
      median survival is approximately 12 months with standard chemotherapy. Epidermal growth
      factor receptor (EGFR) mutations are one of the most frequent genetic abnormalities observed
      in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), especially in adenocarcinoma subtype. The most
      predominant EGFR mutations are in-frame deletions in exon-19 and L858R missense mutation, and
      patients carrying these mutations are mostly sensitive to the EGFR-targeted tyrosine kinase
      inhibitors (TKIs). However, a significant proportion of patients carrying these sensitizing
      mutations do not respond well to the first generation EGFR-TKIs (erlotinib and gefitinib),
      indicating the existence of intrinsic resistance mechanisms. Moreover, despite initial
      response to EGFR-TKIs, acquired resistance is inevitable in all patients. Novel treatment
      strategies need to be developed to overcome resistance to EGFR-TKIs. The investigators have
      recently shown that Cripto-1 overexpression in EGFR mutant NSCLC contributes to the intrinsic
      resistance to EGFR-TKIs through SRC activation. They have also shown that a combination of an
      EGFR-TKI (both erlotinib and AZD9291) and a Src inhibitor are synergistic in vitro and in
      vivo in Cripto-1 overexpressing tumors. AZD9291 is a third-generation EGFR-TKI, which
      selectively blocks the activity of EGFR mutants but spares that of wild type. The advantage
      of using AZD9291 is that it inhibits not only the mutants of exon-19 deletion and L858R, but
      also the T790M mutant, which is the most common mechanism of acquired resistance. Dasatinib
      is a potent, orally available ABL1/SRC TKI, approved for the treatment of chronic myeloid
      leukemia (CML) in first-line and in patients with imatinib-resistant disease or intolerant,
      and is being actively studied in patients with advanced solid tumors.

      This is an open-label, non-randomized, prospective phase I/II trial. The phase I portion will
      follow a standard 3+3 design for the phase I portion and one-sample group sequential multiple
      testing procedure for the phase II portion.
    
  