
    
      1. background: Coronary intervention using transradial approach is common worldwide. It is
           normally necessary to use one diagnostic catheter and guiding catheter in primary
           percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI).
           It is unknown whether using a single guiding catheter for both nonculprit and culprit
           vessel angiography and intervention during transradial primary percutaneous coronary
           intervention (PCI) is feasible.

        2. objective:The aim of this study is to investigate the feasibility of using a single
           guiding catheter for left and right coronary angiography and intervention in patients
           with ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI).

        3. This was a single-center, prospective, randomized study,patients with STEMI indicated
           for transradial primary PCI were randomized into two groups : group I consisted of
           patients who underwent coronary angiography and primary PCI by using a single guiding
           catheter.GroupII included patients who first underwent coronary angiography with
           diagnostic catheter followed by guiding catheter selection for intervention.

        4. the primary Endpoints

           a.Cath Lab door to balloon time (C2B)

        5. the Secondary endpoints:

             1. Occurrence of major adverse cardiac events (MACE) during 6 months

                  -  Cardiac death

                  -  Target vessel related myocardial infarction

                  -  Ischemia driven Target Vessel Revascularization (TVR)

                  -  Ischemia driven Target Lesion Revascularization (TLR)

                  -  Definite / probable stent thrombosis by ARC definition

             2. Number of catheters and wires used

             3. Vascular access complications (hematoma, aneurysm,pseudo-aneurysm, arteriovenous
                fistula formation, dissection, limb ischemia, bleeding)

             4. door to balloon time

             5. contrast consumption

             6. procedure time

             7. fluoroscopy time
    
  