
    
      STUDY DESIGN

      The study will be a randomized, prospective pilot study testing if acupuncture, sham
      acupuncture, and laser stimulation all are useful means in preventing nausea and/or vomiting
      in early pregnancy.

      The acu-stimulation will be performed during at a standardised regimen using acupuncture
      point PC 6 bilaterally. The placebo needle will be placed in the same position at PC 6
      bilaterally, however not penetrating the surface of the skin. The third group of women will
      have a laser pointing at PC 6. All the patients will achieve exactly the same, standardised
      information and counselling.

      Study participants

      According to birth rate-statistics there should be approximately 7000 annual pregnancies in
      Oslo area. Prevalence is estimated to be approximately 0,75. According to this, there should
      be at least 5000 pregnant women suffering from nausea and/or vomiting each year, and at least
      400 each month.

      It is likely to assume that only 50 % of pregnant women suffering from nausea and/or vomiting
      do want any kind of therapy for their complaints (i.e. 200/month). If another 10% of these
      again respond to advertisements and agree to inclusion in an acupuncture study, this will
      ensure an adequate number of subjects for the study within the three-month study period.

      Recruitment plan

      Pregnant women in their first trimester will be recruited through advertisements in media
      and/or flyers made available by all general practitioners, all pharmacies and all clinics
      caring for pregnant women.

      Randomisation is performed in blocks, in order to eliminate confounders of personnel- or
      structural nature. In the study we will use a randomisation system with variable block sizes.
      The randomisation procedure will be preformed by closed envelopes in a row.

      TREATMENT PLAN

      We wish to administer the anti-nausea therapy at a standardised intervention. The patients
      will receive all together three sessions on three consecutive days for all three stimulation
      modalities.

      Acupuncture may be associated with adverse effects, but is, nevertheless, regarded as
      relatively safe when performed according to best practice. However, minor punctuate
      haemorrhages as well as local discomfort may occur. Any adverse event or side effect is
      monitored according to registration by the patient.

      The women are informed about the study both in a written letter and verbally at time of
      inclusion. Information is given regarding the use of randomisation and the study focusing on
      the different stimulation modalities.

      60 women are included, divided into three groups:

        1. ACUPUNTURE GROUP The acupuncture needles are inserted in PC 6 bilaterally at the
           acupuncture point Pericardium 6 (PC6) on each forearm (fig 2). According to the "cun"
           measurement system of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), the points are located on the
           palmar surface of anterior forearm at a distance equivalent to the combined width of the
           women's middle three fingers, proximal to the most prominent wrist crease, and between
           the tendons of palmaris longus and flexor carpi radialis. We try to keep the depth of
           the needling to approximately 1,5 cm. At insertion of the acupuncture needle, DeQi is
           obtained and the needle is then left without any further manipulation/ stimulation (even
           method) in situ for 15 minutes.

        2. SHAM ACUPUNCTURE GROUP A sham acupuncture needle is placed at PC 6 bilaterally and the
           tactile stimuli of the skin during the procedure should be obtained. The sham
           acupuncture needle is then left at site for 15 minutes without any further
           manipulation/stimulation.

        3. LASER ACUPUNCTURE A laser is placed in a stand, pointing at PC 6 bilaterally, and left
           at site for 15 minutes without any further manipulation/stimulation.

      Effect on nausea and/or vomiting is supposed to occur within minutes or few hours. All women
      included in the study should record their symptoms in a run-in period of 4 days before
      therapy (day 1-4). The days of therapy is supposed to be day 5-7. They thereafter record
      symptoms on the 4 consecutive days (day 8-11).

      At enrollment, the women will be asked about background variables as well as factors that
      possibly could affect the outcome of the research. During the whole study period of 11 days,
      the women are told to record their symptoms according to previous research methodology.

      Participants are asked to make three recordings of their symptoms every evening. The first
      registration is to determine what problems had had the particular day; 1= no problems,
      2=nausea and 3=vomiting, regardless of how often and how many times they vomited. In the
      second registration, the women are asked to estimate how many hours they had suffered each
      day. In the third registration the women also estimate an overall evaluation of severity
      their symptoms on a visual analogue scale (VAS).

      Every woman participates in the study for 12 consecutive days consisting of a 4 day run-in
      period, a 3 day treatment period, a 4 day follow up period, and one last day of an ending
      interview.

      The programme for these days is:

      Day 0: Day of contact. The woman starts registration of symptoms the next day. Day 1-4: The
      women register their symptoms every evening. Day 5: Randomization. Day 5-7: The women are
      treated once daily with one of the three treatments they are randomized to get. The women
      register how they experience the stimulation of the acupuncture points within one hour after
      the treatment. The women also register their symptoms of nausea and vomiting every evening.
      Day 8-11: The women register their symptoms every evening. Dag 12: The woman is phoned and
      asked to participate in an ending interview.

      Data will also be collected with regard to how the women experienced the three different
      stimulations of the acupuncture points, how and if they obtained the needle-feeling (De Qi),
      and how and if the consider the treatment effected their condition. The patients are also
      asked to state credibility of the stimulation and to describe DeQi.
    
  