
    
      Clofarabine is a new chemotherapy drug that is designed to interfere with the growth and
      development of cancer cells.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of a coin) to one of two treatment groups (Groups A and B). Participants in Group
      A will receive a lower dose of clofarabine. Participants in Group B will receive a higher
      dose of clofarabine. At first, there will be an equal chance of being assigned to either
      group. However, as experience increases and more information becomes available, the chance of
      being assigned to the group that has shown the most effectiveness will increase. You and the
      study doctor will know to which group you are assigned.

      Participants will receive clofarabine as a 1-hour infusion into a vein once a day for 5 days
      in a row. This will be repeated every 4 to 8 weeks. Each 4-8 week period is considered 1
      cycle of treatment.

      For participants in both groups, after each cycle of therapy, they will not receive the next
      cycle of chemotherapy until their blood counts have recovered and any possible side effects
      have gone away (for around 4 to 8 weeks). You must stay in Houston for the first treatment
      cycle (about 4 to 8 weeks) and will be required to return to Houston before receiving each
      additional cycle of chemotherapy (up to 6 days each cycle).

      Before every treatment cycle, your doctor will perform a physical exam, including measurement
      of your weight and vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate).
      You will be asked about the level of your daily activities and how you are feeling. You will
      have blood samples (about 1-2 teaspoons) collected for routine lab tests 1-2 times a week for
      the first cycle, then every 2-4 weeks while on therapy. Repeat bone marrow samples will be
      collected every 1-3 cycles. However, if you complete the study before the third cycle, the
      bone marrow may be taken then. You may choose to have check-up visits and blood tests with
      your local doctor.

      If you show a response and do not experience any severe side effects, you can receive up to a
      total of 12 cycles of therapy. During each cycle, clofarabine will be given the same way as
      during the first cycle. However, the dose of clofarabine may be lowered during later cycles
      to decrease the risk of side effects that may have occurred in previous cycles. If the
      disease gets worse or you experience any intolerable side effects, you will be taken off the
      study and your doctor will discuss other treatment options with you.

      This is an investigational study. Clofarabine is approved by the FDA for treatment of
      pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Its use in this study is experimental. Up to 60
      participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  