
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the antitumor activity of trametinib determined by overall response rate (ORR)
      in patients that are stratified into groups based on: biomarker positive (neuroblastoma RAS
      viral [v-ras] oncogene homolog [NRAS], v-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog
      [KRAS], v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1 [BRAF] mutated) and biomarker negative
      (without NRAS, KRAS, BRAF mutation).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate progression free survival (PFS) and duration of response (DOR) in the two
      stratified groups.

      II. To document ORR after the addition of GSK2141795 (Akt inhibitor GSK2141795) to trametinib
      in patients who have developed progressive disease or have achieved less than a partial
      response (PR) after 4 cycles of treatment.

      III. To evaluate PFS and DOR in patients receiving trametinib plus GSK2141795. IV. To
      evaluate the safety profile of trametinib with and without GSK2141795.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the relationship between clinical response and pharmacodynamic (PD) markers.

      II. To explore the relationship between v-maf avian musculoaponeurotic fibrosarcoma oncogene
      homolog (MAF) expression as determined by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR),
      chromosomal abnormalities detected by florescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and clinical
      response.

      III. To explore the role of integrin beta7 as a biomarker of MAF expression. IV. To explore
      the relationship between objective clinical response as well as progressive disease and the
      tumor mutational profile.

      V. To explore mechanism of phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K)/v-akt Murine Thymoma Viral
      Oncogene Homolog 1 (AKT) and retrovirus-associated deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequence
      (RAS)-mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)-mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (ERK)
      activation and correlate these with clinical response and PD markers.

      IV. To explore the feasibility of extracting circulating free tumor DNA (cfDNA) from
      peripheral blood and detecting RAS and RAF mutations using cfDNA.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive trametinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with
      progressive disease or who achieve less than PR after 4 courses may also receive Akt
      inhibitor GSK2141795 PO daily on days 1-28.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.
    
  