
    
      Rationale Globally, about 71 million people are chronically infected with chronic hepatitis C
      virus infection (HCV) and approximately 700,000 are dying annually of related complications.
      It has been estimated to be 10-20,000 people in Norway have chronic HCV. People who inject
      drugs represent around 75% of these, most being infected with HCV through sharing of syringes
      and other user equipment. HCV and hepatitis B are both among the leading causes to liver
      disease and transplantation worldwide. Prevention and control has to date unfortunately shown
      to be difficult.

      Among people with opioid addiction and HCV, a third develops severe complications within
      three decades. Within the same group and after 50 years of age, liver disease is as common as
      risk of death as overdose. Reports from medically assisted rehabilitation (MAR) clinics
      delivering opioid substitution therapy (OST) in Norway indicate that more than half of the
      patients receiving OST have a HCV. Chronic HCV substantially increases the risk of severe
      complications such as liver failure and death within two to three decades. The mean age of
      OST patients in Norway is 42 years and is currently increasing, and a large group have had
      HCV for more than twenty years. Reaching these patients with treatment is of critical
      importance to avoid deaths and reduced quality of life, as well as preventing large costs
      related to future treatment of end stage liver disease. Treatment for HCV has been available
      for several decades, and weekly injections with interferon in combination with daily
      ribavirin tablets for 16 to 48 weeks has until recently been the standard treatment. These
      medications have been shown to give frequent and to some degree serious side effects, with
      around 40% not achieving sustained virological response (SVR). These aspects combined with a
      fear among many clinicians of reinfection among those being treated and an expectation of
      poor treatment adherence in this group, has probably been the reasons for few patients having
      been treated yet. However, studies assessing treatment adherence indicate good adherence
      among patients receiving OST. Even if around 6% of those who are successfully treated among
      people who inject drugs are reinfected annually, treatment is not only important for those
      who are treated, but will also contribute to reduce the HCV infectious burden and the risk of
      spread within the population.

      During the last years, development of new highly effective tablet-based direct acting
      antiretroviral medications, usually being curative within 8 to 16 weeks, has radically
      changed the HCV treatment. These treatments have less side effects than those used earlier
      and give opportunities to cure most of the HCV infected. Even if they are expensive, British
      assessments indicate that they are cost effective as universal coverage with antiretroviral
      treatment could prevent large expenses related to future complications. Thus, the Norwegian
      Medicines Agency approved many of these new antiretroviral treatments in 2014. Nevertheless,
      a recent Norwegian study indicated that only 14% of OST patients with chronic HCV had
      received HCV treatment. Currently, the high burden of HCV among people who inject drugs is
      among the largest challenges within the MAR field, within a group that is also
      underrepresented in clinical research.

      Patients with drug addiction have a high disease burden, generally have more difficulties in
      obtaining adequate health care compared with the general population, on top of knowledge gaps
      in terms of health status and how to deliver proper treatment and follow-up. This is
      particularly the case among people who inject drugs.

      There is a need for new approaches to reach more of those in need of treatment while ensuring
      high-quality care. To reach patients with drug addiction, it seems to be necessary to use a
      model of health care focusing on interdisciplinarity, accessibility, close and frequent
      follow-ups.

      Department of Addiction Medicine at Haukeland University Hospital in Bergen and OST in
      Stavanger have adopted an integrated treatment and care model for patients receiving OST with
      follow-up by physicians, nurses, social workers and psychologists on nearly a daily basis
      with observed intake of the OST medications. This model for treatment of OST patients is
      unique for Bergen and Stavanger, also in an international perspective. This makes it an
      excellent platform to test out integration of HCV treatment aiming to improve health and life
      span of a vulnerable group, and at the same time gathering knowledge which traditionally has
      been difficult to obtain.

      This research project designed as a randomised controlled trial done in parallel with an
      observational study will test whether integrated treatment of HCV linked to the MAR
      outpatient clinics to patients with chronic HCV will have better outcomes in terms of
      reduction in HCV.

      The main aim of the study is to:

      1. Compare the effect of integrated HCV treatment between the OST outpatient clinics in
      Bergen and Stavanger (intervention arm) with standard treatment provided after referral to
      infectious disease clinics among patients who receive OST having HCV

      Primary objectives

        -  Compare the proportion with sustained virological response of HCV at 12 (10 - 14) weeks
           between those randomised to intervention and control arms

        -  Compare the proportion initiating treatment (taking at least one tablet or collecting
           prescription from pharmacy) between the intervention and control arms

      Secondary objectives

        -  Assessing the incidence and prevalence of HCV at the OST outpatient clinics in Bergen,
           Stavanger, Sandnes, and at municipal primary health care clinics

        -  Compare treatment adherence between the intervention and control arms

        -  Assess the risk of reinfection among those with sustained virological response and
           compare between the arms

        -  Assess changes in quality of life, fatigue and psychological well-being before and after
           HCV treatment

        -  Assess changes in drug use and infection related risk behaviour before and after HCV
           treatment

        -  Estimate incidence and prevalence of HCV infection among people who inject drugs in
           Bergen, Stavanger and Sandnes being followed up at OST outpatient clinics or people who
           inject drugs followed up at primary health care clinics

        -  Estimate incidence and prevalence of HCV infection among people who inject drugs in
           Bergen, Stavanger and Sandnes being followed up at OST outpatient clinics or people who
           inject drugs followed up at primary health care clinics.

      Study design and methodology Hypothesis Our hypothesis is that a model with integrated
      treatment of HCV linked to the OST outpatient clinics to patients with chronic HCV will have
      better outcomes in terms of reduction in HCV (sustained virological response) compared to the
      current model where patients are referred to a hospital outpatient clinic.

      General outline:

      The investigators will conduct a multicentre randomised controlled clinical trial without
      pharmaceutical industry involvement assessing integrated HCV treatment within the MAR clinics
      compared to standard treatment. The research project will be closely integrated with clinical
      care, and the research activities are planned during a planned scale-up of HCV treatment.

      Department of Addiction Medicine at Haukeland University Hospital in Bergen and MAR in
      Stavanger have adopted an integrated treatment and care model for patients receiving OST. In
      Bergen, MAR outpatient clinics have been established in each district where the patients are
      followed up by health and social workers on nearly a daily basis with observed intake of the
      OST medications. Every month, the MAR clinics have a total of 6,000 patient visits among the
      approximately 500 patients. This group of patients have a large morbidity burden and have to
      limited degree been able to access other standard health care. Each of the MAR outpatient
      clinics is staffed by a consultant and a physician specialising in addiction medicine in
      addition to nurses, social workers, and several of the clinics also being staffed by a
      psychologist. The remaining 550 OST patients in Bergen are followed up mainly in primary care
      clinics. A close collaboration has been established between the Department of Addiction
      Medicine and the Agency for addiction and mental health in Bergen municipality, who is
      responsible for the care in several of the primary health clinics in Bergen. This model for
      treatment of MAR patients is unique for Bergen, also in an international perspective. MAR
      Stavanger has a relatively similar structure. MAR Stavanger is responsible for the MAR
      treatment of approximately 460 patients within their area. Of these, 120 patients are linked
      to the MAR outpatient clinic in the centre of Stavanger and 70 are linked to a similar clinic
      in Sandnes. The treatment model in Bergen and Stavanger is an excellent platform to test out
      integration of HCV treatment aiming to improve health and life span of a vulnerable group,
      and at the same time gathering knowledge which traditionally have been very difficult to
      obtain.

      All patients will be assessed for HCV including genotyping among those who test HCV RNA
      positive. Those who are eligible to receiving treatment in line with national guidelines,
      have no exclusion criteria and consent to study participation, will be randomised to either
      standard or integrated treatment. In standard treatment, follow-up and treatment will be
      given at hospital clinics. For the integrated treatment, treatment will be given at a MAR
      outpatient clinic where they already receive care including MAR. Assessment of outcomes will
      be done 12 weeks after completed treatment and adherence will be assessed at 4, 8 and 12
      weeks after initiation of treatment.

      Main study outcomes

        1. Sustained virological response of HCV at 12 (10 - 14) weeks after completed treatment

        2. Treatment initiation

      Milestones and duration of the study The duration of the study will be five years. Ethical
      clearance and complete protocol will be completed within the first half of 2017. Planned
      initiation of data collection is May 2017 with gradual scaling up of data collection
      throughout 2017. Recruitment will continue throughout 2019 and further follow-up throughout
      2021. Analyses and reporting will be initiated from mid of 2018 for some of the observational
      studies while assessment of the trial will be conducted when at least 200 patients have
      completed follow-up at 12 weeks after end of treatment.

      Study population and setting In Bergen, there are MAR policlinics in each district. Around
      half of the patients have frequent contact with the outpatient clinic several times per week.
      A substantial proportion receive OST-medications at a local pharmacy or through their general
      practitioner. In addition a few receive OST-medications at the aftercare centre Albatrossen,
      in schools or prisons. Most outpatient clinics are staffed with physicians (including both
      non-specialists or linked consultants/specialists), psychologists, and nurses or social
      workers/educators. In addition, a decentralised unit has 228 patients in 18 municipalities,
      where most patients receive OST from a local pharmacy or through their general practitioner
      (GP). For more information, see https://helse-bergen.no/avdelinger/rusmedisin/rusmedisin-lar
      In addition, there are several patients receiving care without MAR at the municipal care
      centres at Wergeland, Nesttun og Gyldenpris (Strax-huset). For further description of these,
      see https://www.bergen.kommune.no/aktuelt/tema/tiltak-mot-rus/article-109220.

      LAR Stavanger has one more centralised outpatient clinic in Stavanger and a smaller clinic in
      the nearby city Sandnes.

      The research project will improve understanding on how the structure of health care impacts
      on patient outcomes.
    
  