
    
      Nocturia, waking at night from sleep to void, is a prevalent and troublesome symptom. While
      other lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS)-- including poor urinary stream, urgency,
      frequency, and straining to void-- are also common, nocturia is one of the most bothersome
      LUTS. Nocturia causes sleep disruption and is associated with accidental falls and higher
      utilization of sick days from work. Conditions that result in low volume urinary voids, high
      urine production at night, and/or primary sleep disturbances will cause nocturia. Overactive
      bladder (OAB), benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), congestive heart failure (CHF), poorly
      controlled diabetes mellitus (DM), peripheral edema, and obstructive sleep apnea all cause
      nocturia. Individual patients frequently have multiple conditions potentially related to
      nocturia, which highlights the need for strategies that are broad-based interventions.
      Treatment with an alpha-adrenergic antagonist medication (α-blockers) is a standard therapy
      for LUTS in men, but α-blockers offer only limited reductions in nocturia. While combinations
      of multiple drugs could also be employed to more successfully treat nocturia, non-drug
      treatments are an important option for those unwilling or unable to take additional
      medications.

      The BEDTiMe Nocturia Study (Behavior and Exercise or Drug Trial in Men with Nocturia), is a
      two-site (Atlanta and Birmingham), randomized, clinical trial. The 200 male participants will
      be stratified by degree of nocturia and urinary flow rate and randomized to three treatment
      arms: 1) α-blocker therapy alone; versus 2) a standardized, multicomponent behavioral and
      exercise therapy (M-BET), given with placebo tablets; versus 3) combination therapy (M-BET
      and α-blockers). The M-BET intervention includes: training in pelvic floor muscle
      rehabilitation, self monitoring with bladder diaries, and teaching urge suppression and other
      skills to inhibit detrusor contractions; fluid management strategies; sleep hygiene
      strategies; and non-pharmacological management of lower extremity edema. Interventions
      similar to M-BET have shown reductions in nocturia in women with urge urinary incontinence
      (UI) that exceeded benefit from anticholinergic drug therapy. The use of this intervention in
      men builds upon strong pilot data from the MINIM trial (Multicomponent Interventions for
      Nocturia in Men; VA GRECC Pilot, VA Medical Research Services) and the ongoing study
      Behavioral Treatment For Overactive Bladder In Men (VA RR&D B02-2489R, Burgio, PI).

      The study design allows 3 main research questions to be addressed: 1) Does M-BET reduce
      nocturia more than α-blockers?; 2) Does M-BET improve sleep more than α-blockers?; and 3)
      Will combination therapy be more effective than either treatment alone? The main outcomes
      will be nocturia reduction and sleep improvement at 12 weeks. Nocturia reduction will be
      assessed by participant completed bladder diaries and sleep improvement will be assessed by
      wrist-actigraph determined sleep efficiency, total sleep time, and wake time after sleep
      onset.

      This study will yield important information related to alternative treatments of nocturia in
      male veterans, as well as novel information regarding the clinical importance of these
      nocturia reductions. Though many clinicians employ single-agent α-blockers routinely for the
      treatment of nocturia, few utilize multicomponent behavioral interventions or use behavioral
      therapy. Thus, this study has the potential to alter standards of care.
    
  