
    
      Prostate cancer tends to be better controlled with higher doses of radiation. These high
      doses may lead to more side effects. Standard radiation therapy uses x-rays, which are
      effective but may cause extra radiation dose to be given to tissues beyond the tumor, such as
      the rectum and bladder. Unlike x-rays, protons (small positively-charged particles) can
      deliver radiation dose to a specific target but then suddenly deliver much less dose beyond
      the target. This minimizes the dose to normal tissues and may lead to fewer side effects,
      even when high doses are delivered to the tumor.

      If you agree to take part in this study, it will involve completing quality of life
      questionnaires before, during, and after proton therapy. You will be asked how you tolerated
      the proton therapy, what (if any) side effects you experienced, and how the treatment impacts
      the quality of your life. The questionnaires should each take about 15 minutes to complete.
      They may be done in person, by mail, or by phone.

      You will complete the questionnaires before the proton therapy begins and during the last
      week of therapy. You will also repeat the questionnaires at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after the
      proton therapy, every 6 months for the next 3 years, and every year for the next 6 years
      after that. If you are receiving hormone therapy, you will also be asked to fill out a
      questionnaire before or at the beginning of hormone therapy. During your radiation course,
      you will have a brief weekly clinic visit and assessed for any side effects during that visit
      as part of normal standard practice. Your information will be compiled with the information
      from other people who were treated similarly, to better understand the effects of prostate
      proton radiation therapy.

      Throughout the course of your radiation therapy, you will have brief clinic visits once a
      week as part of your standard care. You will be checked for any side effects.

      Your participation in the study will be over after you mail back the last questionnaire.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 1084 patients will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  