
    
      Background:

      The Brugada syndrome is a rare disease potentially leading to severe arrhythmic events in
      otherwise healthy subjects.In many patients an Implantable cardiovertor defibrillator (ICD)
      is implanted to prevent sudden cardiac death. ICD are however associated with potential
      complications and are not available in all countries.Pharmacological blockade of specific ion
      channels (Ito) represents a promising therapeutic approach in this syndrome. Experimental
      data show that increased Ito current may be associated with both the ECG feature and
      arrhythmogenic substrate observed in the syndrome. Moreover, Ito blockade reverse the ECG
      abnormalities and suppress arrhythmogenicity.The 3,4-diaminopyridine (3,4-DAP) is a
      pharmacological Ito blocker that is already used in humans for another indication.

      Main objective:

      The aim of the study is to evaluate the effect of 3,4-DAP on ventricular arrhythmia
      inducibility in Brugada patients requiring an electrophysiological study for arrhythmic risk
      stratification.

      First end point:

      Re-inducibility or non re-inducibility of sustained ventricular arrhythmia during
      electrophysiological study on treatment

      Tested hypothesis:

      The 3,4-DAP decreases the proportion of re-inducibility during the electrophysiological study
      with a re-inducibility rate of 80% in the placebo group and 25% in the 3,4-DAP group

      Secondary objective:

        -  to assess the effect of 3,4-DAP on ST segment elevation in Brugada patients

        -  to describe the relationship between 3,4-DAP plasma concentration measured at 45 minutes
           and electrophysiological study result and ST segment elevation

      Study design:

      2 centres, randomised, double blind, parallel groups, placebo controlledA single dose of 20
      mg of 3,4-DAP

      Included patients and number of patients:

      Included patients will all have a diagnosed Brugada type 1 ECG and will require an
      electrophysiological study for arrhythmic risk stratification purpose. Only inducible
      patients will be included in the study.Using a classical approach, the hypothesis would be
      that 80% of on placebo patients would be re-inducible when only 25% of on drug patients
      would. To test such an hypothesis, 32 patients (16 in each group) would have been necessary
      (a=5%, b=20%).Provided the essential binary response of the electrophysiological study we
      choose a sequential approach in order to get the opportunity stop for success or futility the
      inclusions before the end of the study. The maximum number of included patients will then be
      42 (21 in each group).

      Protocol duration:

      Study duration is 48 hours for each patient.The protocol duration is planned for 5 years.

      Per protocol procedures:

        -  Electrophysiological study with ventricular programmed stimulation performed twice

        -  Continuous ECG recording- Blood sampling for 3,4-DAP plasma concentration measurement
           Potential implications:If the study hypotheses are confirmed it would then be justified
           to design long term efficacy studies in Brugada patients implanted with an ICD.
    
  