
    
      General outline:

      All eligible participants who choose to participate in this study will be asked to complete
      one baseline visit and one follow-up visit. MCI participants will be randomly assigned to
      either the experimental group (music group) or control group (non-music group) when their
      study enrollment is confirmed.

      The study may take place at different locations depending on assessments. Screening
      assessments will take place over the phone and in-person with a research staff member.
      Baseline and follow-up assessments will take place on campus at the Bioscience Research
      Collaborative (BRC) and at the Methodist Research Institute-Translational Imaging Center.

      Assessment visits. Interested individuals will complete the first visit for a baseline blood
      draw, health assessments, cognitive and behavioral tasks, and social and emotional well-being
      assessments at Rice University's BioScience Research Collaborative (BRC) building, Suite 140.
      Participants will transport themselves or be brought to the BRC building by their caregiver
      or family member. Baseline and follow-up neuroimaging will be performed at Methodist Research
      Institute-Translational Imaging Center. Additionally, the social, physical, and emotional
      wellbeing of the participant and the caregiver (if present) will be assessed with a battery
      of questionnaires before and after the intervention.

      Visits will be scheduled to start between 7:30 AM and 10:30 AM. A research coordinator will
      provide a detailed description of the study, answer questions, and obtain written informed
      consent. Participants will complete questionnaires, cognitive tasks, and health assessments
      (measuring heart rate, weight, blood pressure, and waistline measurements) and have blood
      drawn. Caregivers, if consented to participate, will fill out self-report questionnaires
      pertaining to social and emotional well-being. Neural activity using the fMRI will be
      collected in the Houston Methodist Hospital Translational Imaging Center. After completing
      the music course, participants will be scheduled for one follow-up visit. The baseline and
      follow-up visits should last about 2-3 hours at the BRC and about 1.5 hours at Methodist
      Imaging Center.

      Music intervention. Participants in the experimental group will undergo a 6-week music
      training headed by a musician associated with the Rice's Shepherd School of Music. The music
      intervention will take place on the main campus of Rice University or at the Bioscience
      Research Collaborative. The 6-week creative music course designed by Dr. Brandt and the other
      award-winning composers of Musiqa will be taught by graduate student composers from the Rice
      Shepherd School of Music. To make the course as accessible as possible, participants will not
      need to be able to read musical notation or have any prior musical background, and course
      instructors will utilize established ways of effectively inspiring untrained musicians. J.
      Todd Frazier, director of the Center for Performing Arts Medicine (CPAM) of Houston Methodist
      Hospital in the TMC, will aid in planning a concert in the Center's Margaret Alkek Williams
      Crain Garden Performance Series, at which participants will perform their final compositions
      for family, caregivers, and members of the community. The chosen curriculum and assessment
      plan is supported by preliminary work in collaboration with CPAM regarding the benefit of
      music to neuroplasticity.
    
  