
    
      A total of 800 infertile women undergoing IVF treatment will be randomized into one of the
      following two groups by computer-generated random numbers:

      Fresh embryo transfer group: a single fresh embryo transfer FET group: a single FET following
      freezing of all embryos in the stimulated IVF cycle

      All techniques of IVF including ovarian stimulation, harvesting of oocytes, insemination with
      specially prepared sperm and embryo culture in the laboratory will be according to local
      protocols. Once the embryos have been cultured up to day 2 or 3, women with 3 or more
      suitable quality embryos will be randomized to either fresh embryo transfer (control arm) or
      FET (Intervention arm).

      Control arm Women allocated to the control arm will either undergo embryo transfer at
      cleavage stage or extended culture and transfer at blastocyst stage according to local
      policy. A maximum of 2 embryos or blastocysts will be replaced according to the standard
      protocol under transabdominal ultrasound guidance. Luteal phase support is given according to
      local protocols.

      Intervention arm For those allocated to the intervention arm fresh embryo transfer will not
      be undertaken. Embryos will be frozen by vitrification or slow freezing at cleavage or
      blastocyst stage according to standard agreed local protocols. Women will be contacted after
      4 weeks and arrangements made for frozen embryo transfer.

      After at least 4 weeks women will attend the IVF clinic for the transfer of thawed frozen
      embryos, either in a natural cycle (in ovulatory women who have regular menstrual cycles) or
      in a hormonally supported cycle using physiological doses of estrogen and progestogens to
      mimic normal cyclical changes within the endometrium. The choice between replacing
      frozen-thawed embryos in a natural or hormonally mediated cycle will be a decision driven by
      the clinical circumstances.

      Embryos or blastocysts will be thawed according to local protocols. The transfer is performed
      by the team clinician with a maximum of 2 embryos or blastocysts being replaced according to
      the standard protocol under transabdominal ultrasound guidance. Luteal phase support is given
      at the discretion of the physician.

      Follow up strategy:

      A pregnancy test will be carried out 2 weeks after embryo transfer in both arms. All women
      who have a positive pregnancy test 2 weeks after embryo transfer will undergo a transvaginal
      ultrasound scan to identify the presence and number of a gestation sac with a fetal heart
      signifying an ongoing pregnancy. Pelvic scan will be repeated at 8 weeks, 12 weeks, 24 weeks
      and 36 gestation for fetal growth.

      Data on all pregnancy outcomes including early pregnancy losses such as miscarriage or
      ectopic pregnancy will be collected.

      In order to achieve consistency with respect to the collection of outcome, standardised case
      report forms (CRF) will be completed for each woman at each centre. These CRFs will include
      details on treatment received, pregnancy outcomes, complications in pregnancy, mode of
      delivery and birth outcomes.
    
  