
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and examine the dose-limiting toxicities
           of nintedanib when administered with capecitabine within the study population and,
           establish the recommended phase II dose (RP2D). (Phase I)

        -  II. To assess progression free survival at 18 weeks. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  I. To assess median progression free survival. (Phase II)

        -  II. To assess median overall survival from the date of enrollment to the time of death
           will be documented. (Phase II)

        -  III. To assess the objective response rate as measured by Response Evaluation Criteria
           in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1. (Phase II)

        -  IV. To assess the toxicity of dose regimen using the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program
           (CTEP) National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
           (CTCAE version 4.0). (Phase II)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  I. Measurement of circulating angiogenic cytokines (CAFs): vascular endothelial growth
           factor (VEGF), soluble vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (sVEGFR) 1/2,
           placental growth factor (PlGF), granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor
           (GMCSF), leptin, interleukin (IL)-1 alpha (a), IL-8, IL-6, fibroblast growth factor
           basic (FGFb), osteopontin and pentraxin-3. (Phase II)

        -  II. Measurement of drug levels and pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamic (PD) modeling.
           (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of nintedanib followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) (every 12 hours) on days 1-14 and
      nintedanib PO BID (every 12 hours) on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 28 days until
      resolution or satisfactory stabilization of persistent drug-related toxicity, and then every
      6 months thereafter.
    
  