
    
      Disorders of vestibular function are prevalent disorders that result in dizziness, decreased
      balance, and a 12-fold increased risk of falls.1 It has been determined that 20% of
      community-dwelling adults over the age of 60 report vestibular symptoms prompting a medical
      evaluation or intervention over a one year period.2 This equates to approximately $50.0
      billion in annual healthcare costs.3 In the US alone, there are approximately 1.6-3.8 million
      sport concussions each year,4,5 where 50% of concussed athletes have at least one vestibular
      type symptom.6 Although the impact of cost has been demonstrated in older adults, the costs
      of concussion-related dizziness is much more difficult to calculate due simultaneously
      treating symptoms from multiple systems.

      A common treatment for symptoms related to disorders of vestibular function is vestibular
      rehabilitation, a sub-specialty of physical therapy. These exercises are performed daily by
      Subjects at home and consist of visually fixating on a target while moving the head and/or
      the object on which the subject is fixating. To alter exercise difficulty, exercise
      parameters are altered including: visual background complexity (plain and dark, busy but
      stationary, moving objects, rapidly moving objects), postural positioning (seated, standing
      with a wide base of support, standing with a narrow base of support, standing on one leg),
      and duration of exercise (from 5 seconds to approximately 2 minutes). Early evidence shows
      that vestibular rehabilitation exercises provided by a physical therapist is an effective
      method of ameliorating vestibular hypofunction. Further, effectiveness of vestibular
      rehabilitation does not decline with increasing age of the patient,8 indicating benefit for
      all ages that are affected. Unfortunately, many factors limit the ability to determine
      efficiency and efficacy of treatment and have been highlighted in a recent clinical practice
      guideline9 and systematic review5,10. Limitations include: poor measurement of prescribed
      exercise compliance by depending on subjective report, inability to control for environmental
      factors during home program execution, and the influence of noxious vestibular input
      associated with traveling to attend scheduled physical therapy visits. These factors hinder
      performing high quality efficacy studies, resulting in exercise prescription being largely
      based on expert opinion, the lowest level on the hierarchy of evidence-based practice.11 In
      fact, current opinion indicates that exercises should be performed 3 times a day for a total
      of 12 minutes with each bout lasting approximately 2 minutes, all with no clear indication of
      speed and amplitude of performance. In this study, the investigators aim to use a
      commercially available virtual reality device to deliver usual vestibular rehabilitation
      exercises, while using the device's inbuilt sensors to accurately measure head movement,
      speed and duration. Using this device, the investigators will assess compliance and dose of
      exercises required to reduce symptoms of dizziness and imbalance and to determine if
      performing such exercises in a virtual reality environment will provide similar results to
      that usual rehabilitation techniques.

      When a potential subject is identified, the subject will be screened for appropriateness of
      inclusion for this study. After informed consent has been obtained from a recruited subject,
      those with Unilateral Vestibular Hypofunction (UVH) will be asked to perform a 4-week
      intervention, while those with Bilateral Vestibular Hypofunction (BVH) or those
      post-concussion will each be asked to perform a 12-week intervention. Those with UVH will
      undergo a shorter intervention due to strong evidence that neural adaptation occurs much more
      quickly (usually 4 weeks) than those with BVH and history of concussion.9,10,17-19 The
      intervention will consist of physical therapy visits combined with a home program of specific
      vestibular exercises. Each subject will be asked to attend physical therapy visits at least
      one time per week throughout the 4- or 12-week period.

      Assessments will be performed on all groups and consist of a combination of vestibulo-ocular
      assessment, balance and clinical functional outcome measures, and surveys of subject
      satisfaction. Subjects are randomly assigned to the usual rehabilitation or intervention
      group based on each of the following diagnostic categories.

      The compliance to exercises will be obtained from a log in the virtual reality device for the
      VR group, and will be paper based for the usual physical therapy group. Subjects in the three
      intervention groups will be asked to perform the same type of exercises as the usual
      rehabilitation group, but using a virtual reality device that will be issued to the patient
      for home use. Subjects will use a custom designed program to perform the exercises using a
      commercially available virtual reality device (no specialized hardware or additions to the
      commercially available device will be performed). Subjects will be instructed on the first
      day in how to operate the Virtual Reality Vestibular Rehabilitation (VRVR) program and how to
      properly perform the exercises. The VRVR device and software will simulate a virtual reality
      'room' with an 'X' fixed in front of a wall. There are six different background complexities.
      Exercise sessions will start seated upright in a chair and will progress to standing per the
      home exercise protocol. The system will prompt the patient to begin the exercise and will
      automatically log the frequency and duration of exercise performed. The system will ask the
      patient to rate the severity of their symptoms on a 0-10 scale before and after each bout of
      exercise. Subjects' instruction regarding initial dose and progression will be identical to
      those given in the usual rehabilitation group. Subjects will be asked to bring their device
      with them to their 4 week, 8 week, and 12 weeks appointment to transfer their de-identified
      data and to insure integrity of the data and device. Subjects will be asked to return the
      device at the end of the intervention period.

      Per patient and therapist discretion, additional physical therapy visits may be scheduled to
      aid in patient understanding of exercise progression protocol, assess correct performance of
      exercise (with or without virtual reality device). Non-study related physical therapy visits
      may be scheduled between sessions in order to address impairments unrelated to
      vestibulo-ocular deficits. These may include interventions to address musculoskeletal
      deficits or other balance related impairments. Any additional sessions of physical therapy
      will be reported in order to determine possible confounding information.

      There will be an additional group of healthy control subjects that will be tested for only
      one day. Healthy subjects will be recruited through flyers, approved email lists, and word of
      mouth in the general public. This healthy control group will perform the same tests as the
      other groups perform on Day 1. This group will be used to compare outcomes of usual
      rehabilitation and intervention groups, to the function of those without disorders of
      vestibular function.
    
  