
    
      Infants with congenital heart disease (CHD) are a low frequency but high acuity and stress
      population in the pediatric hospital setting. There are approximately 300 patients admitted a
      year that require cardiac surgery and are under the age of 6 months at Children's Mercy.
      These patients may spend less time in the hospital, but the care they require is often
      complex resulting in potential hemodynamic changes and pain responses for the infants. Smart
      technologies are used in CHD populations like single ventricle interstage monitoring at home,
      CHAMP App, but there are opportunities for baby-parent-nurse in-hospital smart solutions such
      as the SNOO Smart Sleeper bassinet by Happiest Baby INC . The SNOO Smart Sleeper has been
      used in more than 20 other hospitals across the country, including The University of Kansas
      Health System, mainly for infants related to preterm or neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS).
      The SNOO utilizes some of the components of the 5 S's (swaddling, side/stomach position,
      shushing, swinging, and sucking) to aid as physical interventions for infant pain. This has
      been shown to be effective for pain reduction and less crying time after painful procedures .
      The calming response for infants has been seen to improve with soothing of the infant through
      supine mechanical movement, swaddling, and sound . A prospective observational cohort of
      preterm (32-36 weeks GA) neonates found that intermittent hypoxia and bradycardia
      significantly declined after use of womb-like soothing sound. The auditory neural pathways
      have close anatomical connection to the autonomic nervous system and the potential for
      auditory to parasympathetic response and reduced cardiac and respiratory rates are intriguing
      for evaluation in the infant population after cardiac surgery. The SNOO has yet to be used in
      the post-operative pediatric CHD population in the inpatient setting. The success in other
      fragile infant populations lends to a possible new area for use in the high risk CHD
      population in the post-operative recovery phase related to pain and hemodynamic changes.
    
  