
    
      This research focuses on the participatory patient care planning in primary health care. In
      general, the participatory patient care planning (PPCP) aims to engage patients in self-care,
      to improve the collaboration between patients and professionals and to improve the use of
      resources. The present study investigates the feasibility and effectiveness of the PPCP.

      The specific research questions of the present study are: Does the PPCP have an impact on the
      patient's quality of life? Does the PPCP improve the quality of care in management of chronic
      diseases? Does the PPCP improve patient's commitment with self-care? Does the PPCP impact on
      the use of health care services? The data consists of people aged at least 18 years living in
      the municipality of Siilinjärvi with diabetes, coronary heart disease or hypertension and who
      are recorded in in Siilinjärvi Health Care Center electronic patient record. The
      participating patients are recruited from those who contacts SiiIinjärvi Health Care Center
      in order to have a follow-up visit because of the treatment of their disease. This study aims
      to recruit 700 patients.

      The participants are allocated into the intervention group and into the control group
      receiving usual care. Intervention consists of the PPCP. This includes the patient activation
      questionnaire form, a visit to the nurse who conducts the measurements (blood pressure, waist
      measurement, weight and length) and a visit to the general practitioner who discusses and
      agrees with the patient about the treatment goals and follow-up resulting in the written
      PPCP.

      The main out-come measures are the quality of health related life measured with the 15D; the
      level of patient's activity in self-care with the Patient Activation Measurement (PAM); life
      satisfaction, self-rated health, a reduction in productivity with the Work Productivity and
      Activity Impairment Questionnaire (WPAI: GH), and the disease specific measures (blood
      pressure, HbA1C, LDL-cholesterol, body mass index and waist measurement). In addition, pain
      intensity and interference (NRS 0-10), mood (BDI-21), the number of visits and phone calls
      and referrals are measured.
    
  