
    
      Idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (NS) is a podocyte renal disease characterized by loss of the
      impermeability functions versus circulating proteins, causing severe proteinuria and
      hypo-albuminaemia with edema. According to 2019 KDIGO guidelines administration of low-dose
      prednisone is suggested to maintain remission in SDNS (steroid dependant nephrotic syndrome),
      and mycophenolate mofetile (MMF) or calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) or Rituximab as
      corticosteroid-sparing agents for children who develop serious corticosteroid-related adverse
      effects. Given the toxicity of cyclophosphamide and CNI in long-term administration, there is
      the need to clarify which is, between MMF and rituximab, the most effective approach.

      The RTX vs MMF trial is an open-label, two-parallel-arm, controlled and randomized clinical
      trial testing the superiority of RTX over MMF (1,200 mg/m2 orally in two daily doses) in
      maintaining steroid free disease remission in patients with SDNS.

      Eligible participants are children and young adults (age between 3 and 24 years) with
      nephrotic syndrome who are dependent on prednisone 0.3-1mg/Kg/day and have received
      prednisone for at least six months before enrolment. Previous treatment with MMF will be
      allowed. All participants will enter a 45 days run-in period, during which children treated
      with steroids alone will start MMF and will taper steroids after 15 days by 0.3 mg/kg per
      week until complete withdrawal. Patients already receiving MMF alone will continue the
      treatment. During the same period, instruction on urine collection and dipstick readings will
      be carefully reviewed and compliance assessed. After run-in period, children will be
      randomized to either the intervention arm (Rituximab, 375 mg/m2) or the comparator arm
      (continuing or starting MMF). In the intervention arm, 1 month after infusion MMF will be
      decreased by 50% and withdrawn within 2 additional weeks, whereas MMF will be maintained in
      the comparator. All patients will be followed for up to 24 months. In case of relapses during
      this period (see outcome section for definition) patients will be treated with oral
      prednisone (60 mg/sqm day). Following remission, steroids will be maintained at the initial
      dose for 7 days and then tapered off by 0.3 mg/kg per week until complete withdrawal in
      patients of the MMF arm. Patients of the intervention arm will instead be treated with
      another infusion of RTX (same dose) immediately following steroid-induced remission. After
      infusion of RTX, steroids will be maintained at the initial dose for 7 days and then tapered
      off by 0.3 mg/kg per week until complete withdrawal. In this way relapsed patients in both
      arms will receive the same cumulative dose of prednisone. In case following relapse of
      proteinuria patients fail to respond to prednisone (they will terminate the study and be
      considered as treatment failure). The study allows drop-in from one arm to the other after 2
      relapses (i.e., investigators will be allowed to use RTX in the comparator arm and vice versa
      MMF in intervention arm). The economic balance will be calculated on the basis of RTX doses
      needed to maintain remittance.

      All patients will be followed for 24 months. In person visits will occur at enrollment, at T0
      (infusion), after 1 month and every 3/6 months later.

      The investigators are going to enroll 160 patients.
    
  