
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the addition of carboplatin to an adjuvant chemotherapy regimen of
      doxorubicin (doxorubicin hydrochloride)/cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel will improve
      the invasive disease-free survival (IDFS) compared to doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide followed
      by paclitaxel when administered to patients with operable node-positive or high-risk
      node-negative triple-negative breast cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the addition of carboplatin to an adjuvant chemotherapy regimen of
      doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel will improve the overall survival (OS)
      compared to doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel when administered to patients
      with operable node-positive or high-risk node-negative triple-negative breast cancer.

      II. To determine whether the addition of carboplatin to an adjuvant chemotherapy regimen of
      doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel will improve the breast cancer-free
      survival (BCFS) compared to doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel when
      administered to patients with operable node-positive or high-risk node-negative
      triple-negative breast cancer.

      III. To determine whether the addition of carboplatin to an adjuvant chemotherapy regimen of
      doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel will improve the recurrence-free interval
      (RFI) compared to doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel when administered to
      patients with operable node-positive or high-risk node-negative triple-negative breast
      cancer.

      IV. To determine whether the addition of carboplatin to an adjuvant chemotherapy regimen of
      doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel will improve the distant recurrence-free
      interval (DRFI) compared to doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel when
      administered to patients with operable node-positive or high-risk node-negative
      triple-negative breast cancer.

      V. To determine the toxicity of doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel
      administered concurrently with carboplatin compared to the toxicity of
      doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel alone.

      VI. To determine if germline breast cancer (BRCA) status is associated with benefit in IDFS
      or OS from the addition of carboplatin to an adjuvant chemotherapy regimen of
      doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel in patients with operable node-positive
      or high-risk node-negative triple-negative breast cancer.

      VII. To determine if the addition of carboplatin will improve the RFI among the homologous
      recombination (HR) deficient patients as determined by the homologous recombination
      deficiency (HRD) score.

      VIII. To determine whether the efficacy of carboplatin on RFI in HR-deficient patients
      differs from that in patients who are not HR-deficient.

      IX. To collect tissue and blood samples at several occasions for future biomarkers
      development in predicting risk of breast cancer recurrence in patients with operable
      node-positive or high-risk node-negative triple-negative breast cancer treated with
      doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel with or without carboplatin and
      predicting benefit from the addition of carboplatin among these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I (DOXORUBICIN HYDROCHLORIDE [A] CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE [C]-->WEEKLY PACLITAXEL [WP]): Patients
      receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 15 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV
      over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive paclitaxel IV over 60
      minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats weekly for 12 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (AC-->WP + CARBOPLATIN): Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride and
      cyclophosphamide as in Arm I. Patients then receive paclitaxel IV over 60 minutes on days 1,
      8, and 15 and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for
      4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years and
      then every 12 months for 5 years.
    
  