
    
      The pericardium's main function is to secrete proteins that ensure proper functioning within
      the pericardial space and to maintain pericardial pressure. Once dissected the pericardium is
      usually left open at the end of surgery due to the difficulty in realigning the edges and to
      avoid adverse effects cause by an inflammatory response. The body's inflammatory response is
      one of protection and healing of an injury. However many of the inflammatory biomarkers
      released can cause adverse outcomes after cardiac surgery, including: renal failure,
      myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation, stroke and death.

      CorMatrix extra cellular matrix (ECM) Technology is a Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
      approved unique extra cellular implant material used for pericardial closure and
      reconstruction. Pericardial reconstruction using porcine intestinal ECM is a novel
      application. ECM combines the innate attributes of nature with the precision of science to
      help the heart heal itself. It is an acellular biomaterial that does not encapsulate when
      surgically implanted, but is gradually remodeled, leaving behind organized and healthy
      tissue. The body's tissue begins remodeling at the surgical site while the ECM maintains the
      needed tissue support. When implanted, the ECM acts as a scaffold into which the patient's
      cells migrate and integrate, stimulating the patient's natural wound-healing mechanisms. As
      the patient's cells become active, they lay down their own collagen, which matures over time
      to form strong and permanent tissue repair without leaving behind permanent foreign material.
      Because the ECM contains primarily collagen, the device is gradually replaced as the
      patient's tissue gradually turns over in a natural state of self-renewal.

      A retrospective study compared the incidence of post operative atrial fibrillation (POAF) in
      patients treated with the CorMatrix ECM for pericardial closure following isolated coronary
      artery bypass graft (CABG) versus patients not treated with the patch. The retrospective
      study comprised of 222 patients. 111 were treated with the CorMatrix ECM and the other 111
      were not. Results showed POAF in 34 of 111 control patients but only 20 in 111 CorMatrix ECM
      treated patients, indicating a 54% decrease in the risk of POAF in the CorMatrix ECM treated
      patients. This study shows a statistically significant reduction in the risk of POAF in
      patients undergoing an isolated CABG with pericardial closure using the CorMatrix ECM.

      This is an unblinded, randomized study to identify proteomic inflammatory biomarkers to
      determine if there are differences in the biomarkers in patients who are treated using the
      CorMatrix ECM implant to close the pericardium and the patients whose pericardium is left
      open (the current standard of care). The study will be located at the Inova Heart and
      Vascular Institute (IHVI). The CorMatrix ECM will be implanted during the CABG surgical
      procedure in the IHVI cardiovascular operating rooms (CVOR).

      Sixty (60) patients who are routinely scheduled for a CABG will be recruited and randomly
      assigned to one of the two groups. There will be thirty (30) patients in each group. The
      control "No Intervention" group will not receive the CorMatrix ECM during surgery, leaving
      the pericardium open according to current standard of care. The treatment "Cormatrix" group
      will receive the CorMatrix EMC during surgery for the closure of the pericardium according to
      the specific recommended surgical technique.

      Pericardial fluid and blood samples will be collected from all patients. Pericardial fluid
      and blood samples will undergo novel nanoparticle based biomarker discovery technology to
      harvest proteomic biomarkers at the George mason University. In addition, patients will have
      their cardiac rhythm continually assessed during their hospital stay and then at their follow
      up appointments with their surgeon and cardiologist to determine whether they developed POAF
      post discharge.

      Both genders, greater than eighteen (18) years of age, will be included in the research.
      There are no enrollment restrictions based upon race or ethnic origin and it is expected
      their inclusion will be representative of the population undergoing CABG at IHVI. Pregnant
      women are excluded from the study.
    
  