
    
      A majority of mechanically ventilated patients develop respiratory muscle weakness during
      critical illness.

      The potential value of implementing rehabilitative interventions for respiratory muscle
      conditioning are supported by observations showing that respiratory muscle weakness is
      associated with prolonged duration of mechanical ventilation, difficult weaning, and
      increased ICU mortality.

      Despite a strong theoretical rationale and some evidence supporting its use, mechanistic
      studies evaluating physiological adaptations that occur in respiratory muscles of
      mechanically ventilated patients in response to different training regimens have not been
      performed so far. Consequently, the characterization of IMT modalities and of the optimal
      approach to IMT remain largely uncertain.

      To date, the great part of the studies on the topic employed an external mechanical threshold
      device to perform trainings, in general adopting loads ranging between 10-50% of maximal
      inspiratory strength (i.e. maximal inspiratory pressure (PImax)). Intermittent spontaneous
      breathing periods (e.g. using partially assisted or spontaneous modes of ventilation) are
      also frequently applied as an activating stimulus to the respiratory muscles during periods
      of mechanical ventilation.

      A tapered flow resistive load (TFRL) device (POWERbreathe KH2, HaB International, UK) has
      been already tested and implemented at University Hospital Leuven as a way of loading
      respiratory muscles in ICU patients. The TFRL approach represents a potential more optimal
      way of loading the respiratory muscles in patients on prolonged mechanical ventilation. Such
      a loading approach allows higher inspiratory tidal volumes to be reached and higher work and
      power generation during trainings, by adapting to changes in length-tension characteristics
      of the inspiratory muscles during inspiration.

      With regards to training modalities, high-intensity IMT modalities by applying loads ranging
      between 30 and 50 %PImax, have not yet been proven to be associated with better improvements
      in respiratory muscle strength compared to low-intensity (sham) IMT modalities at loads not
      exceeding 10 %PImax.

      On the other hand, no studies are available that assessed changes in respiratory muscle
      function beyond assessments of respiratory muscle strength in response to training.

      Additionally, no training studies have tried to quantify the intrinsic loading of the
      patients (i.e. elastic and resistive resistances of the chest wall and the lungs) that
      muscles are exposed to in between periods of additional loading applied during IMT sessions.

      The aim of this study is to comprehensively investigate changes in respiratory muscle
      function in response to three different conditions that difficult to wean patients will be
      exposed to during their weaning period. The complementary quantification of the entity of
      loading that respiratory muscles are bearing during assisted, spontaneous and resistive
      breathing would provide important novel insights on the optimization of IMT stimulus in
      different patients on prolonged mechanical ventilation.
    
  