
    
      Introduction

      One of the greatest challenges to those planning vector control programmes in developing
      Countries is the provision of cover to those populations in remote or isolated areas.
      Commonly, it is these communities which bear the greatest burden of disease due to location
      and inaccessibility to local health care. Yunnan Province is a good example of such problems.
      The border region with Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam contributes a high proportion of all malaria
      cases in the whole of China, yet few if any disease control initiatives cover the rural
      minority peoples and migrant workers who inhabit the region. Comprehensive ethnobotanical
      surveys in the area have shown many of the 25 minority peoples living in isolated communities
      already use traditional herbal forms of mosquito control utilising several of the abundant
      species in the particularly diverse local environment. Having identified a number of
      potentially useful plant species being used, in terms of their availability, sustainability,
      low cost (free) and known chemical constituents, the investigators and the local Chinese
      malaria control officials consider a phase II evaluation of the most promising candidates is
      justified. In particular, 4 widely used plants are traditionally used as fumigants to reduce
      / prevent mosquitoes entering houses, either by burning dried or fresh material on the indoor
      cooking fires each evening, or by spraying tinctures around entry sites like eaves & windows.
      Due to the method of use, it would be very difficult to simulate this in the laboratory, so a
      simple means of field evaluation has been chosen.

      Materials

      The ethnobotanical survey revealed the following plant species as candidates for further
      study; Artemesia argyi, Eucalyptus robusta, Eupatorium odoratum, Cinnamomum glanduliferum

      Each of these plant species occurs naturally in abundance in the region and collection will
      have no significant environmental impact. Moderate amounts (approx 1 Kg) sufficient for each
      study will be collected locally in each field site prior to (if used dried) or at the start
      of each experiment (fresh).

      Methods

      Plants will be evaluated under natural user conditions in a randomised and controlled manner
      in villages in Xishuangbanna Region, Yunnan, PR China. Village- based studies of several
      other mosquito control methods have already been successfully undertaken in this region by
      the LSHTM and YIPD team. Villages belonging to one of the ethnic groups using each
      traditional method will be selected according to agreement between local health workers from
      YIPD and the village elders, availability of plant species, and preliminary survey of vector
      species collected indoors with CDC traps. A different village will be selected for each plant
      being evaluated. After collecting background entomological data, 6 houses matched for
      baseline parameters (such as occupancy level, location, construction & animal proximity) and
      being evenly spaced among others in the village (to reduce diversion effects) will be
      enrolled into the study. On any one night, 2 will be allocated treatment (use of plant), 2
      will be allocated hay (used for cattle bedding) as a negative control, and 2 will be left
      unused (to reduce any residual effects). In each case the treatment or control group will be
      instructed to place pre-prepared batches of plant material (weighed fresh or dry depending
      upon type) onto their cooking fire in the traditional manner in the early evening. Commercial
      CDC traps (BioQuip Inc., USA) will be used in / beside the sleeping areas of each house from
      1 hour before sunset to early morning. Catches will be identified by local vector experts
      each day to record species and number. House treatment will be rotated each night using latin
      square principles to achieve a minimum of 12 replicates of each treatment in every house (36
      nights duration, 216 trap/nights), and will take place during the rainy (malaria) season
      (July - Nov 2005) when both plants and vector levels are highest.

      In the case of C. glanduliferum, the plant extract (or hay extract) will be sprayed at a
      predetermined rate onto eaves & doors / windows in the traditional manner following the same
      principles. Efficacy will be determined by comparing mosquito species / numbers caught in
      control & treatment houses using appropriate statistical analysis & ANOVA methodologies.
    
  