
    
      Objective: The primary purpose of this study is to test the safety and feasibility of giving
      a new experimental agent, called IL13-PE38QQR, directly into regions of the brain in patients
      with diffusely infiltrating pontine glioma (DIPG) or with recurrent or progressive
      supratentorial high-grade glioma (HGG) using a technique called convection-enhanced delivery
      or CED. CED uses continuous pressure to push large molecules through the membranes protecting
      the brain to reach brain tumors. At the same time, we can watch where the molecules go in the
      brain by attaching a tracer, gadolinium-DTPA, to the IL13-PE38QQR, which can then be seen in
      the brain with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Because we do not know the best dose to use
      in patients with DIPG or HGG, we will give increasing amounts of IL13-PE38QQR to small groups
      of patients with each type of brain tumor, known as a dose escalation study. Secondary
      purposes of this study include determining the effects of this experimental therapy on the
      tumor, and evaluating the physical changes in the tumor before and after the therapy.

      Study Population: Twenty-right pediatric patients with recurrent or progressive DIPG or
      supratentorial HGG that have undergone standard treatment and who meet all the Inclusion and
      Exclusion Criteria may be enrolled. Eighteen patients will receive treatment; an additional
      ten patients may be screening failures or unevaluable.

      Design: We propose a Phase I single institution, open label, dose escalation (doses of 0.125,
      0.25 and 0.5 micrograms/ml), safety and tolerability study of IL13-PE38QQR infused via CED
      into patients with either DIPG (up to 9 patients) or recurrent HGG (up to 9 patients).
      IL13-PE38QQR will be administered to regions of tumor determined by radiographic findings.
      Escalating dose levels will be evaluated in the following dose cohorts (3 patients per
      Cohort): Cohort 1 = 0.125 micrograms/ml, Cohort 2 = 0.25 micrograms/ml and Cohort 3 = 0.5
      micrograms/ml.

      Outcome Measures: To assess the safety, tolerability and potential efficacy of CED of
      IL13-PE38QQR, we will use detailed clinical and radiographic examinations. These will be
      performed at baseline and on post-infusion days 1, 28 and 60. After post-infusion day 60,
      clinical and radiographic studies will then be performed every 8 weeks until imaging or
      clinical evidence of recurrence/progressive disease or new treatment is initiated.
    
  