
    
      Background: Prevalence of dry eye disease (DED) ranges from 3.5% to 33.7% and increase with
      age. Further, DED is associated with decreased productivity, absenteeism from work,
      depression, and has an adverse impact on patient's quality of life. Odds of a DED patient
      suffering from depression is 2.9 and anxiety is 2.8. Yoga - a practice to help improve health
      and well-being - has also been the subject of clinical studies globally. Two central aspects
      of yoga practice are physical postures and breathing exercises. These breathing exercises aim
      to focus the mind, facilitate relaxation and enhance wellness.

      Evidence further suggests beneficial effects of a standardized collection of breathing
      techniques called Sudarshan Kriya Yoga (SKY) on individuals suffering from depression. SKY
      includes three-stage breathing with Victory breath (slow deep breathing that consists of 4 to
      6 breaths per minute), Bellow's breath (forceful rapid deep breathing that consists of 20 to
      30 breaths per minute), and a rhythmic breath technique. SKY followed by Automatic Self
      Transcending Meditation (ASTM) involves breathing exercise followed by meditation. ASTM
      utilizes a specific sound value mantra to draw attention inward and permit the mind to
      experience a restful but alert state of consciousness. It helps quiet the mind and induces
      physiological and mental relaxation whilst the eyes are shut. ASTM may help with depression,
      anxiety, stress, and may enhance quality of life. Thus, the investigators will be studying
      the effect of SKY plus ASTM on quality of life of DED patients. Key goal of proposed research
      is to evaluate HRQOL, depression, anxiety of patients with DED in SKY followed by ASTM and
      usual care (UC) versus UC alone from baseline to 24 weeks.

      Primary Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that in patients with dry eye disease in
      SKY + ASTM + UC may lead to significant improvement in HRQoL compared to UC alone from
      baseline to 24 weeks.

      Secondary Hypotheses: The investigators hypothesize that in patients with DED 1) HRQoL is
      associated with regularly measured clinical variables 2) SKY + ASTM + UC leads to significant
      improvement in depression and anxiety symptoms at 24 weeks compared to UC alone.
    
  