
    
      High rates of suicide are endemic in American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) young adults.
      A recent study found that rates for young AI/AN adults in the Northern Plains and in Alaska
      are more than 4 times higher than for Whites of the same age in the same regions. Building
      social connections is a key goal of suicide prevention. One validated theoretical model
      asserts that belonging to a group is a fundamental human need. When this need is thwarted by
      social isolation or inadequate social support, a desire for death emerges. Studies of suicide
      prevention in AI/ANs underscore the cultural importance of connection to friends, family,
      caring neighbors, and community leaders. These traditions of community cohesion can be
      leveraged to protect young AI/AN adults against suicidal ideation and behavior. Caring
      Contacts is a suicide prevention program that supplements standard care by promoting human
      connectedness. People at risk for suicide often lose contact with the healthcare system and
      receive no follow-up care. For one year after initial contact, Caring Contacts seeks out such
      individuals to send messages expressing care, concern, and interest. It is the only
      intervention shown to prevent suicide in any population in a randomized, controlled trial.
      Based on a two year collaborative process with four tribal partners as part of a pilot grant,
      this study will evaluate a locally feasible, culturally appropriate Caring Contacts
      intervention that will use text messaging, email, and postal mail. This study uses a
      randomized, controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate this approach to suicide prevention in 1,200
      high-risk AI/ANs aged 18 and older from our four partner communities. Specific Aims are to:
      1) Compare the effectiveness of usual care (control) to the control condition plus caring
      text messages (intervention) for reducing suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, and suicide
      related hospitalizations. 2) Evaluate social connectedness as a mediating factor for the
      effect of Caring Contacts via text message on suicidality. The US Surgeon General's National
      Strategy for Suicide Prevention identifies connectedness to others as a primary protective
      factor against suicidality. By adapting and disseminating the Caring Contacts approach, which
      has demonstrated effectiveness in non-Native populations, this study will evaluate a
      low-cost, sustainable intervention for addressing the profound disparity of suicide risk
      experienced by young adult AI/ANs.
    
  