
    
      Children and their families who are seen at the investigators primary care clinic will be
      screened for eligibility by the research team study staff, and caregiver/parents will be
      asked a short 2-item screener about access to food. This screener has been called the "Hunger
      Vital Sign". When a screen for household food security is positive, caregivers are invited to
      participate in this study along with their child, as a dyad.

      This is a randomized clinical trial. The first activity consists of an in-person visit where
      child and caregiver answer survey questions related to diet (specifically regarding vegetable
      and whole grain purchase and consumption). Anthropometrics are measured. The child has a
      24-hour diet recall that is conducted in person at this visit, and then two more times in the
      intervening time (approximately 2 weeks). They are randomized (2:1) at this visit to either
      receive 12 weeks of deliveries immediately (starting in approximately 2 weeks) or after a
      delay of 3 months, when they serve as the delayed-intervention control group.

      Immediate intervention group receives a weekly delivery of vegetables and whole grains as
      well as 1-2 weekly text messages that contain education such as links to cooking tips and
      videos.

      After 3 months, both immediate intervention and the delayed intervention groups return for a
      second in-person visit, and complete all of the visit activities. Delayed intervention group
      starts their deliveries at this point.

      After 3 months, the delayed intervention group returns for a third in-person visit, though
      the immediate intervention participants complete their follow-up survey questions over the
      telephone, only.

      This home delivery model, done in coordination with a community-supported has been
      successfully-piloted in a population of low-income dyads with a child having prediabetes.
    
  