
    
      Specific Aim 1: To develop and validate the intervention. Specific Aim 1a: To develop and
      validate the CDS that will: 1) synthesize existing laboratory tests, medication orders, and
      vital sign data; 2) increase recognition of CKD, 3) increase recognition of uncontrolled HTN
      in CKD patients; and 4) deliver evidence-based CKD and HTN management recommendations.

      Specific Aim 1b: To improve the design and content of the CDS, we will use human factors
      methods, specifically usability testing.

      Specific Aim 1c: To develop a "wrap-around" intervention including two behavioral "nudges":
      1) pre-checked default orders, and 2) an email to obtain commitment from PCPs to obtain their
      commitment to follow the CDS recommendations.

      Aim 1a Study Procedures:

      Develop Rules for Evidence-based Recommendations for HTN in CKD: The investigators will
      leverage past work that they have done in a study that delivered recommendations based on
      national guidelines. An example of one of the rules is to determine whether anti-hypertensive
      agents have been prescribed but are not at highest potency. If so, the CDS will deliver a
      recommendation to increase the dosage. The investigators will also include one-click access
      to recommended orders.

      Implementation: Before the start of the trial, the CDS will be moved to the Production
      environment in "silent mode" where it will record when it would fire, but it will not be
      displayed to the user. This step will allow us to validate that the rules are accurately
      identifying patients and producing the correct recommendations through a chart review. The
      CDS will be activated in the Production environment on the start date of the clinical trial
      in Aim 2.

      Aim 1b Study Procedures:

      Usability Test Procedure: Usability testing clinical scenarios will be developed by subject
      matter experts. Contextual inquiry sessions will be conducted with PCPs and the investigators
      will ask for feedback on the usability test procedure, as well as content of test scenarios.
      The goal of Aim 1b is to iteratively improve other important aspects of the CDS that
      contribute to the overall informativeness of the CDS. The investigators will conduct two
      rounds of usability testing with PCPs. After each test, the research team and Epic build
      specialist will make iterative changes to the content of the CDS and layout of information.

      Qualitative analysis: Qualitative methods will be employed to analyze the data. The
      transcripts will be organized by task and participant and then quotes will be identified that
      illustrate a user expectation, frustration, or misinterpretation of content or functionality.

      Aim 1c Study Procedures:

        1. Pre-checked, no-action default: The first nudge will be part of the CDS. The
           investigators will display the CDS with certain options pre-selected.

        2. Pledge email to obtain commitment from PCPs to follow the CDS recommendations: As a
           starting point, we need to ensure that PCPs are aware of the clinical practice
           guidelines. At the beginning of the study, we will send an advertisement email to all
           PCPs in the network. In addition, as part of the intervention, we will ask intervention
           arm PCPs to commit to following the recommendations presented to them in the BPA, or
           writing their rationale in the CDS if they choose not to. By clicking a link in an
           email, the intervention PCP will come to a REDCap survey asking them to type their name
           to pledge to consider the CDS recommendations provided in our BPAs. The control PCPs
           will receive a control email without the specific details about the study and without
           the REDCap link.

      Specific Aim 2: To test the effectiveness of the intervention. Specific Aim 2a: To evaluate
      whether the intervention developed in Aim 1 significantly decreases mean systolic blood
      pressure in a population of CKD patients with blood pressure > 140/90. They will evaluate the
      effectiveness of the intervention in a pragmatic, cluster-randomized controlled trial,
      randomized at the level of the physician. Secondary outcomes will include
      hypertension-specific process measures, such as treatment intensification.

      Specific Aim 2b: To evaluate whether the intervention improves process measures for quality
      of CKD care including: annual serum creatinine test, and annual urine albumin test.

      Specific Aim 2 Study Procedures Please see below for detailed description of the clinical
      trial.
    
  