
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of decitabine that is associated with consistent
      evidence of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) demethylation in children with relapsed or refractory
      acute myeloid leukemia or acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

      II. Determine the dose-limiting toxicity, pharmacokinetics, and antitumor activity of this
      drug in these patients.

      III. Determine the biologic correlates of decitabine-induced DNA demethylation by
      characterizing, before and after treatment, global and specific DNA methylation status (using
      methylation microarrays) and hemoglobin F levels in these patients.

      IV. Determine the biologic correlates of decitabine-induced DNA demethylation by
      characterizing, before and after treatment, global changes in gene expression profiles using
      cDNA microarrays and drug sensitivity of blast cells by MTT assays in these patients.

      V. Determine the biologic correlates of decitabine-induced DNA demethylation by
      characterizing, before and after treatment, deletions and single nucleotide polymorphisms in
      genomic DNA of deoxycytidine kinase and cytidine deaminase genes in these patients.

      VI. Determine the biologic correlates of decitabine-induced DNA demethylation by
      characterizing, before and after treatment, acetylation and methylation of histones H3 and H4
      and helicase protein expression in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      disease type (acute myeloid leukemia vs acute lymphoblastic leukemia).

      Patients receive decitabine IV over 1 hour on days 1-5 and 8-12. Treatment repeats every 4-6
      weeks for a minimum of 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of decitabine until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15-21 patients will be accrued for this study within 7.5-21
      months.
    
  