
    
      There is a high rate of violence against women in the United States. For example, at least 1
      in 6 women will experience an attempted or completed rape in their lifetime (Tjaden &
      Thoenees, 2000). The high physical, emotional, economic and social costs of such violence are
      staggering. In particular, there can be a serious impact on mental health, with both
      immediate and long-term consequences (e.g., Coker et al., 2000). The aim of this project is
      to examine the psychological benefits of a class, which incorporates psychological and
      physical self-defense skills, for women who have been the victim of sexual or physical
      violence.

      A small literature suggests that women who take self-defense classes have increases in
      general self-efficacy and self-esteem (e.g.,Ozer and Bandura, 1990). This project is focusing
      on women who already have a history of physical or sexual violence. The investigators
      hypothesize that women who already have such a history of violence will benefit from a
      self-defense class that incorporates psychoeducation and brief psychology treatments in order
      to successfully participate in such a class and that ultimately it will improve their
      psychological well-being.

      Potential participants will first do a short phone screening to see whether they may be
      eligible for the study. If so, they will be brought into the clinic for a full eligibility
      assessment.

      Eligibility Procedures: Before entering the study, participants will participate in an
      eligibility interview. This will consist of a psychiatric interview (e.g., portions of the
      SCID and psychiatric rating scales), trauma history (e.g. CAPS), and physical health
      assessment. Participants will either need approval from their primary care physician to
      participate in the physical self-defense portion of the study or have a brief physical exam
      will a physician on the research team.

      If the participant is eligible for the study, they will be added to the list of participants.
      Once an adequate number of participants have been screened and determine eligible for the
      study, they will participate in the group for 8 weeks.

      Participants will fill out a series of questionnaires pre- and post- the course. Each set of
      questionnaires should take less than 1 hour to complete. In addition, the investigators
      conducted a 6-month post-class, follow up assessment.

      Self-defense class: The self-defense program is an eight week curriculum that meets once per
      week for 2.5 hours per session. The course which involves three components. The first
      component is a psycho-educational component which provides current basic information about
      physical and sexual assaults and also skill building, such as assertiveness, communication
      skills, and boundary setting. The second component of each class is physical resistance
      techniques which offers ample training. This includes information about basic targets,
      punches, and kicks, as well as breaking out of holds and other resistance skills. The third
      component of each class includes a supportive psychotherapy debriefing session. Following
      participation in the self-defense class all participants will be required to come for an
      in-person, debriefing interview.
    
  