
    
      Context: The significant increase in the number of patients with chronic disease in France in
      recent years has led to the implementation of therapeutic patient education programs to
      develop their independence and quality of life in regard to their illness. Despite this
      growth, socio-economic status, cultural level or education still remain significant obstacles
      to access to Health education for patients with psychosocial vulnerability. In this context,
      the implementation of an Health education approach in specific living devices called
      therapeutic coordination apartments (TCA) was tested in 2011. The TCAs are medico-social
      establishments offering accommodation and temporary medical-psycho-social support to people
      in a situation of precariousness affected by at least one disabling chronic pathology in
      order to restore their autonomy. However, only two TCAs currently offer Health Education
      programs integrated with their activities. These two structures were supported by the
      Transverse Unit for Therapeutic Education (UTET) of the University Hospital of Nantes for the
      construction of these programs, now authorized by the Regional Health Agency of the Pays de
      la Loire and effective for 18 months.

      Objective: The overall objective of the project is to evaluate the added value of integrated
      Health Education in TCA care. The main objective will be to compare, at 6 months of care, the
      perception of the burden of treatment among TCA residents integrating the practice of Health
      Education versus control group TCA residents. The burden of treatment is defined as the
      perception of the constraints on daily life related to all of what a person does to heal. The
      secondary objectives will be, on the one hand, to evaluate the impact of Health Education in
      TCA on: the state of health of the residents and the perception of their state of health,
      their quality of life and their empowerment. On the other hand, they will study the benefits,
      the brakes and the levers perceived by the teams that have integrated the Health Education in
      their activity.

      METHOD: This is a pragmatic, controlled, quasi-experimental intervention trial comparing two
      groups of residents: one experimental group in two TCAs incorporating Health Education and
      one group of 4 control TCAs. The study will be mixed, qualitative and quantitative with
      residents and professionals. All new volunteer residents entering TCA for 1 year will be
      solicited (approximately 5 to 15 per TCA). The burden of treatment will be assessed for each
      group after 1 month in TCA (baseline) and then at 6 months by the Treatment Burden
      Questionnaire. The secondary criteria will be explored quantitatively at 1 month, 6 months
      and 12-18 months by the EQ-5D questionnaire, the 2 global items of the WHO-QOL Brief and the
      MAP13, as well as the count of hospitalizations and Resident emergencies, in relation to
      their chronic pathology. A qualitative survey consisting of individual interviews with
      residents and focus groups with Therapeutic Coordination Apartments' teams practicing Health
      Education. The total duration of the study is 36 months.

      Perspectives: By showing a potential added value for the residents of the integration of
      Health Education within the TCAs, this project will confirm the interest to cross specific
      practices of care in TCA (adapted to the precarious people, having a low level of health
      literacy) with Health Education practices tailored to people with multiple pathologies. The
      study of the perceptions of teams integrating Health Education into their practice may
      encourage the diffusion of these still rare programs in these structures.
    
  