
    
      Patients over 65 are the most prevalent population in oncological clinical practice. It is
      also expected that this group of patients will increase significantly in the coming decades
      as a result of increased life expectancy and the aging population.

      Overall, the population is aging and this aging is accompanied by an increase in the
      prevalence and incidence of age-related diseases, such as cancer. So much so that
      approximately 60% of new cancer cases and 70% of the overall cancer mortality occurs in
      patients aged 65 and over.

      Despite the high incidence of cancer in the elderly and its peculiarities as opposed to young
      patients, from the point of view of health, the management of elderly patients is especially
      complex because there are few data on the evaluation and treatment thereof. Often, older
      patients are underrepresented in clinical trials and treatment guidelines, resulting in a
      population that is undertreated or at greater risk of suffering treatment-related toxicities.

      In this respect, both the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) and the International
      Society of Geriatric Oncology (SIOG, its acronym in Spanish) agree that age should not be an
      impediment to treat these diseases. Optimal management requires strategies specifically
      directed to the clinical and biological characteristics of this type of patient and they
      recommend an appropriate assessment of the patient as part of a safe and effective approach
      to haematological malignancies in the elderly.

      There is scientific basis supporting the need for the elderly patient with cancer who will
      receive a particular treatment to be specifically assessed by means of a comprehensive
      geriatric assessment (CGA). Geriatric assessment is essential since it is a tool that
      integrates all aspects of the patient's life that could affect the course of the disease and
      response to treatment, such as functional status, comorbidities, cognitive, emotional or
      nutritional status and social environment. In addition, the CGA is a tool to identify the
      possible presence of fragility, characterized by a decrease in physiological reserves that
      conditions a lower response to stress and is associated with a lower risk of disability and
      increased morbidity and mortality.

      Although currently it is assumed that chronological age is not synonymous with biological
      age, the decision on cancer treatment often falls on the subjective assessment of the
      physician, as few healthcare centres are performing comprehensive geriatric assessment in the
      oncology setting. Although various tools have been developed for this purpose, they have not
      been incorporated into routine clinical practice due to the time required, their length and
      the resources needed to gather information.

      Therefore, there remains a need to find a scale for comprehensive assessment of the health
      status of elderly patients (≥ 65 years) with haematologic malignancies that incorporates the
      essential dimensions of the geriatric assessment, with the same precision of valid tools
      currently available, and that is simple, straightforward and easy to apply, so that it can be
      used in daily practice and assist to make clinical decisions objectively.

      It was hypothesized that a simplified geriatric assessment could be a better tool for
      assessing elderly patients, instead of considering only age or subjective clinical
      impression, when deciding whether or not to prescribe active treatment. Such a tool would
      represent the real and multidimensional nature of aging, which is associated with an
      increased incidence of chronic diseases and geriatric syndromes with consequences on
      vulnerability and patient survival.

      As described above, Bonanad et al. designed and developed a new comprehensive assessment
      scale aimed at elderly patients (≥ 65 years) diagnosed with haematological diseases
      [myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or Acute myeloid leukemia (AML), multiple myeloma (MM) and
      chronic lymphocytic leukemia (LLC)], the Geriatric Assessment in Haematology (GAH). The
      purpose of this scale is to help doctors identify objectively and reliably those elderly
      patients with haematological diseases who are eligible for intensive treatment versus those
      who are most vulnerable.

      The GAH scale is a tool of 30 items grouped into eight relevant dimensions of geriatric
      assessment, which include:

        1. Number of drugs: Polypharmacy has been associated with adverse effects related to
           frailty, disability, mortality and falls in the elderly, and it may be more frequent in
           elderly patients with cancer.

        2. Gait velocity: Determining the time taken to walk four meters at a normal pace is a
           method of assessing gait velocity that is widely used in the literature due to its
           simplicity, speed and reliability. There is sufficient evidence to consider walking
           speed as a strong and consistent predictor of adverse outcomes in older patients, and
           its use as a single item has proven to be at least as sensitive as compound instruments
           in predicting most of these results long-term.

        3. Mood: We propose as a screening test for depression a single item extracted from the
           Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D), widely used for its validity
           and reliability. This unique and simple measure of depression was shown to be strongly
           correlated with a clinical diagnosis of depression; it detects patients rarely or
           sometimes depressed and patients depressed occasionally or much of the time.

        4. Activities of daily living: The assessment of functional status in older people should
           include assessment of so-called basic activities of daily living (ADLs), including the
           skills necessary for life such as dressing, grooming, bathing and feeding. ADL is a tool
           that has been used as a predictor of hospitalization and mortality in elderly patients.

           To develop the activities of daily living (ADL) of the GAH scale, items were selected
           from the Vulnerable Elders Survey (VES-13) with two additional questions.

        5. Subjective health status: The patient rating his or her own health is another worthwhile
           parameter. This is why a self-rated health item was also selected, also included in the
           Vulnerable Elders Survey (VES-13). Recently it has been determined that this is a
           predictive parameter of functional impairment or death.

        6. Nutrition: Nutritional deficit is a common serious problem in elderly patients,
           contributing significantly to morbidity and mortality associated with this group of
           people. To determine this dimension, some items were selected from the short version of
           the full questionnaire, Mini-Nutritional Assessment. This tool was developed and
           validated in representative samples of older patients worldwide and it identifies
           subjects at nutritional risk.

        7. Mental State: To evaluate mental state, all the items were selected that make up the
           Short Portable Mental Status Questionnaire (SPMSQ). It is designed and validated to
           assess four aspects of intellectual functioning: short and long-term memory,
           orientation, information on daily events and computing ability. It has been observed
           that cognitive impairment is also an independent predictor of mortality and the end of
           chemotherapy.

        8. Comorbidity: Six variables of comorbidity and habits were considered (diabetes mellitus,
           cancer, lung disease, heart failure, smoking), drawn from the Prognostic Index for
           4-year Mortality in Older Adults.

      The final score of the GAH scale has not yet been defined. At present, for purely exploratory
      purposes, each of the dimensions was assigned a dichotomous score (0 or 1), generating a
      provisional score ranging from 0 (best possible health status) to 8 (worst health status).
      The recently published study showed that the GAH scale is a measuring instrument that meets
      the expected psychometric properties (feasibility, ceiling-floor effect, reliability and
      validity) for a tool to determine health status in elderly patients with haematological
      diseases. Also, it has been determined that this scale is sensitive to change <pending
      (reference short report)>, since it is able to detect changes in the health status of
      patients after a certain time and is able to predict survival in this patient group.

      This study aims to determine the weights of each of the dimensions of the GAH scale, as well
      as cut-off points for the final score of the scale that will be used to predict treatment
      tolerability in elderly patients diagnosed with MDS/ AML, MM or CLL (chronic lymphocytic
      leukemia).
    
  