
    
      Many college students engage in heavy episodic drinking, a pattern that increases risks of
      undesired academic, social, health, and legal consequences. Fortunately, brief motivational
      interventions - when administered during face-to-face sessions by a trained counselor - can
      help students to reduce their heavy drinking and related consequences. However, use of such
      counselor-administered interventions on college campuses remains infrequent; instead,
      administrators rely on computerized brief interventions because they can be administered with
      fewer staff at lower cost. Two computer-administered interventions (AlcoholEdu and Alcohol
      101 Plus) are used by more than 1,000 colleges and universities nationwide, even though these
      interventions have not been evaluated in controlled studies. Despite the magnitude of the
      college-drinking problem, no data have addressed the differential efficacy (or
      cost-effectiveness) of the computer-administered versus counselor-administered brief
      motivational interventions. Thus, the primary purpose of the proposed research is to address
      gaps in the scientific literature by evaluating outcomes of three types of brief motivational
      interventions: a theoretically-based and empirically-tested counselor-administered
      intervention and the two most popular computerized interventions. A secondary purpose of the
      proposed research is to identify predictors of outcomes, and moderators associated with
      differential intervention response. A tertiary purpose is to assess the cost-effectiveness of
      three types of brief motivational interventions. The proposed research will be a randomized
      controlled trial with four treatment conditions and four assessment occasions. We will
      recruit at-risk student drinkers who have been sanctioned to receive an alcohol education
      intervention because they violated a residence hall policy. These referred students will be
      randomized to one of the three interventions, or to a delayed intervention control; and
      assessed at baseline and again 1, 6, and 12 months later on key drinking and drinking
      consequences outcomes.
    
  