
    
      Patients presenting to the surgical clinic for elective repair of ventral hernia defects will
      be offered the opportunity to participate in a study that aims to reduce post-operative pain.
      Benefits and risks will be discussed with the patient, and the patient will understand that
      their decision to opt in or opt out will not affect the minimum standard of care. Once
      agreeable, the patient will undergo pre-infusion assessment. Such pre-operative evaluation
      will include complete pain history, quantitative pain assessment, medical history, physical
      exam, electrocardiogram, and laboratory workup. Specific workup will focus on heart failure
      or liver disease, as these increase the toxicity of lidocaine. Nevertheless, the low dose of
      infusion planned is not contraindicated with heart or liver disease. Patients will then be
      assigned equally and randomly to experimental and control groups. Physicians will be blinded
      from these assignments. The experimental patient will be treated with IV lidocaine bolus of
      1.5 mg/kg and thereafter with infusion at 0.5 mg/kg/hour. Infusion will begin at least one
      hour prior to incision and continued for 24 hours after incision, unless adverse reactions
      experienced. Post-operative pain in eight-hour increments will be recorded. Additional
      opiates required to control pain during admission and after discharge will be recorded.
      Length of hospital stay will also be documented. The electronic medical record will be
      utilized to collect the below parameters. The control group will receive standard of care,
      along with placebo volume and rate of administration of saline equivalent to the volume and
      rate of the lidocaine infusion. To monitor inpatient pain medication, each patient in the
      control and experimental group will be prescribed the same analgesia PRN orders. The MAR
      feature in the electronic patient record will allow determination of the amount of PRN pain
      medication doses required by each patient. Physicians will be blinded and continue to adjust
      pain medication orders as needed for optimal patient care. Narcotic requirements for each
      patient can be standardized to morphine equivalents for analysis.

      To monitor outpatient pain medication, each patient in the control and experiential group
      upon discharge will be given the same analgesia prescriptions, e.g. oxy 5 mg dips #30.
      Patients will bring back their bottles of pills to be counted at the 2-week post-operative
      visit. The investigators will call patients at the 30th post-operative day to see how much of
      the pain medication is in continued use.
    
  