
    
      2019-new Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infection (COVID-19) is highly contagious and responsible
      for thousands of casualties. Originated in Wuhan (China), the 2019-nCoV is spreading to many
      countries, including Italy, Korea and Japan. While no targeted-treatment against 2019-nCoV
      virus is available to-date, inhaled nitric oxide gas (NO) has shown antiviral activity
      against Coronavirus during the 2003 SARS outbreak. The investigators designed this study to
      assess whether inhaled NO improves survival in patients affected with severe COVID-2019.

      The clinical spectrum of symptomatic patients ranges from mild upper respiratory syndrome to
      severe diffuse viral pneumonia in the context of severe multiorgan dysfunction leading to
      death. In China, overall reported fatality rate is between 2.2% in patients with proven
      infection. In hospitalized patients with COVID-19, about 25% required admission to ICU. Of
      these, 61% of patients met clinical criteria for acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
      In another retrospective study in Wuhan (China) on 52 critically ill patients with COVID-19,
      the incidence of patients with pneumonia meeting ARDS criteria was 67%. ICU mortality reached
      63%, with various profiles of combined organ failure in deceased patients (81% with ARDS,
      37.5% with AKI, 28% with cardiac injury and 28% with liver failure).

      In 2004, during the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (SARS-CoV) outbreak, it was
      demonstrated that treatment with NO reversed pulmonary hypertension, improved severe hypoxia
      and shortened the length of ventilatory support as compared to matched control patients with
      SARS-CoV. In a subsequent in-vitro study, NO donors (e.g. S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine)
      greatly increased the survival rate of SARS-CoV-infected eukaryotic cells, suggesting direct
      antiviral effects of NO. Coronavirus responsible for SARS-CoV shares most of the genome of
      COVID-19 indicating potential effectiveness of inhaled NO therapy in these patients.

      Here, the investigators propose a randomized clinical trial aimed to prevent progression of
      the disease in patients with severe acute respiratory syndrome.

      Control group: the institutional standard of care will be delivered. Treatment group: in
      addition to standard therapy, the subjects will receive inhalation of NO. Inspired NO/N2 will
      be delivered at 80 parts per million (ppm) in the first 48 hours of enrollment. After that,
      NO levels will be decreased to 40 ppm until severe hypoxia resolves. Weaning from NO will
      start when patients improves the level of oxygenation to a PaO2/FiO2 > 300 mmHg or SpO2 > 93%
      for more than 24 hours consecutively. Physician will follow their own institutional weaning
      protocols. In the absence of institutional protocols, NO will be reduced every 4 hours in
      step-wise fashion starting from 40 ppm to 20, 10, 5, 3, 2 and 1 ppm. If hypoxemia (SpO2 <
      93%) or acute hypotension (systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg) occurs during weaning, NO
      should be increased to a prior higher concentration.

      Safety: prolonged treatment with inhaled NO can lead to increased methemoglobin levels. Blood
      levels of methemoglobin will be monitored via a non-invasive CO-oximeter or MetHb levels in
      blood. If methemoglobin levels rise above 5% at any point of the study, inhaled NO
      concentration will be halved.
    
  