
    
      In Sierra Leone, a dangerous gap remains between long-term psychosocial needs and adequate
      services. As youth affected by the war begin to enter adulthood, they face new challenges
      including unemployment, interrupted education, the need to support families, marginalization
      and stigma, as well as the remaining psychological effects of exposure to war. Healthy social
      integration is critical to the long-term wellbeing of this generation, but the evidence base
      on effective interventions to improve skills and self-efficacy is severely limited. Despite
      the high burden of mental health problems among war-affected youth in Sub-Saharan Africa, few
      empirically-supported behavioral treatments (ESBTs) or evidence-based interventions have been
      implemented in this region. This study stands to make an important contribution to knowledge
      on effective and culturally-sensitive mental health services that can be implemented in
      settings fraught by multiple hardships, including war, poverty, low educational attainment,
      and other hardships.

      This exploratory randomized control study of youth aged 15-24 comparing outcomes among youth
      participating in YRI proceeding enrollment in an income generating activity program (YRI +
      EP) to a control group that participates only in income generating activity programs (EP).
      This study is not fully powered to detect differences between groups and is instead a test of
      the intervention feasibility and acceptability, with quantitative participant assessments
      occurring at baseline, 3-months, 6-months, and 12-months with respect to employment related
      measures, and participant and interventionists interviews to elucidate mechanisms by which
      the intervention was more or less successful.

      The YRI is an evidence-based group intervention developed in 2010 to address key emotional,
      behavioral, and functioning difficulties identified by the PI's prior longitudinal study of
      war-affected youth. The YRI has three overarching goals: (1) To improve interpersonal and
      community relationships through work with youth and community members; (2) To help vulnerable
      youth develop skills in emotional regulation, problem-solving, and interpersonal interactions
      necessary to be successful members of their communities; (3) To promote the healthy
      integration of difficult memories for youth who experience difficulties due to traumatic
      exposure. Primary mental health outcomes include decreased anxiety, hostility, and
      depression, and increased pro-social attitudes, as measured by the Oxford Refugee Studies
      Psychosocial Adjustment Scale and the African Youth Psychosocial Assessment. During this
      study YRI will be delivered by trained counselors,

      Income generating activity programming will be carried out by GOAL and their partner St.
      George's Foundation through use of their current grant funding. GOAL focuses on supporting
      people in need by providing healthcare resources, advocating and advancing child protection
      practices and policies, and administering livelihood programs to empower them improve their
      lives in a sustainable manner. The St. George's Foundation's addresses child welfare concerns
      by actively reaching out to homeless and orphaned children. Their already existing employment
      program is 4 months in length and consists of skills training, soft skills development
      (primarily in numeracy and literacy), and a cash transfer of $200. The employment
      intervention is carried out by social workers and counselors, who have been trained to
      support delivery of the intervention.
    
  