
    
      BACKGROUND:

      During the past decade, a number of advances have been made in the treatment of patients with
      sickle cell anemia and thalassemia. Among these advances is allogeneic bone marrow
      transplantation, which is the only current treatment that offers a potential for cure. In
      sickle cell anemia, transplantation has been performed in patients who have had advanced
      organ damage. In thalassemia, transplantation has been performed before having any evidence
      of iron-related tissue damage. Due to concerns over engraftment and graft versus host disease
      (GVHD), transplants for patients with hemoglobinopathies have been limited to situations in
      which a human leukocyte antigen (HLA) compatible donor existed. Unfortunately, an HLA-matched
      related donor is often not available. Umbilical cord blood (UCB), a recently recognized
      source of hematopoietic stem cells, has been used to successfully transplant bone marrow to
      over 500 patients. The potential advantage of cord blood over other donor sources of stem
      cells is the minimal risk of high-grade GVHD (even without complete HLA compatibility).

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This study will establish a national sibling donor cord blood (SDCB) program, evaluate its
      use in a multi-center pilot study of transplantation, and develop a Web-based data management
      system to support these two projects. A multi-center pilot study was conducted on cord blood
      transplantation in children with either sickle cell disease or thalassemia. The investigators
      tested the hypothesis that a novel immunosuppressive conditioning regimen (fludarabine,
      cyclophosphamide, and busulfan) and post transplant therapy (mycophenolate mofetil and
      cyclosporine) would improve engraftment rates and prevent disease recurrence. The effect of
      SDCB transplantation on hematologic parameters and GVHD was monitored. Enrollment in the
      study was suspended on December 29, 2003. The protocol was revised, replacing the previous
      conditioning regimen of fludarabine, busulfan, and cyclophosphamide with a more conventional
      regimen of rabbit anti-thymocyte globulin (Sangstat), busulfan, and cyclophosphamide. The
      revised protocol is open for enrollment.
    
  