
    
      Renal manifestations of chronic hyperoxaluria include nephrolithiasis and, when extreme,
      interstitial scarring and progressive loss of function. The clinical outcome can be dismal.
      Although primary hyperoxaluria is relatively rare, hyperoxaluria secondary to
      gastrointestinal malabsorption is not. Furthermore, the formation of calcium oxalate kidney
      stones is extremely common, and evidence suggests that minimal, perhaps transient elevations
      in urinary oxalate concentration may be an important factor in at least a subgroup of these
      patients with "idiopathic" calcium oxalate urolithiasis. In the case of enteric hyperoxaluria
      the pathogenic role of oxalate is clear, and renal scarring is commonly observed as a
      consequence of oxalate exposure and calcium oxalate crystal deposition, in addition to
      stones. Unfortunately, few satisfactory specific treatments for enteric hyperoxaluria are
      available. Typical strategies include dietary restriction of oxalate to limit its delivery to
      the colon; low fat diets to limit malabsorption and distal colonic effects of fatty acids and
      bile acids; oral calcium to bind oxalate; and bile acid sequestrants like cholestyramine. In
      its entirety, this regimen is quite rigorous for patients, and even if compliance is achieved
      the therapy is not always effective. Previous studies have shown that components of the
      endogenous digestive microflora can utilize oxalate, potentially limiting its absorption from
      the intestinal lumen. A recent preliminary study demonstrated that a preparation of lactic
      acid bacteria degraded oxalate in vitro and reduced urinary oxalate excretion when given by
      mouth. We have recently demonstrated that the same preparation of lactic acid bacilli
      (Oxadrop) can reduce urinary oxalate excretion in patients with enteric hyperoxaluria. In the
      current proposal, in a placebo-controlled trial we will determine the effectiveness of this
      and another probiotic preparation (Agri-King Synbiotic) [AKSB] for the treatment of
      hyperoxaluria in patients with mild hyperoxaluria, as well as enteric hyperoxaluria.

      Specific Aims are: 1) Determine the effect of two probiotic preparations (AKSB and Oxadrop on
      urinary oxalate excretion in a well-defined group of patients with enteric hyperoxaluria; and
      2) Determine the effect of two probiotic preparations (AKSB and Oxadrop) on urinary oxalate
      excretion in a well-defined group of patients with idiopathic calcium oxalate urolithiasis
      and mild hyperoxaluria. If results are positive, treatment for calcium oxalate kidney stones
      could be revolutionized.
    
  