
    
      The primary objective is to describe, in the clinical practice, the rate of events leading to
      permanent discontinuation after 2 years of treatment with dasatinib as frontline therapy in
      newly diagnosed CML patients. Imatinib mesylate, a protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)
      targeting BCR-ABL, has become in the last decade the standard of care for Chronic Myeloid
      Leukaemia (CML) in chronic phase (CP)1-3. Dasatinib is a second generation TKI, effective in
      imatinib-resistant and imatinib-intolerant patients, which demonstrated superior efficacy to
      imatinib in early CP BCR-ABL+ CML patients 4,6,7. Most data on second generation TKIs are
      from company-sponsored studies, generally implemented in selected referral centres. The
      long-term outcome is still unknown. The high rate of study discontinuation observed within
      the phase 3 study may influence the mid-term and the long-term data interpretation6,7. A
      long-term post-marketing surveillance in large independent trial is extremely important to
      confirm the feasibility of a frontline treatment with the second generation TKI dasatinib and
      to evaluate the efficacy in a nationwide experience. Moreover, obtaining a deep molecular
      response is extremely relevant in order to consider TKIs discontinuation. This condition is
      known as "Complete Molecular Response" (CMR) and is further defined according to the
      sensitivity achieved (for the definition see the "Criteria of evaluation" section). As far as
      treatment discontinuation, two experiences have been published so far, aimed at evaluating
      the persistence of the CMR after imatinib discontinuation. The first was a pilot study32
      where 12 patients were included. These 12 patients discontinued imatinib after at least 2
      years of CMR (median duration of negativity, 32 months). Six patients displayed a molecular
      relapse with a detectable BCR-ABL transcript at 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 months. Imatinib was then
      reintroduced and led to a novel molecular response. Six other patients (50%) still have an
      undetectable level of BCR-ABL transcript after a median follow-up of 18 months (range, 9-24
      months). The results of this pilot trial have been confirmed and extended in a second trial,
      the STIM trial33: 100 patients were enrolled, median follow-up 17 months, 69 patients with at
      least 12 months follow-up: 42 (61%) of these 69 patients relapsed (40 before 6 months, one
      patient at month 7, and one at month 19). At 12 months, the probability of persistent CMR for
      these 69 patients was 41% (95% CI 29-52). All patients who relapsed responded to
      reintroduction of imatinib. An increase of the CMR rate could possibly translate in a higher
      proportion of patients candidate to stopping anti-CML treatment, with higher probability of
      remaining disease-free in the long term. Interestingly, dasatinib was able to induce higher
      36-month cumulative MR4 and MR4.5 rates than imatinib7. The advantages of this possible
      future scenario could be: first, the possibility of treatment discontinuation at least in
      patients with chronic clinical adverse events; second, a potential reduction of the costs of
      TKI treatment (after the introduction of TKI, the costs of CML treatment is increasing year
      by year, with the increasing prevalence of CML patients).

      In summary, 1) Most data on second generation TKIs are from company-sponsored studies; 2) The
      high rate of study discontinuation observed within the phase III study may influence the data
      interpretation; 3) A long-term post-marketing surveillance in large independent trial is
      extremely important to confirm the efficacy in a nationwide experience; 4) The persistence of
      CMR after TKI discontinuation have been described in selected patients with "deep" molecular
      response; 5) A stable CMR is a pre-requisite for treatment discontinuation; 6) A detailed
      description of the kinetic of the molecular response, potentially related to a subsequent
      treatment discontinuation, will be done.
    
  