
    
      Color measurements Color measurements were performed with a spectrophotometer (SpectroShade
      Micro, MHT Optic Research AG, Niederhasli, Switzerland) by the same experienced dentist in
      the present study. Spectrophotometer was calibrated and used according to manufacturer
      instructions before each set of measurements. All participants were asked for not to mouth
      breath during color measurements. All of the color measurements were carried out under
      standard light conditions with the aim of minimizing the possible inaccurate readings.

      Dehydration procedure Spectrophotometric color measurements were performed at the study
      inception and baseline color parameters were recorded. Lips were retracted by using a lip and
      cheek retractor which placed within 10 s. Upper central and lateral incisors were isolated
      with cotton rolls and air dried for 5 s. Excess saliva was removed with a suction and
      participants keep their mouth half-opened with the help of silicone mouth bite blocks.
      Spectrophotometric measurements were carried out three times during 30 min with 10 min
      intervals during the dehydration period for each test tooth.

      Rehydration procedure At the end of the dehydration procedure, lip retractor and cotton rolls
      were removed and full-mouth rinse with water was done for 30 s. Participants asked to drink a
      bottle of water and close their mouth for 30 min. Participants were asked to return to
      routine daily activity, but not to consume staining beverages such as coffe or red wine.
      Tooth rehydration process was started when test teeth get in contact with saliva.
      Spectrophotometric measurements were carried out at 30 min and 24 h of rehydration.

      CIELAB color parameters (L*,a*,b*) were used to calculate color differences (ΔE) between
      baseline and other measurement periods for each tooth and gingival, middle and incisal thirds
      separetely. Color difference was calculated by using an equation;
      ΔE*=[(ΔL*)2+(Δa*)2+(Δb*)2]1/2. ΔE values were compared to threshold values of
      acceptability(ΔE*=3,7) and perceptibility(ΔE*=1). 11 Color difference and color parameters of
      30 min and 24h dehydration was compared to baseline color parameters.
    
  