
    
      PARP proteins are involved in base excision repair (BER), one of the major DNA repair system
      in cells. Recently, it was showed that PARP inhibitors have striking efficacy in patients
      with BRCA1 deficient or triple negative breast cancer in monotherapy or in combination with
      cisplatin based chemotherapy, without increased systemic toxicity. Pertubations affecting
      homologous recombination (HR) involved in DNA repair are associated with higher probability
      of response to PARP inhibitors. Inactivation of PTEN, tumor suppressor protein, is associated
      with defects in HR and response to PARP inhibitors.

      Recently, PARP expression was evaluated in TGCTs. It was showed that PARP is overexpressed in
      testicular germ cell tumours compared to normal testis and PARP overexpression is early event
      in TGCTs development. Patients with low PARP expression in primary tumour had
      non-significantly better OS compared to patients with high PARP expression (5-year OS 89.2%
      vs 78.7%; HR=0.50, 95% CI 0.21 to 1.17, p=0.12).Loss of the tumor suppressor gene PTEN marks
      the transition from intratubular germ cell neoplasias (ITGCN) to invasive germ cell tumors.
      In the testis, PTEN was abundantly expressed in germ cells whereas it was virtually absent
      from 56% of seminomas as well as from 86% of embryonal carcinomas and virtually all
      teratomas. On the contrary, ITGCN intensely expressed PTEN, indicating that loss of PTEN
      expression is not in early event in testicular tumor development, but is associated with
      progression of disease. Previously, it was showed, that testicular germ cell tumors cell
      lines have low activity of proteins involved in nuclear excision repair (NER) and it is
      assumed that low NER activity is related to the favorable response of testis tumors to
      cisplatin-based chemotherapy.

      Gemcitabine and carboplatin showed activity in refractory TGCTs. Recently, maximal tolerated
      dose of Veliparib (ABT-888) with gemcitabine and carboplatin was established.

      Based on aforementioned data, there is strong rationale to inhibit PARP in TGCT. Inactivation
      of PARP by Veliparib along with defects of homologous recombination due to PTEN inactivation
      in GCTs and low activity of nucleotide excision repair system will dramatically increase
      antitumor effect gemcitabine and carboplatin in patients with progressing or relapsing germ
      cell cancer.
    
  