
    
      Total knee replacement (TKR) surgery is one the most common orthopaedic procedure in the
      world. Morbility in perioperative TKR is associated to: blood loss, pain, infection, wound
      complications, stiffness and thrombotic events. Blood loss and transfusion have been
      associated to increased hospital stay, costs, morbility and mortality of the patient.
      Indications for blood transfusions are now limited and it is well known that is not a free
      risk procedure. Complications such as; ABO incompatibility, viral transmission, hemolysis,
      immunosuppression and wound infection have been reported.

      Literature reports have reported blood loss in TKR ranging from 300ml to 1 liter, and
      transfusion rate varying from 10-38%. In diminishing hospital cost Moskal J. et al reported
      53.90% of savings and a 100% reduction in working hours of the hospital staff using topical
      tranexamic acid in TKR. Tranexamic acid is an antifibrinolytic agent that acts inhibiting the
      plasminogen, stabilizing the blood clot; it is used to stop surgical or traumatic bleeding
      like in the CRASH-2 trial, demonstrating its efficiency in the polytraumatized patients.
      Tranexamic acid has been used in the last years for blood loss with good results. Due to its
      systemic effects and past medical history of myocardial infarction, stents and previous
      thromboembolic events its intravenous use is limited. In this study the investigators will
      use topical tranexamic acid and its use has been proven in clinical trials as secure strategy
      por blood loss reduction in TKR, without excluding patients with previous thromboembolic
      events.

      Platelet rich plasma (PRP) is an orthobiologic that has played an important role over the
      past decade in different areas like; spinal fusion, anterior cruciate ligament
      reconstruction, osteoarthrosis and tendinopathies. The use of PRP in orthopaedics is
      overrated and true indications for its use and cost benefit are still unclear. Retrospective
      studies like Pace T et al in 268 patients did not demonstrated differences in hospital stay,
      Postoperative hemoglobin levels, range of motion with the use PRP in TKR. Morishita M. Et al
      in a clinical trial of 40 patients, using intralesional PRP didn´t show any benefits for
      blood loss reduction in TKR, but good clinical results were observed in clinical scores like
      Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) and Visual Analog Scale (VAS) compared to
      the control group. Other studies have demonstrated the efficacy of topical PRP in blood loss
      reduction in TKR.

      Due to its high platelet concentration and growth factors contained in the alfa granules; it
      is used as an hemostatic, analgesic and antiseptic agent in TKR.

      There is a variety of blood loss prevention strategies for TKR and this strategies can be
      divided in preoperative, intraoperative or postoperative. The aim of this study is to compare
      the use of topical tranexamic acid versus topical platelet rich plasma.

      An Insall knee approach, parapatellar medial will be used in all the patients. After the
      final cuts of the femoral, tibial and patellar and before placing the final cemented
      components the experimental intervention of the study will begin.

      Group 1. A dosis of 2 gr of tranexamic acid (1000mg/10ml X-GEN pharmaceuticals inc.) is
      diluted in 80ml of physiologic solution and will be divided in two applications:

      First application: 40ml of the solution previously prepared is applied over the surgical site
      and it will be left for five minutes then drained out completely by suction.

      Second application: The rest of 40ml of solution previously prepared is applied after placing
      the final TKR cemented components (femoral, tibial and patellar), over the surgical site and
      leaving it there without draining it by suction.

      Group 2. In the preoperative room with previous premedication, a total of 55cc of total
      venous blood is obtained from the forearm (cubital o basilic veins). The blood is carried on
      12 steriles tubes using sodium citrate at 3.8% as anticoagulant (BD, Vacutainer; Becton,
      Dickinson and Company, NJ). Blood samples are then transported to the Bank of Tissue (Banco
      de hueso Dr. José E. Gonzalez) where by centrifugation at 1800 rpm for 10 minutes which makes
      a separation of the 3 layers (White, yellow and red). The superior layer rich in plasma will
      be collected in 50 microliters polypropylene tubes (Corning,NY). A final volumen of 16 ml of
      platelet rich plasma is obtained and will transferred to airtight tubes (BD Vacutainer;
      Becton, Dickinson and Company, NJ). The manipulation of the blood samples is made on laminar
      flow cabin biosecurity class II (Logic 3440801; Labconco, KC). The platelet rich plasma will
      be activated with calcium gluconate at 10% (Pisa Farmacéutica, Jalisco, México) before using
      it is placed in the surgical site topically. The PRP simple will be divided in two
      applications, initiating the intervention after the final cuts of the TKR components (like
      the tranexamic acid group).

      First application: 8 ml of PRP are applied over the surgical site and are left for five
      minutes then drained out completely by suction.

      Second application: The rest of the 8 ml are applied over the surgical site after placing the
      final TKR cemented components (femoral, tibial and patellar), over the surgical site and
      leaving it without draining.

      Then a primary closure of the wound is performed (capsule, fascia, subcutaneous tissue and
      skin) in both groups. A close drainage (Drenovac, NEdren S de R.L. de C.V.) is left
      intraarticular and fixed to the skin. The drainage will be clamped for 2 hours and removed at
      the 48 hours of the surgery. Thromboprophylaxis (low weight heparin) will be initiated after
      6 hours of the end of the surgery. In the postoperative follow up, any patient with
      hemoglobin levels less than 9mg/dL with anemic syndrome will be transfused.
    
  