
    
      Experimental Design This is a prospective, randomized and controlled clinical trial designed
      to evaluate the clinical and radiographic outcomes 12 months after two treatment modalities
      of IBDs: test sites ( TS) will be treated by a combination of PRF and ABB; control sites (CS)
      will receive the combined treatment of collagen membrane + ABB. The patients enrolled will
      exhibit unfavorable IBDs and all experimental sites will be accessed with a simplified
      papilla preservation flap (SPPF) procedure. The filling material (ABB) will be common to both
      treatments: therefore, the investigation focused on the addictive effect of PRF used instead
      of COLLAGEN MEMBRANE. Collagen membrane is chosen as the active control (AC) as it is
      currently considered as the "gold standard" among the biological agents for the treatment of
      IBDs.

      A non-inferiority trial (NIT) is designed to verify whether to use PRF instead of collagen
      membrane in association with ABB can lead to not inferior therapeutic results, reducing the
      treatment's cost and allowing the clinicians to use autogenous materials only.

      Study Population 62 patients (33 males and 29 females) aged 42 to 64 years (mean: 53±12)
      seeking treatment at the Unit of Periodontology of the "G. D'Annunzio" University of Chieti-
      Pescara, Italy, and affected by moderate-to-severe chronic periodontitis, will be selected
      for the study. The inclusion criteria are: 1) no systemic diseases; 2) no medications
      affecting periodontal status during the previous 6 months; 3) not pregnant or lactating; 4)
      non-smoker; and 5) the following dental and periodontal factors: a full-mouth plaque score
      (FMPS)25 and a full-mouth bleeding score (FMBS)26 < 20% at the time of surgery, no
      periodontal therapy in the 2 previous years, no inadequate endodontic treatment at the
      experimental sites, no dental mobility, ≥ 20 teeth, exhibit vertical bone loss detected by
      radiographic examination ( ACL (alveolar crest level) - (BD bottom of the defect) distance =
      BDD (Bone defect depth ) ≥ 4 mm and a probing pocket depth (PPD) ≥ 5mm when evaluated 12
      weeks after non- surgical therapy [ scaling and root planing ( SRP)]. Only predominantly 1-,
      combined 1- and 2-, 2-walls defects or teeth with a defect angle ≥ 36° were considered in
      this study (unfavorable IBDs). To be included in this category, the IBDs should not have a
      3-wall component >20% of the total defect depth. The architecture of the defect had to be
      confirmed by observation during the surgical intervention. Each patient will participate in
      the study with a single experimental site. In the case that a patient will have more than one
      IBD with clinical features that could be eligible for study, the most severe defect will be
      chosen. The participants volunteered for the study after they will receive verbal and written
      information and signed a consent form approved by the Ethical Committee of the G. D'Annunzio
      University of Chieti - medical faculty. The study protocol is in accordance with the
      Declaration of Helsinki of 1975, revised in Tokyo in 2004. The study was performed from
      February 2013 to December 2016. Four months before the surgical treatment, all 44 patients
      will undergo SRP by ultrasonic instruments II and hand curettes¶ and motivational
      instructions on oral home care.
    
  