
    
      Maternal mortality is a substantial burden in developing countries. The World Health
      Organization (WHO) estimates that between 500,000 to 600,000 women die from complications
      related to pregnancy and childbirth each year, with 99% of these deaths occurring in
      developing countries (WHO/UNICEF/UNFPA, 2000). It is estimated that pregnancy-related causes
      result in about one-quarter to one-third of the deaths of women in their reproductive years
      (Koblinsky, 1995). Improving maternal mortality has received recognition at the global level
      as evidenced by the inclusion of reducing maternal mortality in the Millennium Development
      Goals (United Nations, 2004).

      Among problems experienced by women related to child-bearing, maternal mortality is the "tip
      of the iceberg". Consideration of the morbidity associated with pregnancy, delivery and the
      postpartum period is essential in understanding the burden of diseases due to maternal
      causes. The WHO estimates that up to 300 million women suffer from short- or long-term
      illnesses related to pregnancy and childbirth (WHO, 1998). In addition, the WHO estimates
      that in developing countries, death and disability related to maternal morbidity account for
      18.5% of the burden of disease among women of reproductive age (WHO, 1998).

      In Bangladesh, recent studies have suggested that a large proportion of women giving birth in
      rural areas experience pregnancy- and delivery- related complications (NIPORT et al, 2001),
      and more than 80% of the women suffer from a serious postpartum illness (Goodburn et al,
      1994; BIRPERHT, 1994). In the baseline survey for the project "Community-Based Interventions
      to Reduce Neonatal Mortality in Bangladesh" in Sylhet, a total of 75% of women reported at
      least one maternal complication during pregnancy, delivery and the postpartum.

      There is little evidence as to the effect of maternal care interventions on maternal
      morbidity. Several studies have evaluated the impact of traditional birth attendant (TBA)
      training on morbidity and referral rates. In a review of 15 studies on the effects of TBA
      training programs, Ray and Salihu found an improvement in maternal morbidities in two of the
      three studies reviewed, and an impact on referral rates in six of the seven studies reviewed
      (Ray & Salihu, 2004). In a meta-analysis conducted by Sibley et al, there was no effect
      detected between TBA training and recognition of maternal complications, referral for
      complications or on maternal compliance with referral (Sibley, Sipe, & Koblinsky, 2004).

      Maternal morbidity is a substantial burden on the health of women in Bangladesh and
      throughout developing countries. Further research is needed to more carefully document the
      community-based incidence of maternal morbidity and to evaluate program impact on maternal
      morbidity.

      The objectives of this study are to provide data on descriptive information on self-reported
      maternal morbidities for future planning, and to measure the effect of a package of maternal
      care interventions by comparing differences in care seeking for perceived complications and
      the unmet obstetric need (based on major obstetric interventions (MOI) for facility-validated
      absolute maternal indications (AMI) ) among the three arms, and by comparing anemia rates
      among the three arms.
    
  