
    
      Patients, age newborn to 21 years, followed in the High Risk Congenital Heart Defect Clinic
      at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta at Egleston will be asked to participate in this trial.
      The term "high risk" is assigned to a patient with the following diagnoses or medical
      problems: critical aortic stenosis, truncus arteriosus (with or without interrupted aortic
      arch), patients with complex single ventricle physiology (such as hypoplastic left heart
      syndrome, unbalanced AV canal, tricuspid atresia, transposition of the great vessels with
      ventricular septal defect and pulmonary stenosis, mitral atresia, pulmonary atresia with
      intact ventricular septum), left ventricular outflow tract obstruction requiring Konno
      procedure, transposition of the great vessels (with or without ventricular septal defect),
      pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect, interrupted aortic arch (with or without
      ventricular septal defect), anatomy requiring "double switch" procedure, aortic arch
      abnormality requiring transverse arch graft, total anomalous pulmonary venous return, anatomy
      requiring any of the following procedures: Damas-Kaye-Stansel procedure, ventricular septal
      defect enlargement, or resection of subpulmonic stenosis during arterial switch procedure,
      atrial septectomy, neonatal repositioning of the tricuspid valve for Ebstein anomaly, Ross
      procedure in infancy; mitral stenosis with mitral valve replacement in infancy, and any other
      cardiac abnormality requiring surgical repair in infancy with residual hemodynamically
      significant lesions. In addition, patients with infantile Marfan syndrome, or kawasaki
      disease with coronary artery aneurysm will also be included.

      Informed consent will be obtained from the parent or legally authorized representative for
      all study participants. An Assent, either verbal or written, will also be obtained if the
      child is over the age of six (6). A sequential and unique subject number (i.e. NES.001,
      NES.002) will be assigned by the investigator or designee to each qualified subject after
      informed consent has been obtained. Once a subject number is assigned, it will not be used
      again by the investigator. Subjects who are asked to participate but refuse participation in
      the study will not be assigned a study number.

      Investigational Plan:

      A single-center, retrospective registry design will be utilized. After consent, the following
      data will be collected from each study participant's chart each time he or she attends
      clinic:

        -  Name

        -  Contact information (or confirm contact information)

        -  Names of other care providers

        -  Primary Diagnosis

        -  Secondary Diagnoses

        -  Age at time of visit

        -  Vital signs including blood pressure, heart rate, respirations, pulse oximetry

        -  Weight at time of visit

        -  If applicable, echocardiography data including m-mode, tissue doppler and color flow
           Doppler

        -  History and Physical including surgical history

        -  Medications

        -  Nutritional Status

        -  Growth Parameters

        -  If applicable, most recent standard of care laboratories

        -  If applicable, MRI results

        -  EKG findings

      All procedures are standard of care. The collection of data for this registry will not effect
      the care provided to each patient. The individual physician has the right to diagnose and
      treat each patient according to standard of care procedures and his/her own medical
      judgement.

      Participation in this registry will last as long as the patient is being followed in the high
      risk clinic at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta.
    
  