
    
      The metabolic syndrome is a serious health condition that affects about 35 percent of adults
      and places them at higher risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, stroke and diseases
      related to fatty buildups in artery walls. The underlying causes of metabolic syndrome are
      obesity, being overweight, physical inactivity and genetic factors. In recent decades, the
      prevalence has increased dramatically in the United States. Lifestyle interventions including
      dietary modification, physical activity and weight loss form the basis of treatment for these
      patients. However, research has shown that even when people are able to incorporate these
      changes, they often revert back to their usual lifestyle resulting in weight gain and
      continued risk for diabetes and heart disease.

      Resveratrol, a natural plant derived compound found in grapes, peanuts and red wine, has been
      found to reverse some of the features of the metabolic syndrome (insulin resistance, high
      triglycerides, high blood pressure) in rodents. These improvements occurred without weight
      loss, and were proven to be a direct result of resveratrol ingestion. Other studies reveal
      improvement in cardiovascular health, tumor suppression, and longevity. However, there are
      few studies investigating these beneficial effects in humans. In a systematic review of
      resveratrol research, the authors conclude that "in contrast to the lacking data of
      resveratrol in humans, the animal data are promising and indicate the need for further human
      clinical trials." Of the small clinical studies that have been done, the results are
      encouraging. Improvement in triglycerides, blood pressure and insulin resistance were noted.
      Resveratrol was well tolerated without serious side effects. These studies, however, did not
      recruit subjects with the metabolic syndrome, nor were they tightly controlled.

      The investigators propose to prove that resveratrol, administered to subjects with the
      metabolic syndrome, under controlled conditions of weight stability, common diet, and strict
      compliance with the study drug, will improve the symptoms of the metabolic syndrome, thereby
      decreasing the chance of developing diabetes or heart disease.
    
  