
    
      This is a pilot study to test the effect of GMT plus Attention Training for Veterans with
      chronic mTBI. The research design is a parallel study with randomization to treatment or
      control with test administration at pre/post and six months following treatment. The
      investigators will enroll 50 Veterans with a diagnosis mTBI between the ages of 18 to 55,
      that demonstrate a deficit in attention, pass effort testing and have not changed
      psychotropic medication within the past two weeks. Treatment utilizes GMT for 10-weekly
      two-hour sessions and Brain HQ/Attention Process Training III for 10-weekly two-hour
      sessions. Control utilizes a complimentary Brain Health Workshop for 10-weely two-hour
      sessions and National Geographic movies for 10-weekly two-hour sessions.

      Aim 1: Determine the treatment effect of attention training combined with GMT in Veterans
      with mTBI.

      Hypothesis 1: GMT plus attention training will significantly improve performance on tests of
      cognition compared to the control group.

      Primary measure: Computerized Tower of London (cTOL) total time, time to first move and
      optimal moves). The investigators have found significant improvement in cTOL following GMT in
      previous cohorts of Veterans with blast-related mTBI and anticipate improvement following a
      combined intervention.

      Secondary measure: Attention Network Task (ANT) reaction time and errors for one or all
      dissociable components of three attentional systems (orienting, alerting, executive control)
      following intervention. There is little understanding of components of impaired attention and
      how it impacts executive function; therefore, there is limited guidance in shaping cognitive
      training. The investigators will conduct an experimental task (attention network task) that
      disassociates three attentional components (alerting, orienting, and executive control). The
      investigators will specifically target the orienting component of attention that is
      problematic for Veterans with mTBI and PTSD24, 26. Attentional processes are vital to
      goal-directed behavior. There is great potential in the use of these measures to identify
      individual differences (type of attention deficit) that could moderate treatment-related
      improvement and inform targeted interventions.

      Hypothesis 2: Treatment gains will translate to functional activities compared to controls.

      Primary measure of functional performance: test of grocery shopping skills (TOGSS) total time
      and optimal strategy use. The TOGSS captures efficiency in completing a real-world task and
      aligns with the strategy skills learned in GMT.

      Secondary measure of community participation, the Community Reintegration of Servicemembers
      (CRIS) extent of participation. The CRIS demonstrated significant GMT treatment effect
      compared to controls in Veterans with mTBI. The combined treatment of attention training
      using drill training and implementing strategies to improve attention in a functional setting
      through GMT will potentiate treatment effect to functional activities. Measuring functional
      improvement through performance-based measures and self-report of engagement in activities
      will demonstrate treatment translation.

      Tertiary analysis will be conducted on moderator variables: PTSD symptoms, Pain, History of
      Substance Abuse, Depression, number of concussions and combat exposure.

      Successful completion of the proposed study will provide insight into the effectiveness of
      the innovative combined treatment of attention and executive function in Veterans with mTBI
      and PTSD. Use of the ANT could better target treatment and lead to future examination of
      attention treatment on neuroplasticity.

      A multiple linear regression model will be used to determine if there is a significant
      association between treatment effect and comorbidities such as PTSD, depression, anxiety,
      pain, sleep, substance abuse, etc.
    
  