
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of clofarabine when administered with
           low-dose cytarabine and filgrastim (G-CSF) in patients with intermediate-2 or high-risk
           myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS).

        -  To evaluate efficacy as measured by hematologic response rates in patients who are
           treated with this novel combination of drugs and who are not candidates for more
           intensive treatment for intermediate-2 and high-risk MDS.

      Secondary

        -  To assess effects on quality of life of this patient population.

        -  To assess the time to acute myeloid leukemia transformation or death.

        -  To assess cytogenetic response rates.

        -  To assess changes in flow cytometric patterns.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, nonrandomized, dose-escalation study of clofarabine followed by a
      phase II study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive clofarabine IV over 1 hour and low-dose cytarabine
           subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-5. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) SC beginning 1
           day prior to the start of chemotherapy and continuing through completion of chemotherapy
           until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for up to 10 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of clofarabine until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive clofarabine at the MTD, cytarabine, and G-CSF as in phase I.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, prior to course 4, and after completion of study
      therapy.

      Patients undergo bone marrow biopsy at baseline and prior to courses 3, 6, and 8 for
      evaluation of treatment response. Bone marrow samples are analyzed for myeloblast phenotypic
      expression profiles, which include the following parameters: percentage of CD34-positive
      myeloblasts; antigen expression density of CD13, CD34, CD45, and CD117; and aberrant
      myeloblast expression of CD4, CD11c, CD15, and CD56.
    
  