
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

        1. To determine the safety and tolerability of abexinostat tosylate (abexinostat) and
           palbociclib in combination with fulvestrant.

        2. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for abexinostat and palbociclib when
           combined with fulvestrant at standard dose.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        1. To describe the pharmacokinetics associated with abexinostat.

        2. To describe the efficacy of abexinostat and palbociclib in combination with fulvestrant
           in patients with antiestrogen refractory estrogen receptor positive (ER+), HER2
           negative(-) breast cancer and gynecological metastatic tumors.

        3. To assess the clinical benefit rate (CBR) defined as complete response (CR), partial
           response (PR), and stable disease (SD) at 6 months and progression free survival
           according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

        1. To assess correlations between overall response rate (ORR), CBR at 6 months, and
           progression free survival (PFS) with genomic aberrations assessed as cell free tumor
           deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and histone acetylation on peripheral blood.

        2. To assess correlations between ORR, CBR at 6 months, and PFS endpoints and peripheral
           blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) histone deacetylase (HDAC) gene expression, PBMC
           acetylation in vivo and ex vivo.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of abexinostat and palbociclib.

      Patients receive abexinostat orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-4, 8-11, and 15-18,
      palbociclib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21, and fulvestrant intramuscularly (IM) on days 1
      and 15 of cycle 1 and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients will be followed for 90 days after completion of treatment or removal from study, or
      until death, whichever occurs first.
    
  