
    
      Neoadjuvant therapy has been demonstrated to improve outcome in the management of patients of
      multiple different solid tumours. The advantage of a neoadjuvant therapy in melanoma is that
      it provides in vivo assessment of tumour responsiveness to systemic therapy, potentially
      eradicates micrometastatic disease, and may improve the surgical result. It also provides an
      opportunity to obtain tumour samples before and after treatment to study variation of
      response and effects of treatment on tumour characteristics.

      This pilot study explores pathological response rates, Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors (RECIST) response rates and biomarkers for a 12-week duration of neoadjuvant therapy
      with combined MAP kinase inhibition (MAPKi) with dabrafenib and trametinib and to establish
      guidelines for an expanded Phase II or III study.

      The biomarker component of this study will compare pre-treatment (PRE) with day 4-7, 'early
      during treatment' biopsies (EDT) and 12 week lymphadenectomy samples (POST). The tissue will
      be interrogated for immunologic, proteomic and genetic (RNA and DNA) features and changes in
      tissue and blood. The baseline PRE specimen will consist of at least two core, excisional or
      incisional biopsies taken prior to commencing combined dabrafenib and trametinib. The EDT
      specimen will consist of at least two core, excisional or incisional biopsies taken at days
      4-7, very early after commencing combined dabrafenib and trametinib. The POST specimen will
      be the complete lymph node dissection specimen performed after 12 weeks of treatment with
      combined dabrafenib and trametinib.

      The EDT specimen provides a unique opportunity to investigate the early changes that occur in
      a melanoma tumour with MAPK inhibitors that may set up for later resistance or complete
      response, and that may be amenable to therapeutic manipulation. For example, EDT samples
      collected on patients treated with single agent BRAF inhibitors showed increased T cell
      infiltrate that was associated with a better response in the lesion. The T cell infiltrate
      has also been associated with increased expression of melanoma antigens, a decrease in
      immunosuppressive cytokines [interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-8] and an increase in markers of
      T-cell cytotoxicity. Additional studies have shown the expected suppression in pERK, and in
      paired PRE-EDT samples, the decreased ERK suppression is associated with a better RECIST
      response. There have been no reports of the effects of BRAF and MEK inhibitors as single
      agent or in combination on responding melanoma tissue taken more than 15 days after
      commencement of treatment. As the median PFS for the combination of dabrafenib and trametinib
      is 9.4 months, >95% of the POST samples will be responding, and provide an opportunity to 1)
      compare the responding POST with the EDT sample (and the baseline PRE samples prior to
      treatment) to investigate how signalling pathways (as determined by RNA gene expression and
      protein expression) alter with time, and 2) how the changes in signalling pathways correlate
      with clinical and pathological response.

      Study treatment will be continued as adjuvant therapy. The goal is to improve the cure rate
      after surgery through eradication of occult micrometastatic disease. Notable successes have
      been achieved in oncology when highly effective therapies were available for advanced stage
      disease (e.g., breast cancer, Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, embryonal tumours,
      osteosarcoma). High-risk, resected BRAF V600 mutation positive melanoma represents another
      attractive setting for testing this paradigm since: 1) the population is at high risk for
      relapse and death without further therapy and 2) the BRAF/MAP-ERK kinase combination is
      highly effective in the metastatic setting and can be targeted to the population most likely
      to benefit. The study design will test the efficacy of study treatment in both the
      neoadjuvant and adjuvant settings for the first time in this patient population.

      Approximately 168 patients have received combination therapy with dabrafenib and trametinib
      at the proposed study doses (150 mg BID dabrafenib and 2 mg once daily trametinib) with a
      median follow-up time of 12.8 months. In the dose-escalation phase, PFS was longest for the
      group receiving the highest doses of dabrafenib and trametinib with an acceptable safety
      profile. Based on these data the combination of 150 mg BID of dabrafenib and 2.0 mg once
      daily of trametinib has been selected for this study. Mature randomized phase 2 trial (Part C
      in Figure 2 above) with a median follow up of 14.1 months showed a higher response rate (76%
      versus 54%, p=0.03) and a longer median PFS (9.4 months vs 5.8 months, hazard ratio (HR)
      0.39, p<0.001) in MAPK inhibitor-naïve patients on the combination of the full dose of
      dabrafenib and trametinib compared with dabrafenib monotherapy.

      The duration of therapy (12 months) is based upon expert consensus and does not exceed that
      administered in other pivotal studies of adjuvant treatment in similar populations where
      treatment ranged from 12 to 60 months. In the absence of a reliable biomarker for minimal
      residual disease, empiric dosing for durations much shorter than the predicted median relapse
      free interval (median of 15 months) may increase the risk of treatment failure. The design
      does include predictive biomarkers which may allow further refinement of dosing once a phase
      III study of this design has been completed. Safety of continuous dosing of dabrafenib and
      trametinib for over a year as monotherapies has been established along with preliminary
      safety of combination dosing for a similar interval. Safety precautions will include clear
      guidelines for management of toxicity, including enhanced surveillance for adverse events of
      special interest along with instructions for dose modification. The inclusion/exclusion
      criteria will also serve to minimize participation of those at greatest risk for known or
      suspected toxicities of the combination therapy.

      Neoadjuvant studies in patients with macroscopic stage III melanoma have been performed using
      the immunotherapies interferon and ipilimumab. Interferon has no activity in stage IV
      melanoma, yet there was an objective clinical response in 11 of 17 (55%) patients with stage
      III melanoma when given neoadjuvantly. Furthermore, 3/17 (15%) had a complete pathological
      response. Clinical responders had significantly greater increases in endotumoral CD11c and
      CD3 cells and significantly greater decreases in endotumoral CD83 cells compared with
      nonresponders. In contrast, ipilimumab confers an overall survival benefit for patients with
      stage IV melanoma over vaccine or chemotherapy, however the objective response rate is low at
      11-15%. In the neoadjuvant study with macroscopic stage III melanoma, pathological responses
      were not reported, however objective clinical responses were observed in 3/29 (10%) patients.
      Immune infiltrate cells were noted in most tumours after treatment with ipilimumab, and
      results correlating biomarker changes with response are awaited.

      In stage IV melanoma patients, over 73% of patients who respond to BRAF inhibitors, will
      achieve a RECIST response by the time of the first scan (8 weeks), and the median time to
      best response is 12 weeks in the poorest prognosis patients. The progression free survival
      (PFS) for the combination is 9.4 months, and <5% of patients have progression as their best
      RECIST response. Therefore, 12 weeks was chosen for the period of neoadjuvant combination
      therapy to optimise tumour shrinkage, without compromising patient safety.

      Surgeons at the Melanoma Institute Australia perform approximately 120 lymphadenectomies each
      year for patients with palpable lymphadenopathy. The sample size of 35 patients is achievable
      within the anticipated 12 to 18 month recruitment phase. Neoadjuvant therapy with combined
      dabrafenib + trametinib for these high-risk melanoma patients with bulky regional stage
      IIIB-C lymphadenopathy may result in improved rates and duration of local control with
      reduced surgical morbidity.

      Pyrexia Sub-Study Combined therapy with dabrafenib and trametinib is associated with pyrexia
      in over two-thirds of patients. There are no identifiable clinical correlates of pyrexia and
      the mechanism remains unknown. Management involves the use of corticosteroids in 25% of
      cases. Further investigations of this drug-associated pyrexia are urgently required,
      particularly for facilitating the use of these drugs in the adjuvant setting. The context of
      this single institution study with its close and uniform patient monitoring provides an ideal
      opportunity to study drug-induced pyrexia, its mechanisms, prevention and management, and
      correlation of pyrexia with parent drug and metabolite plasma levels compared with those who
      do not develop pyrexia.
    
  