
    
      New onset chest pain is a common presenting complaint and can be a marker of significant
      cardiovascular disease and risk of myocardial infarction and death; therefore obtaining an
      accurate diagnosis is critical to guide patient management. It is noteworthy that only 40-50%
      of patients who have invasive arteriography subsequently undergo revascularisation. This
      underscores the imprecision of the initial tests employed prior to arteriography.

      Historically electrocardiographic stress testing during exercise has been used to detect
      inducible myocardial ischaemia but its diagnostic sensitivity and specificity are low (about
      65%). Diagnostic accuracy can be improved by by incorporating echocardiography or single
      photon emission computed tomography. Current NICE guidelines recommend that patients with
      chest pain of recent onset should be investigated with CT coronary angiography as a first
      line, and if this reveals a significant stenosis then a functional imaging test should be
      performed.

      The Myocardial Doppler in Stress Echocardiography (MYDISE) study assessed the diagnostic
      value of quantitative stress echocardiography during the infusion of dobutamine, a
      short-acting synthetic catecholamine that acts on β-1 adrenergic receptors to increase heart
      rate and myocardial contractility. Measuring the systolic velocities of LV long-axis function
      at peak stress had good reproducibility (coefficients of variation in basal segments 9-14% at
      rest and 11-18% at peak stress) and similar sensitivities and specificities (about 70%) to
      published studies in which expert observers reported wall motion scores. When adjusted for
      the independent effects of age, gender and heart rate, however, diagnostic accuracy increased
      significantly with C statistics (area under receiver-operator curves) up to 90%.

      Visual analysis of stress echocardiography to detect myocardial ischaemia depends on
      qualitative assessment of multiple parameters. Major studies of quantitative stress
      echocardiography have been limited to identifying the single best echocardiographic variable,
      and they have used diameter stenosis as the reference criterion. Progressive subclinical
      reductions of regional (long-axis) myocardial function have been demonstrated in subjects
      with cardiovascular risk factors, affecting myocardial deformation (strain and strain rate)
      as well as velocities. Ischaemia changes the timing of events during the cardiac cycle - for
      example prolonging pre-ejection and post-ejection phases. These factors confirm the clinical
      need for objective measurement of regional myocardial function throughout the cardiac cycle.

      It is now possible to create algorithms that are based not just on a single time point (e.g.,
      peak velocity) but instead rely on analysis of the whole of the velocity trace. This concept
      can also be extended to include strain and strain rate curves. Investigators at Universitat
      Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, have developed this approach to create a statistical atlas of the
      heart to detect dyssynchrony. A similar concept has been applied using multiple kernel
      learning to patients with dyspnoea who have undergone exercise stress testing to identify
      those with evidence of diastolic heart failure.This has enabled velocity traces taken from
      the whole of the cardiac cycle to be compared and discriminated between control subjects
      (with and without dyspnoea) and those diagnosed with heart failure with preserved ejection
      fraction (HFpEF); the major differences observed are in early diastolic function. This
      application has not previously been used to explore inducible myocardial ischaemia in stress
      echocardiography, but similar findings might be expected, as changes during diastole are
      amongst the earliest and most sensitive indicators of myocardial ischaemia. Individuals at
      the University of Leuven (Prof Jan D'hooge) have recently developed supervised
      machine-learning methods that allow for automatic classification of myocardial segments based
      on their local mechanical behaviour (i.e. velocity/strain/strain rate) after going through a
      training phase; the proposed machine-learning approach outperforms expert wall motion
      readings as well as expert interpretation of segmental strain (rate) traces in classifying
      ischemic segments.
    
  