
    
      This is a phase IV, multicenter,, prospective, randomised, crossover, double blind,
      placebo-controlled and proof of concept clinical trial. The trial was conducted in a total
      sample of 60 patients (30 patients per group), which assures adequate power to detect
      differences. This study is adequate to demonstrate the lipid-lowering effect of TDF/FTC
      co-formulation addition in patients with dyslipidemia and stable monotherapy antiretroviral
      treatment.

      All subjects fulfilling inclusion criteria will be randomised to add either TDF/FTC
      co-formulation (group A) or placebo (Group B) to their current PI/r regimen, i.e.: DRV/r
      800/100 mg QD or LPV/r 400/100 BID. This will be followed by a crossover addition of TDF/FTC
      co-formulation or placebo.

      In Group A the expected changes in cholesterol values, regarding baseline, can be observed 3
      months after TDF/FTC addition. After this, a period of 3 months with placebo will act as a
      washout period, allowing establishing comparisons intra-patient. Finally, another period of 3
      months with placebo will permit to establish comparisons with the first 3-month TDF/FTC
      intervention. In Group B, subjects will follow a 3-month placebo period, later a 3-month
      TDF/FTC intervention and finally a placebo period that will act as a wash-out.

      Randomization will be centralised in the CRO FLS-Research Support and will be stratified by
      DRV/r or LPV/r intake at baseline to ensure equal distribution in both arms. TDF/FTC
      co-formulation or Placebo will be provided in a double-blinded fashion, i.e.: neither the
      treating physician nor the patient will know whether the patient is receiving TDF/FTC or
      placebo.

      All subjects will receive dietary counselling to promote lipid-lowering diet provided by a
      specialised dietician throughout the study.

      The expected duration of the study for each participant will be 36 weeks. There will be 6
      visits: screening, baseline and weeks 4, 12, 24 and 36.

      The date for the inclusion of the first patient was November 2011 and the end of the last
      patient follow-up has been in February 2014. The enrolment period has been 18 months. The
      final study report will be submitted before November 2014.
    
  