
    
      Participants will be asked to report to the lab for their first main trial, having not eaten
      for 12 hours, and refrained from caffeine and alcohol intake and strenuous exercise for 24
      hours. Both trials will take place at the same time of day.

      Upon arrival height and body mass will be recorded and a cannula will be inserted into a vein
      in the back of the hand and a 10 ml blood sample will be taken.A visual analogue scale (VAS)
      will then be used to subjectively measure the participant's appetite pre-breakfast.

      Participants will then be provided with one of the two breakfast meals that are being tested
      in a randomised order. The two breakfasts consist of a high fat breakfast or high fat plus
      additional whey protein. A drink of water shall also be consumed, the volume of which depends
      on the trial being carried out. The high fat breakfast will consist of scrambled egg yolks
      made with single cream and butter (Tesco, Hertfordshire, UK). The macronutrient distribution
      of the breakfast is 12% protein, 3% carbohydrate, 85% fat (1771 kJ; 423 kcal total). For the
      whey protein trial, 23.9g whey protein isolate (Lacprodan DI-9224, Arla Foods, Denmark) shall
      be added to water and incorporated into each meal as a drink on the side, in order to provide
      20g whey protein.

      A timer shall be set when the participant takes their first mouthful of breakfast, and they
      will be required to rest for the following 3 hours. At 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 150 and 180
      minutes post-breakfast 10 ml blood samples shall be collected. Every 30 minutes during this
      period the appetite VAS will also be completed. After this participants will be provided with
      a standardised lunch meal which shall consist of pasta with a tomato and basil sauce, olive
      oil and cheddar cheese, along with a 350 ml drink of water. The macronutrient distribution of
      the lunch is 13% protein, 49% carbohydrate, 38% fat. Following this, the post-breakfast
      procedure shall be repeated for another period of 3 hours.
    
  