
    
      The VIVITROL Registry is an observational, open-label, single-arm, multi-center registry of
      patients who have initiated treatment with VIVITROL for prevention of relapse to opioid
      dependence, following opioid detoxification.

      The objectives of the VIVITROL Registry are:

        -  To describe characteristics of patients receiving VIVITROL for opioid dependence in
           real-world clinical practice.

        -  To assess clinical, health economic, and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) outcomes
           in a broad population of patients receiving VIVITROL in real-world clinical practice.

        -  To provide additional data to inform future research on VIVITROL.

      Patients 18 years of age or older who have been determined by their participating prescriber
      to be an appropriate candidate for VIVITROL treatment may be offered enrollment into the
      registry. The decision to treat a patient with VIVITROL will be made by the patient's
      participating prescriber independent of the registry. VIVITROL will not be provided to
      patients enrolled in the registry in exchange for their participation; patients will receive
      commercially available VIVITROL via a standard prescription that will be filled through
      standard commercial channels.

      Patients will be observed while receiving VIVITROL and for six months after they discontinue
      VIVITROL use. The registry is non-interventional; it will neither direct the treatment plan
      for enrolled patients nor define the frequency of follow-up visits of each patient. A
      patient's participation in the registry will not influence or direct patient treatment
      procedures or follow-up care. It is expected that patients will be seen at least once per
      month during active VIVITROL treatment to receive their monthly injection.

      During the standard monthly injection visits, patients will be asked to provide detailed
      health economics information using a variety of questionnaires, including the EQ-5D and
      SF-12v2.
    
  