
    
      This study recruited asthmatic children aged 5 to 14 who were living in Shanghai, China.
      Every study subject had the air in their bedroom processed by an air filtration device (with
      a pre-filter, a HEPA filter and an active carbon filter) for two weeks (active comparator
      arm), processed by a placebo air filtration device (which did not possess the HEPA filter and
      active carbon filters) for two weeks (placebo arm), and underwent a two-week washout period
      (no use of air filtration device) between the two intervention periods. The doors and windows
      of the bedroom were instructed to be kept closed during the intervention periods. The
      sequence of being in the active comparator arm and the placebo arm was randomized for each
      subject. The subject, their guardian and researchers who have direct interaction with the
      study subjects do not know this sequence until after the end of the study.

      The study protocol was approved by IRB at Shanghai First People's Hospital, Duke University
      and University of Wisconsin at Madison. A sample size of 40 was calculated using fractional
      exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO) as the primary outcome where statistical significance was set at
      0.05, power at 90%, and between-subject variance and covariance were estimated from existing
      literature. Four additional subjects were added to the estimated sample size of 40 to account
      for potential dropouts. Subjects were recruited from patients who attended the outpatient
      clinic of the Pediatrics Department of Shanghai First People's Hospital (south section) by
      Dr. Zhen Li and Dr. Junfeng Zhang's team. Assent was obtained from all study subjects and
      written informed consent was obtained from their guardians.

      During the study, Dr. Michael Bergin's team and Dr. Yinping Zhang's team installed the air
      filtration devices in the subject's bedroom and measured the indoor concentration, outdoor
      concentration and personal exposure to airborne pollutants including PM2.5, ozone and
      volatile organic compounds. Dr. James Schauer's team analyzed the physical, chemical and
      bioactivity of the airborne particles collected and had no direct contact with the study
      subjects.

      Each subject attended 5 clinical visits at the Shanghai First People's Hospital (South
      Section) accompanied by their guardian where clinical assessment (of lung function,
      fractional exhaled nitric oxide, asthma symptom blood draw) was performed by Drs. Zhen Li and
      Feng Li's team, and the collection of biological media (urine, saliva and nasal fluid) was
      conducted by Dr. Junfeng (Jim) Zhang's team. In addition, subjects were instructed to measure
      the peak expiratory flow (PEF) at 7am and 9pm daily and recorded their asthma symptoms at
      home with the assistance from their guardian(s). The biological media (urine, saliva and
      nasal fluid) collected was subsequently analyzed by Dr. Junfeng (Jim) Zhang's team for health
      indicators.

      Each subject had access to the result of clinical assessment and health indicator in
      biological media, as well as free consultation from the medical teams of Drs. Zhen Li and
      Feng Li. Every subject was remunerated with 1000RMB (equivalent to 152 US dollars) and given
      a peak expiratory flow meter (worth less than 10 US dollars). All information collected from
      study subjects were recorded under their subject ID number and kept confidential. Only
      de-identified data was shared between collaborating investigators. Statistical analysis
      including mixed-effects models will be conducted on the data collected.
    
  