
    
      Continued monitoring of malaria in pregnancy is lacking in most endemic settings, in spite of
      its significant disease burden. Increases in malaria-related harmful effects observed among
      Mozambican pregnant women after drastic malaria declines during the last decade [2] suggest
      that closely monitoring of the transmission is needed to quickly identify rebounds in adverse
      outcomes, especially in areas embarking in malaria elimination activities. Moreover, several
      evidences point to IgGs against VAR2CSA (the parasite antigen that mediates sequestration of
      P. falciparum in the placenta) as a marker of cumulative exposure to P. falciparum during
      pregnancy that can provide estimates of malaria transmission. The investigators hypothesize
      that dynamics of malaria in pregnancy and pregnancy-specific immunity reflect changes in the
      intensity of transmission through location and time, not only among pregnant women but also
      in the underlying community. The goal of this study is to provide epidemiological, molecular
      and immunological insights of the value of pregnant women attending health facilities to
      generate estimates of malaria burden and its adverse consequences in situation of varying
      levels of malaria transmission, with the ultimate hope of developing new tools for the
      monitoring of malaria in endemic countries. To address this, the investigators will conduct a
      three-year prospective observational study at three health facilities with different levels
      of malaria transmission in Maputo Province to determine the relationship between malaria
      transmission, parasitological outcomes and the clinical impact of malaria infection in
      pregnant women at their first antenatal visit, delivery and during sick visits (Aim 1.1).
      Moreover, the investigators will create a sample repository biobank for future investigations
      on host and parasite factors influencing malaria disease during pregnancy (Aim 1.2). The
      investigators will also determine the relationship between malaria estimates obtained from
      pregnant women, children at hospital visits, (Aim 2.1) and seroprevalences against VAR2CSA
      (Aim 2.2). The impact of interrupting malaria transmission on pregnancy-specific serology
      (Aim 2.3) will be assessed in pregnant women from Magude after mass drug administration in
      the community. Finally, scientific capacity in the Manhiça Health Research Center (Aim 3)
      will be developed through training on a) epidemiological research and management of malaria
      data; b) molecular tools for detection of malaria parasites and molecular markers of
      antimalarial resistance for rapid mapping of drug resistance; and c) pregnancy-specific
      immunity as an innovative tool to assess malaria transmission. This study will contribute to
      promote a pregnancy malaria research agenda by improving our scientific knowledge on
      determinants of malaria susceptibility during pregnancy and demonstrating the feasibility and
      value of an easy-to-implement new generation serological tool for malaria surveillance in
      malaria elimination contexts.
    
  