
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and the recommended phase II and III dose of
           tirapazamine when combined with cisplatin and radiotherapy in patients with Stage IB-IVA
           squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, or adenosquamous cell carcinoma of the cervix.

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine failure-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine time to locoregional failure in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine patterns of failure for the site of first failure in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the 12-week post-treatment complete response rate in patients treated with
           this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of tirapazamine.

      Patients receive tirapazamine IV over 2 hours on day 1 of weeks 1-5 and on days 3 and 5 of
      weeks 1 and 2 (cohort 2 only), OR days 3 and 5 of weeks 1-4 (cohort 3 only). Patients also
      receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 of weeks 1-6. Patients concurrently undergo
      external beam radiotherapy once daily on days 1-5 for 5-5.5 weeks. After completion of
      chemoradiotherapy, patients undergo low-dose brachytherapy (up to 2 implants within an 8-week
      period) OR high-dose brachytherapy twice weekly for 5 treatments. Treatment continues in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of tirapazamine until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. At least 10 patients are treated at the MTD.

      Patients are followed at 2, 4, and 8 weeks, at 3 and 6 months, every 3 months for 2 years,
      and then every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-22 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  