
    
      This Experimental clinical trial study will be conducted in Amman, the capital of Jordan to
      compare the effect of Mediterranean diet and regular diet on insulin resistance among 50
      participants of obese children and adolescents (between 10 and 16 years of age) who are
      diagnosed with insulin resistance clinically, Twenty five of participants (1:1, boys: girls)
      will follow Mediterranean diet, and 25 of participants (1:1, boys: girls) will follow regular
      diet. The two groups will be matched for age and gender. The Pediatric Endocrinologist will
      diagnose the children with insulin resistance clinically according to abdominal obesity and
      presence of acanthosis nigricans. The children and adolescents will be randomly assigned to
      one of the groups: Mediterranean diet group or the regular diet group. Patients are visiting
      the Pediatric Diabetes and Endocrinology department in Jordan University Hospital. will be
      followed-up every 2 weeks in the clinic for 6 months.

      The researcher will measure body weight , height, and calculate BMI for all patients every
      visit. Then will be represented and interpreted using the suitable growth chart (weight for
      age, height for age, BMI for age and gender).

      Glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), serum concentrations of total cholesterol, high-density
      lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, triglycerides,
      (after a 12 hour fast), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and alanine aminotransferase (ALT),
      Kidney function, thyroid hormone will be recorded from the medical file of the patients.

      Insulin resistance will be assessed by the homeostatic model assessment (HOMA-IR), calculated
      as the product of the fasting plasma insulin level (IU/l) and the fasting plasma glucose
      level (mmol/l) divided by 22.5. The fasting plasma insulin level (FPI) and the fasting plasma
      glucose level (FPG) will be measured after at least an 8-hour fasting at baseline after 3
      months, and at the end of the intervention.

      The intervention programs will be based on the implementation of Mediterranean diet and
      regular diet. Participants will be counseled and educated about the two diet programs. The
      two groups will be:

      Group 1: regular diet ( 50% of energy from carbohydrates, 30% fat and 20% from protein) Group
      2: Mediterranean diet ( 60% of energy from carbohydrates, 25% fat and 15% from protein).
    
  