
    
      The dementia syndrome of Alzheimer's disease and other disorders is rapidly expanding due to
      the aging of society and the longevity of citizens. In its varying stages, care of the
      dementia syndrome requires differing sets of skills from the caregivers, and more skilled
      intervention is required as the disease progresses. These caregivers experience increased
      burden due to the challenges and stresses of caring. A recent systematic review of caregiver
      burden factors revealed dementia-related agitation to be the most prevalent factor leading
      caregivers to institutionalize community-dwelling loved ones with dementia. Tools that
      empower caregivers to proactively reduce the incidents and severity of agitation would reduce
      stress and increase self-efficacy, thereby extending aging-in-place and the associated
      quality-of-life and cost benefits.

      This project proposes to develop, deploy, and evaluate such a tool and to address the
      fundamental scientific challenges to realizing the benefits of such a technology to
      caregivers and persons with dementia (PWD). The tool - BESI: Behavioral and Environmental
      Sensing and Intervention - will be an empowerment tool for caregivers of community-dwelling
      PWD. BESI comprises:

        1. a system of body-worn inertial sensors and in-home acoustic, light, temperature, and
           motion sensors,

        2. data analysis techniques to detect and assess agitation and environmental context from
           these sensor streams,

        3. models for the relationship between agitation and the environment that are trained for
           each PWD-caregiver dyad based on a&b, and

        4. automated real-time notifications to the caregiver based on b&c (e.g., detection of
           early agitation stages or of an environment (cumulative and/or instantaneous based on
           the models) that has led to agitation in the past), empowering the caregiver to
           intervene before agitation escalation.
    
  