
    
      Most patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have high blood pressure and are at high risk
      for cardiovascular disease. High blood pressure can be partly caused by narrowing of blood
      vessels from high activity of the alpha1-adrenoceptor system in blood vessels. On the other
      hand, nitric oxide (NO), produced by the body, opposes the alpha 1-adrenoceptor system. NO
      widens blood vessels and prevents high blood pressure. We hypothesize that low availability
      of NO may be responsible for high activity of alpha 1-adrenoceptor system in patients with
      CKD. This protocol is a pilot study in healthy subjects to guide us in performing future
      studies in patients with CKD.

      The specific aims of the pilot study, in healthy people, are to 1) determine whether alpha
      1-adrenoceptor vasoreactivity is reproducible and 2) determine alpha 1-adrenoceptor
      vasoreactivity with the NO clamp technique. To carry out these specific aims, we will consent
      and enroll healthy people with normal blood pressure. After a screening visit to confirm
      eligibility, subjects will be admitted to the General Clinical Research Center overnight for
      a study the following day.

      We will constrict the forearm blood vessels by giving different amounts of phenylephrine into
      the artery through a catheter. We will measure the subjects blood flow with venus
      plethysmography ( a measuring tool like a blood pressure cuff) while giving the
      phenylephrine. We will repeat the tests to see if we get the same results.

      Then, a research medication, L-NMMA, which blocks NO in the blood vessel, will be dripped
      into the same artery followed by another medication nitroprusside, which gives back NO, to
      restore normal forearm blood flow. This procedure is called the NO clamp technique and is
      used to measure the effects of NO. The phenylephrine concentrations and plethysmography will
      be repeated again to compare vessel narrowing before and during the NO clamp. This research
      will teach us how to perform future studies on the relationship between NO and the alpha
      1-adrenoceptor system in patients with kidney disease.
    
  