
    
      Background: Emotion regulation is a key transdiagnostic risk factor for a range of
      psychopathologies, making it a prime target for both prevention and treatment interventions
      in childhood. Existing interventions predominantly rely on workshop or in-person
      therapy-based approaches, limiting the ability to promote emotion regulation competence for
      children in everyday settings and at scale. Purrble is a newly developed, inexpensive
      socially assistive robot-in the form of an interactive plush toy-which uses haptic feedback
      to support in-the-moment emotion regulation. It is accessible to children as needed in their
      daily lives, without the requirement for a priori training. While qualitative data from prior
      studies show high engagement in-situ and anecdotal evidence of the robot being incorporated
      into children's emotion regulation routines, there is so far no quantitative evidence of the
      intervention's impact on child outcomes.

      Objective: The aim of this study is to examine, for the first time, the efficacy of a new
      intervention model for child-led emotion regulation-Purrble-that could be deployed across
      prevention and treatment contexts.

      Methods: A total of 120 children aged 8-10 will be selected from an 'enriched' non-clinical
      US population: for inclusion, the cutoff for parent's rating of child dysregulation will be
      10 points or higher on the total difficulties score on the Strengths and Difficulties
      Questionnaire. This cutoff selects for a measurable-but not necessarily clinical-level of the
      child's emotion regulatory difficulties. The selected families will be randomly assigned with
      .5 probability to receive either Purrble or an active control (non-interactive plush toy).
      The primary outcome will be a daily EMA measure of child emotion regulation capability (as
      reported by parents) over a period of 4 weeks. Exploratory analysis will investigate the
      intervention impact on secondary outcomes of child emotion regulation, collected weekly over
      the same 4 week period, with follow-ups at 1 month and 6 months post-deployment. Quantitative
      data will be analysed on an intent-to-treat basis. A proportion of families (~30% of the
      sample) will be interviewed post-deployment as part of process analysis.
    
  