
    
      Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP) are the most common medical conditions in pregnancy
      and a leading cause of maternal morbidity and mortality in the United States. HDP are also
      associated with significant financial costs to the US healthcare system; $2.18 billion is
      spent on treatment of affected mothers and infants in the first year after delivery. Women
      exposed to HDP are at increased lifetime risk for cardiovascular disease, dementia, and
      all-cause mortality. Current interventions to prevent HDP are limited and do not target
      underlying mechanisms of disease. Mindfulness training (MT) holds tremendous promise as a
      mind-body intervention to prevent HDP. MT is effective at reducing blood pressure in
      non-pregnant patients with pre-hypertension and hypertension and has proven more effective at
      blood pressure reduction than other stress management interventions. Results from the pilot
      RCT were the first to indicate that prenatal phone-delivered MT is feasible and had a medium
      to large effect on cardiovascular parameters in women at risk for HDP. However, the
      mechanisms through which prenatal MT affects cardiovascular parameters are not yet
      understood.

      MT teaches participants to "attend and respond in a non-judgmental way to ordinary, everyday
      experiences." Theory and available evidence indicate that MT elicits relaxation, decreases
      stress biomarkers and autonomic activation, and decreases loneliness --- dynamic processes
      that may serve as pathways to improved cardiovascular parameters in women at risk for HDP.
      The proposed RCT will harness subjective and objective ecological momentary assessment (EMA)
      methodologies (in vivo repeated assessments) in combination with wearable biosensor
      technology to capture rich epochs of ecologically-valid psychological, physiological, and
      interpersonal processes through which MT may lead to improved maternal cardiovascular
      parameters. Pregnant women at risk for HDP will be randomized to an 8-week phone-delivered MT
      intervention or usual care. For every participant, the research team will measure maternal
      cardiovascular parameters (24-hour blood pressure and uterine artery resistance values by
      ultrasound Doppler) before and after the RCT. All participants will complete EMA for 2 weeks
      'bursts' before and after the RCT to evaluate mechanisms of MT on cardiovascular parameters.
      EMA will include smartphone-app based experience sampling of psychological processes;
      smartphone-app based ambient audio sampling (i.e. the Electronically Activated Recorder [EAR]
      method) and wearable wrist-worn biosensor monitoring of physiological responses (heart rate
      and heart rate variability) to everyday experiences. Results will provide new insights into
      1) effects of MT on cardiovascular parameters in pregnancy, 2) pathophysiological mechanisms
      of HDP, and 3) targets for new HDP prevention strategies.
    
  