
    
      Recent epidemiological studies in France showed a strong prevalence of obesity (12,4%) and
      its strong increase during the 20 last years. Among the multiple complications related to
      obesity, the hepatic complications (steatosis and steatohepatitis (NASH)) are among most
      frequent. Our recent work showed that the adipose tissue, following the example of hepatic
      tissue also expressed CRP, the hepcidin and the IL-6 on a gene and protein level. We also
      noticed that 5% of our patients in spite of their obesity presented a normal liver without
      steatosis.

      The main aim of this work will be to identify a profile of gene expression by microarray in
      the liver which might allow to differentiate the obese subjects having a normal liver from
      those with steatohepatitis or steatosis. The gene studies will be carried out initially in
      morbid obese subjects without diabetes (women, index of body mass > 40 kg/m2). We will select
      a sample of 10 patients having a normal liver, 10 patients having a NASH and 10 patients
      having a simple steatosis. These gene studies will be carried out in the liver and visceral
      adipose tissue from these same patients which will make possible to evaluate the
      interrelationship between the liver and the adipose tissue. We will also include 10 patients
      having an overweight and a NASH (study only on liver biopsy). The livers controls (10) will
      be provided from the department of surgery of Pr Jean Gugenheim and are practically all
      available. They are "healthy" tissue near hepatic benign tumors. Commercial ARN (Biosciences,
      Stratagene) will be also used. After identification of these profiles of gene expression in a
      restricted number of patients, we will validate these profiles of gene expression in a more
      significant number of patients (30 to 45 patients having a NASH compared with 30 to 45
      patients having a simple steatosis).

      The secondary objectives will be:

      To compare the profile of gene expression between the liver and the adipose visceral and
      subcutaneous tissue from the morbid obese subjects After the identification of a group of
      genes of interest whose expression is modified in a small number of patients having a NASH,
      we continue our study with a more restricted number of genes.

        -  To validate in a more significant number of patients the modifications of expression of
           these genes by an approach by real-time PCR

        -  To determine the site of expression of these factors in the liver or adipose tissue by
           immunohistochemic analysis

        -  To determine the rate of expression of these factors in the liver or adipose tissue by
           biochemical analysis (Western blot)

        -  A serum dosage could finally be carried out to determine if the serum proteins could
           constitute a predictive index of the NASH or steatosis.

      We will use the series of obese patients from the CHU of Nice whose a surgical approach of
      obesity was programmed. Preoperative explorations include clinico-biological assessments.
      During the intervention, the liver and adipose tissue biopsies will be systematically
      realized for research. We will also use the hepatic biopsies carried out among patients
      having an overweight and a NASH.

      The feasibility of the work does not pose any problem. The department of surgery carries out
      10 surgeries of obesity per month. We already have a series of 280 patients. We must include
      150 patients in order to be able to obtain sufficiently patients with normal liver. For the
      other patients, we will use the tissue bank which is already carried out and the patients
      already gave the consent. Finally we must constitute a liver tissue bank for patients having
      an overweight. All these fundamental techniques are controlled within team from INSERM U 568
      Awaited results: We could by this strategy select protective and worsening factors of
      steatohepatitis (NASH) which will be able to lead to identify predictive biological markers
      of the lesions of steatohepatitis and thus to identify patients at risk for the hepatic
      lesions. These factors could also serve as future therapeutic targets.
    
  