
    
      Alemtuzumab is an antibody protein that is directed towards a marker molecule on the surface
      of both B- and T- lymphoid cells. It is currently approved for use in treating patients with
      chronic lymphocytic leukemia and has been studied in treating patients with a number of
      T-cell malignancies. Alemtuzumab has been found to be effective in these conditions.
      Pentostatin is a drug that is approved for treating patients with hairy cell leukemia, a
      B-cell malignancy. Pentostatin has also been studied in a number of T-cell cancers and has
      been found to be effective. The purpose of this study is to see whether combining these drugs
      will prove to be more effective.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive pentostatin
      through a central venous catheter in your vein once a week for 4 weeks and then every 2 weeks
      until the achievement of best response. A central venous catheter is a sterile flexible tube
      that will be placed into a large vein while you are under local anesthesia. Your physician
      will explain this procedure to you in more detail and you will be required to sign a separate
      consent form for this procedure.

      Alemtuzumab will also be given through a vein catheter on Days 1, 2, and 3. The dose of
      alemtuzumab that you receive will be increased each day for the first 3 days to make sure
      that you tolerate it. It will then be given three times per week until you achieve the best
      response. If you develop reactions to alemtuzumab when given through a vein, you may receive
      it by injections of the same dose under the skin.

      During the treatment, you will have blood (about 2 tablespoons) drawn once a week for the
      first 4 weeks for routine blood tests. These blood tests will then be repeated every 2 to 4
      weeks for the remainder of the study. At the end of treatment a bone marrow examination will
      be repeated to document your response. Also, if you had a chest X-ray or CT scans, these will
      be repeated to confirm your level of response.

      The maximum amount of time that alemtuzumab will be given is 3 months. The maximum amount of
      time that pentostatin will be given is 6 months. You may be able to receive the treatment
      will your local oncologists. However, you will have close follow-up at M. D. Anderson. You
      will be taken off this treatment if the disease gets worse during treatment or if
      unacceptable side effects develop.

      You will be continued to be followed either directly or by telephone to evaluate your
      long-term response to treatment on this study.

      This is an investigational study. Both alemtuzumab and pentostatin are commercially approved
      drugs that have been used to treat T-cell malignancies. A total of 60 patients will take part
      in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.

      This is an investigational study. Both alemtuzumab and pentostatin are commercially approved
      drugs that have been used to treat T-cell malignancies. A total of 60 patients will take part
      in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  