
    
      The study will be conducted on the basis of Research Institute of Epidemiology, Microbiology
      and Infectious Diseases and Research Center of Oncology, Ministry of Public Health of the
      Republic of Uzbekistan.

      All the CRC patients from Research Center of Oncology will be examined with their written
      concent. Diagnosis of CRC is based on the results of clinical examination, endoscopic,
      histological, X-ray and laboratory data according to International Classification proposed by
      the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) with application TNM (T-tumor, N-nodus,
      M-metastases) for diagnosis. Descriptors in T (primary tumor) mean the degree of the tumor
      spreading in layers of the intestine; descriptors in N mean absence of metastases or the
      number of lymph nodes with metastases; descriptors in M shows absence or presence of remote
      metastases.

      The control group will be a random residents of Tashkent city without any complaints from
      gastrointestinal tract matched by gender and age to the patients with CRC. Age of individuals
      under examination will be taken at the range from 17 to 90 years old.

      Collection of stool samples Three stool samples for parasitological examination will be taken
      from both control subjects and CRC patients at 1-2 days interval. Stool samples were
      collected in individual containers, containing 5 ml of Turdiev's preservative provided
      conservation and staining of protozoa cysts and eggs of worms for a year. The Turdiev's
      preservative includes:80 ml of 0.2% aqueous solution of sodium nitrite, 10 ml of
      formaldehyde, 2 ml of glycerin, 8 ml of Lugol's solution, 250 ml of distilled water.

      Collection of material for C. parvum (Cryptosporidium parvum) detection in stool samples will
      be carried out by preparation of fresh feces thin smears.

      Stool samples examination Parasitological diagnosis will be performed by triple coproscopy
      using formalin - ethyl acetate concentration technique. For preparations staining Lugol's
      solution was used. The intensity of protozoa will be estimated by the number of protozoa in
      the field of view (ocular x10, objective x40), the number of protozoa will be calculated at
      least in 10 fields of view. 1-2, 3-4 and 5-6 microorganisms in a field of view were
      considered as infection of low, mean and high intensity respectively.

      Modified Ziehl- Neelsen method will be used for staining and detection of C. parvum
      preparations. The stained smears will be observed with ×100 oil immersion lens for the
      presence of C. parvum.

      Parasitological examination of the additional group of the patients obtained chemotherapy
      will be carried out before and after surgery and complete course of chemotherapy.
    
  