
    
      Healthy, adult men and women, aged 21 to 59 years, who abuse opioids and are physically
      dependent on them will be recruited to participate in a study to examine the ability of
      doxazosin, an alpha-1 adrenergic receptor antagonist, to alter the abuse liability of
      oxycodone. After participants complete the screening process, they will be scheduled for
      admission onto the General Clinical Research Unit on 5-South where they will reside during an
      8-week study . During Weeks 1-2, participants will be stabilized on morphine and the first
      dose of doxazosin (0 or 16 mg/day; active doxazosin will be started at 4 mg and increased by
      4 mg every 3 days; dosing will occur at 8pm each evening). During the stabilization periods,
      participants will be treated for emergent withdrawal symptoms with supplemental medications
      until withdrawal symptoms have dissipated.

      During Weeks 3-4, either active or placebo oxycodone will be available (order of testing
      active or placebo oxycodone will be randomized). During active oxycodone weeks, participants
      will receive a sample dose of intransasal (IN) oxycodone (0, 12.5, 25, 50, or 100 mg/70kg)
      during morning sessions on Monday-Friday. The sampled reinforcer will be available during
      afternoon choice sessions using a modified progressive ratio self-administration procedure.
      During placebo oxycodone weeks, participants will receive a sample dose of placebo oxycodone
      (0 mg/70kg) during morning sessions on Monday-Thursday followed by afternoon choice sessions.
      On Friday, participants will receive 25 mg IN oxycodone during a sample session (the
      oxycodone dose on Fri morning will always be active). When self-administering oxycodone,
      participants will be instructed to insufflate the entire dose through one or both nostrils
      within 5-10 seconds. Following the sample session on Fri, participants will complete a cue
      exposure session during which they will be presented with neutral cues followed by drug cues.
      This procedure will allow the investigators to determine whether the study medication affects
      reactivity to drug-related cues after a period of no oxycodone availability. After the cue
      exposure session on Fri, participants will be given the opportunity to self-administer
      oxycodone. To summarize, Weeks 1-2 and 5-6 will be stabilization weeks (0 or 16 mg doses of
      doxazosin administered in random order) and Weeks 3-4 and 7-8 will be test weeks under each
      of the doxazosin maintenance doses. At the conclusion of the study, participants will be
      given an exit interview during which the study will be described. Those who are interested in
      treatment for their drug use at the end of the study will be offered referrals to studies at
      our Substance Treatment and Research Service or other treatment providers. Within 1 week
      after discharge, investigators will assess adverse events, pregnancy (using a urine pregnancy
      test), general health (complete blood count, blood chemistry, urinalysis, blood pressure,
      heart rate, body weight, EKG), and suicide (Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale).
    
  