
    
      OBJECTIVES: The primary objective of the Low-Dose Opiate Therapy for Discomfort in Dementia
      (L-DOT) project was to determine whether low-dose opiates are effective and well tolerated
      for the treatment of pain (as manifest by discomfort) in patients with advanced dementia.

      RESEARCH DESIGN: This study was a two-week double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled,
      crossover trial of low-dose hydrocodone/acetaminophen (Lortab) for discomfort among veterans
      with a dementia, followed by six weeks of open-label therapy for patients who tolerated
      treatment during the first two weeks (eight weeks total treatment on study).

      METHODOLOGY: After consent, patients over age 55 with dementia residing in a nursing home
      care unit (or at home who receive care) at Tuscaloosa VAMC who demonstrate significant
      discomfort (as measured by the Pain Assessment in Advanced Dementia - PAINAD) were randomized
      to one of two groups, using a double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled, crossover
      design. Patients were randomly assigned to treatment with either hydrocodone/acetaminophen
      2.5mg/250mg q8hrs scheduled with placebo q8hrs PRN or placebo q8hrs scheduled with
      hydrocodone/acetaminophen 2.5mg/250mg q8hrs PRN. After one week's treatment, patients were
      crossed over to the other (opposite) regimen, for a total of two weeks of blinded treatment.
      Patients who tolerated treatment with hydrocodone/acetaminophen were eligible for a six-week,
      open-label continuation phase. The primary outcome measure was pain/discomfort. Preliminary
      sample size calculations indicated that 42 patients (48 patients accounting for dropouts)
      would be needed to be enrolled over three years to detect a difference between treatments
      with power of .80 and two-tailed alpha of .05.

      SIGNIFICANCE: There is evidence that pain is both under recognized and undertreated in long
      term care settings. This study hoped to make a significant contribution to the evidence base
      for a common and problematic situation among veterans with advanced dementia. Advances in
      pain and symptom control are central to the improvement of palliative care intervention for
      dementia patients. Low-dose opiates are the logical next category of analgesics to consider,
      but have been rarely studied for this purpose in this population.
    
  