
    
      Microvascular breast reconstruction allows for the transfer of donor tissue that is an
      excellent match for native breast tissue, both in terms of the subcutaneous tissue that
      reconstitutes the breast mound and the simultaneous transfer of skin. In addition, it offers
      a wide range of options for women who may have been previously not considered for autologous
      tissue transfer. From the these various options, the deep inferior epigastric artery
      perforator (DIEP) flap and the muscle-sparing transverse rectus abdominis myocutaneous
      (MS-TRAM) flap are the most recognized free flap options for breast reconstruction today

      Besides the needs for breast reconstruction after mastectomy & axillary lymph node
      dissection, upper limb lymphedema is also a major concern for postmastectomy patients which
      is estimated to occur in 21.4% of women treated for breast cancer. It represents a diagnostic
      and therapeutic challenge for clinicians due to the heterogeneity in presentation as well as
      multitude of treatment options available. In addition, with a lack of evidence-based
      guidelines

      . According to the International Society of Lymphology Consensus, the clinical staging of
      lymphedema includes; Stage 0 (Subclinical) when lymphatic vessels have been injured but have
      no measurable swelling or edema. Stage I lymphedema occurs with the onset of measurable
      swelling and pitting of the skin which can be regressed on conservative treatments. Stage II
      considered when there is edema partially regressing with treatments and negative pitting
      test. Stage III encompasses lymphostatic elephantiasis with trophic skin changes and
      recurrent infections.

      In recent years, lymphatic microsurgery procedures have increased in popularity, bringing in
      a new wave of physiologic surgical options for the management of lymphedema. The two most
      common microsurgical options include lymphovenous anastomosis (LVA) and vascularized lymph
      node transfer (VLNT). Each treatment option has the potential to bypass areas of damaged
      lymphatics by rerouting the lymph into the venous system or by replacing the lost lymph nodes
      and, or lymphatic ducts.

      Recent studies have evaluated the positive effects of VLNT in the setting of lymphedema and
      have shown significantly better results for the patients in which the native lymphatic ducts
      are no longer available when compared to conservative treatments or LVA.

      There are several potential donor sites that can be used for the VLNT, and currently, there
      is no clear consensus as to which lymph node basin represents the ideal donor site. But the
      most popular lymph nodes have been the supraclavicular nodes, the submental nodes, the
      lateral thoracic nodes, the inguinal nodes, the omentum, and more recently the mesenteric
      lymph nodes. However, in patients suffering from post-mastectomy lymphedema, the inguinal
      nodes can be transferred at the time of autologous breast reconstruction, coupling the
      inguinal nodes to (DIEP) flap or (MS-TRAM) flap to reconstruct the patient's breast while
      simultaneously addressing the patient's lymphedema in one operation .

      Advantages of simultaneous breast reconstruction & VLNT include the extensive scar removal
      and release in the axilla, which is critical to optimizing the recipient bed for the VLNT and
      the relatively hidden scar in axilla. Although a promising technique, it remains
      investigational and requires larger studies with longer follow-up to validate its true
      utility. Of primary concern is monitoring for the longevity of the results and making certain
      that additional donor site morbidity is avoided.

      To the best of the investigator's knowledge, few studies were conducted on the use of free
      abdominal free flaps in conjunction with VLNT from the groin for simultaneous lymphedema
      treatment & breast reconstruction. But these studies were limited by small sample sizes.
    
  