
    
      Background: What Am I Worried About (WAWA) is a self-help booklet intervention for women
      experiencing anxiety after birth based on cognitive-behavioural and mindfulness principles
      developed in Australia. The WAWA booklet was found to be acceptable, safe, stigma free,
      feasible, and demonstrated preliminary efficacy in Australia. A web-based version of WAWA for
      the use in the United-Kingdom (UK) was developed at City University London in collaboration
      with the intervention development team in Australia. However, before dissemination the
      web-based version of WAWA (iWAWA) in the UK it is deemed important to evaluate the program.
      Therefore, this study aims to examine the feasibility, acceptability, and potential efficacy
      of this web-based intervention program for women with anxiety after childbirth in the UK.

      The primary objectives of the proposed study are to:

      conduct a randomized controlled trial and

        -  examine the feasibility of web-based treatment program (iWAWA) in terms of engagement
           and usability.

        -  examine user's acceptability of iWAWA in terms of usefulness, satisfaction, and
           credibility.

      The secondary objectives of this study are to:

        -  obtain initial estimates of anxiety levels and examine potential patient improvement
           over the course of the intervention and compared to the control group.

        -  determine the feasibility of the study by examining recruitment, consent, attrition,
           follow-up rates, as well as response rates to questionnaires.

      Method: For this feasibility study, an embedded mixed methods design is employed utilizing
      both quantitative and qualitative methods to achieve the above stated aims. For the
      quantitative part, a randomized control trial is conducted. Outcomes are assessed at
      pre-intervention, throughout the intervention, post-intervention, and 1-month
      post-intervention. For the qualitative part, semi-structured interviews are used for a more
      in-depth exploration of acceptability and feasibility of the iWAWA intervention. The
      interviews with participants are carried out post intervention.

      Study benefits: Based on the participants' feedback, this study hopes to inform development
      and adaptation of the investigated web-based intervention. If the interventions acceptability
      and feasibility is confirmed, the next steps would be to test the intervention efficacy in a
      stage II randomized control trial.
    
  