
    
      All interventions delivered to both study groups will be provided by licensed physical
      therapists at Duke Sports Medicine. The frequency of visits and duration of physical therapy
      care will be determined on an individual basis. Both groups will be expected to perform an
      individualized home exercise program to supplement formal therapy visits. The PFPS group will
      receive a pragmatic treatment approach reflective of currently accepted interventions. The
      clinician will have the ability to select appropriate interventions based on the
      presentation/need of each patient. These interventions may include: stretching (iliotibial
      band, hip flexor, lateral retinaculum); patellar taping; kinesiology taping; bracing; joint
      mobilization (patella, ankle, hip); orthotics/footwear recommendations; pain modalities such
      as Ice, electric stimulation, laser; soft tissue mobilization (manual or instrument assisted)
      for restricted tissues such as peri-patellar tissues, iliotibial band, tensor fasciae latae,
      hamstrings, calf, quadriceps, hip flexors, and gluteals. The PFPS+DN group will be treated in
      the same manner described above with the addition of the dry needling intervention. The dry
      needling intervention will be prescriptive in that each provider will assess patient for the
      presence of a trigger point that may be contributing either directly or indirectly to the
      patient's symptoms and perform the intervention per the following guidelines. First, the
      presence of a trigger point must be verified by locating a palpable taught band, a
      hypersensitive tender area, referred pain of the MTrP in response to compression, a Jump Sign
      - response from patient who winces, may cry out, or withdraw, or a local twitch response
      provoked by manually snapping the taut band. Second, a muscle may be selected for dry
      needling if that muscle is assumed to be contributing to tissue extensibility restriction,
      motor control dysfunction, or hyperactivity.
    
  