
    
      This study is a prospective, open, randomized study. Subjects will be randomized using a
      computer-generated table of random numbers into 2 groups. The first group will receive
      intrathecal morphine as part of a spinal anesthetic. The second group will receive an
      ultrasound-guided bilateral TAP catheter at the end of the procedure, while the subject is
      still under the effect of spinal anesthetic. Group assignments will be sealed in sequentially
      numbered, opaque envelopes that would be opened by an anesthesiologist performing the
      cesarean section. The research nurse or one of the investigators, not involved with patient
      care after the subject signed written informed consent, will provide postoperative data
      collection.

      All patients will be pre-hydrated with 1000ml of Lactated Ringer's solution. They will then
      be brought to the OR and without premedication receive a spinal anesthetic in a sitting
      position. The spinal anesthetic will be administered at either L3-4 or L4-5 level with 24G
      Sprotte needle and contain 1.4ml of 0.75% hyperbaric bupivacaine. As per protocol, the first
      group would receive 0.3mg of preservative-free morphine, mixed in the same syringe. All the
      subjects then will be immediately placed in supine position with left uterine displacement,
      and supplemental oxygen 4L/min will be administered via nasal cannula for the duration of
      procedure. After a successful spinal anesthetic is confirmed by loss of sensation to
      pinprick, cesarean section will be performed. Intraoperative hypotension will be treated with
      IV fluids, as well as intermittent boluses of IV ephedrine or IV neosynephrine as needed to
      keep SBP>100mm Hg. Intraoperative nausea will be treated with IV ondansetron as needed.

      At the end of the procedure, the second group will receive ultrasound guided TAP catheter
      using a linear 6-15MHz ultrasound probe on a portable ultrasound machine (SonoSite, Bothell,
      WA) as previously described (Hebbard P, 2007). Each catheter will be dosed with 20ml of
      Ropivacaine 0.5% at that time. Double lumen OnQ C-block pump (I-Flow, LLC, Lake Forest, CA)
      containing 700 ml of the Ropivacaine 0.2% will be attached to the TAP catheters in the
      recovery room. The time that this occurs will be recorded in the eMAR. The catheters will run
      at 7cc/hr/side for 50 hrs.

      In the recovery area, the patient will be asked to rate their pain at rest, nausea, and
      pruritus upon arrival and at regular intervals as per routine care. The pain will be rated on
      a 0 to 10 numeric rating scale (NRS), where 0 means no pain and 10 is the worst pain
      imaginable. Fentanyl 50 mg IV will be administered every 5 minutes to maintain an NRS pain
      score <4 of 10. Nausea will be rated on a 0 to 2 scale (0 = no nausea and vomiting, 1 = mild
      to moderate nausea or vomiting not needing treatment, and 2 = severe nausea or vomiting
      needing treatment). It will be treated with 4mg IV ondansetron, if necessary. The presence of
      pruritus and whether the treatment is desired will be assessed on a 0 to 2 scale (0= no
      pruritus, 1= mild pruritus not requiring treatment, 2= moderate pruritus requiring treatment
      or severe pruritus). Pruritus will be treated with IV diphenhydramine 25 mg if the subject
      weighs less than 150lbs and 50mg if the subjects weighs more than 150lbs. Upon transfer to
      the maternity floor, the nurses will ask the subjects to rate their pain at rest, nausea, and
      pruritus as part of usual care, upon arrival and every 4 hours for 48 hours as described
      above. The answers will be recorded on a data collection too. For the following 48 hours, the
      patient will be treated as follows: nausea will be treated with 25 mg IV promethazine
      followed by 4mg IV ondansetron if necessary every 6 hours. Pruritus will be treated with
      IV/PO diphenhydramine 25 mg if the subject weighs less than 150lbs and 50mg if the subject
      weighs more than 150lbs every 6 hours if necessary. Pain will be treated with SQ morphine
      (4mg for NRS pain 3-4, 6 mg for NRS pain 4-7, 8mg for NRS pain >7) every 4 hours as requested
      and 30mg IV ketorolac every 6 hours until subjects start eating. Once the subject tolerate
      diet, their pain will be treated with 800 mg PO ibuprofen every 6 hours and a combination of
      oxycodone 5mg and acetaminophen 325mg PO every 4 hours as requested (1 tab for NRS pain 4-7,
      2 tabs for NRS pain >7).
    
  