
    
      Study Design: This study will be a double blinded, randomized control trial (RCT) to compare
      detection rates of one and both ureteric jets at the time of intraoperative cystoscopy using
      either vitamin B or D5W. This will be a multicentre study with patients being recruited from
      Mount Sinai Hospital, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, and Women's College Hospital.

      Recruitment and Consent: Female patients undergoing pelvic reconstructive surgery where
      cystoscopic ureteric visualization is required will be recruited from Mount Sinai
      Hospital/Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre/Women's College Hospital at their surgical consult
      in the clinic/ambulatory setting. At that time, one of the study investigators (not the
      operating physician for that particular patient) will describe the study to the patient and
      give her the study consent form if she is interested in participating. For any patients
      recruited or considering the study, they will be asked to stop all vitamin supplements one
      week before surgery. If the patient cannot decide on the day of the surgical consult, they
      can go home with an unsigned consent form to review the study and on the day of surgery they
      will once again be asked if they would like to participate in the study by a study
      investigator (not involved with the patient's surgery). Once the patient has read and
      voluntarily signed the consent form, the same study investigator will open a sequentially
      numbered opaque sealed envelope that will provide a study identification number for the
      patient and randomize the patient to either receiving a preoperative dose of vitamin B or
      intraoperative cystoscopic distension with D5W. The patient and operating surgeons will not
      be made aware of the group the patient was allocated to.

      Sample Size Calculation: There is only one study in the literature that has commented on
      ureteric visualization after vitamin B2 ingestion. In this study, they report a 72% detection
      rate. If we consider a 15% difference in detection rate to be clinically significant, then
      with a power of 0.8 and an alpha of 0.05, the minimum number of patients required per group
      would be 113. We anticipate a 5% drop out rate after consent due to intraoperative issues.
      Therefore, we will recruit 119 patients per study arm to be included in the final analyses
      (n=238).

      Method: Upon recruitment to the study, the study investigator that did the consent will then
      complete the Initial Information Form where the following information will be collected from
      the patient (this information is also already available in the clinical record):

        -  Age

        -  Parity

        -  BMI

        -  Smoking status

        -  Diabetic status

        -  Menopausal status

        -  Immunocompromised status

        -  Pelvic Organ Prolapse-Quantification (POP-Q) stage

        -  Preoperative use of vaginal estrogen

        -  History of recurrent UTI

      Patient packages will be created and assigned a patient number. For those randomized to the
      vitamin B group, the package will consist of a pill of vitamin B2 (containing 100mg of
      riboflavin) that is inside an opaque gelatin capsule that is matched to a litre bag of normal
      saline that is wrapped in an opaque covering. For those randomized to the D5W group, the
      package will consist of a pill of cellulose that is inside an opaque gelatin capsule that is
      matched to a litre bag of D5W that is wrapped in an opaque covering. These packages will be
      couple with the patient according to her randomization group in the preoperative area.

      In the preoperative area, all patients will be given the pill in their package by mouth 60 to
      120 minutes before the start of surgery. The covered bag will then accompany the patient to
      the operating room and will be set up as the instillation fluid for cystoscopy. This way, the
      patient and operating team will be blinded to what agent was used for ureteric visualization.
      Cystoscopy will be done using a standard diagnostic 70 degree cystoscope.

      In the preoperative area and in the operating room, the following data will be collected by a
      study investigator that is not part of the operating team:

        -  Time pill was given

        -  Time cystoscopy was started

        -  Time surgeon started to look for ureteric jets

        -  Time first ureter was visualized

        -  Time second ureter was visualized

        -  Colour of jet (clear, pale yellow, or bright yellow)

        -  If cystoscopy is repeated to look at ureters, above measures are captured again

        -  If fluorescein (0.25mL by iv injection) is used as a rescue agent, reason why, time it
           was given, and time jets were seen are recorded (in order to allow for an adequate time
           to determine whether the study agent has worked, fluorescein cannot be used any earlier
           than 10 minutes from the start of cystoscopy)

        -  Surgeon satisfaction of ureteric visualization during that specific case is rated on a
           Likert scale from 1 to 5

        -  Primary surgeon's guess at the agent that was used to visualize ureters

      Between post-operative days 3 and 10, the patient will present to clinic and information on
      length and type of catheter use, as well as antibiotic use after surgery will be recorded.
      Patients will also give a catheter urine specimen to be sent for culture and sensitivity.

      DATA ANALYSIS Baseline characteristics and follow-up measures will be summarized using
      descriptive statistics (mean, SD, median, and range for continuous variables, count and
      percent for categorical variables). Continuous variables will be summarized using means and
      standard deviations, and will be compared between groups using Student's t-tests. Categorical
      variables will be summarized using counts and percents, and compared between groups using
      Chi-squared tests. A P-value ≤0.05 will be considered significant for all statistical
      analyses performed.
    
  