
    
      Enrollment Visit Following the consent process, patient demographics, injury information, and
      baseline pre-trauma sexual function will be documented as part of the patient's baseline
      assessment. Participants will be asked to complete the study survey which will combine 1
      question (Item 21 Sexual Dysfunction) from the Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH)
      and the 5 question, Likert-like, Arizona Sexual Experience Scale (ASEX)7,8 . Depending on the
      participant's response to survey item 1, they may or may not be asked to complete the
      remaining 5 questions. As part of routine care in the Department of Orthopaedics, patients
      being seen in the Hand & Upper Extremity outpatient clinics are asked to complete the
      following surveys: QuickDASH, SANE and PROMIS-10. The study will access/utilize the responses
      to these routine care patient reported outcomes to correlate to our study survey responses.
      This routine care PRO data will be stored in the electronic health record. Project team
      members listed as Key Study Personnel with existing electronic health record (EHR) system
      access rights may be granted use of REDCap Clinical Data Interoperability Services (CDIS)
      tools. These tools are designed to enable transfer of relevant study-related data from the
      Vanderbilt Research Derivative and/or directly from the EHR into REDCap. If, for some reason,
      the participant does not complete the routine care PROs at their enrollment visit, we will
      ask them to complete the surveys as part of the study.

      Follow-up Visits Participants will be asked to complete the same study survey at their 3
      month, 6 month and 12 month follow-up visits. The study will access/utilize the routine care
      PRO responses (QuickDASH, SANE and PROMIS-10) at these visits, also. If, for some reason, the
      participant does not complete the routine care PROs at their follow-up visit, we will ask
      them to complete the surveys as part of the study.

      If the participant does not have a routine care appointment scheduled at the follow-up visit
      time points, misses a routine care follow-up appointment or the study staff are not available
      to collect data at these follow-up appointments, the research coordinator will attempt to
      contact the patient by phone, mail or electronically using REDCap, to obtain the outcomes
      data.
    
  