
    
      This study is a prospective, interventional and double-blind randomized controlled clinical
      trial. After approval of the clinical registry, patients who meet the standards of inclusion
      and exclusion criteria will be recruited to this study, if they and their relatives are
      willing to join in the study. According to the clinical manifestations of the patients at
      admission and the results of cranial imaging, the patients' conditions were evaluated using
      the modified Fisher score, the World Federation of Neurological Surgeons Scale (WFNSS), the
      max-ICH score (max-ICH), the IVH score (IVHs), the Hijdra Sum Score (Hijdra), the Modified
      Graeb Score (mGS) and other grading criteria. Two groups (NS group and MACSF group) were
      divided into groups using a completely stratified randomization method. This study was a
      double-blind clinical study, and the grouping protocol was managed by the project research
      assistant. After the subject or his/her family members sign the informed consent, the project
      research assistant completed the grouping according to the randomly assigned sequence given
      by the clinical research center of the First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'anJiaotong University.
      The project research assistant records the group and informs the specialist of the type of
      replacement fluid required. The replacement fluid was sent into the ward in a special
      container, and then lumbar puncture and CSF replacement were performed by the operator. The
      replacement liquid used in both groups was identical in appearance, color, temperature, and
      smell. During the whole study, the investigator did not participate in the preparation of the
      replacement liquid, and the subjects and their family members were also unaware of the
      grouping. After the case collection and electronic database records are completed, the
      research assistant will inform the researcher of the group name under the supervision of the
      third party to complete the unblinding, and the researcher shall inform the subjects of the
      group name in written form. For the control group, patients were treated the normal saline
      (0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection) as the replacement fluid. For the intervention group, MACSF
      will be used. The composition and concentration of MACSF is as follows:Na+: 146.2 mEq/L, K+:
      2.7 mEq/L, Mg2+: 4.2 mEq/L, Cl-: 123 mEq/L, HCO3-:23.2 mEq/L, Glucose: 0.75 g/L. MACSF is
      prepared by the staff of Pharmacy Intravenous Admixture Services of First Affiliated Hospital
      of Xi'an Jiaotong University, according to a specific formula in the specific working area.
      The whole procedure follow the aseptic principles strictly. Fresh-made MACSF will be placed
      in a specific container and send to the the patient ward through specific channels.
      Intracranial pressure (ICP) was measured by non-invasive ICP test before lumbar puncture. If
      it is higher than 350cmH2O, a lumbar puncture can be performed 30 minutes after intravenous
      drip of 100ml 20% mannitol. Then, for the patients who signed the informed consent, a CSF
      sample (3ml) was taken before each lumbar puncture CSF replacement and synchronous blood
      samples (6ml) was taken. The blood samples should be drawn into a non-anticoagulant tube and
      a heparin anticoagulant tube respectively. All the samples will be transferred to BioBank of
      the First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'anJiaotong University in a liquid nitrogen tank. After
      re-melted in a water bath of 37°, the blood samples will be centrifuged at 4° for 15min at
      3000r/min, the CSF samples will be centrifuged at 4° for 10min at 1000r/min and then the
      supernatant will be collected and stored at -80°. At the end of this study, the contents of
      oxyhemoglobin (OxyHb), S100 calcium-binding protein β (S100β), neuron-specific enolase(NSE),
      D-dimer (DD), matrix metalloproteinases-9 (MMP-9), Mg2+, Ca2+ in the samples will be detected
      by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or mass spectrometry. The total amount of
      replacement was generally 30ml, and the replacement was performed once every 2 days. When the
      red cell (RBC) count in CSF is less than 100×10^6/L, the CSF is considered to be cleared. CSF
      replacement is performed up to four times. NIHSS and GCS scores were evaluated daily after
      admission. Cerebral computerized tomography (CT) was performed at least every week after
      admission. If there is new low-density lesions, delayed cerebral infarction (DCI) will be
      diagnosed. Transcranial Doppler(TCD) examination was performed the first three days after
      admission and after each replacement. Cerebral autoregulation (CA) was evaluated by transient
      hyperemic response test (THRT), a transcranial Doppler (TCD)-based CA evaluation method,
      which describes the changes in cerebral blood fow velocity after a brief compression of the
      ipsilateral common carotid artery. The specific content is described later. CVS will be
      diagnosed by TCD, the diagnostic criteria will be described later. All subjects were followed
      up in the day of 14, 30, 60, 90 days after onset and the mRS was evaluated. Meanwhile, some
      indicators will be used to evaluate the safety of MACSF application, which including
      secondary infection, fluctuation of intracranial pressure and hypermagnesemia. For patients
      or their family members who do not agree to do the CSF replacement, the sample collection can
      be used as a supplementary analysis for this study after they sign the informed consent for
      sample collection.

      The diagnostic criteria and the solutions will be described in the next part.
    
  