
    
      Dementias are neurodegenerative syndromes typical of the elderly population and cause a high
      degree of incapacity and dependence of the patient in relation to the care of others.
      Caregivers of patients with dementia, especially those belonging to the same family, suffer
      from a high degree of overload, and are often affected by impairments in their own health.
      Previous studies have shown that telephone interventions for the assistance and guidance of
      these individuals have a positive impact on their own quality of life as well as on the
      family members under their care. Measures like this can also optimize specialized services
      and facilitate the search for medical help when needed.

      In this way, the present study aims to evaluate the efficacy of a psychoeducation and support
      protocol, performed by telephone, to assist caregivers of patients with dementia under
      specialized outpatient follow-up.

      Patients will be divided into two groups. Participants in the intervention group, in addition
      to the usual primary health care, will receive weekly telephone contacts over a period of
      eight weeks, previously scheduled with psychoeducational guidelines and support in the
      management of their relatives and with dementia. The control group will receive the usual
      follow-up at the in primary health care. Both group will received a prited materials about
      problematic behavior.

      Considering the prevalence and impact of dementia syndromes, it is necessary to conduct
      studies that are directed at reducing the burden and promoting the information and care of
      the caregivers of patients with dementia, also providing an improvement in the quality of
      care. The present project brings as scientific contribution an innovative approach to the
      reality of our country, with great potential to become an alternative, cost-effective and
      easily accessible measure for the assistance of people with dementia and their relatives and
      caregivers.
    
  