
    
      Hemolysis is the premature destruction of erythrocytes. A hemolytic anemia will develop if
      bone marrow activity cannot compensate for the erythrocyte loss. The severity of the anemia
      depends on whether the onset of hemolysis is gradual or abrupt and on the extent of
      erythrocyte destruction Hemolysis can be due to hereditary and acquired disorders. Acquired
      causes of hemolysis include immune disorders, Toxic chemicals and drugs, Antiviral agents and
      Physical damage .

      Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) exhibits two important characteristics: shortened red
      blood cell (RBC) survival and presence of autoantibodies directed toward autologous RBCs,
      usually demonstrated by a positive direct antiglobulin (Coombs) test (DAT). AIHA is
      classified by the temperature at which autoantibodies bind optimally to RBCs. In warm
      antibody AIHA, which constitutes about 80-90% of adult cases, hemolysis is mediated by
      antibodies which bind to RBCs at 37 °C (98.6 °F. In cryopathic hemolytic syndromes,
      cold-reactive autoantibodies exhibit affinity for RBCs optimally at temperatures below body
      temperature. In adults, most of the cold-reactive antibodies are agglutinins of the
      immunoglobulin M (IgM) isotype. In children, cold hemolysins (generally IgG) are most common.
      Unusual patients with mixed AIHA exhibit both cold-reactive and warm-reactive autoantibodies
      .

      Each of these types of AIHA may be sub-classified based on the presence or absence of
      underlying diseases. In the absence of an underlying disease, the AIHA is termed primary or
      idiopathic. When AIHA occurs as a manifestation or complication of another disease, the term
      secondary AIHA is used. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and lymphomas account for about
      half of all secondary AIHA cases. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and other autoimmune
      diseases also account for a large number of secondary AIHA cases. Certain drugs also mediate
      immune injury to RBCs. Three mechanisms are recognized and two of these involve elements of
      autoimmunity, in which autoantibodies recognize and bind to specific RBC epitopes in concert
      with drugs or their metabolites or in which the autoantibody binds to RBC epitopes without
      the presence of drug

      Diagnosis The signs and symptoms of AIHA are nonspecific and common to all types of anemia .
      The primary symptoms include exertional dyspnea, dyspnea at rest, varying degrees of fatigue,
      and signs and symptoms of the hyperdynamic state, such as bounding pulses, palpitations…etc

      The laboratory findings of drug-induced AIHA may resemble those of warm antibody AIHA or a
      cryopathic hemolytic syndrome, depending on the mechanism of the autoantibody induction and
      the target antigen. A high index of suspicion on the part of the clinician and discussions
      with blood bank personnel can usually reveal the role of the drug.

      complete blood count Peripheral blood smear : This test can detect an anemia, pancytopenia,
      and infections. Along with the differential count, a complete blood count can help diagnose
      hematologic malignancies and other hematological disorders. The platelet count usually is
      normal in most hemolytic anemias.

      An increased reticulocyte count represents increased RBC production and is a criterion for
      hemolysis but is not specific for hemolysis. Thrombocytopenia associated with positive direct
      coombs test occur in evans syndrome .

      Serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) study : Serum LDH elevation is a criterion for hemolysis,
      but is not specific

      Serum haptoglobin : A low serum haptoglobin level is a criterion for moderate-to-severe
      hemolysis.

      Indirect bilirubin : Unconjugated bilirubin is a criterion for hemolysis, but it is not
      specific , the level of indirect bilirubin usually is less than 3 mg/dL.

      Direct antiglobulin test (DAT):

      The DAT result is usually positive in autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA), but it may
      occasionally be negative in this disorder. DAT-negative AIHAs have been reviewed. From 5-10%
      of all AIHAs are DAT negative. The polybrene test can detect DAT-negative AIHA.

      Treatment all of the drugs used in the treatment of AIHA are largely or partly directed
      against the patient's natural immune system, which may, in turn, extensively derail the
      immune system due to treatment. .The first-line therapy for warm AIHA are corticosteroids,
      which are effective in 70-85% of patients and should be slowly tapered over a time period of
      6-12 months. For refractory/relapsed cases, the current sequence of second-line therapy is
      splenectomy (effective approx. in 2 out of 3 cases but with a presumed cure rate of up to
      20%), rituximab (effective in approx. 80-90% of cases), and thereafter any of the
      immunosuppressive drugs (azathioprine, cyclophosphamide, cyclosporin, mycophenolate mofetil).
      Additional therapies are intravenous immunoglobulins, danazol, plasma-exchange, and
      alemtuzumab and high-dose cyclophosphamide as last resort option. As the experience with
      rituximab evolves, it is likely that this drug will be located at an earlier point in therapy
      of warm AIHA, before more toxic immunosuppressants, and in place of splenectomy in some
      cases. In coronary artery disease , rituximab is now recommended as first-line treatment
    
  