
    
      Lymphedema is a chronic, debilitating disease caused by lymphatic flow obstruction. Breast
      cancer-related lymphedema (BCRL) secondary to mastectomy and/or radiation therapy is a
      growing health concern, with a reported incidence as high as 94% in breast cancer survivors.
      Behavioral adjustments and aggressive therapeutic management can reduce long-term impairment
      and optimize quality of life. However, there is currently no standard clinical procedure for
      identifying patients at greatest BCRL risk and fundamental gaps exist in even our basic
      knowledge of how the lymphatic system responds to node dissection and subsequent therapy.
      Specialized imaging methods have demonstrated that reduced lymphatic flow velocity and
      lymphatic contractility impairment may signify greater BCRL risk, however these approaches
      frequently require radioactive tracers or exogenous contrast agents which alter the
      physiological environment and are primarily available only in specialized centers. As such,
      these methods are simply impractical for routine BCRL monitoring in humans or for reporting
      clinical trial endpoints.

      Recent work has demonstrated that spin labeling, a popular and noninvasive MRI method for
      measuring perfusion, can be adapted to measure lymphatic fluid flow to axillary lymph nodes.
      Furthermore chemical exchange saturation transfer (CEST) MRI, a popular method for measuring
      protein content and pH changes in brain, breast, and liver, can be translated to the
      lymphatic system to assess sensitive changes in interstitial protein accumulation, a hallmark
      of lymphedema progression. Recent work has provided motivation for these techniques by
      demonstrating, using commercially available equipment, that consistent changes in lymphatic
      properties are detectable in vivo under (i) conditions of cuff-induced lymph flow
      manipulation, and (ii) in affected vs. unaffected arms of BCRL patients. Here, these methods
      will be implemented in sequence with standard clinical and MRI measures of lymph structure to
      expand our understanding of lymph physiology in different stages of BCRL and in response to
      therapy.

      Hypothesis (1). Axillary lymph nodes and vessels, velocity of lymphatic fluid, and
      interstitial protein accumulation can be visualized in a reproducible manner using
      noninvasive MRI approaches that are frequently used to measure analogous metrics in brain,
      breast, and liver.

      Aim (1). Turbo-spin-echo, spin labeling, and CEST MRI will be applied to assess lymph
      collector volume, lymphatic flow velocity, and interstitial protein accumulation,
      respectively, together for the first time in healthy female volunteers. Intraclass and
      Spearman's rank correlation coefficients will be calculated to understand the reproducibility
      and age-dependence of these parameters in uncompromised lymphatic systems.

      Hypothesis (2). (2a) The MRI protocol applied in Aim (1) can be used to detect (i) increases
      in interstitial protein accumulation and (ii) reductions in lymphatic velocity in patients
      with mild and moderate BCRL, and (2b) these functional metrics will be more variable than
      limb volume measurements in patients in early BCRL disease stages and following common manual
      lymphatic drainage (MLD) therapy, thereby demonstrating the utility of these imaging
      biomarkers for identifying lymphatic dysfunction and monitoring therapy response.

      Aim (2). The Aim (1) protocol will be applied to patients in preclinical (Stage 0), mild
      (Stage I), and moderate (Stage II) BCRL together with volumetric limb measurements before and
      after MLD therapy. A Wilcoxon rank-sum test will be used to assess differences in parameters
      between patient volunteers in different BCRL stages as well as pre- and post-MLD therapy.
      These data will provide an exemplar for how the novel, internal imaging measurements of
      lymphatic function vary with disease severity and therapy administration.

      Hypothesis (3). In preclinical BCRL patients (Stage 0), reduced lymphatic velocity and
      increased interstitial protein accumulation correlates with elevated two-year BCRL
      progression risk.

      Aim (3). Stage 0 BCRL patients will undergo an identical MRI protocol as outlined in Aim (1)
      and follow-up disability metrics will be recorded up to two years post-therapy. A
      multi-parametric analysis will be used to test correlations between the hypothesized imaging
      biomarkers and BCRL progression, thereby demonstrating to what extent acute MRI may be used
      to stratify risk in patients at high risk for BCRL.

      This work will for the first time translate a noninvasive, multi-modal MRI protocol, which
      has demonstrated clinical potential in brain, liver, and breast applications, to the human
      lymphatic system to better characterize lymphatic dysfunction, therapy response, and BCRL
      risk in the growing breast cancer survivor population.
    
  