
    
      The investigators' project has 5 aims:

      Aim 1: To implement an innovative Comprehensive Care Physician (CCP) Model of
      multi-disciplinary team-based care at the University of Chicago Medical Center (UCMC) in
      which care for patients at high risk of hospitalization is led by CCPs who focus their
      practices on patients at high risk of hospitalization so that they can personally care for
      these patients both in clinic and in the hospital, with savings to Medicare shared with the
      AMC.

      As noted above and supported by theory and data below, the key justification for this goal is
      based on the value of the doctor-patient relationship. Building on 15 years experience
      developing our hospitalist program (IRB protocol 9967) from 2 to 30 clinicians, the
      investigators provide detailed plans to efficiently implement the investigators' model to
      improve care within 6 months. To incentivize and assess cost-savings, the investigators
      propose:

      Aim 2: Among patients who meet clinical eligibility criteria for the CCP model and express
      willingness to receive care in the model, to assess the utilization and quality of health
      care, health outcomes, and cost of care of patients randomly assigned to be offered CCP care
      compared to patients randomly assigned not to be offered CCP care.

      Evaluation is important in the investigators' project both to ensure that the investigators
      meet the triple-aim and because assessment of cost savings is needed to implement the shared
      savings model that the investigators think is important to incentivize cost savings. The
      investigators recognize that the use of randomization to assess out-comes cannot be the basis
      for a long-term payment model in Medicare but select this approach to evaluation because the
      investigators think it will provide the most accurate estimate of the effects of the program.
      Assuming capitated payments to Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs) become a major payment
      approach for Medicare, cost savings from CCPs would create sustainable incentives for their
      use. CCPs might also work well in ACOs because selection of high risk patients into a CCP
      program might not be a concern if those patient came from within the ACO's covered
      population. Sustained incentives to use CCPs could also exist if high-risk persons selected
      into ACOs with CCPs, but risk adjustment was adequate. Shared savings programs with adequate
      risk adjustment would produce similar incentives. To address dissemination and risk
      adjustment, the investigators propose:

      Aim 3: To use data collected by UHC from 4 Chicago-area AMCs with linked Medicare data to
      support evaluation and potential local and national dissemination of the CCP model

      UHC (previously University HealthSystem Consortium) includes over 100 AMCs nation-wide and
      has exceptional data on hospital resource use to support risk-adjustment. UHC also houses
      laboratory and Medicare data to enhance risk-adjustment and outcomes assessment. The
      investigators will use this data to inform potential local dissemination and testing of our
      model by helping the other participating Chicago-area AMCs identify the segments of their
      patient populations that are frequently admitted enough to be suitable for the CCP model. If
      the model is successful at UCMC, and perhaps in later local dissemination and evaluation,
      UHC's national scope creates opportunities for dissemination of the investigators' work to
      almost all US AMCs. The risk-adjustment data will also allow us to evaluate alternative
      strategies to assess program savings to estimate shared savings that do not require
      randomization. Thus the investigators propose:

      Aim 4: To compare the results obtained in Aim 2 to three alternative assessment strategies
      that: 1) compare patients in UCMC treated in the CCP model to patients in UCMC who meet CCP
      clinical eligibility criteria but receive usual care, 2) compare patients in UCMC who meet
      CCP clinical eligibility criteria to historical patients in UCMC who met CCP clinical
      eligibility criteria, 3) compare patients in UCMC eligible for the CCP model to current
      patients in 4 other Chicago-area AMCs who meet CCP clinical eligibility criteria.

      The investigators propose to evaluate these alternative approaches for selection of a control
      group because the investigators think they might be feasible approaches to estimate savings
      in a shared-savings model and because they differ in potential threats to validity (e.g., 1
      must address patient selection into the intervention and 2 must address time trends in
      costs), outcomes assessment (patient outcomes will be harder to assess in 2 and 3), and
      generalizability (1 requires local patients treated outside the model and 2 requires
      historical data, which becomes less relevant over time). All models will be adjusted with the
      CMS-Hierarchical Condition Category (HCC) risk adjustment model for our base analysis but the
      investigators will also explore other approaches to risk adjustment, such as using prior year
      total Medicare expenditures and patient-reported variables as risk adjusters. The
      investigators propose to use our randomized control group for our shared savings incentive,
      but to work with CMMI in our cooperative agreement to assess how these control groups and
      approaches to risk adjustment could be used in shared savings incentives. Patient-reported
      outcomes will be assessed from enrolled subjects. Finally, since workforce development is key
      to implementing and disseminating this model, the investigators propose:

      Aim 5: To develop skills of a multidisciplinary team of providers to execute the CCP model,
      and expose medical students, residents and fellows, and other health professions trainees to
      the model.

      Because the investigators are an AMC with a rich pipeline of health professions trainees and
      excellent record of training national leaders, the investigators are excellently situated to
      train clinicians in the investigators' model who have the potential to help disseminate its
      core principles both locally and nationally.
    
  