
    
      The main contents include: (1) Questionnaire design: questionnaire is designed according to
      the research contents and purposes. The standard questionnaires will be used to collect the
      general information, dietary habits, lifestyle, medical history and family history
      etc.(2)Anthropometric measurements: blood pressure, height, body weight, waist and hip, pulse
      will be acquired by medical practitioners who received professional trainings based on World
      Health Organization (WHO) standards, and passed relevant examinations.(3) Dietary
      intervention: The dietary intervention comprise a 3-day baseline observation period, a
      low-salt diet for 7 days (3g of salt or 51.3mmol of sodium per day) and a high-salt diet for
      7 days (18g of salt or 307.8mmol of sodium per day). During the baseline period, each subject
      is given detailed dietary instructions to avoid table salt, cooking salt, and high-salt foods
      for the 21-day study duration. To ensure compliance of study participants with the
      intervention program, they are required to have their breakfast, lunch, and dinner at the
      study kitchen under supervision of the study staff during the entire study period. All foods
      are cooked without salt. Onsite study staff members add prepackaged salt to the meals of
      individual subjects as indicated by the study protocol. (4) Blood and urine samples
      collection: morning fasting blood, nocturnal enuresis, and 24-hour urine specimen will be
      collected by medical staffs, and blind tubes will be set up according to 5% of the total
      samples. Blood biochemistries including serum total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL
      cholesterol, triglycerides, fasting glucose, creatinine and hsCRP can be measured using
      automatic biochemical analyzer. The sodium and potassium concentrations in the urine will be
      measured by flame photometry. The total sodium and potassium excretions in urine in 24h were
      calculated by multiplying the concentration and 24-h volume of urine. (5) DNA methylation and
      LncRNA detection: Using a method of modifying a hydrogen sulfite salt and gene chip
      technology to detect DNA methylation and LncRNA. (6) LncRNA: LncRNA will be measured with
      gene chip technology after the high salt intervention period. (7) Auxiliary examinations:
      Auxiliary examinations including carotid intima-media thickness, endothelium-dependent
      vasodilation (FMD), measurements of brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity (baPWV) and
      electrocardiographic parameters. The measurement will be done in hospitals by medical
      practitioners who received professional trainings and passed relevant examinations. (8) Data
      processing and statistics: the investigators should input the data to the database, and
      utilize software such as SPSS, STATA, Haploview and FBAT to analyze. (9)Quality control: ①
      Questionnaire is strictly designed and amended by epidemiologist and clinical experts. ② A
      standardized "Investigator Handbook" will be stipulated according to the guidelines. ③ Staff
      members are required to do a rigorous training and pass the exam. ④ The investigation process
      will be strictly supervised by the principal investigator. ⑤ Data entry use the parallel
      double entry method. ⑥ During laboratory testing, blank control and blind detection are
      applied to ensure the quality. ⑦Data analysis is performed by 2-3 postgraduates, inconsistent
      data need to be double checked.
    
  