
    
      This is an open-label (all people involved know the identity of the intervention),
      non-randomized (patients are assigned to treatment groups), phase IV, monocentric (at one
      single study site) interventional study evaluating the blocking effects two different doses
      of paliperidone ER and oral risperidone have on the dopamine D2 receptors in the brain of
      subchronic patients with schizophrenia. Dopamine is a substance produced and released in the
      brain. Research indicates that dopamine levels are elevated in some areas of the brain in
      acute schizophrenia psychosis. Antipsychotic medications like risperidone and paliperidone ER
      are used to treat psychosis by blocking the dopamine receptors. Fallypride is a radioactive
      tracer (a drug that emits radioactivity) that binds to the dopamine receptors in the brain
      much the same as antipsychotic medications. It competes with the antipsychotic compounds at
      the binding sites and is used when performing a specialized x-ray known as Positron Emission
      Tomography (PET) Imaging. After a patient receives Fallypride, it temporally binds to
      specific target areas in the brain and emits a brief and harmless radioactive signal that is
      detected by the PET Scanner. Since paliperidone ER and risperidone compete with Fallypride at
      the same target sites, the signal will differ according to the binding effect of the
      compound. This technique provides an image showing the direct effect medication has on the
      human brain and allows for comparisons of the effects of different medications to be made. As
      this effect will fluctuate depending on the concentration of the drug in the blood, during
      this study, PET measurements will be correlated with the blood levels sampled. Patients will
      receive either paliperidone ER (6 patients with 6 mg per day, 6 patients with 9 mg per day)
      or oral risperidone (6 patients with 4 mg per day, 6 patients with 6 mg per day). The primary
      objective of this study is to compare the blocking effects each medication has on the
      dopamine D2 receptors at different time points (shortly after taking medication and 24 hours
      after taking medication) correlated with blood levels of the medication. The study consists
      of 3 visits on 3 consecutive days. Blood levels will be assessed for treatment groups 1 to 4
      on day 2 and day 3 and for groups 5 to 8 on day 3 (according to the last intake of study
      medication). PET-Scans will be assessed for every group on day 3. Group 1 to 4 consists of
      patients whose PET Scan will be assessed approximately 2 hours after taking medication (group
      1 receives paliperidone ER 6 mg, group 2 receives paliperidone ER 9 mg, group 3 receives
      risperidone 4 mg, group 4 receives risperidone 6 mg). Group 5 to 8 consists of patients whose
      PET Scan will be assessed approximately 24 hours after taking medication (group 5 receives
      paliperidone ER 6 mg, group 6 receives paliperidone ER 9 mg, group 7 receives risperidone 4
      mg, group 8 receives risperidone 6 mg). Adverse Events (AE's) will be assessed as reported
      spontaneously throughout the trial. The dose of antipsychotic medication will represent the
      most frequent dose used in post acute treatment of schizophrenia. A group of healthy
      volunteers (group 9) will serve as a control group to measure fallypride dopamine D2-
      receptor occupancies under normal circumstances, in patients not affected by schizophrenia.
      Patients will receive the same dosage throughout the study as prescribed prior to the start
      of the study either paliperidone ER 6 mg tablet once daily or 9 mg tablet once daily or
      risperidone 4 mg tablet once daily or 6 mg daily (two 3 mg tablets).
    
  