
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) bortezomib in combination with Azacytidine
           in patients with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic
           syndromes (MDS).

        -  To define the specific toxicities and the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of Azacytidine
           plus bortezomib combination.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the overall response rate (ORR).

        -  To determine the rate of complete remission (CR) of Azacytidine plus bortezomib in
           relapsed/refractory AML and MDS.

        -  To correlate the biological activity of Azacytidine as demethylating agent (changes in
           target gene methylation and gene expression, DNMT1 protein expression, global
           methylation) with clinical endpoints and plasma pharmacokinetics of azacytidine.

        -  To characterize the biological activity of bortezomib as a potential demethylating
           agent.

        -  To correlate intracellular concentration of azacytidine-triphosphate with global DNA
           methylation and other biological endpoints as well as clinical response.

        -  To explore the biologic role of microRNAs in determining clinical response to the
           azacytidine plus bortezomib combination and achievement of the other pharmacodynamic
           endpoints.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of bortezomib.

      Patients receive azacytidine IV over 30 minutes on days 1-7 and bortezomib IV on days 2 and 5
      or on days 2, 5, and 9 or on days 2, 5, 9, and 12. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to
      12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of bortezomib and tipifarnib until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for at least 30 days.
    
  