
    
      Three cohorts have participated in outcome evaluations of the SOS suicide prevention program
      to assess its effects on help-seeking, attitudes toward depression and suicide, and suicidal
      behavior. The first two cohorts consisted of 25 public state high schools in Massachusetts,
      Georgia, and Connecticut. The third cohort consisted of 9 middle schools and 10 high schools
      from outside of Connecticut with high proportions of military dependants.

      Hypotheses:

      H1: Exposure to the SOS program will be significantly associated with lower rates of suicidal
      ideation and suicide attempts; greater levels of help-seeking; greater knowledge of and more
      adaptive attitudes toward depression and suicide; and increased communication with and
      perceived support from peers.

      H2: The reduction in suicide attempts among youths exposed to the program can be explained by
      increases in knowledge about depression and suicide, more favorable attitudes regarding
      suicide, and improved communication with and support from peers.

      Methods

        1. The intervention: The SOS program was presented to students in 2 consecutive classes
           over a 2 day period, typically in health or social studies classes. The SOS program's
           teaching materials include a video and a discussion guide. The video includes
           dramatizations depicting the signs of suicidality and depression, recommended ways to
           react to someone who is depressed and suicidal, as well as interviews with real people
           whose lives have been touched by suicide. Students are also asked to complete the Brief
           Screen for Adolescent Depression (BSAD), a brief screening instrument for depression
           that is derived from the Diagnostic Interview Schedule for Children IV (Lucas et al.,
           2001).

        2. The sample: The first cohort involved approximately 4000 students in 9 high schools in
           Columbus Georgia, Hartford Connecticut, and western Massachusetts over a two-year
           period. The second cohort consisted ove an additional 1100 students were recruited from
           16 Technical High Schools in Connecticut. A third cohort consisted of over 600 students
           from 9 middle schools and 10 high schools from outside of Connecticut with high
           proportions of military dependants.

        3. The research design: The experimental design for the evaluation was a randomized control
           group design with posttest only data collection. At the beginning of each school year
           approximately half of the classes of teachers presenting the program were randomly
           assigned to the treatment group, which received the SOS Prevention Program in the
           fall/winter of that year; the other half were assigned to the control group, which did
           not receive the program until the evaluation is completed.

      To ascertain the effect of the program on participants' knowledge of and attitudes toward
      suicide and help seeking behavior, students in both the treatment and control groups were
      asked to complete a short questionnaire 3 months following implementation of the program.
      Questionnaires were anonymous. After the outcome evaluation was completed, the group of
      students who did not receive the program earlier in the school year received the complete SOS
      Program.
    
  