
    
      Federal law requires the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to disseminate information
      about tobacco constituents. The 2009 Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act grants
      FDA broad authority to regulate tobacco products, including helping the public to better
      understand harmful and potentially harmful constituents (HPHCs) present in tobacco products
      and tobacco smoke. According to Section 206 of the Act, using the appropriate federal
      rulemaking channels and procedures, FDA may require disclosure of tobacco constituents if the
      disclosed information benefits public health and increases consumer awareness of the health
      consequences of tobacco products. This study will assess the impact of constituent
      disclosures on smokers' cigarette packs in a randomized control trial.

      Recruitment: Smokers will first undergo screening online or call the study center to complete
      the screening questionnaire over the phone. Study staff will schedule eligible smokers for 5
      in-person visits. For each of their 5 visits, smokers will be asked to bring the number of
      cigarettes they expect to smoke in an 8 day period.

      Informed Consent: Prior to consenting smokers, research staff will visually inspect photo
      identification of smokers who report or appear to be under age 27. At the beginning of the
      first appointment, study personnel will explain the consent form and ask the smoker to read
      the form. Once the participant has finished reading the form, the study personnel member will
      ask the participant if he or she has any questions. Then both parties will sign the consent
      form and the participant will receive a copy of the consent form.

      Randomization: At the week 2 visit, study personnel will randomly assign participants to one
      of the two study arms. The investigators will determine the randomization order a priori.
      Smokers have an equal chance of being randomized to have labels with constituent disclosure
      messages or labels with litter messages applied to their cigarette packs.

      Assessment: Participants will complete 5 computer-based surveys during the study. The first
      appointment will take around 60 minutes and each subsequent visit will take around 30-45
      minutes to complete. At all 5 visits, participants will complete a survey. At visits 2-4,
      participants' will have their cigarette packs labeled based on their condition. Cigarette
      packs will be tracked at all 5 study visits.

      Detailed description of the intervention: Each week participants will bring in 8 days' of
      cigarettes (one extra day to provide a buffer in case of rescheduled appointments or smoking
      more than anticipated) for labeling and tracking. Additionally, they will bring in any unused
      labeled packs from the previous visit when applicable. While participants are taking the
      survey, research staff will count participants' cigarette packs. Study staff will mark packs
      with a code indicating the date of the visit and label them.

      Participants randomized to the intervention arm will have labels with constituent disclosure
      messages applied to their cigarette packs during visits for weeks 2-4. Constituent
      disclosures that include text about chemicals in cigarette smoke and health effects of the
      chemicals will be applied to participants' cigarette packs as labels on the right side (the
      Surgeon General's warning is on the left side). At the week 2 visit, participants' packs will
      be labeled with 1 of 3 disclosures selected at random; at the week 3 visit, they will get one
      of the 2 remaining disclosures selected at random, and at the week 4 visit they will get the
      remaining disclosure. Study investigators developed the text and design of these labels.
      Participants assigned to the control arm will have labels with litter messages applied to the
      right side of their cigarette packs.

      The investigators will instruct participants in both arms to smoke or not smoke as they
      normally would. The investigators will assess how many cigarettes participants smoked from
      packs previously brought to a visit and other sources to calculate intervention dose (% of
      cigarettes smoked from labeled packs). At the end of the study, participants will receive a
      list of cessation resources.
    
  