
    
      Asthma is a common, long-term disease that is caused by inflammation of the airways. Symptoms
      of asthma may include wheezing, coughing, shortness of breath, and chest tightness. The most
      common treatment for asthma is the use of inhaled corticosteroid medications with periodic
      adjustments to treatment intensity. For example, corticosteroid dosage is increased when
      asthma symptoms worsen and decreased when symptoms improve. However, guidelines for making
      these adjustments, especially reduced intensity adjustments, have not been well established.
      In people who are initially well controlled on daily low-dose inhaled corticosteroid therapy,
      symptom-based adjustment (SBA) and/or biomarker-based adjustment (BBA) of inhaled
      corticosteroid therapy may be more beneficial at maintaining asthma control than standard,
      guideline-based adjustments (GBA). The purpose of this study is to determine if adjusting
      treatment based on symptoms and/or lung function biomarkers is more effective at controlling
      asthma than adjusting corticosteroid use based on standardized medical guidelines.

      This study begins with a 4-week period during which participants are monitored while they use
      an inhaler containing a low dose of inhaled corticosteroid medication. Participants then are
      assigned to take part in either the BASALT study or the Tiotropium as an Alternative to
      Long-Acting Beta-Agonists and Corticosteroids (TALC) study, which is a separate Asthma
      Clinical Research Network (ACRN) study. Participants in BASALT undergo 2 to 4 weeks of
      adherence testing, which involves using three inhalers that have electronic monitoring
      devices attached to them. Participants also are asked to measure and record their breathing
      rates and lung function in a study diary.

      BASALT participants are then randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups: SBA, BBA, or
      GBA. Each participant is given four inhalers: one inhaler contains albuterol, which is used
      on an as-needed basis as rescue medication; one inhaler contains corticosteroid medication;
      and two inhalers contain placebo. One of the latter three inhalers is used each time the
      albuterol inhaler is used, and the other two inhalers are used on a daily basis. Study visits
      occur at Weeks 2, 4, 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, and 36 of the treatment period. Inhalers are adjusted
      during these visits based on SBA, BBA, or GBA guidelines. At selected visits, the following
      procedures occur: physical exam; blood collection; allergy skin testing; heart rate
      monitoring; lung function and airway testing; methacholine challenge test to determine asthma
      severity; and questionnaires to assess asthma control, quality of life, and other healthcare
      factors. Participants record asthma symptoms, peak flow measurements, and medication usage in
      a daily diary.
    
  