
    
      Migraine is a neurovascular disease whose pathophysiology is far from being completely
      clarified. This is mainly due to the complex mechanisms that underlie migraine attack as well
      as its recurrence. The endocannabinoid system (ES) is a complex signalling system involved in
      different biological processes (e.g. neuronal activity, pain sensation and immune functions)
      and it plays a crucial role in the maintenance of body homeostasis. The ES components include
      the endogenous lipids, the most studied ones being N-arachidonoylethanolamide (AEA) and
      2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), their metabolic enzymes and at least two cannabinoid receptors
      (CB1 and CB2). The biosynthesis of AEA mainly occurs by
      N-acylphosphatidylethanolamide-phospholipase D (NAPE-PLD), whereas 2-AG is produced through
      the action of diacylglycerol lipase (DAGL). AEA is metabolized by fatty acid amide hydrolase
      (FAAH) and 2-AG mainly by monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL).

      Alterations in gene expression of ES components may involve various cell types, multiple
      catabolic pathways and the generation of active metabolites via epigenetic mechanisms, under
      both physiological and pathological conditions. CB genes, for instance, may interact with
      different transcriptional factors, many of which are related to DNA methylation and histone
      post-translational modifications. A dysfunctional ES has been associated to numerous
      disorders including migraine. The ES, indeed, modulates multiple activities and
      neuromodulators/neurotransmitters that play a crucial role in migraine pathogenesis. ES is
      also implicated in the descending modulation of the trigeminovascular nociceptive
      transmission from the brainstem afferents. Previous studies from the Laboratory of
      Neurophysiology of Integrative Autonomic Systems, Headache Science Centre, IRCCS Mondino
      Foundation, Pavia (Italy), using the migraine-specific animal model based on nitroglycerin
      administration in rat, demonstrated the existence of interactions between the ES and pain
      mediation. In particular, the investigators showed a key role for AEA and for FAAH-regulated
      AEA activity in the processing of trigeminal nociceptive signals. AEA inhibits neurogenic
      dural vasodilatation, as well as calcitonin gene-related peptide-induced and nitric
      oxide-induced dural vessel dilation, an activity that is reversed by CB1 antagonism. The
      interaction between the ES and migraine pain is also suggested by clinical observations. FAAH
      activity was higher in platelets of women with episodic migraine (EM) to suggest a more
      marked degradation of AEA. Subjects with chronic migraine (CM) and medication overuse (MO)
      showed an altered endocannabinoid metabolism not only in platelets, but also in the CSF.
      Although the above clinical findings are scattered and replicated, their re-consideration in
      the light of more recent data from the increasing pre-clinical evidence prompt the need to
      investigate in more depth the role of ES in migraine pathophysiology.

      Several studies suggest that changes in ES components detected in peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMCs) are reliable indicators of a central dysfunction of the ES in
      different neurological diseases. For instance, in patients with Parkinson disease or multiple
      sclerosis, increased CSF levels of AEA were associated with a reduction in the activity and
      protein content of FAAH in PBMCs, which is indicative of an increased AEA tone. AEA levels
      were elevated in the CSF and in the blood of schizophrenic subjects, with a significant drop
      in AEA blood levels and in mRNA transcripts of CB2 and FAAH in PBMCs following clinical
      remission.

      The aim of this study, was the identification of specific functional patterns of ES activity
      in subjects with migraine. To this end, the investigators performed a thorough evaluation of
      multiple peripheral components of the ES (gene expression, protein expression and DNA
      methylation) in PBMCs of representative samples of subjects with EM without aura, CM-MO and
      in healthy controls (CT).

      Twenty-five subjects with EM, 26 with CM-MO and 24 CT were enrolled in the headache center of
      the IRCCS Mondino Foundation of Pavia (Italy). The study was approved by the local Ethics
      Committee and all subjects enrolled signed a written informed consent.

      Blood samples (20ml) were collected within ethylenediamine tetra-acetic acid (EDTA)
      containing tubes from participants. Blood samples were diluted in 1:1 ratio with phosphate
      buffer saline 1X (PBS 1X) (Sigma). Diluted blood samples were slowly loaded onto Ficoll
      separating solution (15ml) (Sigma) and centrifuged at 800 g without brake for 30 min at room
      temperature. PBMCs accumulated as the middle white monolayer, were washed twice in sterile
      PBS 1X and centrifuged at 300 g for 15 min. For each sample, a batch of PBMCs was used for
      RNA or DNA extraction and another one for flow-cytometer analysis.

      In the PBMCs isolated from the subjects in the 3 study groups the investigators assayed:

        -  CB1 and CB2 protein expression;

        -  expression of the following genes: CB receptors, FAAH, NAPE-PLD, MAGL and DAGL

        -  DNA methylation of ES components. To determine the relative level of CB1 and CB2 protein
           expression in PBMCs, the investigators used flow-cytometry with a FACS Canto
           flow-cytometer (Becton-Dickenson). After isolation, cells (100000 per reaction) were
           stained using antibodies against CD45 (BD Biosciences, 1:50), CB1 (R&D system, 1:50) and
           CB2 receptors (Cayman Chemical, 1:30); a total of 10000 events were counted in windows
           gated for the intersection of CD45 staining with CB1 and CB2.

      Total RNA from PBMCs was isolated using standard procedure (Zymo Research) and RNA quality
      was assessed using a nanodrop spectrophotometer (Nanodrop™ Thermo Fisher Scientific); cDNA
      was generated using the iScript cDNA Synthesis kit (Biorad) following the supplier's
      instructions. Gene expression of CB receptors, FAAH, NAPE-PLD, MAGL and DAGL was analyzed
      using the Fast Eva Green supermix (BIO-RAD). Ubiquitin (UBC), whose expression remained
      constant in all experimental groups, was used as housekeeping gene. The amplification was
      performed with a light Cycler 480 Instrument rt-PCR Detection System (Roche) following the
      supplier's instructions. All samples were assayed in triplicate and gene expression levels
      were calculated according to 2-∆Ct = 2- (Ct gene - Ct housekeeping gene) formula by using Ct
      values.

      Since PBMCs contain the full complement of epigenetic enzymes found in most tissues,
      including neurons and peripheral nucleated cells, the investigators evaluated the role of DNA
      methylation in the regulation of ES gene transcription in all the enrolled subjects.

      DNA was extracted from whole blood using QIAmp DNA Blood Mini Kit (Qiagen) and its
      concentration was determined by NanoDrop quantification (NanoDrop Techologies, Thermofisher).
      Arrays preparation and data analysis were performed by Genomix4Life srl (Baronissi, Italy).
      High-quality DNA (500 ng) was bisulfite converted using EZ DNA methylation kit (Zymo
      Research, Irvine, CA, USA). Bisulfite converted DNA (200ng) was used for analysis of
      whole-genome methylation, using the HumanMethylation 450 K BeadChip (Illumina, San Diego, CA,
      USA), which contains 485 577 probes covering 21 231 (99%) RefSeq genes. In brief, bisulfite
      converted DNA was whole-genome amplified for 20 h followed by end-point fragmentation.
      Fragmented DNA was precipitated, denatured and hybridised to the BeadChips for 20 h at 48 °C.
      The BeadChips were washed and the hybridised primers were extended and labelled before
      scanning the BeadChips using the Illumina iScan system. GenomeStudio software (version
      2011.1; Illumina Inc.) was used for the extraction of DNA methylation signals from scanned
      arrays. The methylation level for each cytosine was expressed as a beta value calculated as
      the fluorescence intensity ratio of the methylated to unmethylated versions of the probes:
      beta values ranged between 0 (unmethylated) and 1 (methylated). The annotation relating to
      CGIs uses the following categorisation: 'shore', each of the 2-kb sequences flanking a CGI;
      'shelf', each of the 2-kb sequences next to a shore; 'open sea', DNA not included in any of
      the previous sequences or in CGIs 4. TSS200 and TSS1500 indicate the region between position
      -200 bp and -1500 bp from the TSS, respectively. The significant methylation difference
      between two given loci is indicated by a delta-beta value and determined with GenomeStudio
      Methylation Module using Illumina custom algorithm for calculating DiffScores
      (DiffScore⩽-30.0 (≈ pval <0.001)=hypo-methylation; DiffScore⩾30.0 (≈ p
      val<0.001)=hyper-methylation).
    
  