
    
      Little is known about the longitudinal course of adolescent extreme obesity. In this
      multicenter study, the investigators aim to enroll adolescents with extreme obesity (BMI ≥
      35kg/m2) in a 9 year longitudinal, prospective observation that will reveal information on
      the course of obesity and the success of different treatment options. Adolescents with more
      moderate degrees of obesity (BMI 30-34,9kg/m2) will serve as a control group. The project
      builds on the Consortium "Medical and psychosocial implications of adolescent extreme obesity
      - acceptance and effects of structured care", short: "Youth with extreme obesity Study
      (YES)", which comprises the recruitment and characterization of obese youth from different
      healthcare- and non healthcare settings, a randomized controlled trial to investigate a novel
      intervention targeted at improving quality of life and social functioning of extremely obese
      adolescents, a structured prospective evaluation of adolescent bariatric surgery, and
      economic assessments of the financial burden of extreme adolescent obesity on the healthcare
      system.

      Based on the current state of knowledge, the investigators have formulated the following a
      priori hypotheses in regards to the longitudinal observation study:

        1. Youth with extreme obesity (BMI ≥ 35kg/m2) achieve lower adherence with the structured
           care program compared to adolescents with more moderate degrees of obesity (BMI
           30-34,9kg/m2).

        2. Youth with extreme obesity (BMI ≥ 35kg/m2) are less likely to achieve and sustain weight
           loss over a prolonged period of time, compared to adolescents with more moderate degrees
           of obesity (BMI 30-34,9kg/m2).

        3. Youth with extreme obesity (BMI ≥ 35kg/m2) are harder to integrate in the job market
           compared to youth with more moderate degrees of obesity (BMI 30-34,9kg/m2).

        4. Youth with extreme obesity (BMI ≥ 35kg/m2) have higher incidence and severity of
           co-morbidities compared to youth with more moderate degrees of obesity (BMI
           30-34,9kg/m2).

      The investigators aim to recruit a total of 600 adolescents age 14 to 24.9 years (initial age
      up to 21 years; changed in an amendment in February 2013) with extreme obesity (BMI ≥ 35
      kg/m2) and 600 adolescents with obesity (BMI 30-34.9 kg/m2) over a 24 months period. The five
      participating university centers are distributed across 4 geographic regions in the North
      (Berlin), in the West (Essen/Datteln), in the East (Leipzig) and in the South (Ulm) of
      Germany, and will therefore render data that are representative of Germany as a whole.
      Adolescent will be examined annually (initially examinations were biannually, this was
      changed in an amendment in December 2014), and testing will include an array of standardized
      questionnaires and validated instruments to assess health, psycho-social situation,
      psychiatric co-morbidities and health related quality of life, as well as a physical
      examination, laboratory tests, and screenings for orthopedic co-morbidities and sleep apnea.
      Participants are offered support and guidance in regards to social and vocational integration
      with the aim of improving self esteem and social functioning. Data will be entered in an
      extended version of the "German National Register for Longitudinal Research on Childhood
      Obesity". We will perform sub-analyses based on the treatment options these youths have
      followed The project will reveal the acceptance and outcomes of a structured healthcare
      program for adolescents with extreme obesity and provide unique information on the medical
      and psychosocial development of adolescents with extreme obesity in Germany.
    
  