
    
      Rationale: The Gore IBE device is a newly designed iliac branched device, that is used in
      combination with the widely accepted C3 Excluder endograft for the exclusion of common iliac
      aneurysms and aorto-iliac aneurysms. The later has a proven safety and efficacy in excluding
      abdominal aortic aneurysms. The Gore IBE device got CE mark on October 2013. Technical and
      clinical data at short and long terms are still to be collected to give insight into
      technical success rates, patency data and long term follow-up.

      Objective and design: This investigator-initiated post market registry consists of a
      retrospective and a prospective part. The first part is a retrospective registry of all
      implanted IBE devices of Gore in the Netherlands after CE mark was obtained, to get an
      initial insight on the feasibility and safety of this procedure. The second part is to
      prospectively register all data on implanted IBE Gore devices, in order to gain more robust
      data on the efficacy of the device in maintaining hypogastric artery patency.

      Study population: All patients in whom a Gore IBE was or will be implanted. In the
      retrospective part of the study all implantations in the Netherlands will be gathered,
      whereas the prospective part will be expanded in Europe.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Aneurysm exclusion and reinterventions will be end-points of
      this study. As safety and feasibility is the main outcome of the retrospective part, the data
      will be analyzed at 30-days. Patients in the prospective study will be followed for 5 years,
      with the primary end-point being hypogastric side branch patency at 1-year. Clinical
      endpoints include freedom from symptoms of pelvic ischemia (buttock claudication, impotence
      and bowel ischemia) and freedom from aneurysm rupture.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Since this is a registry study, no burden or risk exist for the patient. There
      is also no direct benefit for the participating patients, but the gathered data will improve
      insight for patients with the same disease and might improve health care in the future for
      this group of patients.
    
  