
    
      Although most patients with endometrial cancer present with early-stage disease, the standard
      treatment still includes systematic lymph node dissection for staging. Recently, SLN mapping
      has emerged as an acceptable surgical strategy when deciding between complete lymphadenectomy
      and no node dissection. This approach can help avoid the morbidity that is associated with a
      complete lymphadenectomy, such as neurovascular injury, lymphocyst formation, and lymphedema.
      A recent meta-analysis that included 55 studies and 4915 patients reported an overall SLN
      detection rate of 81% versus 50% for bilateral SLNs. Moreover, the use of indocyanine green
      increased the bilateral SLN detection rate compared with blue dye (74.6% vs. 50.5%). Yet, the
      studies noted an overall sensitivity of 96% and false negative rates of less than 5% when
      analyzed per hemipelvis. Since 2014, the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN)
      guidelines have recommended SLN mapping as an alternative option for node staging in
      endometrial cancer. However, most studies on SLN mapping have included patients who are at
      low risk for lymph node involvement and thus might underestimate the false negative rate.
      Recently, Soliman et al. reported a series of only high-grade and deep invasive endometrial
      cancers for which patients underwent SLN mapping, followed by pelvic and para-aortic lymph
      node dissection. An 89% detection rate was reported, suggesting that SLN mapping accurately
      identifies node metastases, with an negative predictive value (NPV) of 98% and an false
      negative predictive value (FNPV) of 2% when analyzed by hemipelvises. Positive nodes were
      found in 22.8% of patients (43% of isolated tumor cells and micrometastases), and in 40% of
      cases, the SLN was the only positive node. Data from the investigators corroborate these
      findings-26.7% of high-risk cases had positive nodes (50% of isolated tumor cells and
      micrometastases), and when analyzed by hemipelvis, the NPV was 97.9% and the FNPV was 2.1%.
      In 14 (70%) patients, the SLN was the only positive node. Moreover, there are few
      publications that have compared the results of the addition of SLN mapping to lymphadenectomy
      alone. Raimond et al. compared 156 patients that had SLN mapping with 95 who had pelvic node
      dissection. In their study, SLN mapping and imuno-histochemistry (IHC) were performed in low-
      and intermediate-risk patients, and the former detected metastatic node 3 times more often
      than complete pelvic lymphadenectomy alone (16.2% vs. 5.1%, p=0.03). They had no false
      negatives, and the IHC findings modified the adjuvant therapy in half of all cases. Holloway
      et al. compared a series of 661 patients who had undergone pelvic and para-aortic
      lymphadenectomy with 119 who were subjected to SLN mapping plus node dissection, including 68
      high-intermediate- and high-risk patients in the SLN mapping group (GOG99 stratification).
      Despite the similarity in demographics and pathological risk factors, the SLN group had more
      LN metastases that were detected (30.3% vs. 16.3%; p<0.001) and received more adjuvant
      therapy (28.6% vs. 16.3%; p=0.003). The SLN was the only positive node in 18 (50%) of mapped
      cases, and the false negative rate was 2.8%.The investigators recently published a series on
      high risk endometrial cancer and also recorded a higher pelvic node metastasis rate for the
      SLN mapping group (26.7% vs. 14.3%, p=0.02) but no significant difference in para-aortic node
      metastases (13.5% vs. 5.6%, p=0.12). Notably, if considered only patients in whom SLNs were
      mapped, 31.3% had pelvic positive nodes. Despite the differences in uterine risk factors
      between groups, 10.6% (8/75) of patients in the SLN group had node metastasis that was
      diagnosed only after IHC. Excluding these patients, the SLN group would have had a node
      positivity rate of 17.3%, similar to the N-SLN group (17.4%), reinforcing the impact of IHC
      in the detection of node metastases. Moreover, the SLN group received more adjuvant
      chemotherapy (33.5% vs. 48%). The overall detection rate for SLNs was 85.3%, and bilateral
      SLNs were observed in 60%. The investigators noted an overall sensitivity of 90%, a negative
      predictive value of 95.7%, and a false negative predictive value of 4.3%. Recently, Touhami
      et al. showed that the risk of non-SLN metastasis is 61% when the SLN metastasis size is
      ≥2mm, and 5% for SLN metastasis of <2mm. However, one of the remaining uncertainties is the
      role of systematic lymphadenectomy after a positive SLN. In other words, is there any benefit
      in favor of systematic lymphadenectomy in a patient that already undergo adjuvant
      chemotherapy? The investigators hypothesized that there is no disease free survival benefit
      in adding systematic lymphadenectomy to only sentinel node mapping and proposed a prospective
      randomized controlled non-inferiority trial comparing SLN mapping to SLN mapping with
      systematic lymphadenectomy in high risk endometrial cancer.
    
  