
    
      Objectives: The combination of methotrexate-sulfasalazine-hydroxychloroquine has been shown
      to be more effective than methotrexate alone or the double combination of
      methotrexate-sulfasalazine or methotrexate-hydroxychloroquine. The objective of this study is
      to look at the safety and efficacy of a new DMARD, leflunomide, alone or in combination with
      traditional DMARDs (sulfasalazine and hydroxychloroquine).

      Research Design: This protocol has been designed as a 48 week, double blind, randomized,
      prospective and controlled. A total of 180 subjects will be enrolled, and randomly assigned
      to one of three study arms (60 subjects in each arm): 1) leflunomide alone; 2)
      leflunomide-sulfasalazine-hydroxychloroquine; 3)
      methotrexate-sulfasalazine-hydroxychloroquine. All subjects will receive an identical number
      of medications in a combination of active drug and placebo. Patients are further stratified
      into two groups: methotrexate-naïve (no history of methotrexate); and methotrexate-failure
      (failed to achieve clinical response at top dose of 20 mg/week for at least 8 weeks).
      Methotrexate-naïve patients will start the study at 10 mg/week methotrexate with possible
      increases at next evaluations dependent on remission criteria. Methotrexate-failure patients
      will start the study at the top study dose of 20 mg/week and remain at that dose for the
      entire study.

      Methodology: All patients will be recruited from outpatient academic, private practice, and
      VA rheumatology clinics. Subjects will be between the ages of 19 and 80 years. No pediatric
      subjects will be enrolled. No enrollment restrictions are based on race, ethnic origin or
      gender. Inclusion criteria includes: formal diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis per ACR
      criteria; disease duration of >6 months; at least 6 swollen and 6 tender joints on
      examination; and negative urine pregnancy test for premenopausal females. Specific exclusion
      criteria includes: previous treatment with leflunomide or combination DMARDs; abnormal lab
      values; history of allergy to sulfa, aspirin or tartrazine; any significant comorbid
      diseases; and unwillingness to avoid alcohol. Study subjects will return for evaluations
      every 8 weeks. All patients will be monitored for efficacy and signs of drug toxicity
      throughout the study by laboratory examination (CBC with platelets, AST or ALT, albumin,
      creatinine, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate), hand x-rays, retinal examination, and chest
      x-rays (if indicated). Every six months subjects will be asked to complete the ClinHAQ and
      SF36 questionnaires, designed to evaluate the effect of RA on daily live (ADLs). Subjects
      will be withdrawn from the study: due to pregnancy; serious adverse event not alleviated by
      symptomatic treatment; recurrent toxicity that reappears after treatment or drug suspension;
      lack of efficacy (20% improvement by week 32); non-compliance with the protocol; or
      withdrawal of consent. The primary study outcome measures were planned before data collection
      began.

      Clinical Relationship: Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic disease affecting a large proportion
      of the population. It produces significant morbidity and may result in premature mortality.
      The majority of patients with RA remain on disease-modifying agents for less than two years
      because of toxicity or lack of efficacy. Because of the failure of standard therapies to
      consistently halt and slow the progression of disease and the incidence of side effects, new
      approaches are clearly needed.
    
  