
    
      Fever of unknown origin (FUO) is a relatively common pediatric complaint. The time of FUO
      generally ranges from 10 to 21 days. Generally the fever should be greater than 38.3 ˚c for
      at least 10 days with no evident source after initial outpatient or inpatient workup. A broad
      range of illnesses are known to cause FUO, including infectious, autoimmune and oncologic
      etiologies. Definitive diagnosis of FUO can be challenging, with many cases resolving
      spontaneously without a diagnosis. There is currently no standardized diagnostic approach for
      working up FUO. The general direction of the workup often depends on the patient's
      presentation, symptoms, and environmental exposures. It is generally accepted that a complete
      history and physical examination as well as basic laboratory tests, and empiric antibiotic
      therapy are initial steps in the workup of FUO. With no advanced resources available,
      radiographs such as chest X-rays and abdominal ultrasonography as well as simple tests e.g.
      ESR are commonly performed looking for infectious and malignant sources of FUO. If the
      diagnosis is still obscure laboratory tests for auto immune antibodies or specific infectious
      agents, are additional logical steps if the diagnosis remains in question.

      Unlike adult studies, the categorical distribution of diagnosis of the causes of FUO in
      pediatrics has not changed in recent decades (Nield&Kamat , 2018) [1]. Additional studies are
      needed to improve the recognition of causes of prolonged fever in children.

      So that FUO is not a single specific medical disorder but may be a potential manifestation of
      several diseases and disorders. The initial approach to FUO is suggested to be determination
      of the causes of prolonged fever in each of the body systems, as suggested by the presenting
      complaint. For instance in the respiratory system in developing countries tuberculosis (TB)
      must be searched for in the first place. Similarly Protein Energy Malnutrition (PEM), and
      vitamin D deficiency rickets must be also thought of as a cause of recurrent / chronic chest
      infection leading to FUO. In the gastrointestinal system persistant/ recurrent diarrhea must
      be searched for. In the developing countries, urinary tract infection, typhoid fever and
      viral hepatitis constitute other hidden causes of FUO. Collagen diseases, auto inflammatory
      diseases as well as immune deficiency diseases and auto immune disorders must be searched for
      as causes of FUO.
    
  