
    
      A prospective parallel group clinical trial will be performed. The study protocol was
      implemented in our Institute starting January 2011 ending January 1 2020. During this period,
      all patients with a suspicion of primary liver neoplasia either on CT or MRI will be
      evaluated in different departments from our Institute for possible inclusion. Patients with a
      typical aspect of benign FLLs will not be included in the study. Patients fulfilling the
      following criteria: presence of cirrhosis or other chronic liver disease (according to a
      liver stiffness evaluated by transient elastography higher than 10 kilopascals), Child-Pugh
      score no higher than B7 and absence of perihepatic ascites, platelet count > 50.000 per mm3
      or an international normalized ratio < 1.6; will be further on sent to the department of
      interventional ultrasound. ). All patients referred to interventional department will
      underwent a B-mode ultrasound (1 investigator) testing the feasibility of performing liver
      biopsy. At this time point the conspicuity of the tumors will be recorded into either poorly
      or not poorly visible. Included patients will be randomly divided by another investigator
      (T.M.) without access to the previous US, CT or MRI report into two groups: a group that will
      underwent US guided liver biopsy (USLB) and another one who will underwent CEUS guided liver
      biopsy (CEUSLB). The randomization will be made based of flip coin technique. The side of the
      coin (heads-USLB, tails CEUSLB) determined the assignment of each subject. All biopsies will
      be performed by the same investigator (Z.S.) with an experience of more than 8 years in
      ultrasound interventions. Patients assigned to USLB or CEUSLB will be blinded. The
      investigators assessing the outcomes will not be informed about the LB technique used in each
      patient. The reasons for performing biopsy will be either inconclusive CT/MRI findings , or
      patients with a typical pattern of HCC on CT/MRI in whom a histological diagnosis is
      necessary in order to start systemic therapy (sorafenib). Different from other major
      society's guidelines, in our country a histological diagnosis of HCC is mandatory in patients
      referred for sorafenib treatment. Patients with small FLLs (BCLC 0 or A) and typical aspect
      of HCC on CT/MRI will be sent directly to surgery or radiofrequency ablation according to
      EASL guidelines.
    
  