
    
      This is a multi-site, randomized, single-blind (researchers), active treatment concurrent
      control trial with individuals aged 50-80 living with HIV who experience fatigue and live a
      sedentary lifestyle. The overall goals of this proposal are to determine whether
      high-intensity interval training (HIIT) can overcome physical function impairments and
      increased fatigue (Aim 1) and impairments in mitochondrial bioenergetics of older people with
      HIV (PWH) to a greater extent than continuous moderate-intensity exercise (CME) (Aim 2). The
      investigators further seek to determine whether a biobehavioral coaching intervention
      following either HIIT or CME can promote long-term adherence to physical activity (Aim 3), a
      crucial component of the sustainability of the intervention. This study will enroll 200
      participants in Aurora, Colorado and Cleveland, Ohio, and includes 20 visits over a one-year
      period. Data collection will occur at each visit, with baseline data collected at the initial
      visit. A 3-month follow-up will be conducted over the phone from the date of the final visit.

      Physical function will be measured by a 400-meter walk test (400MWT) and the short physical
      performance battery in its original (SPPB) and modified (mSPPB) forms. Fatigue will be
      measured by the Lee Fatigue Scale (LFS) - a 7-item visual analog self-report scale that asks
      participants to rate from 0 to 10 how they feel "right now." Mitochondrial bioenergetics will
      be assessed through blood draws, muscle biopsies and mitochondrial assays. Adherence to
      physical activity (PA) will be analyzed through ActiGraphy - measurement of PA duration and
      intensity on three planes of movement captured through PA monitors.

      Finally, perceptions of PA will be determined through the analysis of qualitative interviews.

      The hypotheses are that that investigators will see greater changes in mitochondrial
      bioenergetics with HIIT (AIM 1), and that these changes will be related to improved physical
      function and fatigue (Aim 2). The investigators expect that HIIT will result in greater
      exercise satisfaction and likelihood of long-term continuation of exercise (Aim 3). Using a
      coaching intervention for self-directed exercise that combines motivational interviewing and
      personalized support during the maintenance phase (Aim 3), the investigators seek to develop
      the ideal "cocktail" to promote healthspan among older PWH in the current era of ART.
    
  