
    
      The project consists of a randomized, double-blind controlled interventional clinical trial
      (patient and analysis of results) with five treatment arms and a control group (placebo)
      involving a total of 150 elderly patients with oropharyngeal dysphagia (25 patients per
      group).

      The recruitment of participants for the study will be carried out from the patients referred
      to the Dysphagia Unit of the Hospital de Mataró for the evaluation of swallowing disorders.
      The swallowing function of all candidates to be included in the study will be clinically
      evaluated using the volume-viscosity swallowing test (V-VST). Those patients with signs of
      impaired safety of swallowing during the examination (cough, decreased O2 saturation greater
      than 2% or voice change) will be candidates to participate in the study. They will be
      informed and in case of acceptance a saliva sample will be taken, and a videofluoroscopy
      (VFS) will be performed. If the patient presents impaired safety of swallow (Penetration
      aspiration scale higher or equal than 2), the patient will be definitively randomized to one
      of the branches of intervention and the rest of the explorations will proceed (sensory evoked
      potentials to pharyngeal electrical stimulation and pharyngeal motor evoked potentials to
      transcranial magnetic stimulation). After the treatment period a second evaluation of study
      procedures will be performed.

      The treatment will consist of administering 10mL solution of the study product, according to
      randomization, 3 times a day (before breakfast, lunch and dinner) for 14 consecutive days
      after inclusion in the study. Treatment selected according our previous studies
      (Alvarez-Berdugo et al. Neurogastroenterol Motil 2017) are: Capsaicin 10microM, Piperine
      150microM, Cinnamaldehyde 756,6microM + zinc 70microM, citric acid 457,5microM (pH=3,5),
      Capsaicin 10microM + citric acid 457,5microM (pH=3,5). For the control group, placebo product
      will be administered, which will be the vehicle solution with a more neutral pH.
    
  