
    
      Micronutrient deficiencies and stunting are a major health concern in young children of many
      developing countries, including Burkina Faso. This poor nutritional status affects health,
      with a much higher risk for mortality, and delayed physical and cognitive development.

      The INSTAPA project focuses on the improvement of millet-, sorghum-, maize-, and
      cassava-based foods for young children in sub-Saharan Africa to safely prevent deficiencies
      of iron, zinc, and vitamin A.

      Food-to-food fortification strategy has rarely been tested in efficacy studies, despite its
      promising sustainability. The study will be conducted by IRD, IRSAT-DTA, with funding of the
      European Union.

      Subjects of the study, 12-15 month old burkinabè children will be divided into 4 arms. 108
      children per group (432, in all) will be recruited in order to have 90 children in each group
      after exclusion due severe anemia or hemoglobinopathy. Each enrolled child will be dewormed
      according to WHO recommendations, and receive a bed-net for malaria prevention.

      Three of these four groups will receive one test meal per day, 6 days per week (except
      Sunday)in canteens located in study districts. Investigators will record every day the amount
      of food consumed and morbidity in each child.

        -  one intervention group receiving leafy vegetable-fish sauce + cereal-based paste called
           tô,

        -  one intervention group receiving leafy vegetable-fish sauce + cereal-based paste called
           tô 5 days/week and leafy vegetable-fish sauce + tô 1 day/week,

        -  one 'positive control' group receiving a fortified gruel prepared from Misola Flour In
           these three arms, blood samples will be collected at the beginning and at the end of the
           study.

      The fourth arm is an external control group and will not receive any food. In this fourth
      arm, blood samples will be collected only at the end of the study.

      Biochemical indicators of iron, zinc and vitamin A status will be determined, and
      anthropometric data will be collected in all children.

      The study is submitted to the Ethical committee of the Ministry of Health of Burkina Faso and
      to the review board of the local drug administration (DGPML) for approval, as well as to the
      Ethical committee of IRD (France).

      According to the results, recommendations on the young child diet will be formulated for the
      attention of the staff of health facilities and families.
    
  