
    
      Title: Menstrual cups and cash transfer to reduce sexual and reproductive harm and school
      dropout in adolescent schoolgirls in western Kenya: a cluster randomised controlled trial.

      Short Title: Cups or cash for girls (CCg) trial

      Background and rationale: Adolescence is a critical time of psychological and biological
      change, and advocacy has increased to identify interventions that protect against sexual and
      reproductive health (SRH) harms, which are disproportionately high among adolescent girls in
      sub-Saharan Africa. In much of eastern and southern Africa including western Kenya, where
      unprotected transactional sex is common, young females are highly vulnerable to sexually
      transmitted infections (STIs), including HIV, and pregnancy resulting in school dropout.
      While the burden of young female SRH harms is high for individuals, communities and health
      services, sustainable preventive interventions are lacking. Evidence of a positive
      association between girls' education, health and economic potential has strengthened
      international resolve to improve educational opportunities for adolescent girls. While SRH
      education has minimal impact on SRH harms, staying in school has shown to protect girls
      against early marriage, teen pregnancy, and HIV infection, with schoolgirls reporting less
      frequent sex, and fewer partners with less age disparity. While MDGs focused on primary
      school attendance, the post-2015 Sustainability Development Goals continue to encourage
      investment in secondary, tertiary and vocational education to build human capital, innovation
      and economic growth, but require the support of cost-effective interventions. Interventions
      using cash transfer (CT) have demonstrated a protective effect on girls SRH (HIV, HSV-2,
      sexual behaviours, and school indicators). Menstrual hygiene management (MHM) is a pervasive
      problem across low middle income countries (LMICs) and a lack of MHM materials and facilities
      negatively impact girls' school-life. This increases girls' vulnerability to coercive sex,
      which often creates a pathway to obtain necessities such as soap, sanitary products, and
      underwear; 10% of 15 year old girls report that they obtain money through sex to purchase
      sanitary products in western Kenya. To tackle these challenges, our team ran a pilot
      menstrual study in western Kenya. It provided MHM tools to adolescent girls in the form of
      reusable menstrual cups and disposable sanitary pads. The results demonstrated a lower
      prevalence of STI and bacterial vaginosis among girls who were provided with a single
      menstrual cup (one cup can last up to 10 years), and a lower prevalence of school dropout
      after 12 months follow-up compared to controls. This pilot requires replication in a larger
      trial population with longer follow-up. Comparison against CT offers an opportunity to
      examine the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of these different approaches to improve girls'
      life-chances in rural western Kenya. The study is designed to inform evidence-based policy to
      improve girls' health, school equity and their life-chances.

      Primary objective: To determine the impact of menstrual cups alone, cash transfer alone, or
      the two in combination, in secondary schoolgirls on a composite of deleterious outcomes (HIV,
      HSV-2 infection, or school dropout).

      Hypothesis: The investigators postulate the interventions tested will break the cycle of
      sexual and reproductive ill-health, under-achievement, and poverty which impede girls'
      successful completion of school.

      Overview Study Design: Single site open-label 4-arm, school-cluster randomised controlled
      superiority trial. Schools are the unit of randomisation (clusters), with girls the unit of
      measurement. Schools will be randomly allocated into 4 arms using a 1:1:1:1 ratio and
      permuted block randomisation to minimise bias. Enrollment will be staggered over >=2 school
      terms if logistically required. Girls will be followed-up through graduation and into
      employment or up to 10 academic terms to determine if they complete secondary school (Form
      4). Sealed, opaque envelopes will be prepared with the study allocation. Counsellors
      conducting HIV and HSV-2 testing, and laboratory technicians will be blinded to the study
      arm. Field staff who conduct home visits to confirm dropout will also be masked where
      feasible.

      Sites: The study will be conducted in Siaya County, western Kenya. Depending on the
      recruitment rate enrolment will be expanded to other neighbouring counties.

      Study Population: Secondary schoolgirls who attend eligible schools in the western Kenya
      study site. Girls will be residents of the area, with a history of established menses (>=3
      times), no disability preventing participation, with parent or guardian's consent and girl's
      assent. Girls attending boarding schools or with visible/declared pregnancy will be excluded
      at baseline.

      Study Interventions: 1. One menstrual cup (Mooncup®) with handwash soap termly; 2. Cash
      transfer (CT; girls' pocket money) via local community/mobile banking with financial
      literacy; 3. A combination of cup and CT interventions; 4. 'Usual practice' (control) with
      handwash soap termly.

      Outcome Measures: Primary efficacy outcome: Composite endpoint comprised of incident HIV,
      HSV-2, and all-cause school dropout, by end of follow-up. Key secondary outcomes include
      incident HIV, HSV-2, school dropout, BV and reported sexual behaviours including pregnancy,
      quality of life measures, school indicators (performance, grade repitition, re-enrolment,
      absence, transfers), and cost-effectiveness. Primary safety outcome measure: toxic shock
      syndrome (TSS), and severe violence associated with intervention. Key secondary safety
      outcome include contamination on menstrual cups and other emergent harms associated with the
      interventions.

      Follow-up procedures: HIV and HSV-2 serostatus will be assessed at baseline and around the
      time of final school term (Form 4), with interim testing or annual testing if funding allows,
      including for bacterial vaginosis and other STI. School dropout will be assessed every term
      until the end of Form (class) 4. Other endpoints will be evaluated at baseline, midline, and
      end of study. Safety monitoring of TSS and physical violence will be conducted throughout by
      study nurses, supplemented by health facilities and evaluation of HDSS census mortality data.

      Sample size: Main trial: 84 schools (clusters) (21 per arm) with an approximate average of 46
      girls per school (~3864 participants, 966 per arm). Protocol amendment v7: 96 schools with
      approximately 41.5 girls per school (3980 participants, 995 per arm).

      Data Analysis: Primary trial analyses will be based on the intention to treat principle and a
      secondary analyses will also be done on the per protocol population. Generalised estimating
      equation (GEE) log binomial models will be used to analyse the primary endpoint and its
      components. The GEE model will include the arm as a fixed effect and school as a cluster
      effect. The RR values for the 5 pre-specified primary comparisons together with their 95%
      confidence intervals will be derived from the GEE model. The secondary endpoints will be
      analysed similarly using GEE models. For GEE analysis of a continuous endpoint such as
      quality of life, normal distribution and identity link functions will be used. For GEE
      analysis of a binary outcome (such as having an event of STI, HIV, pregnancy, or school
      dropout), binomial distribution and log link functions will be used; for GEE analysis of
      recurrence of events (such as number of sexual partners during a specific time), Poisson
      distribution and log link functions will be used. Covariate adjusted analysis of primary
      endpoint will be performed within the GEE framework with treatment as the study variable, and
      other predictors as covariates, and school as cluster effect. For qualitative analysis, FGD
      recordings will be transcribed verbatim with back translation. Transcripts will analysed
      using thematic analysis by study group, 2 researchers will separately assign codes for
      emergent themes, subthemes patterns, and associations using NVIVO with intercoder reliability
      checked and consensus reached following discussion. As themes emerge, differences and
      similarities will be compared across trial arms, and between study groups. Qualitative data
      from in depth interviews will be similarly evaluated.
    
  