
    
      This protocol is a single-arm, three-cohort, phase II multicenter study designed to assess
      the safety and the efficacy of VMP and VCP and VP as up-front treatment in elderly MM
      patients. The combination of weekly subcutaneous administrations of Velcade with continuous
      low-dose melphalan and prednisone (VMP) or with continuous low-dose cyclophosphamide and
      prednisone (VCP) or Velcade with low-dose prednisone could be effective and well tolerated
      (VP).

      Patients will be evaluated at scheduled visits in up to 3 study periods: pre-treatment,
      treatment and long-term follow-up (LTFU).

      The pre-treatment period includes screening visits, performed at study entry. After providing
      written informed consent to participate in the study, patients will be evaluated for study
      eligibility. The screening period includes the availability of inclusion criteria described
      above.

      The treatment period includes induction and maintenance.

      Subjects receive:

        1. Induction therapy:

           nine 4-week courses of Velcade/Melphalan/Prednisone (VMP) or nine 4-week courses of
           Velcade/Cyclophosphamide/Prednisone (VCP) or Nine 4-week courses of Velcade/Prednisone
           (VP).

        2. Maintenance therapy:

      Velcade alone During the induction period patients will attend periodic study centre visits
      each scheduled Velcade administration in order to asses the toxicity and efficacy of the
      treatment. During the maintenance period, all patients will attend study centre visits every
      4 weeks, until development of confirmed PD. The response will be assessed after each cycle.

      During the LTFU period, after development of confirmed PD, all patients are to be followed
      for survival during the LTFU period every 3 months via telephone or office visit.

      The duration of treatment period, including the maintenance treatment is approximately 3
      years. The duration of LTFU is approximately 2 years, for a total of 5 years. the occurance
      of PD will determine the duration of progression-free survival of each patient(secondary
      objective). The occurrence of death will determine the duration of overall survival
      (secondary objective).
    
  