
    
      The transition to complementary feeding in premature babies (37 weeks and over) is
      recommended by both the World Health Organization (WHO) and the European Gastroenterology,
      Hepatology and Nutrition Association (ESPHGAN) for 4-6 months. However, a full consensus on
      the transition time to complementary feeding has not been achieved for premature babies. It
      is controversial whether premature babies (born 37th week of gestation) are corrected for
      complementary feeding in the sixth month or chronological sixth month. According to the
      known, there are no clinical studies investigating this topic in the literature.

      Neurological-developmental evaluations and developmental outcomes-diagnoses of premature
      babies are evaluated according to corrected postnatal age. Based on the limited evidence
      available, it can be concluded that complementary feeding may be an appropriate age for most
      premature babies who have reached at least the third month, generally corrected. However, for
      premature babies born at different gestational weeks, these periods have a relatively
      different meaning. A more accurate timeframe can be found in terms of complementary nutrition
      by evaluating chronological age and motor development together. More prospective
      observational studies are needed in this regard in premature babies. In the literature, there
      are not enough studies on the transition time to the most appropriate complementary diet for
      premature babies. The investigators planned to do this prospective observational study.

      In this study, patient groups will be randomly selected after appropriate matching. Premature
      babies participating in the study will be handled in three main groups (six subgroups in
      total).

      Before the transition to complementary nutrition of the groups included in the study, breast
      milk and / or formula food, nutritional supplement (such as breast milk enhancer, protein
      supplement) intake will be recorded. The same polyvitamin preparation will be used for all
      premature babies. In accordance with the recommendation of the World Health Organization, 2
      mg / kg / day standard oral iron prophylaxis will be started to all premature babies starting
      from the second chronological month. Immunization will be done in accordance with the
      national vaccination program.

      The data will be added to the case report forms. In addition to routine follow-ups, families
      will be called on the phone monthly, information about their babies' nutrition will be asked,
      whether there is a problem, questions of families will be answered, and information about
      complementary nutrition will be provided. At the end of the study, all data will be collected
      and entered into the SPSS database, which will be created.
    
  