
    
      Atherosclerosis is responsible for the majority of disabilities and deaths in developed
      countries. Previous studies have shown that sudden clinical events correlate highly with
      plaque composition and the degree of plaque inflammation. These results stress the importance
      of developing non-invasive surrogate markers of plaque inflammation to detect asymptomatic
      high-risk plaques in clinical settings. Dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE) magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) and 18F fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) with
      combined computed tomography (CT) have shown promise in characterizing and quantifying
      metabolic activity (i.e., glycolysis/ inflammation) in atherosclerosis, by targeting the
      presence of neovessels (DCE-MRI) and inflammatory cells such as macrophages (18F-FDG PET) in
      plaques of both animal and human subjects. However, several challenges need to be overcome
      prior to translating these imaging approaches to clinical practice. A significant obstacle to
      adapting conventional DCE-MRI approaches to atherosclerosis includes the necessity to image
      with high spatial resolution to capture plaque heterogeneity. This can be achieved with
      longer scan times, but conflicts with need for high temporal resolution required for accurate
      arterial input function sampling and quantification of contrast agent uptake. In Aim 1, the
      investigators will develop and validate a novel dual-imaging sequence for DCE-MRI of
      atherosclerosis where the investigators acquire a high temporal resolution, but low spatial
      resolution, AIF image and a high spatial resolution/low temporal resolution vessel wall image
      to allow accurate quantification of contrast agent uptake within plaques. This approach will
      be compared to conventional approaches in both a rabbit model of atherosclerosis and in human
      subjects. The limited spatial resolution of conventional PET scanners has an impact on the
      accuracy of 18F-FDG PET quantification in atherosclerotic plaques because of the partial
      volume effect (PVE). A posteriori PVE correction methods using high-resolution anatomical
      images acquired with a different imaging modality can improve quantification, but are
      challenging since they require accurate co-registration between the another imaging modality
      and PET. MR is an ideal choice for this second imaging modality as it produces
      high-resolution anatomical images without the use of ionizing radiation. A combined MR/PET
      scanner may therefore be better suited for developing novel PVE correction methodologies. As
      part of Aim 2, the investigators will develop and validate the combined MR-PET(FDG) imaging
      approach to improve the quantification of atherosclerotic plaque metabolic activity.
      Attenuation correction based on MR will be compared with CT based attenuation correction.
      Approaches to improved PVE correction and optimal circulation time for plaque imaging will
      also be validated in both rabbits and humans. Finally, imaging parameters derived from the
      improved DCE-MRI and MR- PET(FDG) will be validated in patients undergoing carotid
      endarterectomy (CEA), with the primary endpoint of establishing the relationship between
      imaging and histological markers of plaque inflammation. Additionally, the investigators will
      assess the relationship (if any) with serum biomarkers and, as an exploratory endpoint, the
      investigators will study by real time PCR the relationship of imaging with the gene
      expression of markers of plaque vulnerability.
    
  