
    
      The key initiating factors for reproductive development remain among the great mysteries of
      pediatric and reproductive endocrinology. The onset of puberty is initiated by pulsatile
      secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) from the hypothalamus. GnRH secretion is
      fully active during the neonatal period, quiescent throughout most of childhood, and is
      reactivated at the time of puberty to induce sexual maturation and subsequent fertility. The
      neuroendocrine events leading to increased GnRH secretion and the resultant onset of puberty
      remain largely unknown.

      Isolated deficiency of GnRH results in the rare clinical syndrome of idiopathic
      hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (IHH), where decreased secretion of GnRH results in impaired
      gonadotropin secretion. The resultant hypogonadism presents with delayed, incomplete, or
      absent sexual maturation. In addition, non-reproductive phenotypes of this spectrum have been
      identified in some individuals, including anosmia, auditory defects, skeletal and renal
      anomalies. More severe syndromic forms of IHH have also been associated with rare congenital
      malformations, such as the Bosma arhinia microphthalmia (BAM) syndrome.

      Defining the physiology of GnRH is critical to understanding the clinical heterogeneity of
      isolated GnRH deficiency, particularly in light of emerging gene discoveries that elucidate
      genotype-phenotype correlations. Careful human phenotyping of patients with mutations in
      genes known to cause IHH has provided insight into developmental pathways involved in the
      ontogeny of GnRH neurons, but the neuroendocrine regulation of this system is not well
      understood.

      We will phenotypically characterize subjects with IHH, including severe syndromic forms. We
      plan to admit males and females 14 years of age or older with clinical signs suggestive of
      IHH for comprehensive phenotyping to include neuroendocrine profiling via an LH pulsatility
      study, as well as identification of other non-reproductive findings.

      This protocol will utilize the disease model of IHH to increase our understanding of the
      physiology of GnRH secretion, including the neuroendocrine regulation of GnRH pulsatility, as
      well as other unknown aspects of GnRH biology, which may be illuminated through the
      non-reproductive characteristics of these patients. Examining the baseline characteristics of
      subjects with isolated GnRH deficiency will reveal insights into the mechanisms underlying
      the reawakening of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis at puberty, providing
      opportunities for new diagnostic capabilities and therapeutic interventions for disorders of
      puberty and fertility.
    
  