
    
      General Objective: To determine the frequency of COVID-19 in pregnant and postpartum women
      admitted with flu syndrome, to evaluate the clinical and laboratory predictors of COVID-19
      progression and to identify the factors associated with adverse maternal and perinatal /
      neonatal outcomes in six reference centers in the Northeast of Brazil.

      Specific objectives

      In pregnant and postpartum women admitted to the four institutions involved with flu-like
      symptoms or SARS:

        1. To describe the biological characteristics (maternal age and pre-pregnancy maternal
           weight, maternal height, pre-gestational body mass index - BMI and pre-gestational
           nutritional classification), sociodemographic characteristics (color, number of people
           living in the household, per capita family income, education, occupation, occupation,
           marital status, origin and religion), habits (smoking, drinking and use of illicit
           drugs), obstetric characteristics (number of pregnancies, parity, previous vaginal
           delivery and previous cesarean, previous abortions, number live children, entry into the
           study and number of prenatal consultations) and the service of origin (IMIP, HDM, ISEA
           or MFD);

        2. To describe the clinical characteristics (gestational age or postpartum days at the
           beginning of signs and symptoms, duration of symptoms, isolation, social distance and
           quarantine before signs and symptoms, need for hospitalization due to infection and / or
           complications, day of hospitalization due to flu-like syndrome and / or complications,
           length of hospital stay due to flu-like syndrome and / or complications and the main
           related signs and symptoms and days of onset - dry or productive cough, runny nose, sore
           throat, body pain, abdominal pain , chest pain, headache, smell and taste changes,
           dyspnoea, subfebrile state and fever, diarrhea, asthenia, saturation level, axillary
           temperature and mild / moderate signs and symptoms);

        3. To determine the frequency of COVID-19 infection according to the results of diagnostic
           tests (rapid test, RT-PCR and serology) applied during hospitalization;

        4. To describe the maternal laboratory parameters at the time of the diagnosis of influenza
           syndrome and the worst laboratory tests (result of RT-PCR for COVID-19, result of viral
           panel and type of virus, serology for COVID-19 - IgM, IgA and serial IgG, inflammatory
           cytokines - interleukins - IL-1ra, IL-6, IL-2, IL-5, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, IL17A, IL-4,
           IL-1β, IL-9, IL-15, Interferon - IFN-γ, tumor necrosis factor - TNF-α, blood count,
           coagulogram, urea, creatinine, transaminases - ALT, AST, erythrocyte sedimentation rate
           - VSH, C reactive protein - CRP), D-dimer, lactic dehydrogenase - LDH, alkaline
           phosphatase, bilirubins, ferritin, troponin, blood culture, urine culture, blood gas
           analysis and day of all tests);

        5. To describe the radiological findings (chest X-rays, computed tomography), the pulmonal
           ultrasonography and day of exam alteration and normalization;

        6. To describe the therapeutic modalities performed (oxygen therapy - nasal catheter or
           Venturi with its maximum flows, use of prone in spontaneous ventilation and / or
           mechanical ventilation, use of mechanical ventilation, use of neuromuscular blocker, use
           of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation - ECMO, use of: antibiotics, azithromycin,
           hydroxychloroquine / chloroquine, antiparasitic drugs such as ivermectin, anticoagulant
           and / or antiretroviral, pulse therapy, convalescent plasma, need for renal replacement
           therapy, blood products and others, start day and duration of all therapeutic modalities
           performed);

        7. To describe the characteristics of obstetric ultrasound (tachycardia, frequency of
           diagnosis of fetal growth restriction, fetus small for gestational age - SGA, changes in
           amniotic fluid and fetal morphological changes) performed during the course of infection
           and post-infection follow-up;

        8. To describe the doppler velocimetric parameters of the uterine and fetal circulation
           (pulsatility index of the middle uterine arteries, the middle fetal cerebral artery -
           MCA, the umbilical artery, the venous duct, the frequency of changes in the doppler
           velocimetry of all the vessels studied and the speed of the systolic peak in MCA) during
           infection and in the post-infection follow-up;

        9. To describe invasive intrauterine diagnostic procedures (amniocentesis), gestational age
           at which amniocentesis was performed, indications, results of the RT-PCR test for
           COVID-19, results of the TORCHS survey, results of the karyotype and results of the
           inflammatory cytokines - interleukins - IL-1ra, IL-6, IL-2, IL-5, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13,
           IL17A, IL-4, IL-1β, IL-9, IL-15, Interferon - IFN- γ, tumor necrosis factor - TNF-α;

       10. To determine comorbidities / complications associated with pregnancy or the puerperium
           (need for hospitalization due to obstetric causes, length of hospital stay, obesity,
           multiple pregnancy, hypertensive syndromes, diabetes - clinical or gestational, heart
           disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, bronchial asthma, cerebrovascular
           disease, renal failure, immunosuppression, severe acute respiratory syndrome - SARS,
           premature rupture of membranes, premature labor, placenta praevia, urinary tract
           infection, pneumonia, sepsis, septic shock, abortion, abruptio placenta, postpartum
           hemorrhage, infection of surgical site, endometritis, peritonitis, thromboembolic
           events, need for postpartum hysterectomy, need for other surgeries after delivery and
           tubal ligation, maternal near miss criteria);

       11. To describe the delivery outcomes (type of delivery - vaginal, spontaneous or operative,
           or cesarean section, indication for cesarean section, indication for labor induction,
           method of labor induction, duration of induction, gestational age at delivery, use of
           labor analgesia, type of anesthesia for cesarean section);

       12. To describe prenatal interventions (antenatal corticosteroid therapy - number of doses,
           use of magnesium sulfate and prophylactic antibiotic therapy);

       13. To describe the final maternal outcome (discharge of the pregnant woman, discharge of
           the postpartum woman, death of the pregnant woman and death of the postpartum woman);

       14. To describe perinatal and neonatal outcomes (fetal death, perinatal death, birth weight,
           birth weight adequacy - SGA, AGA, LGA, Apgar scores in the first and fifth minutes, need
           for neonatal resuscitation, ICU admission, need for assisted mechanical ventilation,
           oxygen therapy, oxygen therapy modalities, hypothermia, hypoglycemia, polycythemia,
           anemia, neonatal infection, chorioamnionitis, type of respiratory distress,
           breastfeeding, neonatal congenital infections (TORCHS), congenital malformation, other
           neonatal morbidities, neonatal near miss, neonatal death, days of life of neonatal death
           and length of hospital stay and in neonatal ICU);

       15. To determine the procedures in neonatal care in the delivery room (cord clamping - early
           or opportune, skin-to-skin contact, breastfeeding in the delivery room) and,
           subsequently, rooming-in or admission to a neonatal ICU / nursing unit;

       16. To describe the neonatal laboratory parameters of the suspected diagnosis or
           confirmation of COVID-19 and the worst test results (days of life of the newborn's
           suspected diagnosis, result of rapid neonate test, RT-PCR for COVID-19 in nasopharyngeal
           swab , result of viral panel and virus type, serology for COVID-19 - IgM, IgA and IgG
           serial, inflammatory cytokines - interleukins - IL-1ra, IL-6, IL-2, IL-5, IL-10, IL -12,
           IL-13, IL17A, IL-4, IL-1β, IL-9, IL-15, Interferon - IFN-γ, tumor necrosis factor -
           TNF-α, blood count, coagulogram, urea, creatinine, transaminases - ALT, AST, erythrocyte
           sedimentation rate - VSH, C-reactive protein - CRP), D-dimer, lactic dehydrogenase -
           LDH, alkaline phosphatase, bilirubins, ferritin, troponin, blood culture, urine culture,
           blood gas analysis and day of all tests);

       17. To describe the laboratory parameters in the placenta (result of RT-PCR / viral panel by
           swab and anatomopathological study) and in cord blood (RT-PCR);

       18. To determine the frequency of vertical transmission and the factors associated with a
           higher risk of its occurrence (gestational age at infection, severity of infection,
           laboratory markers, type of delivery, labor, cord clamping practice, placental findings,
           maternal interleukins);

       19. To describe the laboratory parameters in breast milk (result of RT-PCR / viral panel);

       20. To describe the neonatal imaging exams (chest X-rays, computed tomography and day of
           exam changes and normalization);

       21. To determine the association of biological, sociodemographic, obstetric variables,
           habits, clinical, maternal laboratory parameters in the diagnosis and the worst result,
           radiological findings, therapeutic modalities, ultrasound and doppler velocimetric
           characteristics, invasive procedures, comorbidities / complications and characteristics
           of childbirth with adverse maternal outcome (maternal near miss and maternal death).

       22. To determine the association of biological, sociodemographic, obstetric variables,
           habits, clinical, maternal laboratory parameters in the diagnosis and the worst result,
           radiological findings, therapeutic modalities, ultrasound and doppler velocimetric
           characteristics, invasive procedures, comorbidities / complications, delivery results,
           prenatal interventions, final pregnancy outcome, delivery room procedures, neonatal care
           and neonatal laboratory parameters, placenta, amniotic fluid and breast milk with
           adverse perinatal / neonatal outcome (neonatal near miss and fetal / neonatal death);

       23. To analyze maternal and perinatal mortality according to gestational age at the onset of
           symptoms (Kaplan-Meier survival curve);

       24. To compare data from two states in Northeast Brazil with official general data in the
           country according to the Ministry of Health for the pregnancy-puerperal cycle.

       25. In a subset of women routinely assessed on admission through the rapid test (ISEA and
           Unimed-João Pessoa), to determine the frequency of positive rapid test, positive RT-PCR,
           associated symptoms, asymptomatic carriers and to compare maternal and perinatal
           outcomes according to test results.

       26. To carry out long-term monitoring of women and babies included in the cohort in 2020, to
           detect recurrence of symptoms, frequency of reinfection, evolution of laboratory
           parameters (repetition of RT-PCR and serology) and monitoring of growth and development
           in the cohort of children aged six months, 12 and 24 months.

      Methods: A prospective and retrospective cohort study will be conducted including pregnant
      and postpartum women with clinical or laboratorial diagnosis of COVID-19, admitted in six
      healthcare centers in the Northeast of Brazil. All pregnant and postpartum women with
      clinical and/or diagnosis of COVID-19, attended in prenatal care, in emergency (maternity
      triage), high-risk pregnancy ward, obstetric intensive care unit and rooming-in ward will be
      included. The data will be collected in specific forms. The exams will be carried out by
      trained professionals within each institution. A database will be created on the RedCap
      platform. For the association of dependent variables (maternal mortality / near miss and
      unfavorable perinatal outcomes) with independent variables (biological, sociodemographic
      characteristics, history, clinical characteristics, ultrasound modifications, doppler
      velocimetric and laboratory tests, chi-square tests will be used and Fisher's exact, when
      pertinent, with a significance level of 5%. The relative risk and its 95% confidence interval
      will also be calculated to determine the strength of association between the variables.
      outcomes, Student t or Mann-Whitney tests will be adopted. A multivariate analysis will be
      performed to determine the variables that will actually remain associated, in addition, a
      Kaplan-Meier survival curve will be constructed.
    
  