
    
      The presence of chromosomal abnormalities (aneuploidy) in the pre-implantation embryonic
      stage is one of the major causes of human reproductive disorders, as it is responsible for
      embryo implantation failures, early or late miscarriages and the birth of children with
      chromosomal syndromes. This is mainly due to the existence of chromosomal abnormalities of
      meiotic, especially maternal, or mitotic origin occurring during the first three cell
      divisions of the embryo. As a result, human embryos have higher rates of aneuploidy than
      other species. Thus, it has been suggested that only 30% of conceptions reach term.

      The objective of Assisted Reproductive Technologies (ART) is to optimize the chances of
      conception and delivery of healthy new-borns. It is necessary to improve the results of IVF
      (in vitro fertilization) programs and to reduce adverse effects (miscarriages, multiple
      pregnancies), especially in couples with patients with poor prognosis, such as older women.
      The choice of embryos to be transferred is a key step for the success of ART infertility
      treatments.

      Currently, the choice of embryos is based solely on their morphology, evaluated on the 5th or
      6th day of development at a stage known as the "blastocyst". Each embryo is observed under
      the microscope and described according to standardized morphological criteria. This
      description of the blastocyst is based on 3 constituents of the embryo: the degree of
      expansion of the blastocoelic cavity, the appearance of the internal cell mass (ICM) and the
      presence of trophectodermal cells (TE). These criteria have been described as predictive of
      live birth rates after transfer of fresh or thawed embryos. However, its ability to identify
      the embryo with the highest potential for implantation is debatable, due to its weak
      association with embryonic chromosomal status, which is a critical factor in the implant
      potential of each embryo. In addition, it is known that embryos that do not meet these
      morphological criteria are discarded, although it has been proven that their transfer could
      lead to a live birth.

      Since the risk of embryonic aneuploidy is significantly increased after the age of 35, the
      objective of our RCT is to evaluate the efficacy of the CTTEB using the latest technologies
      and methodologies (i.e., combined embryo culture to blastocyst stage, immediate freezing of
      the embryonic cohort with delayed transfer, TE biopsy, NGS, and Single Embryo Transfer (SET))
      in the management of infertile patients over 35 years of age. The live birth rate obtained
      after the first transfer of a single frozen embryo will be compared between two groups of
      couples, randomized in two arms: i) transfer of a single euploid blastocyst; ii) transfer of
      a single blastocyst of unknown chromosomal status, chosen on the basis of the usual
      morphological criteria, in the first thawing cycle following the freezing of all the
      blastocysts of the patient couples.

      In addition, the culture medium of each embryo collected will be analysed in a second stage
      to assess whether it is possible to develop a diagnosis of aneuploidy without the need for
      trophectoderm biopsy (non invasive).
    
  