
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the overall survival (OS) of nivolumab/ipilimumab/sargramostim (GM-CSF) versus
      nivolumab/ipilimumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate progression free survival (PFS) of patients treated with
      nivolumab/ipilimumab/GM-CSF versus nivolumab/ipilimumab.

      II. To assess for differences in tolerability, specifically the rate of grade III or higher
      adverse events, between nivolumab/ipilimumab/GM-CSF versus nivolumab/ipilimumab.

      III. To evaluate immune-related response rate (based on immune-related response criteria) and
      response rate (based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] criteria) and
      to compare them.

      EXPLORATORY TOBACCO USE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effects of tobacco, operationalized as combustible tobacco (1a), other
      forms of tobacco (1b), and environmental tobacco exposure (ETS) (1c) on provider-reported
      cancer-treatment toxicity (adverse events [both clinical and hematologic] and dose
      modifications).

      II. To determine the effects of tobacco on patient-reported physical symptoms and
      psychological symptoms.

      III. To examine quitting behaviors and behavioral counseling/support and cessation medication
      utilization.

      IV. To explore the effect of tobacco use and exposure on treatment duration, relative dose
      intensity, and therapeutic benefit.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on
      day 1, ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1, and sargramostim subcutaneously (SC) on days
      1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive nivolumab and sargramostim as in induction therapy.
      Patients with partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), or complete response (CR) at 24
      weeks may continue maintenance therapy for up to 2 years in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive nivolumab and ipilimumab as in Arm I. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive nivolumab as in induction therapy. Patients with PR,
      SD, or CR at 24 weeks may continue maintenance therapy for up to 2 years in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  