
    
      The CUSTOM research project represents a complex intervention. The project aim of the
      intervention is, through the delivery of culturally sensitive DSMES, to support ethnic
      minorities with type 2 diabetes in making health-promoting decisions about their care and
      gaining insight into their goals, values and motivation to improve their daily diabetes
      self-management. The target group comprises ethnic minorities whose native language is
      Arabic, Urdu or Turkish. The intervention has been developed in collaboration with the target
      group and health care professionals from Centre for Diabetes (CfD) in Copenhagen
      Municipality.

      CUSTOM will explore feasibility and effectiveness of the intervention including the
      mechanisms through which outcomes occur and contexts where outcomes are likely to be
      replicable. The intervention builds on the framework of complex interventions(26), and is
      designed as an pragmatic randomised controlled trial in three arms.

      Focus on fidelity, appropriateness and acceptability of the developed intervention.

        -  What factors and structures are necessary to facilitate DSMES access and retention among
           the target group?

        -  Which methods and tools supporting diabetes decision making and problem solving are
           acceptable and feasible among the target group?

        -  What educational strategies promote Health Care Professionals' (HCPs') communication
           with the target group?

      Focus on exploring effectiveness of the intervention, the mechanisms through which outcomes
      occur and contexts where outcomes are likely to be replicable.

        -  To what extent does the intervention lead to better outcomes (e.g., HbA1c and
           participant-reported outcomes) than 'usual care' for the target group and what
           mechanisms for the effect of the intervention can be identified? And are there
           differences according to the setting, of which the intervention is delivered; a) in a
           community health centre and b) a local community setting.

        -  What characterizes contexts that are most conducive to positive outcomes?

        -  What barriers and possibilities exist related to implementing culturally sensitive DSMES
           in different municipal settings targeting ethnic minority groups?

        -  Which contextual factors determine whether the identified mechanisms lead to intended
           outcomes?

        -  What are the long-term effects of the intervention on measured outcomes?

      Study design CUSTOM is considered a complex intervention due to many interacting components
      in its design, complex behaviour changes in those delivering and receiving the intervention,
      many stakeholders, and highly variable outcomes. The trial will be undertaken as a pragmatic
      trial using cluster randomisation.

      The trial will be tested in three arms: Participants will be randomised into 3 arms Group A:
      Centre for Diabetes, Copenhagen Municipality, n = 103 Group B: Local community setting in
      Tingbjerg, Copenhagen Municipality, n = 103 Group C: Usual care in the west area of
      Copenhagen, municipalities of Høje-Taastrup, Hvidovre, Albertslund, Brøndby and Ishøj, n =
      103 Figure 1 Study Design 9. Interventions 9.1 Group A and B: Group A and B will receive the
      same interventions but in different contexts - a local community setting and a diabetes care
      centre. The intervention will be pilot tested in the local community and if necessary
      adjusted to local contexts.

      Using a design-based research, the intervention has been developed in collaboration with
      researchers, the target group and healthcare professionals from Centre for Diabetes (CfD) in
      Copenhagen Municipality.

      The group-based course will include 6 sessions of approximately 3 hours. Sessions are
      constructed around themes such as; diabetes knowledge and complication, mental health, diet,
      physical activity, Ramadan, medicine and include practical exercises such as blood sugar
      measurements, walking etc. The healthcare professionals delivering the education consists of
      an interdisciplinary team of both a nurse, dietitian, physiotherapist, a translator and a
      peer educator.

      The CUSTOM intervention consists of three elements: philosophy/values, educator behaviours
      and 12 specific dialogue tools. These three elements are all equally important in the
      organisation and completion of a good and culturally sensitive diabetes education targeting
      ethnic minorities. The intervention is based on the concept CUSTOM which is developed with
      regards to the healthcare professionals' approaches, methods and existing educational
      activities. The concept consists of 12 health education tools accompanied by a comprehensive
      guide. The success of the tools developed in CUSTOM rely on the values held by the suppliers
      of the education and by the health care professional's competences to apply the specific
      dialogue tools.
    
  