
    
      60 patients will be attached to standard monitoring, will have a secured intravenous line
      Then the skin overlying the procedure area will be sterilized. all patients will be randomly
      divided into two equal groups; group A will receive ultrasound-guided interscalene block
      (ISNB), and group B will receive ultrasound-guided selective nerve block (SNB) of the
      following nerves; suprascapular nerve block (SSNB), axillary nerve block (ANB), lateral
      pectoral nerve block (LPNB) and musculocutaneous nerve block (MCNB).

      after delivering the nerve block and confirming sensory blockade by loss of cold sensation,
      all the patients will receive general anaesthesia with endotracheal intubation using Propofol
      200mg, Atracurium 0.5 mg/kg, 100 micrograms fentanyl.

      After the procedure ends, the patient will be extubated and transferred to the postoperative
      anaesthesia care unit. All patients will receive patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) in the
      form ketorolac 30 mg and paracetamol one-gram iv infusion.

      The following parameter will be assessed and measured;

        1. Intra-operative inhalation agent consumption

        2. Intraoperative opioid consumption (fentanyl) if required.

        3. Duration of postoperative analgesia and time for first rescue analgesia will be
           recorded. Rescue analgesia in the form of 100mg pethidine IM and 1 gm paracetamol IV
           will be given on the first call for analgesia and then repeated on demand. The total
           dose of pethidine and paracetamol are given throughout the first 24 hours will be
           recorded.

        4. The time for asking for rescue analgesia in the first 24 h and the dose of the analgesic
           used will also be recorded.

        5. The degree of postoperative pain assessed by Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)

        6. Duration of the block: time from completing LA injection till complete recovery of
           sensory function, i.e., the patient feels a cold sensation

        7. Postoperative range of motion of the operated shoulder

        8. Patients" satisfaction (yes or no or somewhat satisfied)

        9. Block-related complications will be also recorded e.g. paraesthesia, and postoperative
           motor weakness 24 hours after the surgery, pneumothorax and vascular puncture.
    
  