
    
      To date, there is no commercially available blood test approved in the United States for use
      as an aid in the assessment and diagnosis of stroke. There have been various reports in the
      scientific literature describing the ability of various biomarkers to predict or identify
      stroke, with varied success. A biomarker panel approach, similar to that used for the
      evaluation of chest pain patients (troponin I, CK-MB, and myoglobin) enhances diagnostic
      accuracy, particularly when the panel includes protein markers associated with various
      components of the disease pathophysiology. This study involves a retrospective analysis of
      data collected from patients that present with an acute focal neurological deficit, suspected
      cerebral ischemia, or suspected intracranial hemorrhage within 24 hours of symptom onset or
      last known well time will be enrolled into the study. Blood samples will be collected at
      enrollment and serially up to 72 hrs. from the time of onset or last known well time. The
      study population will also include a subset of patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, who
      will have additional samples collected daily from day 3 through day 14 (at clinical sites
      participating in the vasospasm substudy) for the evaluation of cerebral vasospasm. The
      patient's participation in the study is complete when all samples have been collected or when
      they are discharged from the hospital, whichever occurs first. All blood sample will be
      analyzed using the Triage Stroke Panel test. Measurements will be performed at each clinical
      site and at Biosite (subject to test device availability). In order to minimize bias and
      eliminate significant risk to the patient, physicians will be blinded to all Triage Stroke
      Panel results during the course of the study. Completed case report forms (CRFs) and frozen
      plasma samples will be transferred to Biosite.
    
  