
    
      Specific somatic (i.e. acquired and not inherited) mutations have been found in many cancers.
      Some of these cancers shed this DNA into the patient's blood stream and is called circulating
      tumor DNA (ctDNA). Pathway Genomics has developed a new molecular assay that uses blood
      plasma as the source of DNA fragments. The ctDNA is isolated, amplified and analyzed for the
      presence of one or more of 96 known mutations that are found in 9 cancer driver genes. This
      technique of using a "liquid biopsy" to screen for and monitor cancer has been documented in
      a number of recent medical publications. However, the majority of published studies are on
      subjects who have already been diagnosed with cancer. Therefore, the investigators wish to
      look at a population of patients who are scheduled to undergo a diagnostic or therapeutic
      bronchoscopy or thoracotomy without a know history of cancer (other than basal cell
      carcinomas of the skin). The blood will be drawn at the time of or a few weeks before the
      procedure. The analysis of the blood sample will take placed in the Pathway Genomics clinical
      laboratory which is Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA) certified.

      Following an informed consent process, the patients will fill out a health questionnaire and
      will have the blood drawn prior to the surgical procedure. Up to 30 ml of blood
      (approximately 2 tablespoons) will be drawn at any one time. The patient will be asked to
      agree to being contacted by the investigators yearly for up to 5 years to provide follow-up
      medical information. No patient will be identified in presentations or publications resulting
      from this work and all data will be reported from analysis of combined information from
      participants in this study.

      Individuals may participate in this study if they are 18 years of age or older, have not had
      a prior diagnosis of cancer (other than a skin cancer or if they are undergoing the thoracic
      surgical procedure for a cancer that was diagnosed within the prior month), and are
      undergoing a diagnostic or therapeutic bronchoscopy or thoracotomy.
    
  