
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Progress in educating those with low literacy levels about CVD risk factors related to
      nutrition had been hampered by the lack of appropriate materials and programs. It was
      questionable whether the traditional methods of education used with literate, middle-income
      populations were generalizable to low literate, lower-income populations. While past work had
      demonstrated significant associations between dietary practices and risk for CVD--in the form
      of hypercholesterolemia, obesity, and hypertension--as well as alterations in risk when
      dietary practices were changed, effective educational methods for low literate populations
      who were at high risk for CVD were still in their infancy in 1991.

      The study was part of an NHLBI initiative on "CVD Nutrition Education for Low Literacy
      Skills". The initiative originated within the Prevention and Demonstration Branch of the
      DECA, was approved by the September 1988 National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council,
      and released in July 1990.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The two clusters were comprised of small groups of multi-ethnic, low-income individuals who
      were predominantly women aged 20-35 with low-literacy levels. The source of these groups was
      the Expanded Food and Nutrition Education Program (EFNEP), a program of the USDA and
      Cooperative Extension Services of the University of California. EFNEP provided basic, non-CVD
      specific nutrition information to approximately 1000 low-income families in Santa Clara
      County, California annually in conjunction with job training programs and specialty schools
      for low-literate individuals. Twenty-four groups were matched in pairs for group size and
      type of setting and one of each pair was allocated randomly to receive the UC or SI. The UC
      group received an eight one-hour classroom curriculum covering nutrition information on the
      basic food groups, meal planning and food purchasing, delivered primarily through lecture and
      print materials. The Sl involved designing an innovative CVD nutrition program, composed of
      distinct education modules, that used face-to-face, participatory education and mediated
      materials for low-literate adults. Participants learned to modify their own family menus,
      select and prepare low cost foods obtained from the USDA or food stamps, and received
      specially adapted and newly developed materials that relied little on written communication
      that were sensitive to cultural dietary beliefs.

      Summative evaluation involved testing whether the SI groups had a greater change in CVD
      nutrition knowledge and behavior (as measured by self-report) 24 hour diet recalls, and serum
      cholesterol) from baseline to an eight week post-test, and through a five month maintenance
      period. The generalization phase of the research tested a revised version of the program in a
      non-classroom setting with Head Start families, and intervened at the community level to
      modify the food selection and preparation practices of organizations (such as soup kitchens,
      food banks, and homeless shelters) that provide food to low-income/low-literate groups. As
      the concluding aspect of the study, the feasibility was explored of disseminating the
      nutrition program and education modules to local and national groups serving low-literate
      populations.
    
  