
    
      The patient population will include patients who are candidates for transcatheter aortic
      valve replacement (TAVR). According to routine practice, the heart team (interventional
      cardiologist and cardiothoracic surgeon) makes a choice to use the Direct Flow Medical Aortic
      Valve System, compared to other available TAVR prostheses, on the basis of clinical and
      surgical considerations. Therefore, the valve is implanted when the heart team decides that
      this product is best suited to the specific patient.

      In order to be enrolled in this Registry, the patient must be a candidate for the
      implantation of the Direct Flow Medical Transcatheter Aortic Valve System, based on the
      commercial indications as stated in the Instructions for Use.

      Therefore, candidates for this study must meet the following criteria (Indications for Use):

        1. Age > 70 years old

        2. Severe aortic valve stenosis determined by echocardiogram and Doppler:

             -  mean gradient >40 mmHg or peak jet velocity >4.0 m/s AND

             -  aortic valve area ≤0.8 cm2 or aortic valve area index ≤0.5 cm2/m2

        3. Symptomatic aortic valve stenosis (angina, congestive heart failure, NYHA Functional
           Class ≥ II, or syncope).

        4. Patient is an extreme risk candidate for open surgical aortic valve repair such that the
           site Investigators (interventional cardiologist and cardiothoracic surgeon) agree that
           medical factors preclude operation, based on the conclusion that the probability of
           death or serious morbidity exceeds the probability of meaningful improvement due to the
           patient's co-morbidities (such as, but not limited to, severe COPD, porcelain aorta,
           previous thorax irradiation) or logistic EuroSCORE ≥ 20.

      All the Registry clinical evaluations and tests performed are generally considered standard
      of care for TAVR patients. When these recommendations conflict with the standard of care at
      the Registry site, the standard of care should prevail. In addition to the standard of care,
      the Sponsor recommends one brief additional evaluation (the EQ-5D quality of life measure) be
      conducted. Failure to perform this evaluation shall not be considered a protocol deviation.

      Baseline Clinical Evaluation

        -  Medical History and Physical Exam

        -  12 lead ECG and Arrhythmia Assessment

        -  Logistic EuroSCORE/STS Score

        -  New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional status

        -  Modified Rankin Score Assessment (mRS)

        -  Current Cardiac Medications Baseline Imaging Studies

        -  Transthoracic Echo (TTE)

        -  CT Scan (ECG triggered, contrast enhanced)

        -  Aorto-Iliac Angiogram:

             1. Peripheral Evaluation

             2. Coronary Evaluation

      All patients will have clinical follow-up at hospital discharge, 30 days, 12 months and
      annually to 3 years and undergo the following evaluations:

        -  Physical Exam

        -  12 lead ECG and Arrhythmia Assessment

        -  New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional status

        -  Modified Rankin Score Assessment (mRS) if symptomatic for stroke

        -  Current Cardiac Medications

        -  Transthoracic echo (TTE) Patients in whom the heart team has planned to use the Direct
           Flow Medical Transcatheter Aortic Valve System valve, are informed of the DISCOVER
           Registry and their consent to participate is required. This study intends to monitor the
           clinical condition of the patient for a period of 3 years after the operation. By
           agreeing to participate, the patient agrees to undergo clinical assessments and specific
           tests at certain intervals (prior to the procedure; during the implantation; at hospital
           discharge, at 30 days after the procedure, and at 1 year, 2 and 3 years later); the
           patient also agrees to the collection of these daThe purpose of this Registry is to
           monitor outcomes data for the Direct Flow Medical Transcatheter Aortic Valve System in
           the Post Market phase. The primary outcome of interest is freedom from all-cause
           mortality at 30 days. The results from the pivotal CE mark study (IP 010) yielded a 30
           day freedom from all-cause mortality rate of 97%. Should the "true" rate be 97%, then
           N=250 patients would provide an estimate of the rate with a margin of error of 2%, with
           95% confidence.
    
  