
    
      All data entered will be used for analysis purposes and results will be submitted to inform
      regulatory agencies. Patient care and management is freely determined by the participating
      physician, in the framework of an observational study reflecting the daily medical practice.
      The clinical data, the results of routine clinical and laboratory testing that are part of
      standard medical care for patients with Gaucher disease will be collected from the medical
      record of the patient :

        -  Socio-demographic characteristics

        -  History of the disease and context of diagnosis

        -  Medical background

        -  MRI: abdominal and bone, as defined below

        -  Clinical data available in the range from 3 months before or after each MRI

        -  Biological data available in the range from 3 months before or after each MRI

        -  Treatment with VPRIV® (velaglucerase alfa), including the doses and regimens.

      The MRI images collected during the study:

      The MRIs performed in the patient's usual medical follow-up for its Gaucher disease
      (abdominal MRI (liver and spleen) and bone MRI (back injury pelvis, lower limbs) and / or
      whole-body MRI) will be collected. Among the MRIs available in the patient's medical records,
      MRIs will be collected as following:

        -  Reference MRI: MRI closest to the date of initiation of VPRIV® in the five years
           preceding the start of treatment or within three months after initiation of VPRIV®.

        -  MRIs of the retrospective phase of the study: All MRIs available between the reference
           MRI and the inclusion date of the patient.

        -  MRIs of the prospective phase of the study: all the MRIs that will be realized during
           the prospective phase of the study, that is to say during the year following the date
           patient inclusion in the study

      Second reading of the MRI

      The collected MRIs will be subject to a second reading, which will be conducted centrally by
      a medical image processing center (BioClinica).

      This second reading of MRIs will particularly provide quantitative data not available
      initially in the patient records, such as Bone Marrow Burden (BMB) score at the lumbar spine
      and femur, and liver and spleen volumes.

      In case the second reading provides additional data to the first reading, as any new comments
      or discordant diagnosis, the investigating doctor will integrate these data as soon as he has
      knowledge of them in the medical care of the patient.

      MRI collection and transmission

      Except the data from the second reading of MRIs by BioClinica, all data defined above, will
      be collected in the case report of the study, from the patient's medical record.

      For the second centralized reading of the MRIs, the MRIs will be transmitted as follows: the
      investigation center will make a copy on Compact Disc - Read Only Memory (CD-ROM) of each MRI
      collected for the study needs, and will replace the identity the patient by an identification
      number whose correspondence with the patient's identity is only known by the investigation
      center. This patient identification number will be predefined and attributed to the patient's
      MRI when the patient is included in the study.

      Copies of MRIs and coded will be sent securely at BioClinica center for analysis. In case of
      connection failure from the participating centers, MRI scans will be sent by post.

      Data from this second reading by BioClinica will be retrieved for analysis. The results of
      the second reading by BioClinica will be forwarded to investigation center, which will
      include them in the patient's record.
    
  