
    
      Calcium electroporation. Electroporation is a technique that facilitates the transport of
      molecules across the cell membrane by using electric pulses. The electric field applied to
      the cell membrane creates a temporary destabilization. As the electric capacity of the
      membrane is exceeded, cracks are formed in the membrane and the molecules are free to diffuse
      into the cytosol of the cell. The process is reversible and the cell membrane is stabilized
      in a matter of minutes. While the cell membrane is permeable there is an increased influx of
      Ca2+ into the cell. Calcium influx may be further improved by combining calcium together with
      electroporation; this is called calcium electroporation.

      In vivo studies have shown that when enhancing the extracellular calcium concentration before
      applying electroporation, a larger Ca2+ influx occurs. The large Ca2+ influx can lead to a
      reduction in ATP (adenosine triphosphate) levels and cell death. A fall in ATP levels is seen
      for two reasons: First, an increase in intracellular Ca2+ leads to a higher activity of the
      Ca2+-ATPase and Na+/K+-ATPase. Secondly, the high concentration of Ca2+ leads to loss of the
      electrochemical gradient in the mitochondrial membrane, which causes mitochondrial collapse.
      Upon collapse of the mitochondria, the cell can no longer produce ATP. Overall, the increased
      consumption and decreased production of ATP leads to lover ATP levels. Combined with other
      cellular processes such as activation of lipases and proteases, the cell will eventually die.

      Trials objectives.

        1. Primary outcome. Evaluating the safety measures of using calcium electroporation on
           mucosal head and neck cancer. This is done by continuously evaluating pain by VAS-score
           (visual analogue scale) and side effects by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse
           Events (CTCAE) registration into Adverse Events (AE) and Serious Adverse Events (SAE).
           The safety of using calcium intratumourally is also evaluated by measurement of Ca2+ in
           blood samples after treatment.

        2. Secondary outcome. Evaluation of response by imaging: PET-MRI, Clinical photography,
           Biopsies from tumour site The subjects subjective evaluation of the treatment and post
           treatment period is evaluated through Quality of life questionnaires, EORTC QLQ-C30 and
           H&N35: two different questionnaires both validated for head and neck cancer patients.

        3. Tertiary outcome. The response to treatment will be compared to the results from our
           current trial, where we use electrochemotherapy on mucosal head and neck tumours. The
           comparison will be between imaging response, VAS score and results from questionnaires
           (EORTC QLQ-C30 and H&N35).

      Trial design. This is a phase I, interventional, clinical trial for the safety of calcium
      electroporation on mucosal head and neck tumours. Subjects will have relapsed or primary head
      and neck cancer. Treatment is intended as palliative and not curative. All subjects will be
      offered standard treatment with surgery and radiotherapy before enrolment to the trial, if
      possible. There is no scheduled control group, meaning that all eligible patients will be
      offered treatment.

      Electroporation and anaesthesia. The treatment is performed under general anaesthesia because
      the localization of head and neck tumours complicates treatment under local anaesthetic.
      After the patient is anaesthetized, the tumour area will be injected with calcium. After
      administration of calcium electrodes are inserted into the tumour and electrical pulses are
      generated and documented using a Cliniporator (IGEA, Capri, Italy). Overall operating
      time/anaesthesia time will be 1-2 hours and expected hospital stay of 3 days. Treatment is
      intended as a once-only treatment but measurable response on evaluation scans combined with
      continued cancer activity in the treated area can result in another treatment session.
    
  