
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare relapse free and overall survival after radiation therapy with or
      without the sequential use of chemotherapy in patients with node positive stage IB or IIA
      cervical cancer. II. Compare the toxic effects of these two treatments in this patient
      population. III. Study the effect of the addition of chemotherapy on the pattern of relapse
      in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      institution, stage, site of lymph node involvement, parametrial invasion, resection margin
      status, diameter of the primary lesion, and preoperative brachtherapy. Patients are assigned
      to one of two treatment arms and begin therapy within 6 weeks of surgery. Arm I: Patients
      receive radiation therapy to the pelvis with or without brachytherapy and/or para-aortic
      irradiation for 4-5 weeks. Arm II: Patients receive radiation therapy as in arm I plus 1 of 5
      different cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy regimens. The patients preferably receive
      chemotherapy before radiation therapy, unless doubtful or positive margins are present, then
      radiation therapy is given first. Regimen I: Cisplatin and fluorouracil are administered on
      days 1 and 2 of a 21 day cycle. Patients receive 4 cycles of therapy. Regimen II: Bleomycin
      is administered on day 1 and cisplatin and ifosfamide are administered on day 2 of a 21 day
      cycle. Patients receive 4 cycles of therapy. The regimen may also be given without bleomycin.
      Regimen III: Patients receive vindesine on days 1 and 8, cisplatin on day 1, bleomycin on
      days 2-4, and mitomycin on day 5 (cycles 1 and 3 only). Each cycle lasts 21 days and patients
      receive 4 cycles of therapy. Regimen IV: Cisplatin and vinblastine are administered on day 1
      and bleomycin is administered on days 1, 8, and 15 of a 21 day cycle. Each patient receives 4
      cycles of therapy. Regimen V: Patients receive cisplatin and methotrexate on day 1 of each 14
      day cycle. Patients receive 6 cycles of therapy. Patients are followed every 3 months for the
      first 2 years, every 6 months for the next 3 years, then annually for the next 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 700 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  