
    
      Background: The best option for rehabilitation after a hip fracture is still unclear. The
      home rehabilitation is one of the options and the use of tele-rehabilitation programs at home
      could be the option for some patients in the future. The main objective of this study is to
      improve the functional level and quality of life of hip fracture patients and reduce the
      caregiver burden using the @ctivehip tele-rehabilitation system.

      Methods: This project will include hip fracture patients who met the following inclusion
      criteria: having a high pre-fracture functional level, not having severe cognitive
      impairment, absence of terminal disease, absence of post-surgery complications, going to live
      to their home or a relative home at hospital discharge, and signing an informed consent. The
      criteria to be part of this experimental group will be: having internet at home and a main
      caregiver with the ability to use the internet (@ctiveHip system). Patients without the
      internet at home will be part of the no intervention group, and they will receive the usual
      care, in addition to a triptych with information on recommendations and exercises to do at
      home. Caregivers of patients of both groups will receive a training session on patient
      management. Patients will be assessed at 4-weeks and 12 weeks after beginning to use the
      @ctiveHip system. The primary outcome will be the Functional level, measured by the
      Functional Independence Measure. The secondary outcomes: quality of life (Euro-qol), physical
      function (Timed Up and Go, Short Physical Performance Battery, International Fitness Scale),
      emotional status ( The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale ), health status (American
      Society of Anesthesiologists Score), cognitive status (Mini-mental Test ), fear of falling
      (Short Falls efficacy scale), pain (visual analogue scale), and caregiver burden of care
      (Zarit Burden Interview).

      Discussion: This study has been designed to provide a tele-rehabilitation system which
      includes a rehabilitation protocol created by a multidisciplinary team of surgeons,
      occupational therapist, physiotherapist, and sport scientist, to improve the functional level
      of patients after hip fracture surgery. The @ctiveHip system could be a new low cost
      treatment option for some hip fracture patients.
    
  