
    
      Among the various causes of mortality, deaths attributable to cardiovascular diseases (CVD)
      are the most widespread worldwide. Despite major progress being made, the risk remains.
      Occupational factors such as shift work have emerged as potential CV risk factors. With
      around 15 to 20% of workforce engaging in nightshift work in modern society for obvious
      economic and social reasons, the consequences of which on occupational and social
      inequalities are substantial. Compared to day workers, it was reported higher risks of
      cardiovascular diseases (estimated at 40%) and of metabolic syndrome (1.5 times) in shift
      workers. The occurrence of metabolic syndrome increases the risk to develop high blood
      pressure, diabetes and cardiovascular events. Because some characteristics of night work are
      potentially modifiable, some preventive strategies could be applied to reduce its adverse
      effects. For shift workers, some recent guidelines (High Health Authority, 2012) and fruitful
      literature propose to develop regular assessments of cardiovascular risk factors and
      occupational activities, and stress the need to expand preventive strategies. Moreover, some
      recent French laws provide an opportunity to implement preventive interventions and specific
      monitoring through the occupational physicians network. However, whether the concept is
      defined, the exact content, method and the potential benefits are unknown. The investigator
      assume that individual advice related to collective countermeasures referenced on guidelines
      (applied on worksite within plant) could lead a better improvement on incidence of metabolic
      syndrome compared to those that benefit only individual advice.

        -  Research objectives Main objective: To measure the benefit from implementation of
           individual and collective prevention (dispensed in worksites within plants) on metabolic
           syndrome compared to strategy relying only on individual prevention among night workers,
           over 2 years' follow-up. The secondary objectives of the study are to evaluate in both
           groups: 1) Observance of different types of preventive strategies 2) Impact of
           observance of preventive advice on metabolic syndrome in shift workers and on each
           component of metabolic syndrome 3) Determinants which promote the up-take of preventive
           strategies among night workers 4) The countermeasures which could be applied and
           effective within company 5) Medico-economic assessment is planned from an ancillary
           study.

        -  Methodology This study is designed as a multicenter, cluster randomized interventional
           controlled trial, to reduce the incidence of metabolic syndrome among night workers.
           Randomization will be performed on 100 occupational physicians (volunteers to
           participate), to apply one of both interventions. 3056 volunteers' night workers will be
           recruited from the employees regularly monitored by each physician during the routine
           medical monitoring. Two parallel groups will be performed: control group and
           experimental group. A two-year follow-up will be organized including check-points every
           6 months. Control group: Every 6 months (T0, 6, 12, 18 months), standardized preventive
           individual advice focused on cardiovascular risk in night workers will be delivered by
           occupational physicians. Experimental group: In addition to this individual advice,
           preventive interventions dispensed on worksite will be carried out. Counter-measures
           will be applied by occupational health team to improve working conditions. By using a
           self-questionnaire, a medical questionnaire, a medical examination, biological sample,
           and specific follow-up of preventive interventions, the assessments will be performed.
           Study Primary outcome: Reduction of incidence of metabolic syndrome between the two
           groups (control and experimental) over 2 years' follow up.

      Descriptive analysis according to the clusters and also to the both groups will be provided.
      Multivariate analysis, according to specific design of study (clusters), will be performed by
      multilevel analysis or marginal analysis. Given the specificity of self-employed people
      belonging to 'Regime social des independents, a target population will be added. The medical
      monitoring and individual prevention will be carried out by occupational physicians from
      occupational disease centres.

      • Expected results From implementation of preventive strategies, investigator will expect: 1)
      The health improvement among night workers by decreased incidence of metabolic syndrome; by
      improved quality of life; 2) A improvement of social and professional development of night
      workers by a better tolerance of night work, and job retention; 3) Behavioral improvement by
      a positive impact of individual and collective behavioral changes on cardiovascular risks; 4)
      Practical actions by identifying factors which influence the implementation of preventive
      actions; 5) By this project, investigator would like also to determine some relevant,
      practical and effective actions which could be generalized at all night workers in preventive
      health public Policy.
    
  