
    
      In the United States, racial and ethnic minorities suffer disproportionately from preventable
      diseases and conditions. Many of these problems result from health-related behaviors that are
      established during childhood and adolescence. Latino and African-American adolescents are at
      considerable risk for the negative health consequences of early, risky sexual activity. This
      study will focus on inner-city Latino and African-American adolescents in grades 6, 7, and 8.
      The primary aim will be to develop an intervention that parents can use to address the issue
      of sexual risk behavior with their children.

      The intervention will take place in a primary health care clinic when mothers accompany their
      children for annual physical exams. Mothers will meet with a social worker for approximately
      25 minutes while their children are being examined by the physician. During this time,
      mothers will receive information about the problem of premature adolescent sexual activity,
      support in preventing or reducing their children's sexual risk behavior, instruction about
      how to talk with their children about sexual risk behavior, and targeted homework activities.
      All parents will also receive three follow-up phone calls to increase the probability that
      the homework tasks will be completed.

      Participants in this study will also be assigned to one of the following three groups: an
      experimental group; an active control group; or a passive control group. Participants in all
      groups will complete three questionnaires over the course of the study to assess outcomes.
      Participants in the experimental and active control groups will partake in an additional
      meeting with a clinic social worker. Parents in the experimental group will meet with the
      social worker to discuss effective parent-adolescent communication strategies. They will also
      receive take-home materials to help them communicate with and parent their adolescents to
      reduce sexual risk behavior. Parents in the active control group will meet with the social
      worker to discuss adolescent nutrition and receive informational brochures.

      Three booster sessions will take place via telephone for parents in the experimental and
      active control groups. The first booster call will occur approximately 1 month after study
      entry, the second will occur 5 months after the intervention ends, and the third will occur 9
      months post intervention. No such booster calls will be provided to parents in the passive
      control condition.
    
  