
    
      Obese insulin resistant adolescents with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) or evidence of
      glucose excursions ≥ 140 mg/dl on CGMS will be enrolled in a two armed randomized, parallel
      group - open label study. There will also be a lean control group for baseline assessments
      only.

      One arm will be exenatide the other arm will be no drug. Subjects will be stratified
      according to state of glucose tolerance. Stratification will also occur according to gender
      and family history of premature cardiovascular disease.

      Obese adolescents age 16-25 years with a family history of type 2 diabetes, whom have
      completed or reached tanner IV stage of pubertal development and have normal or impaired oral
      glucose tolerance. Obese adolescents age 13-15 with a family history of type 2 diabetes, whom
      have completed or reached tanner III stage of pubertal development and have impaired oral
      glucose tolerance with a 2-hour glucose of 180-199 mg/dl will also be invited to participate.
      For cardiovascular assessment only age matched lean control subjects without diabetes will be
      recruited.

      Obese subjects will have a baseline and post intervention oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT),
      screening labs (liver/kidney functions, lipid profile, thyroid function tests, CBC, metabolic
      and cardiovascular laboratory parameters -- such as inflammatory cytokines and pro-thrombotic
      factors), wear a CGMS for 3-days on 3 separate occasions (baseline, 2-month and 4-month),
      have a standardized snack once during each CGMS session, collect urine samples for
      microalbumin and have vascular tests (PAT, FMD and exercise step test) done at baseline and
      post intervention.

      Subjects randomized to treatment will undergo a four month intervention with exenatide on the
      following dosing schedule: exenatide - 5 μg twice a day for 7 days, followed by exenatide 10
      μg twice a day for the remainder of the four month intervention.

      Lean Control Subjects:

      As for obese subjects, lean subjects will be asked to bring in first morning voids for
      testing of microalbuminuria. They will also have endothelial function tests (PAT, FMD and
      step test) as well as CGMS placement. A set of screening labs will also be drawn (fasting
      glucose, insulin, thyroid function and lipid profile will be drawn). Furthermore blood will
      be collected for analysis of novel cardiovascular parameters (such as inflammatory cytokines
      and pro-thrombotic factors). However lean subjects will not have an OGTT done and will not be
      offered drug intervention. The endothelial function testing in the lean controls will serve
      as control data for the vascular function testing in the obese children. The CGMS data of the
      lean controls will allow us to better interpret changes in the post-meal excursions seen in
      obese children after exenatide intervention. Similar to obese subjects, lean subjects will be
      instructed to take a standardized snack in the afternoon prior to returning for CGMS removal.
      The snack will be provided for them to take home at the end of their CGMS placement visit and
      will include two pop-tarts and an orange soda. Lean control subjects will wear the CGMS for
      three days. At the end of the monitoring period the subject will return for their CGMS
      removal visit.
    
  