
    
      Cutaneous squamous cell cancers (cSCC) increase in incidence in recent years. Prognosis of
      these tumors is generally favorable, with most of the patients cured with local therapies,
      except from a small percentage (less than 10% of the cases) with recurrence not amenable to
      surgery or radiation or with distant metastasis. There are only limited clinical risk factors
      able to discriminate an aggressive lesion at its presentation (size > 2cm, perineural
      invasion (PNI) or beyond subcutaneous tissues). The American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC)
      added aggressive features of cSCC that lead to upstaging the disease and are associated with
      increased risk of recurrence or metastasis, including invasion of bone, or presence of at
      least two high-risk factors such as poor differentiation, PNI, invasion greater than 2 mm,
      occurrence at a high-risk site (i.e., ear or lip), or Clark level greater than or equal to 4.

      Untreatable recurrences are most frequently localized in the head and neck area (80% of
      cases) and they are often disfiguring, while metastasis may involve lymph nodes, lungs, liver
      or bone. The probability of metastasis in SCC of the skin varies between 2% and 10% depending
      on the series and on the risk factors considered. Chemotherapy is reserved to cases of
      recurrence or distant metastasis, with palliative intent. The most commonly used drug
      combinations are cisplatin-based, in combination with bleomycin, methotrexate,
      5-fluorouracil, anthracycline or with cis-retinoic acid and interferon alfa.

      However, clinical responses are limited, so underlining the medical need existing with
      recurrent SCCs of the skin not amenable to local therapy or with metastatic disease.

      The role of immunosuppression is well-known in the pathogenesis of skin SCCs; however, only
      limited evidence exists about the possibility to treat this disease through the restoration
      of an immune activity against cancer cells. In this regard, there is the need to acquire more
      information about the expression and the role of the PD-L1:PD1 pathway in skin SCCs, being
      one of the most attractive in cancer treatment.

      In fact, immuno-oncologic agents targeting checkpoint inhibitors such as programmed death
      receptor-1 (PD-1) or its ligand PD-L1 are very promising new anti-cancer drugs, while
      efficacy correlates with PD-L1 expression in various tumor types. In order to provide a
      translational basis for the possible use of PD1/PD-L1 inhibitors in cSCC, Sharper et al
      examined the expression pattern of PD-L1 in tumor cells and tumor infiltrating leukocytes
      (TILs) as well as the proportion of CD8+ T- cells and correlated these findings with
      clinic-pathological characteristics of patients. Utilizing a cut-off ≥ 5%, 10.3% tumors and
      42.7% of TILs were PD-L1 positive. The severity of inflammation was positively correlated
      with PD-L1 expression in both tumor and TILs and PD-L1 expression in tumor cells was
      associated with the presence of intratumoral CD8+ cells. Additionally, the location of the
      tumor had an impact on PD- L1 expression: cSCC located in sun-exposed areas (66.2%) showed a
      higher expression of PD-L1 in TILs compared to cSCC excised in no sun-exposed areas of the
      body.

      Herbst et al. recently showed in multiple cancer types that a response to treatment with a
      PD- L1 inhibitor was observed especially when PD-L1 was expressed by TILs, therefore the
      expression of PD-L1 in the majority of TILs in cSCC provides a preclinical rationale for the
      use of PD-1 inhibitors.

      On the other hand, immunohistochemical (IHC) expression of EGFR in skin SCCs is shown to be
      more than 80%. However, given the paucity of recurrent/metastatic lesions analyzed, only a
      small amount of data in this setting exists. Primary lesions associated with subsequent
      metastasis have been shown to more likely overexpress EGFR in comparison with not recurring
      lesions. Therefore, this pathway represents a potentially valuable target for the treatment
      of advanced disease. Moreover, HER2 expression is common in skin SCC, being reported with
      high rates, even if in small studies. Coexpression of EGFR, HER2 and HER3 is present in skin
      SCCs but not in normal skin and it could be associated with the malignant phenotype.

      Anti-EGFR therapy in cSCC has been explored in phase II trials, with cetuximab and
      panitumumab in unresectable or metastatic setting, with gefitinib in potentially curable
      disease and in other case reports.

      EGFR-TKI gefitinib was shown to reduce the expression of PD-L1 in both EGFR-TKIs sensitive
      and acquired resistant non-small cell lung cancer in vitro and in vivo, so providing a novel
      anti-tumor mechanism for the combination of EGFR-TKIs and immunotherapy.

      Being the responses to cetuximab alone are limited and not durable, there is the need to
      enhance response rate and secondarily duration of responses. There are suggestions for a
      possible role of anti-EGFR agent in tackling resistance to checkpoint inhibitors. In fact,
      suppression of EGFR signalling decreases PD-L1 overexpression on tumoral cells (possible
      mechanism of resistance to immunotherapy), so reducing the immune escape process. Moreover,
      activation of EGFR pathway is involved in suppressing the immune response through activation
      of Tregs or reducing the level of T cell chemoattractants.

      Recently, an anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody employed in patients with unresectable locally
      advanced or metastatic cSCC showed activity and a tolerable profile of toxicity.

      After confirmation of inclusion/exclusion criteria, the patient will be treated with
      pembrolizumab 200 mg every 3 weeks.

      First evaluation: After 9 weeks since treatment start the patient will be evaluated
      clinically and radiologically, if indicated.

      In case of disease control (SD/PR/CR), the patient will continue to receive pembrolizumab
      alone and after 6 weeks will be evaluated clinically and radiologically, if indicated.

      In case of disease progression at the first evaluation, in order to avoid disease
      pseudo-progression, the patient will repeat an evaluation (confirmatory) after at least 4
      weeks; if PD confirmed, then the patient will receive cetuximab (400 mg/sm loading dose, then
      250 mg/sm day 1,8 and 15 of a 3-week schedule) in addition to pembrolizumab.

      Second and following evaluations: After the first evaluation, every restaging will be
      performed every 6 weeks.

      In case of disease response (PR/CR), the patient will continue to receive pembrolizumab
      alone.

      In case of stable disease or progression, the patient will repeat an evaluation after at
      least 4 weeks (confirmatory); in case of confirmed stability or PD, the patient will receive
      cetuximab (400 mg/sm loading dose, then 250 mg/sm day 1,8 of a 3-week schedule) in addition
      to pembrolizumab, in order to reverse the primary lack of response to the immunotherapeutic
      drug.

      In case of progression after an initial disease response, the patient will receive cetuximab
      (400 mg/sm loading dose, then 250 mg/sm day 1,8, 15 of a 3-week schedule) in addition to
      pembrolizumab, in order to reverse the acquired resistance to the immunotherapeutic drug.

      After 6 weeks of combination treatment (pembrolizumab + cetuximab) a first
      clinical/radiological assessment will be performed. In case of lack of response (PR or CR),
      another assessment will be performed within 4 weeks. In case of confirmed lack of response
      during the combination treatment the patient will be permanently discontinued from study, as
      the balance of possible treatment toxicities against its lack of efficacy is no more
      favorable.

      Evaluation will be conducted according to the ir-RECIST Partial response will be considered
      at any time according to ir-RECIST with a reduction ≥50% in tumor burden compared with the
      first assessment at study entry for each treatment schedule. The first 6 patients treated
      with the combination of pembrolizumab and cetuximab will be treated within a safety run-in
      cohort.

      The safety run-in cohort will include 6 subjects treated with 250 mg/sm (after loading dose
      400 mg/sm) IV infusion of weekly cetuximab plus standard-dose pembrolizumab. These first 6
      patients will be followed for 4 weeks for dose limiting toxicities (DLT) before enrolling
      additional patients.

      If a DLT will be observed in no more than 1 of 6 patients, the trial will continue with
      enrolling subjects to the remainder of the phase II portion of the study. Otherwise, 6
      additional patients will be enrolled at dose level -1 (200 mg/sm).

      If no more than one DLT will be observed, then phase II will enroll patients at dose level -1
      (200 mg) for the total expected number of accrual.

      If a DLT will be observed in more than 1 of 6 patients, 6 additional patients will be
      enrolled at dose level -2 (150 mg).

      If no more than one DLT will be observed with this dose level, then phase II will enroll
      patients at dose level -2 (150 mg) for the total expected number of accrual. Otherwise the
      combination of the 2 drugs will be considered unfeasible in such a disease population.

      To consolidate these safety data, after 6 patients will have completed treatment at the
      specific dose without more than one DLT, other 6 patients will be analyzed for safety
      purpose, without the need to stop enrollment. In case 3 or more DLTs will globally happen in
      the 12 treated patients, then the trial will continue to enroll 6 additional patients at the
      inferior dose level with the above reported rules.

      Primary Objective(s) & Hypothesis(es):

      (1) Objective: Increase in cumulative response rate (PR + CR) obtained by single agent or by
      combination strategy (pembrolizumab alone or with pembrolizumab + EGFR inhibiting agent) in
      respect to monotherapy with anti-EGFR agent.

      Hypothesis: this approach will be considered effective if the cumulative response rate is at
      least 45%, with an increase of 17% with respect to previous study with cetuximab in the same
      setting of disease, in which a response rate of 28% was shown.

      Secondary Objective(s) & Hypothesis(es)

        -  Compliance to the treatment and safety

        -  Disease control (SD + PR + CR) as best response obtained by single agent or by
           combination

        -  Progression-Free Survival (PFS) and Overall Survival (OS)

        -  Percentage of patients initially not considered for surgery due to difficulty to obtain
           a curative treatment that undergo surgery after the treatment (pembrolizumab alone or
           pembrolizumab + anti EGFR agent)

        -  Reversal of acquired resistance to pembrolizumab obtained through the addition of
           cetuximab (percentage of responding patients after cetuximab adjunct) 4.3 Exploratory
           Objective Translational research (TR): In skin cancers performing paired biopsies is
           relatively easy.

      Patients will be asked to consent to analysis of tissue and to receive additional biopsies at
      time of anti EGFR agent introduction; if possible, another biopsy at time of combined therapy
      resistance will be acquired.

      TR includes: - evaluation of PD-L1 expression in skin SCC and of PD1 on CD8 T cells at
      baseline , - evaluation of PD-L1 and PD1 modulation during treatment, -evaluation of PDL-1
      and PD-1 in TILs at the baseline and during treatment.

        -  evaluation of the presence of HPV genotype on tumor sample through viral DNA and RNA
           detection by PCR.

        -  evaluation of pharmacodynamic changes of potential markers in course of therapy, and
           their association with response to treatment.

      Moreover, the study will involve a multi-omic approach with analysis of gene-expression,
      miRNA, methylation and CGH profiling, completed by next generation "amplicon sequencing", by
      means of Ion Torrent, detecting with high sensitivity mutations and polymorphisms of
      biomarkers associated with prognosis and with response to the whole treatment.

      Initially, a bio-banking of FFPE (formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded ) tissues and of blood
      will be performed, as this part of the analysis has not been funded yet. A separate consent
      will be requested for additional biopsies and for bio-banking.

      The pre-pembrolizumab and pre-cetuximab biopsies will be compared in order to evaluate the
      changes in microenvironment and tumoral pharmacodynamic markers.
    
  