
    
      Missing information at the point of care is frustrating for both physicians and patients and
      can lead to unnecessary tests or suboptimal or even inappropriate and potentially harmful
      treatment. In addition to the risks of poorer quality of care, this fragmentation of
      incomplete or unavailable clinical data may result in increased costs to the healthcare
      system. Patient health records, when electronically shared across a spectrum of patient care
      settings, offer the possibility of improving healthcare outcomes, including patient safety
      and quality of care, and increasing efficiency, as well as cost-effectiveness.

      This overall study will consist of two analyses. First, we will conduct a before-and-after,
      or pre-post study. The clinical practices consenting to participate will serve as their own
      controls during the baseline period. During the baseline period for which data will be
      retrospectively captured, physicians will have been conducting "business as usual" without
      the use of the CHR. The intervention will consist of participants accessing CHR to assist
      with medical decisions and patient care. Secondly, we will conduct a concurrent matched
      cohort comparison of patients within practices. We will compare outcomes and gaps in care for
      patients whose care is associated with very frequent CHR use and less frequent CHR use to
      matched control patients whose care is not associated with CHR use.

      Safety, quality, and cost outcomes will be compared using the two described approaches.
      First, we will compare outcomes and gaps in care for the intervention patients whose care
      involved active CHR use in the intervention period to the care these same patients received
      during the baseline periods (pre/post analyses). Secondly, we will compare outcomes and gaps
      in care of the intervention active patients, both super-active and less active, to the
      matched control patients whose care during the study did not involve any CHR use during the
      intervention period (matched cohort analysis).

      In order to study the relationship of CHR use to clinical, financial, and office efficiency
      outcomes within the study's timeline, we will limit our study to pre-existing patients and
      new patients who have had at least one encounter during the study period. Hospital admission
      data will also be analyzed as part of the cost and outcomes analysis.

      We plan to study the effects of CHR on several conditions among the AHRQ's Ambulatory Care
      Sensitive (ACS) Conditions. We will study conditions that are common, high-risk, and resource
      dependent where clinical management may be improved with access to a CHR including chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease/asthma, congestive heart failure, angina/coronary artery
      disease, and diabetes mellitus. In addition, other conditions determined to be of value in
      evaluating the impact of the CHR may be added, or may replace some of the existing
      conditions. These conditions will be chosen based on our early work in the study once we
      learn more about the number of eligible patients and the numbers of clinical interactions.
      The new conditions, yet to be determined, may also include non-chronic, or acute, diagnoses.
    
  