
    
      "An unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue
      damage, or described in terms of such damage", this is the definition of pain according to
      the International Association for the Study of Pain (IASP). Severe post-operative pain is
      experienced by approximately 50-80% of the patients.

      Lack of postoperative acute pain management is associated with increased morbidity, longer
      recovery time, more opioid use and subsequently increased health care costs. Postoperative
      pain can cause a higher morbidity, because of cardiovascular, pulmonic and gastro-intestinal
      problems.

      Besides, surgery and acute pain are both independent risk factors for the development of
      chronic pain. The reduction of acute pain and therefore managing postoperative pain may
      contribute to the prevention of chronic pain.

      In general, nowadays, medication is the treatment of choice for acute pain and mainly opioid
      analgesics are used for pain relief. Worldwide this contributes to excessive drug dependence
      and opioid abuse. Opioid use comes with several negative side effects, for example a
      potential delay in recovery and an increased risk of permanent disability.

      Nowadays, new methods related to pain management are developed. For example, Virtual reality
      (VR) is an upcoming technology used within healthcare. It is thought that the perception of
      pain is related to the amount of attention that is given to pain stimuli. The theory behind
      the working mechanism of VR to reduce pain is that VR acts as a distraction to limit the
      user's processing of nociceptive stimuli, by stimulating the visual cortex in the brain. In
      2000, Hoffman published the first preliminary evidence for the beneficial effect of VR in
      reducing pain in a burn care unit. They also showed a trend to experience less anxiety during
      VR use. In the next upcoming years, a growing body of research was done to explore the
      effects of VR.

      A recent systematic review and meta-analysis showed VR to be an effective treatment for
      reducing acute pain. Next to being effective in reducing pain, it is also a proven useful
      tool in reducing preoperative anxiety. VR can be used as a safe, non-invasive, analgesic
      method, without risks of drug addiction and minimum side effects.

      In this study, the investigators want to explore the effect of VR on postoperative pain in
      patients undergoing elective gynecological surgery as a serious alternative for pain
      medication. The investigators hypothesize VR will reduce post-operative pain and consequently
      postoperative opioid use and anxiety reduction.
    
  