
    
      Background. The burden of sepsis is increasing worldwide. It is the cause of 8 million global
      deaths each year. Currently, treatment options are limited to antimicrobials and supportive
      care such as intravenous fluids, vasopressors, mechanical ventilation, and renal replacement
      therapy. In the absence of effective therapies specifically targeting the dysregulated immune
      response, prolonged use of these life-sustaining therapies can be debilitating. A growing
      body of evidence suggesting that vitamin C, an inexpensive and readily available
      intervention, is potentially lifesaving in sepsis. Intravenous vitamin C may be the first
      therapy to mitigate the dysregulated cascade of events that leads to sepsis. If proven
      effective, vitamin C could be used worldwide and drastically change outcomes in high- and
      low-income settings alike.

      Objectives. To determine whether intravenous vitamin C, compared to placebo, reduces
      mortality and morbidity in sepsis (induced by bacterial and viral pathogens (as COVID-19)),
      and compare clinical and biochemical measures of organ dysfunction, and health-related
      quality of life (HRQoL) at 6 months. To ascertain the volume of distribution, clearance, and
      plasma concentration over a course of 96 hours of intravenous vitamin C 50 mg/kg of weight
      every 6 hours or matching placebo (pharmacokinetic (PK) substudy).

      Methods. Patients will be randomly assigned to vitamin C (intravenous, 50 mg/kg every 6h) or
      placebo (0.9% NaCl or dextrose 5% in water) for 96 hours. Study personnel at the clinical
      sites will document the composite of death or persistent organ dysfunction at day 28. Daily
      assessments will occur for organ function, on days 1, 3, 7 for inflammation, infection, and
      endothelial injury biomarkers, at baseline for vitamin C level, and at 6 months for mortality
      and HRQoL. The LOVIT Trial will be conducted in adult general Canadian and international
      intensive care units. For the PK substudy: Blood samples will be drawn around the 8th dose at
      time 0 and then after administration at times 1h, 2h, 4h and 6h (the 6h level will be
      immediately prior to the next dose). The PK substudy will be conducted with 100 participants
      in 3 of the 25 participating centers.

      Relevance. In the context of increasing off-label use of vitamin C for sepsis and ongoing
      trials of vitamin C bundled with other pharmacological interventions, the LOVIT Trial will
      constitute a rigorous assessment of the effect of vitamin C monotherapy on patient-important
      outcomes.
    
  