
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Cardiac tachyarrhythmias that are refractory to either conventional or experimental
      antiarrhythmic therapy, antitachycardia pacemakers, or both, may result in serious symptoms
      or death. Catheter ablation has been developed as a nonpharmacologic, closed-chest
      alternative for the management of these patients. The technique was first applied to man in
      1981 and reported by both Scheinman et al and Gallagher et al in 1982. Hartzler reported the
      first catheter ablation procedure for the treatment of ventricular tachycardia in 1983. In
      that same year, Weber reported the first use of catheter ablation of an accessory
      atrioventricular pathway. The standard method of energy delivery for closed-chest catheter
      ablation attempts involved direct current delivered using a defibrillator, but beginning in
      1985, radiofrequency energy was employed in man. This promised to revolutionize the field of
      catheter ablation, because it offered the hope of more precise destruction of tissue, avoided
      the need for general anesthesia and significantly lowered complication rates, since it did
      not involve the levels of energy used in direct current attempts.

      The Catheter Ablation Registry (CAR) evolved from a pilot study, the Percutaneous Cardiac
      Mapping and Ablation Registry (PCMAR) formed in 1983. There were scientific limitations in
      this voluntary registry. Further prospective studies were needed to better define this
      procedure, and a multicenter international prospective cohort study was designed to allow a
      rapid assessment of ablation's dangers and potential usefulness. Results from the study were
      used to guide physicians as to which patients would and would not benefit from these new
      procedures.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Data were collected prospectively from sixteen clinical centers in the United States and
      Europe on attempted catheter ablation of the atrioventricular junction, accessory
      atrioventricular pathways and ventricular tachycardia. Each of the three ablation techniques
      was studied as a separate subset and the two methods of energy delivery, direct current or
      radiofrequency energy, were compared within each subset. A standardized protocol was used for
      direct current ablation and the results of a variety of protocols for the other two
      procedures and for radiofrequency energy were observed. Patients were evaluated quarterly in
      the first post-procedure year, and biannually for the subsequent duration of the study.
      Statistical analyses were performed to determine the distribution of specific patient
      characteristics such as age, sex, clinical status, underlying heart disease, and a variety of
      procedural categories including energy level, mapping data, and catheter position. A
      determination was made of the frequency of successful outcomes including cessation of
      arrhythmias, production of third degree atrioventricular block, and disappearance of symptoms
      and of adverse effects, including procedure-related complications and death.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  