
    
      In women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) androgen excess is fundamental to the clinical
      and physiological alterations of this disorder. In particular, androgen overproduction
      induces distinctive PCO morphology and appears to influence follicle function. Studies
      conducted in animals and nonhuman primates have demonstrated that androgens increase follicle
      number and in small antral follicles enhance granulosa cell (GC) responsiveness to
      gonadotropin stimulation. However, androgens also have been shown to clearly inhibit GC
      aromatase activity, and in PCOS follicular fluid, androgen content is abnormally increased.
      Efforts to reconcile these differences are nonexistent. Moreover, appropriate clinical
      studies to examine the effects of androgen on follicle health in women are lacking. Excessive
      androgen exposure in women due to functional tumors or high-dose testosterone treatment in
      F-M transsexuals has been associated with PCO morphology. Use of androgen therapy to promote
      follicle growth prior to ovarian hyperstimulation in women undergoing in vitro fertilization
      has not provided consistent results. However, in these studies GC responses to FSH were not
      carefully assessed, study populations were exclusively women with previously poor ovarian
      responses to FSH, and women with PCOS were not included. In fact, there are essentially no
      clinical studies that have addressed in detail the impact of androgen on follicle function in
      normal or PCOS women. We hypothesize that androgen facilitates GC responses to FSH in normal
      women and androgen excess further amplifies follicle growth and function in women with PCOS.
      We propose to study the effect of increased ovarian androgen on follicle function by
      increasing intraovarian androgen accumulation using aromatase inhibition followed by FSH
      stimulation. The experiments in this project are designed to provide insight into whether
      androgen excess facilitates or interferes with follicle function and ovulation in women with
      PCOS.
    
  