
    
      The National Tonsil Surgery Register in Sweden (NTSRS), started in 1997 as one among several
      registers, aimed to reinforce quality in the Swedish health care and were revised 2009. Data
      in the NTSRS are collected through four questionnaires; two are filled in by the ENT-surgeon
      and two postoperative forms, filled in by the patient or the legal guardian, collecting
      patient related outcome measures (PROM) 30 respective 180 days after surgery.

      In the first surgeon questionnaire age, sex, social security number and indication for
      surgery (upper airway obstruction, recurrent tonsillitis, chronic tonsillitis, peritonsillar
      abscess, and systemic complications because of tonsillitis or other) are recorded. This is
      filled in when surgery is notified.

      The second surgeon questionnaire records surgical method (TE, TEA, TT or TTA), surgical
      instruments used for dissection (cold steel, radiofrequency, diathermy scissors, ultracision
      or other) and hemostasis method used (injection with epinephrine, unipolar diathermy, bipolar
      diathermy, ties, suture ligature, radiofrequency, other or "none other than compression with
      packs"). The questionnaire also records information regarding daycare/inpatient procedure and
      primary postoperative bleeding. Due to the configuration of the questionnaires and the
      ambition to cover both inpatient and daycare procedures, primary bleeding is defined as
      bleeding during hospitalization.

      The first patient/caregiver form contains several questions mainly regarding postoperative
      complications. Any contact with healthcare provider due to postoperative
      bleeding/pain/infection as well as consequences of the contact; prescribed antibiotics and
      readmission/return to theatre are reported. Conformity between preoperative information and
      actual patient experience was is also included in this form.

      The final questionnaire that is sent to the second patient/caregiver questionnaire asks for
      perceived symptom relief after 180 days by choosing one alternative of four statements: My
      symptoms are gone / My symptoms are almost gone / My symptoms have not disappeared/ My
      symptoms have worsened.

      In order to assess coverage for the NTSRS, data has been matched on an individual level with
      another national register, the National Patient Register (NPR). The NPR is managed by the
      National Board of Health and Welfare and registration of surgical procedures is mandatory by
      law for all physicians in Sweden. The coverage of NTSRS for the study period 2012-2014 was
      75%, 81.4% and 80.7% respectively
    
  