
    
      PROTECT: The PROphylaxis for ThromboEmbolism in Critical Care Trial.

      Background: Critically ill patients have an increased risk of deep venous thrombosis (DVT)
      due to their acute illness, procedures such as central venous catheterization, and
      immobility. Among patients in the intensive care unit (ICU), DVT is an important problem,
      since thrombus propagation and embolization can lead to potentially fatal pulmonary embolism
      (PE). Only 1 randomized trial (n=119) in medical-surgical ICU patients demonstrates that
      unfractionated heparin (UFH) prevents DVT compared to no prophylaxis; only 1 randomized trial
      (n=223) in ventilated COPD patients shows that low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) prevents
      DVT compared to no prophylaxis. In medical-surgical ICUs, the effect of LMWH vs UFH for DVT
      prevention has not been tested. On one hand, LMWH is likely to be more effective at venous
      thromboembolism (VTE) prevention and is associated with a lower rate of heparin-induced
      thrombocytopenia (HIT). On the other hand, UFH is likely associated with less bleeding, and
      is less expensive. Current guidelines indicate that in the absence of comparative data, both
      LMWH and UFH are suitable for thromboprophylaxis in this population, but that a randomized
      trial is needed.

      PROTECT Pilot: In our Pilot Study, feasibility objectives were to assess:

      1) timely enrolment and complete, blinded study drug administration, 2) the bioaccumulation
      of LMWH in patients with acquired renal insufficiency, 3) twice weekly leg ultrasounds, and
      4) recruitment rates.

        1. Timely, complete administration occurred for 98% of scheduled doses; every dose was
           blinded.

        2. No LWMH bioaccumulation was observed.

        3. Scheduled ultrasounds occurred without exception.

        4. Recruitment will be 4 patients/month/centre after modification of 3 exclusion criteria
           in the PROTECT pilot.

      Objective: To evaluate the effect of LMWH (dalteparin) vs UFH on the primary outcome of
      proximal leg DVT diagnosed by compression ultrasound, and the secondary outcomes of PE,
      bleeding, HIT, and objectively confirmed venous thrombosis at any site.

      Design: Prospective randomized stratified concealed blinded multicentre trial.

      Population: Inclusion Criteria: Eligible patients in medical-surgical ICUs will be >18 years
      old, weigh > 45 kg, and have an expected ICU stay > 72 hours.

      Exclusion Criteria: Patients admitted to ICU post trauma, orthopedic surgery, or
      neurosurgery, with severe hypertension, DVT, PE or major hemorrhage within 3 months,
      International Normalized Ratio (INR) > 2 ULN, Partial Thromboplastin Time (PTT) > 2 ULN,
      platelets < 75 x 109/L, or those requiring therapeutic anticoagulation will be excluded.
      Patients with a contraindication to heparin, blood products or pork products, with > 3 days
      of LMWH or UFH in ICU, patients who are pregnant, undergoing withdrawal of life support, or
      are enrolled in this or a related trial will also be excluded.

      Methods: Using centralized telephone randomization, we will allocate 3,650 patients in 40
      centres to LMWH (dalteparin) 5,000 IU daily or UFH 5,000 IU twice daily SC for the duration
      of ICU stay. Patients, families, all clinicians and researcher will be blinded; only the
      pharmacist will be aware of allocation. Bilateral proximal leg compression ultrasounds will
      be performed within 48h of ICU admission, twice weekly, and on suspicion of DVT. PE will be
      diagnosed by a predefined diagnostic algorithm. We will record bleeding, HIT, other venous
      thrombosis and complications. Protocol adherence will be maximized using training, manuals,
      study aids, site visits, audit and feedback. Blinded Adjudication Committees will adjudicate
      endpoints. PROTECT will be conducted by the Canadian Critical Care Trials Group and overseen
      by an independent DSMB.

      Relevance: The results of PROTECT will be used to develop evidence based practice guidelines
      regarding the safety and efficacy of LMWH (dalteparin) vs UFH for thromboprophylaxis in
      medical-surgical ICU patients around the world.
    
  