
    
      Rationale:

      As most cancers, ovarian cancer also spreads to regional lymph nodes. The concept of sentinel
      lymph node surgery is to see whether the cancer has spread to the very first lymph node or
      sentinel node (SN). If the SN does not contain cancer, then there is a high likelihood that
      the cancer has not spread to other lymph nodes. This means that, at least theoretically, a
      radical lymphadenectomy could be omitted and thus the associated morbidity. The SN technique
      has been proven to be effective in other cancers such as breast cancer and malignant
      melanoma. In the gynaecological field it has been shown to be effective in vulvar cancer.
      Recently the investigators have shown that the SN procedure performed through the injection
      of tracers into the ovarian ligaments is feasible and promising in patients with clinical
      early stage ovarian cancer (OC). Injection of radioactive tracers resulted in the
      identification of SNs in all 21 patients. Before a multicentre prospective trial can be
      initiated, still some questions have to be answered.

      Objectives:

        1. To determine whether or not a SN procedure in patients with OC is feasible through
           injection of the tracers in the ovarian ligaments, when the ovarian tumour has already
           been resected

             1. during the same surgical procedure (ovarian tumour resected for frozen section with
                a malignancy as result)

             2. during a second surgical procedure to complete the staging procedure (by laparotomy
                or laparoscopy), which becomes actual when a previously resected apparently benign
                ovarian tumour appears to be malignant at definite pathology.

        2. To determine if blue colorization of the sentinel nodes after injection of blue dye is
           related to the time-interval between injection and retroperitoneal exploration?

        3. To determine if the technique becomes more accurate by using a mobile gamma-camera
           guidance during the surgical procedure.

      Study design: phase I feasibility study.

      Study population: the following patients will be included:

        -  Patients with a high suspicion of an ovarian malignancy in whom a median laparotomy and
           a frozen section analysis is planned.

        -  Patients in whom previously an adnexal mass has been removed which appeared to be
           malignant, in whom a surgical staging procedure is planned.

      Intervention (if applicable): Injection of blue dye and the radioactive-colloid in the
      ligamentum ovarium proprium and the ligamentum infundibulo-pelvicum. This will be done on the
      side of (suspected) malignancy.

      Main study parameter:

      Percentage of patients in whom it is feasible to identify SN's in case the malignant ovarian
      mass has already been resected.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: in case the tracer is injected with the adnexal mass still in situ, the surgery
      is prolonged at maximum with 20-25 minutes due to the required incubation time after
      injection of the blue dye and radioactive isotope. A scintigram will be performed 24 hours
      after the surgery to determine whether residual radioactive lymph nodes can be detected. The
      scintigram will only be performed if the patient is capable to be transported to the nuclear
      department. No extra blood samples will be taken, no extra visits, physical examinations or
      other tests are necessary. There is no risk of tumour dissemination by injecting the tracers
      in the ovarian ligaments. There is a 0.07 to 2.7% risk of an allergic reaction to the blue
      dye. The dose of radioactive isotope given does not give adverse side effects, either to the
      patients or the personnel present in the operating theatre.
    
  