
    
      Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a syndrome characterized by a distorted body image and morbid fear
      of obesity. Restrictive eating and compensatory behavior in the form of excessive exercising
      or vomiting result in malnutrition. Repeated revisions of the diagnostic criteria in recent
      decades have by definition resulted in an increase in prevalence. The disease has the highest
      mortality among all psychiatric disorders. The majority of deaths is related to malnutrition
      and its consequences. There is no effective evidence-based treatment. At least 25% remain
      chronically undernourished and have a long course with prolonged hospitalizations in both
      psychiatric and medical units, social psychiatric institutions and - support, early
      retirement and premature death. The etiology remains unknown and it is unclear which of the
      psychological symptoms that are a consequence of malnutrition, and which ones are premorbid
      or comorbid.

      Depression and anxiety are co-existing and familiar features of patients with AN and can
      occur in such a degree that it is termed comorbidity. Antidepressant therapy has not shown to
      have any therapeutic effect of AN. Varying degrees of cognitive impairment are also well
      known feature of the AN, but in the literature it is only scanty investigated and
      psychometric analyzed.

      In the early stage of the disease, starvation and weight loss can be interpreted as a coping
      strategy that relieves anxiety and depressive symptoms. If this coping strategy works, then
      the effect may decreases in line with the severity of malnutrition. There is almost a
      clinical consensus that depression / anxiety and cognitive impairment in AN is sequelae to
      malnutrition. But, it is a consensus that rely mainly on experimental studies of healthy
      subjects back in the postwar years observations from famine and from food programs in the 3rd
      World. Knowledge of the relationship between psychopathology and malnutrition in AN is still
      limited to a few and small studies with contradictory conclusions. In a recent study of
      hospitalized patients, no correlations between body mass index (BMI) and selected
      psychometric variables could be detected, with the essential limitation that it was a
      cross-sectional study of a population of patients with a narrow BMI range. To our knowledge,
      only one longitudinal study on changes in BMI and depressive symptoms have been published. In
      that study, mean weight gain was a significant predictor of reduced score in several of the
      "specific" eating disorder symptoms, such as concerns about diet, while weight gain was not a
      predictor of concern about body nor for depressive symptoms. To our knowledge, no
      longitudinal re-nutrition studies of the relationship between weight gain and anxiety or
      cognitive functions has been published.

      A consequence of starvation stress is that all the endocrine axes are altered in AN, leading
      to protein- and energy preserving adaptation. Thus, in particular, increased levels of
      cortisol is well described in both AN and in patients with primary affective disorders.
      Depression/anxiety and cognitive impairment is also a well-described side effect of
      pharmacological treatment with corticosteroids and is well-known symptoms in excess
      endogenous cortisol production (mb. Cushing). Moreover, neuroanatomical animal studies
      indicate that cortisol per se has neurotoxic properties and may play a pathogenic role in
      affective disorders and anxiety. There is preliminary experimental evidence that
      pharmacological cortisol synthesis inhibition may have therapeutic efficacy in depression.
      However, so far this is not investigated in AN. In one study, it was found that cortisol
      levels correlated positively with anxiety and depression.

      Center for Eating Disorders at Odense University Hospital is one of three highly specialized
      national centers in Denmark. Within the center, there is a formalized collaboration between
      the psychiatric and somatic units. Patients with life-threatening weight loss are primarily
      hospitalized in the Nutrition section for somatic stabilization and weight gain typically,
      10-40%, and then either transferred to the psychiatric department or discharged for two-track
      psychiatric / somatic outpatient treatment. The Nutrition section receives severely ill
      patients from the nation. The median BMI of 84 admissions in year 2013 was 13.8 (the range
      7.8 - 25.8). Internationally, there are only few somatic units of similar specialization and
      patient volume, which constitute the basis for studying the effect of intensive re-nutrition
      per se. The center's organization and patient population is described in several
      observational and intervention studies.

      International and national guidelines recommend that treatment of AN should be
      interdisciplinary and double-track psychiatric - somatic. But, it is not clear how far and
      how fast nutritional rehabilitation may have beneficial effects on depression, anxiety and
      cognitive impairment in patients with severe AN.
    
  