
    
      Targeted, effective behavioral interventions are critically needed to ameliorate the
      disproportionate prevalence of poor cardiometabolic health for African-American women. We
      propose a sequential, multiple-assignment, randomized trial targeting physical activity (PA)
      among at-risk African-American women in resource-limited, Washington, D.C. communities using
      mobile health (mHealth) technology. We hypothesize that by beginning a community-based,
      adaptive PA intervention with remote coaching tailored to neighborhood environment PA
      resources, we will see greater increases in PA levels as compared to standard remote
      coaching. In Aim 1, we will determine if beginning an adaptive intervention with remote
      coaching tailored to neighborhood environment resources and delivered using mHealth
      technology (wearables and mobile applications) will lead to a greater PA increase (as
      measured by steps per day) as compared to standard remote coaching. In Aim 2, we will examine
      which of four embedded adaptive interventions produce the largest PA increase over the
      six-month study period. In Aim 3, we will evaluate the feasibility of remote capture of
      cardiometabolic measures, including blood pressure, weight, and glucose, using mHealth
      technology. We will also examine intervention effects on cardiometabolic health (adiposity,
      blood pressure, fasting lipids/glucose, self-reported PA, dietary intake, cigarette smoking).
      In Aim 4, we will characterize effects of increasing PA on integrated serologic
      cytokine/chemokine and lipid inflammatory intermediates to identify potential novel
      inflammatory pathways linked to cardiometabolic risk phenotypes most responsive to the
      multi-level, community-based PA intervention. We will also determine the feasibility of
      measuring behavioral and psychosocial mediating factors of the relationship between PA change
      and cardiometabolic health in this intervention, including chronic
      psychological/environmental stress and sedentary behavior/sleep. This project provides
      fundamental knowledge towards the development of tailored, effective behavioral interventions
      incorporating mHealth technology to promote health among populations most impacted by health
      disparities.
    
  