
    
      Protocol Overview: Subjects will be recruited from the greater Washington D.C. metro area.
      Individuals interested in participating as subjects will complete initial verbal screening to
      determine eligibility for inclusion. Those subjects who volunteer to participate will then be
      consented and enrolled for participation if exclusion and inclusion criteria are met.

      Visit 1: (~120 minutes) Subjects will fill out a medical history form. Height and weight
      measurements will then be taken. The Hoehn and Yahr, Mini-Mental State Exam, Fatigue Severity
      Scale (FSS), Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire (PAR-Q), and Physical Activity Scale
      in the Elderly (PASE) will then be administered. Subjects will first perform the 10-meter
      walk test. Subjects will be asked by researchers to walk 10 meters across a pressure
      sensitive walkway, 5 times at both comfortable speed and fast speed. After the 10-meter walk
      test, subjects will be given a 10-20 minute resting period before the second test. Subjects
      performing the 10-minute walk test will be fitted with a portable metabolic unit consisting
      of a face mask and torso apparatus. Wearable sensors will be secured to both arms, trunk, and
      legs. Before the test, subjects will stand in a resting position for at least 3 minutes to
      gain resting metabolic data. The subjects will then be asked to walk as far as they (the
      subjects) can in 10 minutes. Following the 10-minute walking period, subjects will again
      stand in a resting position to obtain recovery data. Subjects will then be given a 10-20
      minute resting period during the transition to the third test. For the third test, subjects
      will be fitted with reflective markers at pre-specified anatomical landmarks used in a
      standardized gait marker set, for example medial and lateral knee and ankle joints.
      Electromyography (EMG) sensors will be placed on lower limb muscles. Subjects will then be
      asked to walk at both their preferred and fast walking speed over a 6 meter platform with
      embedded force plates. Subjects will be asked to perform as many trials as necessary to
      collect sufficient force plate data. After this test, subjects will be given the opportunity
      for a rest period if required before ending the testing day. For those subjects who start
      with the gait propulsion test, the testing order will include the same procedures yet in the
      reversed order.

      Visit 2: (~90 minutes) Researchers will measure adipose tissue thickness over the calf muscle
      on the more affected leg (as indicated by the subject) using standard calipers. Subjects will
      then undergo a vascular occlusion test while resting in a semi-recumbent position. To perform
      this test investigators will place a large blood pressure cuff on the thigh and will place a
      NIRS optode on the calf muscle. Investigators will then inflate the cuff to 220mmHg to
      occlude blood flow to the lower leg. After a 5 minute period of occlusion the cuff pressure
      will be released and recovery NIRS data will be obtained. Subjects will then perform the CWRT
      Subjects will be fitted with 12-lead ECG and ICG sensors, will wear a face mask to collect
      metabolic data, and will be asked to perform the CWRT. Before the CWRT, subjects will rest
      for a minimum of 2 minutes in a standing position on a treadmill. During the CWRT subjects
      will be asked to walk at a constant speed for 6 minutes and 30 minutes with an 8 minute rest
      period between bouts. After the CWRT subjects will be asked to rest in a standing position to
      obtain recovery data. After this test, subjects will be given the opportunity to rest for a
      period if required before ending the testing day.

      Visits 3-26: (~1 hour each) For these visits, subjects will perform an overground multimodal
      locomotor training protocol. Subjects will train individually with 1-2 trained instructors.
      Subjects will wear a Polar chest strap and a research grade pedometer during each session to
      enable instructors to modify training within the session to maintain a target intensity zone.
      The training protocol covers 12 weeks with two sessions per week for a total of 24 sessions.

      Visit 27 (~90 minutes): Subjects will repeat the same testing procedures as they did in visit
      1 in the same order as they did, determined by the initial randomization process.

      Visit 28 (~90 minutes): Subjects will repeat the same testing procedures as they did in visit
      2.

      Study Procedures:

      10-Meter Walk Test: The purpose of this test is to measure spatiotemporal variables related
      to walking at different speeds. Subjects will complete 10 repetitions of an over-ground
      10-meter walk test on an instrumented pressure sensitive walkway. 5 repetitions will be
      performed at both comfortable and fast walking speeds.

      10-Minute Walk Test (10MWT): The purpose of this test is to provide a method of perturbation
      for measuring both performance and perceived fatigability. Subjects will wear a fitted face
      mask and a torso unit as part of a portable metabolic unit. Wearable sensors will be secured
      on the torso, upper and lower limbs to measure gait characteristics. Subjects will rest in a
      standing position for at least 3 minutes prior to beginning this test to collect baseline
      data. Subjects will then walk as far as they can over a 10-minute interval or until they have
      to stop walking. Distance covered will be recorded at at 2.5-minute intervals throughout the
      test and at the end of the time walked if not the full 10 minutes. Velocity will be computed
      from the distances covered at the time intervals (meters/sec). The 10-minute walk test will
      be performed during the pre-intervention testing visit and post-intervention testing visit.
      Following the 10-minute walk period (or total time if ended early) subjects will rest in the
      standing position to obtain recovery data for at least 6 minutes.

      Gait Propulsion Testing: Subjects will be outfitted with reflective markers comprised of a
      standardized full-body marker set for motion capture analysis. EMG sensors will be placed on
      muscle bellies of lower limb muscles. To establish the maximum voluntary contraction,
      subjects will be asked to contract muscles against resistance. Subjects will be asked to
      stand for system calibration for less than one minute and may be asked to move various limbs
      through a range of motion to ensure accuracy of the system prior to starting the test.
      Subjects will then be asked to walk across a 6-meter platform with embedded force plates
      enclosed by safety rails at their preferred and fast walking speed. Subjects will perform
      approximately 20-30 passes to ensure sufficient data collection by the force plates as
      appropriate contact with the force plate must be made for valid measurement. Once sufficient
      data has been collected, markers and sensors will be removed and the subject will be offered
      a seated rest period if needed.

      Vascular Occlusion Test: During occlusion testing subjects will be seated in a semi-recumbent
      position on a plinth. A large blood pressure cuff will be fitted around the upper thigh with
      velcro straps to secure it in place. The cuff will be rapidly inflated in less than 5 seconds
      to above 220mmHg to restrict arterial and venous blood flow. The leg will be occluded for 5
      minutes. The cuff pressure will then be released in less than 5 seconds and recovery
      variables will be recorded for an additional minimum of 3 minutes.

      Constant Work Rate Treadmill Test (CWRT): During the CWRT subjects will be fitted with NIRS,
      Physioflow, and cardiopulmonary gas exchange devices to capture the cardiorespiratory
      measures. First, subjects will rest in a standing position for a minimum of 2 minutes.
      Second, treadmill will transition to the subjects' comfortable walking speed (average speed
      from the 10-meter walk test at comfortable speed). Third, after 6 minutes of continuous the
      treadmill will stop and subjects will rest for 8-minutes in a standing position. Fourth,
      after 8-minutes rest, the treadmill will transition to the subjects' comfortable walking
      speed and subjects will walk for a maximum of 30-minutes or until volitional exhaustion.
      Finally, subjects will recover for 10 minutes in a standing position. The speed used in the
      pre-test will be the same during the post-test

      Multimodal Exercise Intervention: The intent of the multimodal training intervention is to
      encompass cardiovascular adaptations and locomotor improvements. To promote cardiovascular
      adaptation, training sessions will be adjusted in real-time to achieve a pre-determined
      target heart rate (HR) zone for each subject. HR will be monitored continuously during each
      training session. The target HR intensity during training sessions will be 60% of the
      subjects predicted maximal HR. The target HR zone will be 60% of predicated maximal HR +/-
      5%. The subjects predicted maximal HR will be calculated using the formula: 220-age. Training
      procedures will include drills based on gait initiation and termination, agility, muscular
      power, and steady state actions. Drills will be conducted with an emphasis on direction
      change beyond usual forward progression. As subjects become familiar with the various drills,
      instructors will gradually increase the complexity, speed, and volume.

      Propulsion Measures: For this study, propulsion will be defined by anterior peak positive
      ground reaction force (GRF) during overground walking. The force plates measure the GRF in
      response to the force placed upon it by the subject. In conjunction with motion capture
      analysis, the propulsive phase of gait can be determined and within that phase the anterior
      peak vector will be calculated. Peak propulsive force will be determined as the maxima (one
      point) of the anterior GRF.

      Performance Fatigability Test Scoring: Performance fatigability is the rate or extent to
      which tissue, organ, system or total body function (fatigue) declines in response to a given
      task. After a 10-minute period of quiet rest in the sitting position, subjects will complete
      the 10-minute walk test. Distance covered will be recorded at the 2.5-minute interval of the
      test and for the total test. Velocities for the entire test (total distance walked / total
      minutes of test) and the first 2.5 minutes of the test (distance covered in the first 2.5
      minutes / 2.5 minutes) will be calculated. The fractional change in velocity will then be
      computed as the quotient of total test velocity / 2.5 minute velocity. For example if the
      total test velocity and the 2.5-minute velocity were both 82 meters/minute, the total test
      velocity would be 100% of the velocity at 2.5 minutes. However, if the total test velocity
      were 80 meters/min and the velocity at 2.5 minutes were 82 meters/minute, then the total test
      velocity would be only .98 of the 2.5-minute velocity. To calculate the performance
      fatigability score, the fractional change in velocity will be divided by the distance
      covered. Thus any 2 subjects could have similar change in velocity scores (for example 0.5)
      but different total distances (100 versus 200 meters). In this case the performance
      fatigability score for the first subject would be 0.5/100 = 0.005 versus .5/200 = 0.0025.
      Scores are multiplied by 1000 to facilitate reporting. A small score indicates lower
      fatigability. Thus, even though the fractional change in velocity was similar for the 2
      hypothetical subjects above, fatigability was less in the second subject as demonstrated by a
      lower performance fatigability score.

      Perceived Fatigability Test Scoring: Perceived fatigability is the rate or magnitude of
      change in feelings of tiredness or weariness (symptoms of fatigue or perceived fatigue) in
      response to a given task. After the initial 10-minute sitting rest period, subjects will rate
      their perception of fatigue or vigor using the left side of the Fatigue and Fatigability
      Scale. Following the 10-minute walk test, subjects will be asked "compared to when you (the
      subject) started, how would you (the subject) rate your (the subject's) level of tiredness
      now" using the right side of the scale. The left side is considered a measure of fatigue
      because a change in fatigue was not assessed. The right side is considered to be a rating of
      fatigability because it assesses the change in tiredness. The score for the change in
      tiredness is then normalized to the total distance covered to calculate the perceived
      fatigability score: perceived fatigability = (change in tiredness / total distance walked) x
      100 (multiplied by 100 to facilitate reporting and comparison).

      Cardiopulmonary Gas Exchange Analyses: Gas exchange during the 10MWT will be collected using
      a wearable metabolic unit. The unit is calibrated prior to each test.

      Cardiorespiratory Response to Treadmill Walking: Cardiorespiratory response during treadmill
      walking will be measured using NIRS, ICG, ECG, and pulmonary gas exchange devices. All
      measures are calibrated prior to each test.

      Self-Reported Exertion During Treadmill Walking: During the CWRT subjects will be asked to
      rate their level of exertion using a Borg Scale.

      Resting Skeletal Muscle Oxygenation and Hemodynamics: NIRS measurements of skeletal muscle
      oxygenation and hemodynamics will be recorded during the vascular occlusion test.

      Motion capture system: Infrared cameras will capture movements of reflective markers worn by
      subjects within the volume. Reflective markers will be placed about the subject according to
      a predetermined full body gait marker model.

      EMG sensors for measurement of muscle activity: EMG Electrodes are secured to the subject's
      skin over the muscle belly of interest. The sensor and electrode are covered with tape to
      minimize movement artifacts.

      Force plates for GRF measurement: 4 force-plates are embedded in a 6 meter walkway. The
      force-plates measure x, y and z axes of the force and moment components, with the output
      signal fed into an amplifier.

      Wearable sensors for measurement of gait characteristics: Wearable sensors contain
      accelerometers, gyroscopes, and magnetometers. Measurements are collected on the x, y, and z
      axes at a sample rate of 128 Hz. These sensors are attached to the preselected locations on
      the subject's body. This data is either wirelessly streamed via an access point and/or logged
      and stored in the sensor. Participants will also wear a step counter during each training
      sessions to record the total number of steps taken

      Questionnaire:

      Medical History Form: Subjects will fill out the medical history form on visit 1.

      Testing/Forms:

      Hoehn and Yahr: The Hoehn and Yahr scale (HY) is a widely used clinical rating scale, which
      defines broad categories of motor function in Parkinson's disease. This test will be
      administered by the researchers on visit 1.

      Standardized Mini-mental State Exam: This test will be administered by researchers on visit 1
      and is a 12-point questionnaire that addresses cognitive function.

      Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS): This test will be administered by researchers on visit 1 and is
      a 9-item scale that measures the impact of fatigue on a person's activities and lifestyle.

      Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire (PAR-Q): This test will be administered by
      researchers on visit 1 and is a brief survey designed to screen individuals for potential
      contraindications for exercise participation.

      Physical Activity Scale in the Elderly (PASE): This test will be administered by researchers
      on visit 1 and is a brief survey designed to assess physical activity in older individuals.
    
  