
    
      An international multicentric retrospective collection of cases was performed between 2005
      and 2017. A global e-mailing to a network of thoracic oncology centers in France and Italy
      called for the selection of retrospective cases. Consecutive non small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC) patients with stage III or IV EGFR NSCLC with or without initial EGFR mutation with a
      secondary transformation to small cell lung cancer (SCLC) in participating centers in France
      and Italy were included. Patients with a previous history of SCLC or neuroendocrine tumor of
      the lung were excluded as well as patients with combined Small cell/ Non-small cell lung
      cancer on the initial pathology sample.

      Study ethics approval was obtained on December 8th of 2015 (CECIC Rhône-Alpes-Auvergne,
      Clermont-Ferrand, IRB 5891). Anonymized data were collected at each center then centrally
      analyzed at the Albert Bonniot Institute, Inserm U 823, Grenoble Alpes University, in
      Grenoble, France.

      The primary objective of this study was to analyze survival data after transformation to
      SCLC. The secondary objectives were to define: the epidemiological characteristics at the
      time of diagnosis of NSCLC, the histomolecular characteristics at the time of diagnosis of
      NSCLC and at the time of diagnosis of SCLC; the clinical characteristics at the time of
      diagnosis of NSCLC and SCLC and the treatment characteristics before and after transformation
      from NSCLC to SCLC.

      All identified cases will be analyzed. This concerns about sixty two patients because the
      transformation into small cell lung cancer is a rare mechanism of resistance, it is for this
      reason that all the cases will be included in order to obtain the most exhaustive data
      possible.

      Continuous variables were described as median (25%-75% interquartile range [IQR]) and
      categorical variables as number (%). Associations between categorical variables were compared
      using the chi-2 test or Fisher's exact test and those between continuous variables using the
      Wilcoxon test. Patients were followed until November of 2017. Overall survival (OS) is the
      time from the initial diagnosis of lung cancer to death and survival after SCLC
      transformation is from the rebiopsy to death. Kaplan-Meier plots of survival curves were
      compared between groups using the log-rank test. All tests were two-sided, and P values <0.05
      were considered statistically significant. All statistical analyses were performed using SAS
      9.3 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC, USA).
    
  