
    
      This study will utilize a multi-arm parallel, double-blind (i.e., assessors blind to the
      condition, and participants recruited in the study), randomized efficacy designed to analyze
      the effects of soft tissue therapy and multisensory stimulation on pain and
      neurodevelopmental maturity. The design complies with the requirements of CONSORT
      guidelines.The study will be conducted in at Neonatal intensive care units, Department of
      Pediatrics of a tertiary care teaching hospital. Neonatal procedural pain and
      nurodevelopmental maturity will be assessed before and after the five days of intervention.
      Procedural pain is the primary outcome measure, and will be assessed with COMFORT Behaviour
      scale. Neurodevelopment maturity is the secondary outcome measure, and will be assessed with
      New Ballard score. The measurements will be taken after 24 hours of birth at the baseline and
      on sixth day of follow-up. The randomization scheme will be based on a permuted block
      randomization procedure, as it is an gold standard method for allocation participants and
      prevents selection bias in multi-arm parallel treatment groups.The study will follow double
      blinding i.e. Participants and outcome assesors will be blinded. The treatment will be given
      into four groups i.e. Group A (Mulltisensory stimulation and soft tissue therapy group),
      Group B (Multisensorystimulation group), Group C (Soft tissue therapy group), Group D
      (routine hospital care). Multisenory stimulation conmbined with soft tissue therapy will be
      given. The following multisensory stimulation will be provided: Tactile stimulation by gentle
      stroking in a sequence of chest, upper and lower extremities, back and neck for 3 min.
      Kinaesthetic stimulation will be given in supine position, consisted of passive range of
      motion exercises (Flexion and exercises) of both the upper and lower limb extremities for 3
      min. Vestibular exercises will be given as a horizontal and vertical rocking for 3 min. Oral
      stimualtion will be given by gentle stroking over the cheeks, lips, gums, soft palate,
      tongue, and jaw with index and little finger for 3 min. Visual stimualtion will be given
      black and white visual stimulation card at a distance of 8-10 min. from the neonate for 3
      min., and Auditory stimulation will be given by soft lullaby provided by mother for 3 min.
      The session will be given once in a day for 5 days in a week.

      Soft tissue therapy will be given in face, chest, upper and lower extremities, back and neck
      of the neonate, consist of stroking, effleurage, fingertip kneading, tapping, and skin
      rolling. The session will be given for 5 days, 30 min. session once a day.
    
  