
    
      Stroke is the second leading cause of death worldwide and it is well known that atrial
      fibrillation(AF) is a major risk factor for ischemic stroke. Paroxysmal AF can be difficult
      to detect because many cases are asymptomatic. In recent years prolonged cardiac rhythm
      monitoring of patients with ischemic stroke has showed an underestimated prevalence of AF.
      However, no optimal monitoring strategy is implemented in the clinic yet. This is the reason
      why research currently is focused on finding predictive risk markers of AF. Cohort studies of
      healthy individuals and stroke patients have shown that excessive premature atrial complexes
      (PACs) and brief runs of PACs are an emerging risk marker in helping to identifying patients
      in risk of having or developing AF. Despite this brief runs of PACs less than 30 s are today
      in everyday clinical practice perceived to be of no clinical significance.

      The study population of ischemic stroke patients have all without known AF underwent ECG and
      48 hours' inpatient cardiac telemetry as a clinical routine. In the medical record it is
      registered if patients had runs of PACs or new diagnosed AF.

      All patients are registered in the Danish Stroke Registry, and all the baseline data on
      patients will be obtained from the registry.

      The follow-up end August 2015 and information on AF, recurrent stroke and death will be
      obtained from medical records and the Funen Patient Administrative System, which is linked to
      the national Civil Registration System.

      The purpose of this study is to estimate the clinical relevance of monitoring patients with
      acute ischemic stroke with 48 hours' inpatient cardiac telemetry in relation to evaluate the
      presence of brief runs of PACs and new diagnosed AF. Furthermore to evaluate the prognostic
      significance of brief runs of PACs in relation to develop AF and the prognostic significance
      of brief runs of PACs and AF in relation to recurrent stroke and death.
    
  