
    
      NV AMD remains the leading cause of vision loss among people over 65. Intravitreal injections
      with drugs that block vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a major protein mediator of
      angiogenesis and vascular leakage, have revolutionized treatment of NV AMD. However, less
      than 40% of treated patients have clinically significant improvement in vision. Further, in
      spite of continuous monthly anti-VEGF therapy, up to 40-50% of patients demonstrate
      persistent disease activity (PDA), defined as (1) unresolved intraretinal, subretinal, or
      sub-retinal pigment epithelium fluid; (2) progressive lesion enlargement and fibrosis; and/or
      (3) persistent or new hemorrhage, assessed after either loading dose therapy or after
      sustained treatment with anti-VEGF. Since affected patients are at increased risk for
      long-term vision loss, PDA remains a vital clinical unmet need.

      Verteporfin PDT (Visudyne®, Bausch+Lomb) was approved over 10 years ago by the FDA for
      treatment of NV AMD, prior to the advent of anti-VEGF therapy. As a monotherapy, PDT is much
      less effective than anti-VEGF therapy in improving vision for NV AMD patients. Furthermore,
      in general, PDT in combination with anti-VEGF therapy does not offer benefit over anti-VEGF
      therapy alone, when assessed among previously treatment-naïve NV AMD patients. However, it is
      unknown whether adjunctive PDT may be effective for the treatment of PDA. The investigators
      have performed several retrospective studies of PDA and adjunctive PDT among NV AMD patients
      in the Duke Medical Retina practice. Preliminary results indicate that moderate to severe PDA
      occurs in over 40% of NV AMD patients, and that adjunctive verteporfin PDT may be effective
      in improving PDA and vision for affected patients.

      The present study will assess potential clinical benefits of adjunctive PDT for NV AMD
      patients with PDA in spite of anti-VEGF therapy in a prospective observational clinical case
      series.
    
  