
    
      The primary objective of this clinical study is to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of
      giving pramlintide and insulin in the same multi-port injection device (I-PORT™). Efficacy
      was measured by HbA1c values taken at baseline and the final visit

      The secondary objective of this study is to measure patient satisfaction, opinions and
      attitudes toward using the I-PORT™ for insulin and pramlintide administration compared to
      standard insulin and pramlintide injections. The secondary safety and efficacy evaluations
      included weight, Glycomark, 7-point SMBG evaluations, CGMS evaluations, incidence of glucose
      values > 300 mg/dl, incidence of glucose values < 70 mg/dl, and insulin dose before the study
      period, at month 1, 2 and 3.

      The primary patient satisfaction evaluations included Quality of Life Questionnaire and
      treatment satisfaction questionnaires.

      The I-PORT™ is a disposable, low profile injection port through which insulin is injected
      subcutaneously from a standard syringe or insulin pen.(Figure 1) The I-PORT™ allows multiple
      insulin injections for up to 72 hours. Once the device is applied, the insertion needle is
      removed and the cannula remains underneath the skin, serving as a delivery channel into the
      SQ tissue- one skin puncture every three days. To use the device, the subject places the
      needle on an injection device, such as a syringe or insulin pen, through the re-sealable
      septum at the top of the I-PORT™ and injects medication directly into the delivery channel.

      Study participants included male and females ages 18 and older who were utilizing a regimen
      of at least two injections daily of rapid acting insulin and at least two injections daily of
      pramlintide (Symlin®) with an HbA1c between >6.5 and < 9.0%.

      There were 39 patients screened for the study and 8 screen failures leaving 31 subjects ages
      18 and older, diagnosed with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus for a minimum of six months.
      1 patient dropped out of the study due to an AE and 30 completed the study.

      A Randomized, Open-Label, Parallel, Single Center, Comparison Study. Approximately 13
      patients with type 1 diabetes and 18 patients with type 2 diabetes were randomized into one
      of two treatment groups. The randomization was stratified within diabetes type (1 vs. 2) and
      low (6.5-7.5) vs. high (7.6-9.0) HbA1c level. The randomization process was executed using a
      computer generated randomization table.

      Subject Groups:

        -  Group 1- Study subjects administered insulin and pramlintide using standard injection
           therapy during the entire duration of the trial

        -  Group 2- Study subjects administered insulin and pramlintide via a single I-PORT™ for
           the entire duration of the trial

      This study consisted of 8 visits: Screening/Visit 1, Visit 1a (Day -3), Visit 2 (Baseline/Day
      0), Visit 3(Day 14), Visit 4(Month 1), Visit 5(Month 2), Visit 5a (Day 81) Visit 6(Month 3).

      Subjects participating in this protocol were asked to take their rapid acting insulin
      preparations and Pramlintide (Symlin®) at the same time using the dose called for by their
      prescribed regimen established prior to study entry. Subjects used their usual type of
      insulin preparations obtained by prescription from the commercial pharmacy system. Subjects
      randomized into Group 2 were given guided instruction on the proper technique of insertion,
      use and removal of the I-PORT™.

      I-PORT™ devices were provided to the subjects and dispensed throughout the trial. Pramlintide
      (Symlin) was supplied by Amylin Pharmaceuticals.

      Patients performed a 7 point SMBG test 3-5 days at baseline and all subjects were instructed
      on use of a Continuous Glucose Monitoring System (Medtronic iPro). The sensor was inserted
      for 3-day wear at baseline and blood samples for HbA1c and Glycomark testing were obtained.
      All subjects completed treatment satisfaction and QoL questionnaires. Each subject was
      randomized to one of two possible treatment groups.

      At each visit, subject diaries were reviewed, weight measurement and a site insertion exam
      were performed. AEs and concomitant medications were reviewed at each visit.

      Patients were asked to do a 7 point SMBG test 3-5 days prior to visit 3,4,5, and 5a. At visit
      5a subjects were again instructed on use of a CGMS and a sensor was inserted for 3-day wear.

      At the final visit (visit 6), the CGMS was removed and treatment satisfaction and QoL
      questionnaires were completed by all subjects, and blood samples were taken for HbA1c and
      Glycomark testing.

      Patients were instructed to contact the site if they had 2 glucoses in a row > 300 mg/dl or 2
      glucoses in a row of <70 mg/dl. Insulin and/or Pramlintide (Symlin®) were adjusted by PI as
      needed throughout the trial. Discontinuation of I-PORT™ use was at the discretion of the PI
      as a rescue measure.

      The following QoL questionnaires/ Treatment satisfaction questionnaires were obtained from
      patients at screening and at the final visit: DSTQ, DSTQ-c, DDS, TSQ,I-PORT™ Device Benefits,
      Insulin/Symlin Satisfaction Questionnaire, I-PORT™ Device Management, General Diabetes
      Management, I-PORT™ Device Satisfaction
    
  