
    
      Poor inhibitory control has been proposed to be central to the cognitive deficits and
      symptomatology associated with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). ADHD is a
      highly heritable disorder with an increased incidence among the siblings of affected
      individuals. Although studies investigating candidate genes are underway, as yet it remains
      unclear via which mechanisms the presence of risk genes leads to symptomatology. There is
      evidence to suggest that individuals at increased genetic risk display some of the cognitive
      deficits associated with the disorder. In particular poor inhibitory control has been put
      forward as a potential marker for familial ADHD. Neuroimaging techniques now make it possible
      to investigate the neural substrate of cognitive deficits associated with psychiatric
      disorders. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been used to demonstrate that the neural
      substrate of cognitive brain function is affected in ADHD. Using a task that taxes inhibitory
      systems at varying levels of task demands, we demonstrated that increased susceptibility to
      interference in children with ADHD is paralleled by differences in brain activation, with
      these children displaying a relative lack of fronto-striatal activation. In a recent study,
      we demonstrated that the unaffected siblings of patients with ADHD show cortical volumetric
      deficits, similar to patients themselves. This suggests that individuals at increased risk
      for ADHD share some of the neural basis of cognitive deficits associated with this disorder.
      In the current proposal we set out to investigate the expression of genetic susceptibility
      for ADHD in brain functioning. We will study cognitive functioning in patients with ADHD,
      their unaffected siblings and healthy matched controls focusing on cognitive control. Our
      aims are 1) to determine whether increased familial risk for ADHD is associated with
      differential patterns of brain activation compared to normally developing children, during
      the performance of tasks designed to probe cognitive functions that are compromised in ADHD
      and 2) to determine whether differential patterns of activation are similar for boys with
      ADHD and their unaffected siblings. We intend to include 30 boys with ADHD, 30 of their
      brothers without ADHD, and 30 matched normal controls in 3 studies focusing on cognitive
      control and similar cognitive functions that are compromised in ADHD. We will include 10 boys
      in each group for each study. The proposed studies will utilize variations of a parametric go
      nogo paradigm previously developed. All subjects will be asked to participate in a functional
      MR scanning session lasting up to an hour. The whole visit will last a maximum of two hours.
      There are no known risks associated with MR scanning, therefore this procedure is considered
      completely safe. By participating in a simulation prior to the scan, we will also minimize
      anxiety for the subjects. Furthermore, the study will immediately be terminated if a subject
      becomes anxious, or otherwise indicates that he no longer wishes to participate. All subjects
      will be offered a gift certificate as a token of appreciation for their effort. In addition,
      they will be reimbursed for travel expenses.
    
  