
    
      The exact mechanism by which FMT is effective is presently unknown. A recent study of 14
      patients with recurrent CDI treated with FMT35 showed decreased diversity pre-FMT with gut
      microbiota becoming more diverse and similar to donors post-FMT. This group showed
      significant changes in 3 taxonomic orders but no single organism or species was universally
      associated with success. Weingarden et al. showed that FMT restored normal bile acid
      composition in patients with recurrent CDI36, suggesting that correction of bile acid
      metabolism is likely a major mechanism by which FMT results in a cure and prevents recurrence
      of CDI. Understanding mechanisms of FMT more completely may enable development of synthetic
      microbiota-based therapeutics which would be a safe and effective alternative to traditional
      FMT. We hypothesize that early changes in distal gut microbiota post-FMT may help identify
      key species associated with efficacy. Furthermore, we believe there are measurable metabolic
      and immunologic effects which may also be beneficial after FMT. This study aims to document
      early changes in the distal gut microbiota (both fecal and mucosa-associated) post FMT.
      Furthermore, whole blood and urine samples will facilitate collaborative immunologic and
      metabolomic analyses.

      This will be an open label clinical trial of FMT to prevent further recurrence in patients
      who have suffered at least a third episode of Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) and who
      have previously been treated with oral vancomycin. Subjects will consist of 6 adult
      outpatients referred after 3 (or more) episodes of CDI. Subjects, who will have been treated
      with at least a 10 day course of anti-CDI therapy (metronidazole, vancomycin or fidaxomicin)
      for the most recent acute infection, will then receive FMT with donor stool administered at
      the time of sigmoidoscopy. After the procedure, subjects will be followed for 8 weeks for C.
      difficile recurrence. Subjects who relapse during that period will be offered a repeat FMT
      using donor stool. We plan to collect baseline and post-FMT stool samples for microbiome
      analyses as well samples of urine and blood for metabolomic and immunologic studies. Subjects
      will be contacted at 24 weeks to assess long term safety outcomes
    
  