
    
      Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) is a common post-operative complication that can result in
      significant patient morbidity, mortality and health care resource utilization to treat the
      resultant Pulmonary Embolus (PE) or Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT) events. It is the third
      leading cause of cardiovascular mortality. Due to the high burden of disease, VTE events are
      actively prevented using mechanical and/or pharmaceutical prophylaxis interventions such as
      compression stockings or a variety of anti-coagulants. Extensive literature identifies
      incidence rates and provides guidelines regarding the use of prophylaxis measures in
      orthopaedic and oncological surgery, but the literature in thoracic surgery is sparse at best
      or conflicting with reported incidence of symptomatic events ranging from 5% to 14% after
      esophagectomy. The current practice of VTE prophylaxis in thoracic surgery includes
      administration of unfractionated or low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) starting in the
      perioperative period and finishing at patient discharge, while prolonged thromboprophylaxis
      in orthopaedic surgery beyond 10 to 14 days and up to 35 days has become the standard of
      care. Such an approach has never been tested or validated in esophageal cancer patients
      despite the substantial burden and high risk of VTE events in this population. There is a
      clear need for well-designed studies aiming to define the extent of peri-operative VTE for
      esophagectomy patients and additional contributing factors associated with VTE in those high
      risk patients in order to inform best practice patterns. The investigators hypothesize that
      the incidence and clinical burden of perioperative VTE events in esophagectomy patients are
      substantial, and that VTE significantly contributes to peri-and post-operative morbidity and
      mortality. Hence, it will be beneficial to explore the true incidence of VTE events and
      evaluate the effectiveness of extended-duration, post-discharge prophylaxis for these
      patients. The investigators also hypothesize that sub-groups of esophagectomy patients will
      be at higher risk for VTE events and therefore might benefit more from extended-duration,
      post-discharge prophylaxis, and perhaps from a more aggressive in-hospital regimen.

      This prospective cohort study will involve patients undergoing major esophageal resection for
      esophageal cancer at 9 tertiary care centres across Canada, 4 centres in the USA, and 1 site
      in China. McMaster University at St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton will serve as the
      Coordinating Centre as well as a study site. Recruitment will commence at each site until 177
      patients are enrolled via consecutive convenience sampling. After undergoing esophagectomy,
      all patients will receive both a peri-operative dose followed by post-operative LMWH VTE
      prophylaxis for the remainder of their hospital stay. As per current VTE prophylaxis
      guidelines, prophylaxis will be discontinued upon hospital discharge. VTE outcomes will be
      assessed using Computed Tomography with pulmonary angiography protocol at 30 and 90 days and
      bilateral venous Doppler ultrasounds at 30, 60 and 90 days after surgery. The role of D-Dimer
      will be investigated peri-operatively up to post-operative day (POD) 3, at hospital discharge
      or POD 10 (whichever is applicable), and at each imaging follow-up visit. A future second
      phase study will be a randomized controlled trial that will evaluate the role of extended
      duration thromboprophylaxis post-discharge in reducing the incidence of VTE in this patient
      population. The proposed prospective cohort study to evaluate the incidence of VTE needs to
      be conducted first, in order to optimize patient selection and determine the sample size for
      the subsequent randomized controlled trial.
    
  