
    
      Fragile X syndrome is the most common genetically inherited cause of neurodevelopmental
      disability in humans, affecting approximately 1:2000 to 4000 live births. Affected
      individuals have significant, long-term problems with learning, and often with behavior as
      well. The disorder is caused by the presence of a greatly expanded CGG repeat within the FMR1
      gene on the long arm of the X chromosome. Abnormal methylation of this repeat, and adjacent
      areas within the FMR1 gene impedes transcription, ultimately resulting in reduced production
      of the FMR1 protein (FMRP). This protein is expressed in neurons, with particularly high
      levels of gene transcription occurring in the nucleus basalis (basal forebrain) and
      hippocampus. A recent functional imaging study from our group showed girls with fragile X to
      have greatly reduced levels of brain activation in the basal forebrain and hippocampal
      activation during a memory task. The nucleus basalis, is a cholinergic nucleus with
      widespread connections to the neocortex. It is critical to visuospatial attention in rodents
      and primates and is presumed to play a similar role in humans. The finding of decreased basal
      forebrain activation in girls with fragile X, considered in light of histological evidence
      showing high transcription levels of FMR1 in healthy nucleus basalis, suggests the
      possibility of a functional cholinergic deficit in fragile X syndrome.

      Donepezil is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor which slows the degradation of synaptic
      acetylcholine thereby increasing its availability. It is approved for the treatment of
      mild-moderate Alzheimer's disease. It has been studied in several other neurologic
      disorders--including vascular dementia, Lewy Body dementia, and Down's syndrome (with and
      without dementia)--where it has shown varying degrees of efficacy but consistently high
      degrees of safety and tolerability. The goal of the proposed study is to determine if
      enhancing cholinergic activity with donepezil has beneficial effects on behavior or cognition
      in subjects with fragile X syndrome.
    
  