
    
      Perioperative cerebral injury is a common and significant complication of patients undergoing
      cardiac surgery. 1,2 During cardiac surgery, cerebral injury can occur as a result of
      hypoperfusion, cerebral embolism, and/or inflammation. 3 These intraoperative cerebral
      injuries could manifest as postoperative neurocognitive dysfunction (e.g., impaired memory
      and attention, mood alterations), stroke, delirium, visual field deficits and coma. 4 Around
      1% to 4% of cardiac surgical patients with closed-chamber cardiac procedures are complicated
      with stroke. The incidence of stroke increases markedly to about 8% to 9% in open-chamber
      (e.g., valvular surgery) or combined/complex procedures. These patients with neurological
      injury are associated with increased postoperative mortality, prolonged intensive care unit,
      hospital stay, decreased quality of life, and decreased long-term survival. 4 Despite the
      advancement of surgical techniques and perioperative care leading to a progressive decrease
      in cardiac surgical mortality since the 1980s1,5,6, the incidence of postoperative neurologic
      complications has remained relatively unchanged. This is largely related to the lack of
      effective monitoring and intervention to detect and mitigate intraoperative cerebral injury.

      One potentially treatable cause of cerebral injury during cardiac surgery is hypoperfusion
      related infarct/ischemia. 7 Watershed, or boundary zone, are situated along border zones
      between the territories of two major cerebral arteries (e.g., the middle and posterior, or
      the anterior and middle cerebral arteries) where terminal arteriolar anastomoses exist which
      are more susceptible to hypoperfusion related infarct/ischemia. 8 These hypoperfusion related
      injuries are potentially treatable by increasing systematic blood pressure if those injuries
      are being identified early. Previous study has used electroencephalography to detect
      intraoperative brain injury at the watershed area9, but the clinical utility of
      electroencephalography is limited because of its cumbersome set-up and complex logistics. As
      such, this study aims to use a novel multichannel fNIRS to detect and monitor cerebral
      oxygenation at multiple brain regions simultaneously for adult patients undergoing during
      cardiac surgery. This study will increase the experiences of using fNIRS as a monitoring tool
      in cardiac surgery and improve the understandings to the cerebral injury pattern during
      cardiac surgery.

      Multichannel functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) is an emerging brain-imaging
      technique to measure hemodynamic changes at the cortical surface. During the acquisition of
      fNIRS data light (600-900 nm) is emitted from light sources that can pass through the skull
      and reach cortex. Photons reflected from the cortex can be detected and quantified by
      detectors placed in close proximity to the sources. Light is mainly absorbed by oxygenated
      hemoglobin and deoxygenated hemoglobin, which have distinct absorption spectra. Alterations
      in the concentrations of oxy- and deoxy-hemoglobin derived from neuronal activation can be
      quantified using two or more wavelengths. The early studies has showed that the use of two
      channels cerebral near-infrared spectroscopy can avoid profound cerebral desaturation and is
      associated with significantly fewer incidences of major organ dysfunction. 10 However, one
      major limitation of two channels NIRS is that sensor placement is currently limited to
      forehead that only the frontal lobes are being monitored. Such placement prevents monitoring
      the critical posterior watershed at the juncture of the anterior, middle, and posterior
      cerebral arteries, and results in undetected stroke despite the patients having normal
      cerebral oxygenation throughout the surgery. The lack of comprehensive cortical coverage of
      the important brain regions such as water-shed area also limit the utility of two channels
      NIRS as a research tool to assess regional cerebral flow and metabolism during cardiac
      surgery. The multichannel fNIRS offers a number of advantages for assessing surgical patients
      intraoperatively including its high temporal resolution (~100ms), low-cost and portability.
      The multichannel fNIRS allows up to 64 channels of real-time data acquisition and
      interpretation, which allows adequate spatial and temporal resolutions to assess the brain
      regions at risk intraoperatively. In this study, only 16 channels will be used to assess the
      brain oxygenation.

      The fNIRS system in this study is a class I Health Canada approved device (NIRx NIRScout
      64x32 Laser/LED 4-wavelength fNRIS system, info:https://nirx.net/nirscout). It does not heat
      up nor can it damage eyesight. This commercially available device has been used safely in
      previous studies in neonatal population at Western (WREM #: 111168, 113443) and other studies
      published in the literature. This device is approved for brain oxygenation monitoring in
      humans.

      Single site, prospective, observational study where patients undergoing cardiac surgical
      procedures will be monitored using multichannel fNIRS monitoring to assess cerebral
      oxygenation in regions of the brain that are susceptible to injury during cardiac surgery. No
      intervention will be used in this study. 40 patients total will be included in the study and
      receive this monitoring during surgery. There will be no randomization and no additional
      changes to standard of care.

      Patients who agree to participate in this study will receive brain monitoring in the form of
      multichannel fNIRS monitoring that is not standard of care. This consists of wearing the NIRS
      cap that will be positioned on the patient's head according to international operational
      guidelines and will be secured to the temporal region of the patient's forehead. The NIRS cap
      is entirely non-invasive and does not pose any additional risk to the patient. Monitoring
      will be commenced prior to the induction of anesthesia.
    
  