
    
      This study is a multi-center, randomized, open, blank-controlled, multi-stage clinical study.
      As there are no effective treatments, the project team will evaluate possible treatments
      (including but not limited to interferon α) based on actual conditions. , Lopinavir /
      ritonavir, remdesivir, single / polyclonal antibodies against coronavirus), explore the most
      effective antiviral treatment options.

      The first phase will assess the efficacy and safety of interferon alpha compared to standard
      treatment for approximately 328 hospitalized adult patients diagnosed with a new coronavirus
      infection in Wuhan.

      Patients with COVID-19 within 7 days of onset of symptoms were screened and randomly assigned
      as soon as possible after screening (within 24 hours). Patients will be allocated in a 1: 1
      ratio, receiving the interferon alpha treatment group or only the standard treatment group.
      Patients who do not meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria are only allowed to be
      re-screened once, provided that the time from symptom onset to randomization remains within 7
      days.

      This study planned to randomize approximately 328 adult subjects. It will be stratified
      according to whether the onset time is ≤ 3 days, and randomly divided into groups of 1: 1,
      receiving standard treatment or interferon alpha atomization twice a day, 1 stick (10ug) each
      time, treatment course For 10 days. Subjects and all research center staff were not blinded.

      The primary endpoint of this study was the incidence of side effects within 14 days of
      enrollment. Therefore, a 14-day visit is essential for the data needed for this endpoint.
      Every effort should be made to ensure that this study visit is completed in a timely manner.

      Out-of-hospital treatment or discharge will reach the discharge standard on the day of
      implementation and will be implemented in accordance with the Health and Medical Commission's
      "Unknown Viral Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Plan (Trial)". For patients treated outside
      the hospital or who have been discharged, final assessments are performed by phone and using
      a questionnaire (if applicable).
    
  