
    
      A key contributing factor to the initiation and escalation of substance use during early
      adolescence is affiliation with deviant peers. These affiliations often arise when socially
      isolated and rejected youth aggregate and reinforce substance use and other deviant activity
      within the group (i.e., "deviant peer clustering"). Even though the field has developed a
      number of efficacious prevention programs, few have demonstrated strong effects on deviant
      peer clustering. Further, on a national level, substance use among adolescents continues to
      be high, suggesting that a fresh approach to prevention with a renewed focus on the peer
      context is needed to create a broad, sustainable public health impact.

      Existing programs have proven difficult to disseminate with fidelity, often due to their
      complex design or the significant expenditures required for curricula, materials, and
      training. To realize broader public health benefits, an approach that integrates scientific
      knowledge across domains must be applied to develop and test programs that address root
      causes of youth substance use, are less complex and expensive to implement, are more flexible
      and adaptable to local conditions, and once established, can spread.

      This proposal represents an approach to prevention in which evolutionary theory provides a
      unifying theoretical framework, which implies that diverse problems are due to social
      environments that are unfavorable for the expression of prosocial behaviors, instead
      eliciting a variety of self-oriented or exploitative behaviors. Systematic efforts to reduce
      multiple problems among youth (e.g., substance use, risky sex, depression, academic failure,
      etc.) need to look beyond the immediate issues to the social conditions that make the entire
      range of problems more likely. Programs should focus on modifying key social environments to
      nurture prosocial behavior and minimize the toxic or stressful conditions that give rise to
      behavioral problems in youth.

      The investigators propose to integrate a few simple, flexible, and powerful prevention
      strategies that have proven value in establishing a social context conducive to positive peer
      group development. This project will apply cooperative learning and behavioral kernels to
      reduce social rejection and isolation, promote new friendships among youth from different
      social groups, and encourage greater levels of prosocial behavior. This should create a
      positive feedback loop in which the social and behavioral processes "amplify" one another to
      bring significant change to the school social context, interrupting deviant peer clustering
      and addressing a key root cause of escalations in substance use and related problem behavior.
      With this approach, the investigators anticipate a simple, straightforward implementation,
      greater sustainability, and opportunities for the program to spread through sharing of best
      practices among teachers. This project will conduct a small-scale randomized controlled trial
      involving 12 middle schools in the state of Oregon.

      Aim 1a of the project is to evaluate the main effects of the program on both prosocial
      behavior and substance use. The investigators will also examine effects on secondary
      outcomes, including delinquent and high-risk sexual behavior, teasing and harassment,
      depression, school attendance, and academic achievement. The project will include an
      assessment of program fidelity, which will be incorporated into data analyses. Aim 1b of the
      project is to explore links among peer rejection, prosocial behavior, and substance use over
      time in an attempt to determine the direction of effects, which can inform both developmental
      theory and future intervention design.

      Aim 2 will evaluate social network changes as a mediator of intervention effects. The
      investigators will use longitudinal social network analysis (RSiena) to examine a variety of
      processes as mediators of effects, including deviant peer clustering. This analyses will
      provide (1) fresh insight into the processes by which deviant peer groups form, how they
      impact substance use and related problem behavior, and the ways in which prevention programs
      may be able to counteract or interrupt these processes, (2) exploration of the social
      mechanisms by which prosocial behavior is disseminated across a network, and (3) an
      indication of whether the alteration of contextual norms in favor of prosocial behavior can
      create a clustering process driven by prosocial behavior.
    
  