
    
      Epistaxis has been reported to occur in up to 60% of general population.This condition has
      incidence peaks at ages younger than 10 years and older than 50 years. Epistaxis appears to
      occur more in males than females . In rare cases massive nasal bleeding can lead to death.

      Nasal bleeding usually responds to first aid measures such as compression.When Epistaxis
      doesn't respond to simple measures. The source of bleeding should be located and treated
      appropriately. Treatment options to be considered include topical vasoconstriction, chemical
      cautery, electrocautery, nasal packing, posterior gauze packing, use of balloon system, and
      arterial ligation or embolization. Hospital admission should be considered with patients with
      comorbid conditions or complication of blood loss.

      Nasal Hot water irrigation was first described by Guice in 1878 as an effective method of
      treating severe life-threatening epistaxis. However, the technique was already in use by
      nineteenth century obstetricians as a method of treating postpartum bleeding . In the second
      half of the twenties century, nasal packing products and the development of endoscopic sinus
      surgery almost completely replaced the irrigation technique as treatment for posterior
      epistaxis. However, Stangerup et al. (1996) have demonstrated that hot water irrigation,
      using temperatures of up to 50°C, produces vasodilation and oedema of the nasal mucosa
      without the risk of necrosis and accelerating the clotting cascade.

      Hot water irrigation had a higher success rate (55 %) in treating posterior epistaxis,
      compared with nasal packing (44 %) .Using a modified irrigation technique, was able to stop
      bleeding permanently in up to 82 %of cases of posterior epistaxis, including patients
      receiving antiplatelet agents or anticoagulants . During a follow-up period of four to 24
      months. Furthermore, successful hot water irrigation was associated with less nasal trauma,
      significantly less pain, fewer surgical procedures and avoidance of a hospital stay.
    
  