
    
      This is a community-based cluster randomized control trial aimed to investigate the impact of
      lifestyle modification (diet, physical activity, alcohol drinking and smoking) on the
      development of dementia, diabetes, chronic kidney disease, cancers, chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease and cardiovascular disease in an intermediate risk population in mixed
      urban-rural areas of Ubon Ratchathani.

      Objectives:

        1. examine the impact of lifestyle modification on the development of dementia, diabetes,
           chronic kidney disease, cancers, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and
           cardiovascular disease in an intermediate risk population in Ubon Ratchathani

        2. examine the economic impact of lifestyle modification on prevention of dementia,
           diabetes, chronic kidney disease, cancers, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and
           cardiovascular disease in an intermediate risk population in Ubon Ratchathani

      Study design: community-based cluster randomized control trial

      Setting: 60 villages randomly selected from mixed urban-rural areas in 15 districts of Ubon
      Ratchathani province.

      Study population: 3,600 apparently healthy men and women aged 45-75 years who have resided in
      the village selected for at least one year. 4,000 men and women will be approached and
      screened.

      Screening and baseline assessment:

      After community consent, potential participants will be informed about the details of the
      project. For those who are willing to participate, written informed consent will be given
      before carrying out all research procedures. Participants will be questioned about their
      demographic characteristics, medical and family history, health behaviours including diet,
      physical activity, alcohol drinking and smoking. Physical activity will be assess using the
      Global Physical Activity Questionnaire (GPAQ) and diet will be assessed using 24 hour food
      recall. Their cognitive function will be assessed using the Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE),
      Thai version, and clock drawing test and depression test will also be performed. Physical
      examination includes weight, height, blood pressure, waist and hip circumference as well as
      physical fitness test.

      Fasting blood samples will be collected for the following laboratory tests: Complete blood
      count, creatinine, estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), fasting plasma glucose,
      glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c), total cholesterol, triglyceride, HDL and estimated
      LDL-cholesterol, serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT), serum glutamic pyruvic
      transaminase (SGPT), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), Ca++, PO4-, urine creatinine/albumin,
      urine sodium & potassium.

      Interventions:

      Participants in 30 villages in the intervention group will be given 4x4 lifestyle
      modification intervention, which will address four health behaviors (diet, physical activity,
      alcohol drinking and smoking) at four different levels: individual, household, knowledge
      management and community levels. A new computer program called 'iActive' will be used. The
      program was adapted from the GPAQ with add-on functions to allow real-time assessment and
      presentation of the energy expenditure along with recommendations specific to each
      individual. Dietary counseling will be given individually following assessment using a new
      dietary assessment program called Dietary Assessment Scanning Calculator (DISC). Home visit
      will be done every 3 months by responsible nurses and village health volunteers in order to
      assess and give simple counseling about health behaviors. Knowledge management will be
      undertaken through meetings and forums between participants and villages with support from
      trained nurses. Situation analysis and agreed community action will be encouraged to address
      community problems concerning four health behaviors. A combination of these intensive
      interventions will be given for 3 years.

      Follow-up and outcome ascertainment:

      Participants will be followed at 1, 2, 5 and 10 years after baseline assessment for the
      development of the outcomes of interest. In each follow-up, procedures identical to baseline
      assessment will be done.

      Primary outcome: Incident dementia Incident dementia will be ascertained by a battery of
      screening test (MMSE, clock drawing and depression tests) and those with abnormal test
      results will be referred to neuro-medicine specialists at the regional hospital for further
      investigations and diagnosis.

      Secondary outcomes:

        1. Type 2 diabetes mellitus

        2. chronic kidney disease

        3. cancers

        4. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease

        5. cardiovascular disease

        6. body mass index

        7. waist circumference

        8. blood pressure

        9. Fasting plasma glucose

       10. HbA1c

       11. Lipids (total cholesterol, triglyceride, HDL and estimated LDL)

      Tertiary outcomes:

        1. MMSE scores or Cognitive decline

        2. Alzheimer's disease

        3. Physical activity levels

        4. Dietary intake

        5. prevalence of current smokers

        6. prevalence of alcohol consumption
    
  