
    
      -  Systemic sclerosis (scleroderma) is a disease of unknown etiology characterized by
           fibrosis of the skin and internal organs, pronounced vasculopathy, and dysregulated
           immune system.

        -  Clinically, the disease is divided into 2 major subsets, diffuse cutaneous SSc (dcSSc)
           and limited cutaneous SSc (lcSSc). The diffuse cutaneous subtype is generally associated
           with significant internal organ involvement, especially renal crisis and diffuse
           alveolitis of the lung, along with antitopoisomerase (antitopo) autoantibody. The
           limited cutaneous subtype is distinguished by Raynaud's phenomenon, telangiectasias,
           pulmonary hypertension, and the presence of anticentromere antibody. However, there is
           significant overlap both in the clinical manifestations and in the specific
           autoantibodies that occur in these subtypes. It is not known what predisposes a
           susceptible individual to develop one subtype versus another, nor is there significant
           information about how the 2 disease subtypes may be pathogenically related.

        -  Activation of T lymphocytes and macrophages is an early event in the parthenogenesis of
           SSc. Activated T cells , macrophages and endothelial cells are important sources of
           Macrophage Migration Inhibitory Factor MIF was initially identified as the protein
           secreted by activated T lymphocytes capable of inhibiting random migration of
           macrophages, concentrating macrophages at inflammation loci, and enhancing their ability
           to kill intracellular parasites and tumoral cells.

        -  Migration Inhibitory Factor has proliferative and antiapoptotic actions on fibroblasts
           which may be relevant to scleroderma because of the central role of a dysregulated
           fibroproliferative response in disease-affected tissues.

        -  In patients with SSc, elevated serum levels of MIF, increased MIF expression in the skin
           and afunctional promoter polymorphism in the MIF gene that might influence clinical
           expression have been described therefore MIF might have an important role in the
           disease.
    
  