
    
      1.0 Hypothesis Moderate to severely active Crohn's disease (CD) will respond to treatment
      with Denosumab, (a monoclonal antibody to Receptor Activator of Nuclear factor-Kappa B ligand
      (RANKL)

      The principal research questions to be addressed:

        1. Determine if a single dose of Denosumab can induce a clinical response by 12 weeks in
           persons with active CD 2. Determine if a single dose of Denosumab can induce a clinical
           remission by 12 weeks in persons with active CD 3. Determine if a single dose of
           Denosumab can reduce markers of systemic (C-reactive protein, CRP) and intestinal (fecal
           calprotectin, FCAL) inflammation in persons with active CD.

        2. Background Current treatment paradigms of CD involve a step-up approach, where persons
           with mild disease are treated with 5-aminosalicylate (5-ASA), budesonide or even no
           therapy. Persons who fail to respond to these relatively inexpensive and well tolerated
           medications, will often require more intensive therapies including systemic
           corticosteroids, immunomodulatory agents such as azathioprine or methotrexate, or
           biologic agents. While the latter have proven efficacy in the treatment of CD, they are
           quite costly, and their use may result in significant side effects. Currently, the
           biologic agents infliximab and adalimumab, which specifically antagonize tumor necrosis
           factor alpha (TNF) are the ultimate step in the medical management of CD. However,
           nearly one-third of subjects will not respond to a standard anti-TNF based induction
           regimen, and response can be lost in about one-half of all subjects who responded to the
           initial induction over the course of one year. Of those who start an anti-TNF and
           respond, continuous therapy is recommended, the costs of which may exceed $25000-$40000
           per year. Furthermore, the combination of an immunomodulator with an anti-TNF agent
           enhances clinical response, but may increase the risk of infectious complications, and
           their use is also associated with hepatosplenic T cell lymphoma, which is rare but
           almost uniformly fatal. In a population based costing study from Manitoba infliximab
           patients represented a very small proportion of all inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
           patients, yet they accounted for a total of approximately $2 million in drug costs in
           2005/06, which represented approximately half of all prescription drug costs for IBD
           patients in Manitoba. Hence, it would be desirable to have a medication that is as
           effective at inducing and maintaining remission with an improved side effect profile and
           with a lower cost of provision.

      2.1 What is Denosumab: Denosumab, a fully human monoclonal antibody to RANKL was approved for
      the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis in June 2010. It is administered subcutaneously
      once every 6 months and is highly effective in reducing the risk of vertebral, non-vertebral,
      and hip fracture risk. A mixed treatment comparison meta-analysis showed Denosumab to be more
      effective than strontium ranelate, raloxifene, alendronate, and risedronate in preventing new
      vertebral fractures. It is an agent that works in men as well as women. According to the 2010
      Osteoporosis Canada Clinical Practice Guidelines, Denosumab is a first-line option for the
      pharmacological management of postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMO). "Owing to its efficacy,
      safety, and potential to improve adherence rates, Denosumab is considered an appropriate
      first-line pharmacologic option for PMO management." The registration of Denosumab was the
      culmination of the discovery and clarification of the internal bone microenvironment
      regulation of bone remodeling: the osteoblast-produced competitors: RANKL and osteoprotegerin
      (OPG); and the osteoclast receptor: RANK. Our understanding of the pathophysiology of normal
      bone homeostasis and the pathogenesis of osteoporosis and its integration with the immune
      response has been greatly advanced by the discovery of RANKL-RANK ligation on osteoblast and
      osteoclast precursors. Osteoblasts express RANKL which can bind to osteoclast precursors
      (RANK) or an osteoblast derived soluble decoy receptor -OPG. The binding of RANK to RANKL
      induces a signaling and gene expression cascade that results in differentiation and
      maturation of osteoclasts which can ultimately lead to osteoporosis. OPG blocks this
      interaction, thereby inhibiting osteoclast formation and hence decreases bone resorption. It
      has been shown that agents that enhance RANKL production are associated with the development
      of osteoporosis whereas agents that block RANKL reduce bone mineral loss.

      When RANKL is upregulated in the estrogen-deficient state and exceeds the amount of OPG,
      there is an increase in osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption, and this is the major
      mechanism for bone mass loss and osteoporotic fractures in the postmenopausal state. The
      human monoclonal antibody to RANKL (Denosumab) was the first product developed to reduce bone
      resorption by inhibiting RANKL binding to RANK. Denosumab does not accumulate in bone.
      Extension of the registration trial ('FREEDOM') 5-year data indicates continued safety and
      efficacy, and this will be extended to 10 years to generate even longer-term data. The
      profound but reversible suppression of bone turnover that is seen with Denosumab partly
      explains the continuous increase in bone mineral density seen through 8 years of the phase II
      clinical trials. As noted above, Denosumab is effective in both men and women and it is
      potentially effective in glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis.

      2.2 Rationale for Denosumab in CD There are 3 main concepts underpinning the rationale for
      using Denosumab to treat CD.

        1. CD is associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis and the biology of osteoporosis
           and T cell mediated inflammation, thought to be integral in CD, involve the RANKL
           paradigm

        2. Animal models of bone loss and colitis treated with RANKL inhibitors improve both bone
           mass and colitis. A dinitrofluorobenzene sulfonic acid model of colitis in our lab
           showed significant improvement with Denosumab treatment compared to vehicle (saline)
           treatment.

        3. CD is associated with an increase in mutations at the locus that encodes for RANKL

      2.2.1 Osteoporosis and IBD: The prevalence of osteoporosis as defined by bone mineral density
      testing in patients with IBD has been estimated at 15%. Population-based studies show only a
      modest excess fracture risk in IBD subjects (approximately 20-40% greater than matched
      controls) and a rate of approximately 1 fracture per 100 patient years. Steroid use is a
      specific concern in IBD patients-a recent meta-analysis found that current corticosteroid use
      approximately doubled the risk of fracture independent of risk determined from age and bone
      mineral density alone. Modulating RANKL in IBD may be effective in managing IBD-associated
      osteoporosis. RANKL is also a regulator of T cell-dendritic cell interaction in the immune
      system and is a crucial factor in early lymphocyte development and lymph node organogenesis.
      The central importance of this system in bone and lymph node homeostasis is seen in RANKL
      gene-deficient mice which are unable to support osteoclast differentiation, display severe
      osteopetrosis (even in the presence of bone resorbing factors such as vitamin D3,
      dexamethasone, and PGE2), show no evidence of bone remodeling, and simultaneously lack all
      lymph nodes. Activated T cells can directly trigger osteoclastogenesis through RANKL leading
      to bone loss, an effect that is blocked by OPG. Hence, this system may be critical in linking
      systemic or mucosal inflammation with altered bone metabolism and, ultimately, osteoporosis.

      Denosumab potently removes RANKL from circulation. Denosumab inhibits this pathway by
      preventing RANKL from binding to its receptor. Denosumab is therefore an antagonist of
      RANKL's action. Since pharmacologic inhibition of the nuclear factor kappa beta (NF-κB)
      pathway with infliximab is efficacious for CD, then a repositioning opportunity arises. For
      safety, cost and compliance reasons Denosumab is an attractive alternative to anti-TNF
      therapy. The genetic data not only provides additional rationale for the study but focusing
      on individuals harboring the allele that increases RANKL expression, might provide a cohort
      that would achieve the greatest gain in being treated with a RANKL inhibitor. Hence we will
      enroll only patients carrying this G allele, since we hypothesize a slightly larger response
      to treatment in this subgroup. The risk allele is also relatively common (G-allele frequency
      = 0.487 in haplotype map (HapMap) CEU), and therefore we expect approximately 75% of patients
      to be carriers. No clinical trials assessing the effectiveness of Denosumab in the treatment
      of CD have been undertaken.

      2.3 Denosumab safety: Denosumab has been tested in phase III clinical trials in over 10,000
      people and has post-marketing surveillance data since 2010. Although nuisance side effects
      have been reported with denosumab (headache, fatigue, arthralgia), these have not led to
      clinical sequelae. Hypocalcemia: Anticipated frequency ~2-15% (25-27 ). Reported events of
      hypocalcemia have been mild, transient and not associated with clinical sequelae. All
      patients will be recommended to take daily supplemental calcium (≥500mg) and vitamin D (≥400
      IU) per day. Serum calcium (corrected for albumin) will be measured 3 days post dose and
      every 4 weeks. Patients experiencing hypocalcemia will be treated as per the discretion of
      the treating physician using standard protocols. Osteonecrosis of the Jaw: Anticipated
      frequency < 1%. The planned dose has been associated with osteonecrosis of the jaw. The
      concomitant risk factors include cancer, recent or planned invasive dental procedures and
      current use of anti-angiogenic medications. Individuals with any of these risk factors will
      be excluded from our trial. Even in trials including only high risk patients (those with
      cancer), the incidence rates were <2%. All participants will receive written documentation
      advising them to avoid invasive dental procedures for the duration of the trial, further
      decreasing the occurrence of this adverse event.

      3. The Proposed Trial: An open label multicentred trial. Active therapy arm: Denosumab 120 mg
      subcutaneously for one dose. This dose of Denosumab has been chosen since it is sufficient to
      maintain elevated Denosumab levels and depressed RANKL activity as measured by suppression of
      bone-turnover markers at 3 months post dosing. Further, this dose is the maximal dose
      clinically used, has a tolerable side-effect profile and adequate pharmacokinetic and
      pharmacodynamics.

        1. CDAI is a calculated score

        2. Fecal calprotectin will be measured by ELISA in the lab of the PI.

        3. RANKL will be measured by ELISA in the lab of the PI.

        4. CRP will be measured as part of routine clinical care in each site's hospital lab.

      4. Ileocolonoscopy or abdominal MRI will be undertaken as standard of care in each
      institution. Each endoscopist will record a CDEIS. Each site will make a disc of each MRI and
      send to Winnipeg to be read at baseline and study conclusion by a central reader (Dr H
      Greenberg).

      3.6 Sample size: N=30 assuming a 50% response rate has a 95% confidence interval from 33.1 to
      66.7%.

      3.7 Planned recruitment rate and procedure: Recruitment will occur over a 1 year period. This
      trial will include 3 Canadian academic sites. We expect to screen 50 subjects and enroll 30
      that means screening of 16-18 subjects per site and enrollment of 10 subjects per site. All
      sites are experienced IBD clinical trial centers and considering the relative ease of the
      study (single dose) with 16 weeks of follow up we do not anticipate enrollment issues.

      Screening Visit: Individuals will be recruited directly from clinical centers specializing in
      CD care. One gastroenterologist per site will be responsible for clinical care of the patient
      for the duration of the clinical trial. Clinical study nurses will assess individuals
      experiencing a CD exacerbation for possible recruitment using a checklist. Potentially
      eligible patients will have a blood sample drawn and sent to the Innovation Centre (Montreal)
      for rapid genotyping, which will be completed in 5 business days. If they are carriers of the
      risk allele, they will undergo an informed consent in person with the study nurse and will
      then be randomized. Fecal calprotectin and RANKL will be measured centrally at the U of
      Manitoba.

      3.8 Anticipated compliance issues? Since the treatment is a single dose there are no issues
      with compliance with therapy. In terms of compliance with follow up visits, the visits only
      require diary review, physical examination and blood draws and occur at 4 weekly intervals
      after enrollment (except for initial blood draw for serum calcium at day +3).

      3.9 Anticipated rate of loss to follow up: We anticipate a loss to follow up of 20% which is
      a liberal estimate considering the relative ease and duration of the study follow up.

      3.10 Proposed type of analyses: Intention to treat. Time to achievement of the primary
      endpoint will be assessed by Cox proportional hazards and median time to event will be
      calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method with 95% confidence intervals.

      3.11 Proposed frequency of analyses: Single analysis at study conclusion. 3.12 Planned
      subgroup analyses: We will assess persons with ileal or ileocolonic disease and also
      separately assess persons with ileocolonic or colonic disease.

      3. 13 Follow-up Visits. Serum phosphate, calcium, complete blood count, CRP, electrolytes,
      fecal calprotectin and RANKL will be measured and all patients will undergo a CDAI. A serum
      aliquot from each visit will be frozen at -80 degree Celsius for future studies.

      3.14 Study Completion Visit: At the 12 week visit, individuals will undergo all assessments
      done at the 4-weekly visits.
    
  