
    
      Specific Aims:

      The human amygdala is part of primary olfactory cortex, in that it receives direct
      monosynaptic input from the olfactory bulb1-4. This suggests an important role for the
      amygdala in olfactory processing, yet the anatomical and functional properties of olfactory
      inputs to the human amygdala are largely unexplored. The overarching goal of this proposal is
      to elucidate the role of amygdala subregions in human olfactory processing.

      The olfactory bulb projects in parallel to multiple cortical areas, each of which is thought
      to play a unique role in olfactory processing5-10. Within the amygdala, several distinct
      subregions receive direct, monosynaptic bulb input, suggesting distinct roles, yet their
      olfactory functions are not fully understood. Rodent studies have begun to explore potential
      roles for these subregions in olfactory-guided social and approach/avoid behaviors11- 15,
      with the first-ever recordings of the posterolateral cortical amygdala accomplished
      recently16. However, our understanding of these areas is still incomplete. Notably, most
      rodent studies on the olfactory amygdala subregions have focused on the accessory olfactory
      system, which humans lack. Furthermore, most human studies have not considered olfactory
      amygdala subregions separately17-21. This is a critical consideration, both because the
      majority of amygdala subregions do not receive olfactory inputs and because those that do
      likely play distinct roles in olfactory processing. These roles cannot be understood without
      analyzing the subregions separately. Thus, there is a strong need for more research into the
      role of the human amygdala subregions in olfaction. Importantly, olfactory amygdala
      subregions have been implicated in SUDEP22-26, the leading cause of death in temporal lobe
      epilepsy. Understanding the anatomical and functional properties of these regions is
      therefore of clinical importance as well.

      This research will study human olfactory amygdala subregions using a multi-faceted, rigorous
      approach. It will combine specialized high-resolution diffusion-weighted imaging,
      high-resolution amygdala-targeted fMRI, rare direct electrical stimulation of the human
      amygdala (purely clinically prescribed) and human psychophysics, each suited to address a
      different question.

      Aim 1: To anatomically and functionally characterize the primary olfactory cortical regions
      of the human amygdala. Experiments for this aim will carefully characterize human primary
      olfactory amygdala subregions at the anatomical and functional levels. Experiment 1A will use
      specialized diffusion- weighted imaging to localize olfactory tracts projecting to and from
      amygdala subregions. Experiment 1B will use resting fMRI and k-means clustering algorithms to
      parcellate and characterize amygdala subregions based on distinct whole-brain functional
      connectivity profiles. Experiment 1C will use event-related fMRI to functionally localize
      odor-responsive subregions of the amygdala. The hypothesis is that the medial, cortical and
      periamygdaloid subregions of the amygdala will exhibit structural connectivity with the
      olfactory bulb, enhanced odor-responsiveness compared to other subregions, and distinct
      whole-brain functional connectivity profiles.

      Aim 2: To test the hypothesis that activity in distinct amygdala subregions reflects distinct
      olfactory behaviors. Experiments for this aim will use fMRI-derived ensemble patterns and
      time-series to explore distinct olfactory roles for amygdala subregions, with excellent
      spatial resolution and simultaneous coverage of the entire amygdala. The use of fMRI ensemble
      patterns is ideal, since olfactory cortical areas including the amygdala use a distributive
      mode of coding16. Experiment 2A will use fMRI to measure activity across all amygdala
      subregions while presenting identical odors under different ecologically relevant contexts
      (social, spatial and food). Experiment 2B will use fMRI to examine correlations between
      amygdala fMRI patterns and olfactory approach/avoid behaviors. The hypothesis is that, as in
      rodents, activity in the medial amygdala will reflect olfactory-guided social perceptual
      decisions and that activity in the cortical amygdala will reflect olfactory-guided
      approach/avoid behaviors.

      Aim 3: To assess the necessity of olfactory amygdala subregions in distinct olfactory
      behaviors. To assess the necessity of olfactory amygdala subregions in the distinct olfactory
      behaviors described above in Aim 2, Experiment 3 will use intracranial electrophysiology
      methods to record directly from, and deliver electrical stimulation directly into, human
      olfactory amygdala sub-regions during the olfactory tasks from Aim 2. Stimulation will not
      deviate from clinical protocols, and will be performed by clinicians only. This method
      provides direct recordings of neural activity, and allows disruption of neural activity to
      test the necessity of specific regions for particular behaviors. The hypothesis is that
      disruption of oscillatory activity in the cortical amygdala will disrupt olfactory
      approach/avoid behaviors, while disruption of oscillatory activity in the medial amygdala
      will disrupt olfactory social perceptual decisions.
    
  