
    
      Pulmonary vascular tone is maintained by the action of vasoprotective compounds including
      nitric oxide (NO)(1).NO can be synthesized endogenously in the body via L-arginine and
      NOS-independent mechanism from the anion nitrite (NO2-)(2,3).Nitric oxide (NO) causes cyclic
      guanosine monophosphate-mediated vasodilatation of the pulmonary vasculature. Endogenous NO
      is also produced from the metabolism of citrulline; an amino acid generated by the urea cycle
      (4). NO is critical for normal development of the pulmonary vasculature and loss of this
      vasodilator factor and subsequent endothelial dysfunction is proposed as one of the possible
      explanations for development of pulmonary hypertension (1).

      From a clinical standpoint, pulmonary hypertension is a common complication of chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).Its presence is associated with shorter survival and
      worse clinical outcome. In a setting of COPD, pulmonary hypertension tends to be of moderate
      severity and progresses slowly. Recent investigations have demonstrated endothelial
      dysfunction and changes in the expression of endothelial-derived mediators that regulate
      vascular tone and cell growth in the pulmonary arteries of patients with mild disease(5).
      Pulmonary vascular involvement from congenital heart disease like Eisenmeger syndrome is
      another important category of patients with PAH. In this congenital disease pulmonary
      vascular involvement follows a period in which pulmonary resistance is low and pulmonary
      blood flow is high (6, 7, 8). Finally, Idiopathic pulmonary hypertension (IPAH) is the third
      category of these patients. IPAH has unknown etiology and is characterized by progressive
      obliteration of small and medium size pulmonary arteries; elevation in pulmonary arterial
      pressure, and an increase in pulmonary vascular resistance. Presence of these pathologies
      eventually leads to right heart failure and death (9).
    
  