
    
      Low grade gliomas are the most common central nervous system (CNS) tumors in the pediatric
      population. They consist of a heterogeneous group of tumors that are classified as World
      Health Organization (WHO) grade I or II. This includes astrocytic, oligodendroglial, neuronal
      and mixed glial- neuronal tumors. The clinical behavior of these tumors varies according to
      location and histology. The cerebellum is the most common location for low grade gliomas, but
      they can also arise in the cerebrum, deep midline structures such as the hypothalamus, optic
      pathway and, less frequently, in the brainstem.

      Although the etiology of most childhood LGG is unknown, patients with Neurofibromatosis type
      1 (NF-1) are one rare group predisposed to developing CNS tumors. NF-1 is an inherited
      disorder that affects the nervous system, eyes and skin. In addition, children are at an
      increased risk for developing optic pathway and hypothalamic low grade gliomas. Fifteen
      to-20% of NF-1 patients will develop these tumors, and they account for up to 70% of the
      tumors seen in this location. In half of patients with NF-1 and an optic pathway tumor, the
      patients are not symptomatic and the mass is found incidentally. Many optic gliomas in NF-1
      patients follow an indolent course and stabilize without intervention. Patients are most
      commonly treated when there is deterioration in their vision or a symptomatic increase in the
      tumor size. Although the event free survival (EFS) has been reported to be similar between
      NF1 and non-NF1 patients, overall survival is higher in NF1 patients.

      Location, as it affects the extent of surgical resection, plays a key role in the prognosis
      of all patients with low grade gliomas. Complete surgical resection offers a 90% survival
      rate at 10 years with often no need for adjuvant chemotherapy or radiation. Unfortunately, a
      gross total resection is not always possible due to the location of the tumor and its
      proximity to vital structures in the brain. In patients with an incomplete resection, the 10
      year EFS is up to 74% with radiation treatment. However, toxicity from radiation, especially
      in young children, is significant and includes neurocognitive delays, endocrinopathies,
      secondary malignancy, ototoxicity and vasculopathy. Therefore, most experts agree that the
      standard of care in young children is to treat low grade gliomas that require adjuvant
      therapy after surgical resection/biopsy, or whose tumors are not surgically resectable with
      chemotherapy first, in order to delay or avoid radiation. This is especially true in children
      with NF-1, where the risk of a secondary malignancy after radiation therapy can be as high as
      50% in the lifetime of the child.
    
  