
    
      This non-interventional, minimal risk cohort study will enroll patients with Hemophilia A or
      B who are planning or have recently switched to a new Factor product. The study will have 2
      Arms, prospective and retrospective. The Prospective Arm will enroll patients who plan to
      switch to a new factor. The Retrospective Arm will enroll patients who have recently switched
      to a new factor (within the previous 50 weeks). Patient will be seen at baseline and for up
      to 4 additional visits, and quarterly follow-up by phone. Required study visits will be
      planned to coincide with routine follow-up visits whenever possible.

      Please note that Factor Replacement Products are not being provided by the study.

      The primary objective is to assess and characterize the rate of inhibitor development within
      one (1) year or fifty (50) exposure days, whichever is first, after switching clotting factor
      replacement products in previously treated patients (PTPs) with hemophilia A or B.

      Data collected will include eligibility, demographics, medical history, hemophilia history
      (clotting history, product history, genotype and family history), inhibitor history,
      co-morbidities at baseline (i.e., HIV, Hepatitis C.), detailed clotting factor replacement
      product(s) usage and switching plan, and reasons for switching factor products. Also targeted
      physical exams will be performed at baseline and during follow-up, and targeted concomitant
      medication data will be collected. Data collection will also include patient-reported
      outcome(s) after 1 year, bleeding events, surgeries, laboratory Inhibitor testing and details
      regarding testing methodology, pharmacokinetic (PK) data (if known), new diagnoses, and
      co-morbidities (targeted), Safety/Adverse Events using European Union Hemophilia Safety
      Surveillance (EUHASS) definitions.

      This study will evolve to include any newly approved (since January 2013) factors as they
      come to market. Cohorts will be defined by the brand/type of new clotting factor replacement
      product approved after January 1, 2013. The current list of specific new Factor VIII
      replacement products include Eloctate® (Bioverativ) and NovoEight® (NovoNordisk); Factor IX
      replacement products include Alprolix® (Bioverativ), Rixubis® (Baxalta), and IXinity®
      (Emergent Biosolutions). Others are both now available and imminent and include: Adynovate®,
      Idelvion®, Afstyla®, Kovaltry® and Jivi®.

      The over-arching rationale for this protocol is that a pragmatic study which is consistent
      with real world practices across a wide range of patients that is not principally tied to a
      particular manufacturer or product may be of great advantage to the entire hemophilia
      community.

      Study Duration

        -  Subjects on prophylaxis will be followed on study for up to 1 year. Each subject will be
           seen during a study visit or contacted by telephone at least once every 3 months (i.e.,
           quarterly). Patients may participate for multiple 'cycles', if they switch factor
           products more than once while the study is actively recruiting.

      Treatment regimen will be at the discretion of the subject's hemophilia caregivers. No
      treatment is being provided by the study.

        -  Substudies A number of substudies are planned with pharmaceutical sponsors to collect
           information from patients about their products' use. Participation in these optional
           substudies (product-specific modules) will be planned to coincide with study visits.
           These modules will collect information from subjects about their perception and use of
           factor use/treatment, physical activity levels and other general health questions. These
           data will be collected via questionnaire, primarily via phone.

      Concomitant and Excluded Therapies

        -  Immune tolerance therapy is excluded on study. This includes immunosuppressive
           treatments used to eradicate inhibitors. Steroid treatments for allergic disorders and
           asthma, are allowed.

      Data Collection System

        -  All data collected will be entered into electronic case report forms (eCRFs) within the
           secure ATHN Study Manager system. Subject Identifiers (IDs) will be generated in
           Clinical Manager.

        -  Reimbursement will be managed by each participating HTC. Most study centers will
           reimburse study subjects for travel and parking, but this varies by center.
    
  