
    
      Introduction: Acetabular fractures represent relatively infrequent traumatic injuries that
      can lead to a progressive impairment of hip articular function. Surgical treatment of these
      fractures may require extensive surgical dissections and frequently is associated with
      significant postoperative pain, delay in rehabilitation, and prolonged hospital stay.
      Innervation of the acetabular region is mainly provided by branches of lumbar and sacral
      plexuses, in addition to dorsal rami of lumbar nerve roots supplying the tissues to be
      dissected during posterior approach for acetabular fractures. Investigators suggest a novel
      approach for combined lumbar erector spinae plane block and PSSS quadratus lumborum block for
      perioperative analgesia in hip/acetabular surgeries using a single puncture technique (SEQ
      block).

      Aim of the study: The primary aim of this study is to compare the total postoperative opioid
      (morphine) consumption after posterior column acetabular surgery when providing ultrasound
      guided SEQ block: single puncture combined lumbar erector spinae plane block and paraspinous
      sagittal shift (PSSS) quadratus lumborum block versus conventional intravenous morphine
      analgesia.

      The secondary aims of this study are; sensory assessment in the block group for (dermatomal
      distribution), intraoperative and postoperative hemodynamics; Mean arterial blood pressure
      (MAP) and heart rate (HR), resting visual analogue scale (VAS), dynamic VAS and postoperative
      complications.

      Methods: After obtaining approval from Alexandria university ethics committee, this study
      will be carried out starting from November 2020 for 1 year in Alexandria university hospital
      on American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status I-III patients scheduled for
      unilateral posterior wall/column acetabular fractures surgery using posterior approach. The
      exclusion criteria will include; Body mass index (BMI) > 35 kg/m2, pre-existing neurological
      deficit, spine deformity, pregnancy/lactation, significant renal or hepatic impairment, known
      contraindications to peripheral nerve block (coagulopathy or infection at the site of
      injection), or chronic opioid users/abusers.

      Patients will be divided into 2 groups. Group SEQ; patients will receive ultrasound guided
      SEQ block preoperatively before the induction of general anaesthesia (GA).

      Group MOR; patients will receive GA and analgesia will be based on opioids mainly intravenous
      morphine.

      Upon arrival to the operating room (OR), a multichannel monitor will be attached to patients,
      followed by the administration of 2 mg midazolam IV after securing an IV cannula.

      Group SEQ: SEQ block is a combination of paraspinous sagittal shift (PSSS) quadratus lumborum
      (QL) block and erector spinae plane block (ESPB). Before the induction of GA in group SEQ,
      patients will lay laterally on the healthy side with the fracture side independent, a
      curvilinear ultrasound transducer (2-5 MHz) (Sonosite, M-turbo, Bothell, WA, USA) will be
      placed in a parasagittal plane 3-4 cm lateral to the lumbar spinous process of L4 (which is
      almost opposite to the iliac crest), producing a longitudinal scan of the lumbar
      paravertebral region, thus identifying the transverse processes of L3 and L4 with psoas
      muscle (PM) in-between and erector spinae muscle (ESM) posteriorly (superficial to transverse
      processes), the probe is shifted slowly to the lateral side till the transverse processes
      disappear and quadratus lumborum (QL) muscle is evident in its long axis attached caudally to
      the iliac crest with a characteristic sonographic image of three muscle layers appearing from
      posterior to anterior as : ESM, QL, and PM muscles respectively. Here, anterior layer of
      thoracolumbar fascia (ATLF) - which is considered as a continuation of fascia transversalis -
      is seen separating PM and QL muscles.

      After subcutaneous local infiltration with lidocaine 1% at the cephalic end of the probe, the
      block needle is advanced in a cephalo-caudal direction, through the erector spinae and QL
      muscles, until it pierces the epimysium of the QL muscle. Local anaesthetic (LA) is injected
      anterior to the QL, observing it's spread in a caudal direction towards the iliac crest
      between the QL and psoas muscles.

      Then the caudal end of the probe is rotated slowly medially towards lumbar spine till the
      hypoechoic shadow of transverse process of L4 appears in the ultrasound image. The needle is
      withdrawn to subcutaneous tissue, then advanced in plane towards transverse process of L4.
      After contacting it, LA is deposited in the plane between transverse process and overlying
      ESM. Total volume of LA used will be 50 ml of 0.25 % bupivacaine, 25 ml for each injection.

      Thirty minutes after block performance, sensory assessment will be performed using a pin
      prick test for dermatomal distribution, followed by the induction of GA. While, in group MOR;
      no block will be given.

      Anaesthesia will be induced with propofol 2 mg/kg, atracurium 0.5 mg/kg, and fentanyl 1µg/kg,
      followed by endotracheal intubation, anaesthesia will be maintained by isoflurane 1 Minimum
      Alveolar Concentration (MAC) in 100% oxygen. Multimodal analgesia protocol will be provided
      including intravenous dexamethasone 8 mg, paracetamol 1 gm, and ketorolac 60 mg. Increments
      of 0.5 µg/kg of fentanyl will be given intraoperatively if there is an increase in HR/MAP
      above 20% of the basal value.

      Postoperatively, multimodal analgesia regimen will be continued in the form of paracetamol 1
      g /8 hours and ketorolac 30 mg /8 hours intravenously for 48 hours. Intravenous morphine in a
      dose of 0.05 mg/kg will be given as a rescue analgesic when the VAS ≥4.

      Measurements:

        1. HR and MAP will be recorded preoperatively (baseline), every 30 minutes during the
           surgery, and every hour postoperatively for the first 4 hours, then every 4 hours for
           the remaining 24 hour postoperative follow up.

        2. Resting VAS every hour for the first 4 hours, then every 4 hours for the remaining 24
           hour postoperative follow up.

        3. Dynamic VAS every hour for the first 4 hours, then every 4 hours for the remaining 24
           hour postoperative follow up.

        4. Total analgesic requirement (intraoperative fentanyl and postoperative morphine).

        5. Postoperative complications (block or opioid related complications).
    
  