
    
      we aim to compare tumor free survival and overall survival of hepatitis b virus-related
      hepatocellular carcinoma patients after curative resection with nucleotide and nucleoside
      analogues.

      Patients patients with newly diagnosed HCC according to the Milan criteria (i.e., a single
      tumor <5 cm or up to 3 nodules <3 cm) who underwent R0 resection at the Department of Liver
      Surgery and Liver Transplantation Centre of the West China Hospital of Sichuan University
      were prospectively enrolled and followed up. The diagnosis of HCC was confirmed by a
      postoperative histopathologic examination (CL, Lu). Preoperatively, all patients underwent
      chest radiography and at least 2 dynamic imaging examinations (contrast-enhanced ultrasound,
      contrast-enhanced computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging). Hepatitis B surface
      antigen (HBsAg) and hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg), HBV-deoxyribonucleic acid (HBV-DNA) load,
      antibodies against hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV), alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), liver function, and
      hematological parameters were serologically examined within 1 week before surgery. All
      medical records from our prospectively maintained database were reviewed retrospectively.

      Inclusion criteria for this study were as follows:

        1. older than 18 years and less than 69 years old;

        2. HBsAg positiveHCV antibody negative and HIV antibody negative;

        3. HBV-DNA>200 IU/mL;

        4. BCLC stagingO 及 A stage;

        5. Platelet100×10^9/L;

        6. Liver function Child-Pugh A,with no invasion in portal vein, hepatic vein and two large
           branches, no extrahepatic metastasis;

        7. CCR≥ 70 mL/min;

        8. Antiviral treatment was not performed before surgery or antiviral treatment was accepted
           in a short term (<3 months);

        9. No treatment was performed before the operation. The results of postoperatively
           histopathological biopsy were HCC;

       10. The patients agree to participate in the clinical trial.

      Exclusion criteria for this study were as follows:

        1. The image found extrahepatic lymph nodes or visceral metastasis, the existence of large
           vascular invasion, the existence of bile duct embolus in the first operation;

        2. The patient combined with a malignant tumor of other organs or had a history of other
           malignant tumors in other organs;

        3. Liver function decompensation, such as: upper gastrointestinal bleeding, refractory
           ascites, coagulation dysfunction and so on;

        4. contraindications to surgery;

        5. Patients with poor compliance and not adhered to the follow-ups;

        6. Patients refused to participate in the clinical trial.

      2.2. Nucleotide/nucleoside analogues treatment of chronic hepatitis B

      The choice of treatment strategies for chronic hepatitis B was based on the updated
      management guidelines for chronic hepatitis B, drug resistance, and the patient's financial
      conditions.Patients who achieved a complete response with undetectable HBV-DNA and
      seroconversion to anti-HBs or anti-HBe were offered the option of continuing the antiviral
      therapy. During this time, periodic monitoring of HBV-DNA and HBeAg were continued as relapse
      remained a possibility.
    
  