
    
      Specific Objectives with Projected Timetable:

        1. . Short-term objectives:

             1. . To measure the effects of audiological intervention on selected domain specific
                (i.e., Communicative, Interpersonal, and Social roles) and overall functioning
                using the WHO-DAS II, a generic health measure conceptually grounded in the
                International Classification of Impairment, Disability, and Handicap (ICIDH)-2
                model of disablement and functioning (WHO, 1999).

             2. . To measure the effects of audiological intervention on selected category specific
                (i.e., Role Functioning-Emotional and Social Functioning) and overall functioning
                using the MOS-SF36V, a generic health measure currently utilized in the Veterans
                Health Administration.

             3. . To determine the accuracy with which measures of audibility (SII), hearing
                handicap (HHIE), and, hearing disability (APHAB) predict domain specific and
                overall functioning, and life-satisfaction as measured by the WHO-DAS II and the
                MOS-SF36V will be evaluated.

             4. . To compare hearing aid treatment effects as measured by changes in WHO-DAS II
                domain specific and overall functioning scores to those measured by changes in
                disease specific instruments examining similar constructs.

             5. . To compare hearing aid treatment effects as measured by changes in MOS-SF36V
                domain specific and overall functioning scores to those measured by changes in
                disease specific instruments examining similar constructs.

             6. . To determine and compare cost-effectiveness of hearing aid intervention as
                calculated using WHO-DAS II and MOS-SF36V outcome data.

        2. . Long-term objective: To compare the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of audiologic
           intervention with those of other health care interventions commonly associated with the
           veteran population (e.g. mental health, cardiology, pulmonary, orthopedic, etc.).
    
  