
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Small gastric subepithelial tumors (SETs) are often incidental findings at upper endoscopy.
      Differential diagnoses include a variety of different pathologies such as gastrointestinal
      stromal tumors (GISTs), leiomyomas, leiomyosarcomas, lipomas, carcinoid tumors, granular cell
      tumors, duplication cysts or pancreatic rests. Since some of these entities have a potential
      of malignancy, accurate classification of gastric SETs is essential to define the best
      diagnostic and therapeutic management. Endosonography (EUS) is the current gold standard for
      further characterization of small gastric SETs. It provides differentiation between extra-
      and intramural lesions, information on the involvement of certain wall layers, measurement of
      a lesion as well as structural analysis according to the echogenicity of a lesion.
      Nevertheless, a level of uncertainty remains, even if a lesion shows a typical echo-pattern
      and layer involvement.

      According to current guidelines, lesions of more than two centimeters in size that are
      suspected to be GISTs should be removed by surgical resection. Lesions less than one
      centimeter can be followed by annual EUS. For lesions bigger than one centimeter but smaller
      than two centimeters tissue sampling is recommended in order to correctly diagnose a lesion
      according to immunohistochemical markers (such as CD117 or CD34 in GISTs) and to quantify the
      malignant potential according to other histological factors (such as the mitotic index in
      GISTs) [1].

      Tissue sampling can be done by using standard or jumbo forceps biopsy and EUS-guided fine
      needle aspiration or biopsy, but the diagnostic yield of these methods is rather low [2,3].
      Better results can be achieved by endoscopic resection techniques such as endoscopic
      submucosal dissection (ESD), submucosal tunneling endoscopic resection or full thickness
      endoscopic resection [4,5]. The main advantage of these approaches is that they are not only
      diagnostic but also therapeutic strategies since the respective lesion can be resected as a
      whole comparable with conventional surgery. However, there is a high risk of procedure
      related adverse events such as bleeding or perforation (the latter is often unavoidable
      considering that most SETs are arising from deep wall layers such as the muscularis propria
      layer).

      Endoscopic unroofing is very similar to the mentioned endoscopic resection techniques with
      the main difference that only partial resection is intended in order to get a representative
      tissue specimen for histological evaluation. This method has been described in a case series
      by Lee et al. in 2010 where it showed a very favorable diagnostic yield in gastric SETs [6].
      To date, no study has reported on the follow-up of lesions investigated by endoscopic
      unroofing.

      The aim of the present study is to evaluate endoscopic unroofing for small gastric SETs
      regarding safety, diagnostic yield and potential therapeutic effects over time.

      PRIMARY HYPOTHESIS

      Endoscopic unroofing has a high diagnostic accuracy in small gastric subepithelial tumors.

      METHODS

      This retrospective study will be conducted at the Division of Gastroenterology and
      Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine III. Of the Medical University of Vienna.
      Patients who underwent endoscopic unroofing of gastric subepithelial tumors between 2000 and
      2015 will be identified by searching the endoscopy reporting database "DOKMON". Clinical data
      will be collected from patients identified by reviewing endoscopy examination reports as well
      as other clinical documents including discharge letters in the report archiving database
      "AKIM". The following parameters will be assessed: Demographics (age, sex), indication for
      endoscopic unroofing, intraprocedural adverse events, hospital stay, histological result,
      follow-up procedures (including endoscopic or imaging controls, surgical resection). At the
      end of the study the mentioned parameters will be presented using descriptive statistics.
      Data analysis will be performed using SPSS 23.0. All patient related data will be
      de-identified using pseudonymization prior to any further processing.

      SAMPLE SIZE

      The investigators expect to encounter approximately 20 patients into this study (between 2000
      and 2015).
    
  