
    
      Pain management following lung surgery is of outmost importance. Providing adequate pain
      control facilitates patient recovery and improves lung function, therefore, leading to
      reduced morbidity and mortality associated with lung surgery. It is now well-established that
      lung surgery is associated with significant incisional pain, which in some patients may lead
      to development of chronic post-thoracotomy pain syndrome. In addition, many patients report
      significant shoulder pain that is often resistant to increasing epidural infusions and
      intravenous opioid therapy. The incidence of shoulder pain varies from study to study with
      estimates anywhere between 41% to 97%. Although the cause of the shoulder pain is not well
      understood, there are only few therapies available for the treatment of shoulder pain
      including acetaminophen, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, interscalene brachial plexus
      and stellate ganglion block. However, all of the currently available therapies have
      potentially significant side-effects. The investigators are not aware of any studies
      evaluating the effectiveness of superficial cervical plexus block in reducing or preventing
      shoulder pain following thoracotomy or thoracoscopic surgery. The superficial cervical plexus
      block is minimal risk procedure equivalent to an IV start.

      The primary aim of this study is to compare the effect of superficial cervical plexus block
      when added to thoracic epidural analgesia and intravenous patient controlled analgesia (PCA)
      to standard thoracic epidural analgesia and PCA used at our institution on the incidence of
      shoulder pain.

      Subjects participating in this study will receive standard clinical care in addition to the
      following research procedures:

        -  Intra-operative block: an injection of bupivacaine on the side of the neck at the end of
           the surgery while the subject is still under general anesthesia or no injection at all
           if in control group. If the subject is assigned to receive an injection, the
           investigators will be using a small needle similar to the one used to numb the skin for
           the IV start. There will be a single needle stick on the side of the neck (same side as
           the lung surgery) and injection of 15 mL of 0.25% bupivacaine under the skin. Regardless
           of whether the subject gets an injection or not, he/she will receive standard clinical
           care.

        -  Post-lung surgery pain assessment: the investigators will ask the subjects to rate their
           pain at the incision site, chest tube site and shoulder at rest and with movement at 6,
           12, 18, 24 and 48 hours after lung surgery. The investigators will also ask the subjects
           about any side-effects that may be associated with the standard narcotic pain
           medications.

      The investigators will collect the following data from the medical record including:

        -  Presence or absence of shoulder pain

        -  The amount of pain medicines (narcotics) needed to treat subject's pain over 24 and 48
           hours after lung surgery

        -  The presence of any side-effects of narcotic pain medications

        -  Blood pressure, heart rate, EKG and oxygen levels when available in order to evaluate if
           improved shoulder pain and less narcotics used will have additional beneficial effects

      Subjects are eligible if they are age 18-75 years and undergoing lung surgery.

      Subjects are not eligible if they are non-English speaking, have had a previous lung surgery,
      are allergic to bupivacaine, have a history of chronic pain or have been taking pain
      medications for a long time, and already have shoulder pain.
    
  