
    
      The Genotype Tissue Expression Project (GTEx) is a partnership between multiple NIH agencies
      and funded by the Common Fund. Families who agreed to donation of organs and tissues for
      transplantation were asked to authorize the collection of additional tissues for GTEx by
      participating Organ Procurement Organizations (OPO). Donated tissues are placed in a National
      Cancer Institute biobank, and the donor's genome and medical record information analyzed and
      released to researchers through NIH's database of Genotypes and Phenotypes (dbGaP). The
      tissues and information will be kept in the biobank indefinitely and cell lines may be
      developed from the donated skin and blood.

      An ethical, legal and social issues (ELSI) sub-study examines the issues surrounding risks to
      privacy and breach of confidentiality to family decision makers (FDM) as well as FDM
      perspectives on the return of findings to donor families. The ELSI sub-study assessed the
      authorization process and make suggestions for its improvement. Semi-structured interviews
      were completed with families who decided to donate to GTEx as well as those who refused to
      donate to the project. Tissue requesters (TR) who make the GTEx approaches for participating
      OPOs, were also asked to complete an online survey for each approach they completed for GTEx.

      The study builds on this research team's extensive work in organ and tissue donation and the
      work currently being conducting during the ELSI pilot of the GTEx project. Specifically, the
      investigators propose to examine the impact of stress and complex information on donor
      families' decision-making to inform the consent process; understand how variations in
      requesters, consent approaches, and the characteristics of family decision makers affect
      understanding, recall of and willingness to donate tissues for research; consider the ethical
      and legal issues of the request and consent process; and, test a novel intervention designed
      to train tissue requesters to employ effective communication techniques when making requests
      for tissue. The overall goal is to develop a set of recommendations that will maximize the
      likelihood that family decision makers (FDM) make informed donation decisions under stressful
      circumstances. The specific aims of the ELSI GTEx study are:

      This study will build on this research team's extensive work in organ and tissue donation and
      the work they are currently conducting during the ELSI pilot of the GTEx project.
      Specifically, the investigators propose to examine the impact of stress and complex
      information on the decision making of donor families to inform the consent process,
      understand how variations in requesters, consent approaches, and the characteristics of
      family decision makers affect understanding and recall of and willingness to donate tissues
      for research, consider the ethical and legal issues of the request and consent process, and
      test an intervention to train tissue requesters to employ effective communication techniques
      when making requests for tissue. The overall goal is to develop a set of recommendations that
      will maximize the likelihood that family decision makers (FDM) make informed donation
      decisions under stressful circumstances. The specific aims of the ELSI GTEx study are:

        1. Identify elements of nonverbal and relational communication impacting FDM knowledge,
           recall and GTEx decision making. Using the methods and procedures of the pilot study,
           the investigators will conduct an observational study of the GTEx request process to
           understand the communication-related variables impacting FDM knowledge, recall and
           decision making. In addition, a subsample of audiotapes will be obtained from
           tissue-only donors whose consent conversations are conducted by telephone and are
           audiotaped. This will provide information about the important nonverbal and relational
           elements of communication on the outcome variables.

           H1a. Sociodemographic characteristics of FDM will impact the major outcomes of interest
           to this study (recall, comprehension and consent). Specifically, FDM who have more
           education, are white, female and younger will be more likely to donate, have better
           recall and knowledge.

           H1b. Relational elements of communication, such as confirmational messages (e.g.,
           messages that expressed validation or acceptance) or persuasive tactics such as
           credibility, altruism, or esteem, and engaging in a lengthier conversation will be
           associated with a greater likelihood to donate have better recall and knowledge.

           H1c. Tissue requesters' and FDMs' comfort speaking about GTEx, the proclivity of FDMs to
           ask question and engage more proactively in the conversation will be associated with a
           greater likelihood to donate have better recall and knowledge.

        2. Conduct a study, using a quasi-experimental design, to understand the impact of the
           stressful environment in which the requests occur. This study will assist the ELSI team
           to obtain an evidence base that will allow us to disentangle the effects of stress from
           the complexity of the information about the purpose of the donation and guide
           recommendations for a final consent process.

        3. Adapt and test a communication intervention targeting tissue requesters' (TR) use of
           effective, ethically acceptable techniques that maximize the likelihood of consent.

      H3a. Post intervention, TRs will exhibit more relational communication with FDMs during
      requests. H3b. Post intervention, TRs will spend more time attending to the emotional needs
      of FDMs.

      H3c. Post intervention, TRs will spend more time discussing information identified as
      important to informed decision making for tissue donation.

      H3d. Post intervention, there will be overall higher consent rates for donation to the
      research.
    
  