
    
      The current study is running alongside an externally funded project measuring physical
      activity levels in patients with bronchiectasis (ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT01569009). In
      order to more fully understand physical activity behaviours in bronchiectasis, it is
      important to compare the patterns of physical activity, exercise capacity and quality of life
      of the patients with bronchiectasis to a healthy age-matched population.

      For a healthy population of similar age to patients with bronchiectasis, little applicable
      research currently exists with regard to normative values of physical activity and sedentary
      behaviour. In this particular study, we will measure physical activity levels in healthy
      individuals age-matched to patients with bronchiectasis. The most commonly used questionnaire
      to assess physical activity is the International Physical Activity Questionnaire. Pedometers
      are inexpensive devices which can be used to assess daily step count and time spent in
      walking. Activity monitors are more expensive and require technical expertise for analysis
      and interpretation. However, they provide more in-depth information on pattern, quantity and
      intensity of activity including daily sedentary time. In this study, the investigators will
      use the ActiGraph activity monitor, ActivPAL activity monitor, DigiWalker pedometer and IPAQ
      to measure the physical activity levels in healthy individuals age-matched to patients with
      bronchiectasis. This study will not focus on participants who engage in high levels of
      physical activity as they are unlikely to represent the physical activity levels of patients
      with bronchiectasis.

      This study will include the Modified Shuttle Test. Exercise capacity measured by the Modified
      Shuttle Test is normally only utilized in respiratory disease populations such as patients
      with cystic fibrosis. However, it has recently been highlighted that there is a need for
      reference data in healthy populations. This study will also use the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire to
      assess quality of life. Preliminary testing of the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire, an update to the
      well-researched EQ-5D-3L, has only recently been conducted. There is a need for studies to
      provide more normative data on the EQ-5D-5L.

      This study will also assess readiness to change physical activity behaviour in a healthy
      population utilising transtheoretical model components such as stages of change,
      self-efficacy, decisional balance and processes of change; which have all been shown to be
      important in physical activity behaviour. Understanding healthy individuals' perspectives on
      readiness to change physical activity behaviour and the links between important outcomes will
      help to inform future physical activity interventions.
    
  