
    
      According to the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) 2018 guidelines FDG-PET/CT may
      be performed as an alternative to a contrast-enhanced CT of the chest, abdomen and pelvis and
      Tc-99m MDP bone scan for evaluation of distant metastatic disease in newly diagnosed stage
      III breast cancer patients. FDG-PET/CT is usually not obtained for stage I or stage II breast
      cancer patients. Prior studies have demonstrated FDG-PET/CT can identify sites of unsuspected
      metastatic disease in newly diagnosed breast cancer patients thereby altering treatment
      decisions given that palliative management is typical for stage IV disease, whereas
      neoadjuvant therapy followed by surgery and postoperative radiation may be considered for
      stage II and operable stage III disease. These guidelines consider invasive breast cancer as
      a single entity and do not consider whether tailoring imaging techniques for subtypes of
      breast cancer may be beneficial. However, prior research suggests that FDG-PET/CT may be more
      appropriate as an alternative to CT and bone scan for patients with invasive ductal carcinoma
      (IDC) rather than invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) as FDG demonstrates comparatively reduced
      sensitivity for ILC metastases. Compared to IDC, ILC is more often occult on mammography,
      ultrasound, and FDG-PET/CT; which is of importance for clinical management as ILC is more
      often multifocal and bilateral compared to IDC. Clinical breast examination also has lower
      sensitivity for detection of ILC compared to IDC, even for large tumors, as ILC may be
      indistinguishable from normal breast tissue on palpation.

      A prior study evaluating systemic staging of newly diagnosed patients with stage I-III
      invasive breast cancer found that FDG-PET/CT is 1.98 times less likely to reveal unsuspected
      distant metastatic disease for women with ILC compared to IDC. In this study, all IDC
      metastases demonstrated FDG avidity whereas 25% of ILC metastases (3 of 12) were not FDG
      avid. Detection of local axillary metastatic disease on FDG-PET/CT was also lower for ILC (0
      of 146 patients) compared to IDC (7 of 89 patients) despite data from the Surveillance,
      Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) database demonstrating similar rates for lymph node
      metastases between IDC and ILC. Another study evaluating FDG-PET/CT for the diagnosis of
      primary breast cancer found that the false negative rate for detection of ILC by FDG was 65%
      (15 of 23 cases) compared to 23% for IDC (23 of 97 cases) when matching for tumors of the
      same size. A final study reported a false negative rate of FDG for ILC detection of 13% (2 of
      15 patients). Mechanistically, ILC may not take up FDG as avidly as IDC due to lower tumor
      microvascularity, cellular density, proliferation rate, and number of GLUT transporters. ILC
      osseous metastatic disease is also more frequently occult on FDG-PET/CT compared to IDC as
      ILC osseous metastases are more frequently sclerotic, whereas FDG-PET/CT is more sensitive
      for lytic osseous metastases. Sclerotic ILC osseous metastases also may be indistinguishable
      from benign bone islands on CT at initial staging, thereby necessitating biopsy or imaging
      follow-up for confirmation of osseous metastatic disease. Improved imaging strategies for
      primary and metastatic ILC are therefore warranted.

      Multiple studies have proven the efficacy of FES-PET/CT for imaging evaluation of ER+
      invasive breast malignancy (evaluating both IDC and ILC together, with the large majority of
      cases comprising IDC) but, to our knowledge, no prior study has focused FES-PET/CT evaluation
      only to cases of ILC, nor have prior studies compared FES-PET/CT directly with FDG-PET/CT for
      evaluation of newly diagnosed ILC. Given that all prior studies on FES-PET/CT have grouped a
      small number of ILC cases with a larger number of IDC cases, the imaging performance of
      FES-PET/CT specifically for ILC is unknown. ILC demonstrates higher rates of ER positivity
      than IDC with prior studies showing greater than 90% positivity for cases of ILC. Data from
      the SEER database also shows ILC demonstrates higher overall expression of ER than IDC (ILC
      95% positive for ER, n=17,503 vs IDC 74% positive for ER, n=172,379). FES-PET/CT may
      therefore be suitable for imaging evaluation of a high proportion of patients with ILC.
    
  