
    
      Gastroparesis is defined as a complex syndrome of symptoms including early satiety,
      post-prandial fullness, nausea, vomiting, bloating, and upper abdominal pain with a
      corresponding objective delay in gastric emptying in the absence of mechanical obstruction.
      Recent epidemiologic data has shown a substantial increase of 158% in hospitalizations
      related to gastroparesis in recent years. The pathogenesis underlying gastroparesis is
      complex with multiple potential underlying mechanisms including impaired gastric
      accommodation, autonomic neuropathy, vagal nerve injury, uncoordinated gastric contractility,
      and pyloric dysfunction.

      Effective and durable medical treatment of gastroparesis has remained clinically challenging.
      Currently metoclopramide is the only medication approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) for diabetic gastroparesis, and treatment courses are recommended to be
      limited to a maximum of 12 weeks due to the risk of the irreversible side effect of tardive
      dyskinesia. Surgical treatments for gastroparesis also remain limited, with sparse existing
      data to support the use of implanted gastric electrical stimulation for treatment of
      refractory gastroparesis, which is currently approved by the FDA only for compassionate use.
      More recently, surgical pyloroplasty has been examined in treatment of gastroparesis, which
      has long been recognized as a technique to improve gastric drainage for mechanical
      obstructions and during elective vagotomy after gastric surgery. A recent study examined
      surgical pyloroplasty in 28 patients with post-surgical gastroparesis with 83% patients
      reporting significant clinical improvement at one-month follow-up but current surgical
      literature remains limited in this area and has focused primarily on post-surgical
      gastroparesis.

      Given the lack of effective treatment options, endoscopic therapies for gastroparesis have
      recently been investigated as adjunctive or alternative methods to treat gastroparesis.
      Pyloric dysfunction characterized by pyloric restriction or pylorospasm with prolonged
      periods of increased pyloric tone and contractions has been brought to attention as an area
      of targetable therapy for a subset of patients with gastroparesis. Pyloric botulinum toxin
      injections initially demonstrated improvement in gastric emptying after treatment, but
      subsequent results from double-blinded placebo-control studies failed to demonstrate a
      difference in symptoms compared to placebo.

      Transpyloric stenting was initially reported in 2013 in three cases of refractory
      gastroparesis with placement of a double layered, fully-covered, Niti-S self-expandable metal
      stent (TaeWoong Medical) across the pylorus with improvement in gastric emptying and symptoms
      in all three patients. A subsequent study of 30 patients with refractory gastroparesis who
      underwent transpyloric stenting demonstrated high technical success of stent placement (98%)
      with improvement of clinical symptoms in 75% of patients and 4-hour gastric emptying studies
      in 69% of patients. Stent migration was found to occur in 59% of patients without any
      associated adverse events. Current focus on transpyloric stenting in gastroparesis centers
      around determining optimal stent type and method of stent anchorage as well as the role of
      transpyloric stenting in treatment given lack of long-term durability.

      With advancements in endoscopic submucosal dissection, G-POEM has recently come in to light
      as a minimally invasive technique to treat refractory gastroparesis. Esophageal endoscopic
      myotomy has previously been well-described as a procedure for treatment of achalasia, and
      this technique was adopted by in 2013 with the first G-POEM for refractory gastroparesis. A
      subsequent multicenter study in 2017 reported on 30 patients with refractory gastroparesis
      who underwent G-POEM with a technical success rate of 100%. At 5.5-month follow-up, 86% of
      patients were found to have clinical response. Repeat gastric emptying studies after G-POEM
      also normalized or improved in 47% and 37% of patients respectively. G-POEM has now gained
      both national and international recognition in succeeding studies as a feasible and safe
      technique to effectively treat refractory gastroparesis in a subset of patients.

      Identifying predictors of success of G-POEM for treatment of gastroparesis is essential in
      further recognizing appropriate patients who would benefit from this therapy. As transpyloric
      stenting and G-POEM share underlying mechanisms of disruption of the pylorus, the
      investigators propose that improvement with transpyloric stenting in patients with refractory
      gastroparesis can be a predictor of subsequent response with G-POEM.
    
  