
    
      The aim of the study is to assess the efficacy and the usability of the cyberlegs ++
      ortho-prosthesis to improve the mobility and the quality of life in transfemoral amputees.
      This research focusses on the physical and mental effort needed in locomotion-related tasks
      and human robot interaction in transfemoral amputees using the CLs++ ortho-prosthesis
      modules. Unilateral transfemoral amputees will be recruited by a multidisciplinary team
      (physicians, physiotherapists and psychologists) and a list of inclusion- and exclusions
      criteria as reported in the 'Eligibility' will be fulfilled to enrol the experiment. If the
      participant fulfils the requirements to be enrolled, the responsible for the study will
      provide him/her with the information sheet and will answer all possible questions. Once the
      participant agrees to participate in the study, he/she will sign the informed consent form
      and an appointment will also be arranged with the orthopedic workshop to make a spare socket
      to be used during the clinical testings. In this first clinical study, a set of modules of
      the three hardware (HW) modules of the CLs++ ortho-prosthesis will be tested, namely the
      Active Trans-femoral Prosthesis (ATP), the Active Pelvis Orthosis (APO) and the Knee Ankle
      Foot Orthosis (KAFO).

      Each subject will be testing the different combinations of CLs++ modules along with the
      Wearable Sensory Apparatus (WSA) and the control software (SW):

      1)APO+WSA, 2) ATP+WSA, 3) APO+ATP+WSA, 4) APO+KAFO+WSA.

      The protocol of the CLs++ first clinical study will be constituted by two main phases:

      The initial Phase/familiarization phase:

      The appropriate combination of the CL++ modules will be selected based on the clinical
      evaluation (e.g. walking asymmetry, flexion-extension, hip strenght, strength of the
      contra-lateral limb) and the subjective feedback in terms of comfort and perceived
      functionality from the participant. The subjects will be asked to walk at their self-selected
      speed on a treadmill. To control all variables the functional assessments above will be
      performed on a treadmill, however, when possible gait related tasks and ancillary tasks will
      be performed during over-ground walking to asses functional exercise capacity:

        -  Six Minute Walking Test (6MWT)

        -  slope walking

        -  The Timed Up and Go test (TUG) to evaluate balance, Chair standing/sitting.

        -  The Stair Climbing Test (SCT) to asses stair climbing Electrophysiological and
           biomechanical parameters will be collected to tell us wether there is an advantage in
           the use of the novel active prosthetic device in comparison with the current prosthesis
           only.

      The outcomes measures in this study are:

        -  Electroencephalography (EEG) to record cortical brain activity using an
           Electro-Encephalography cap (EEGcap, Brain Products GmbH),

        -  Indirect measurement of the energy expenditure by measuring the oxygen uptake and the
           produced carbondioxide (ml/min/kg, portable gasanalyzer,Cosmed K5)

        -  Heart rate (Polar heart rate monitor)

      The study foresees the administration of dedicated questionnares to asses the workload such
      as:

        -  The Short Form-36 (SF-36) Report of perceived exertion (RPE)-Borg Scale, self-report of
           the perceived physical effort scale.

        -  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration task Load indeX (NASA-TLX)

        -  The System Usability Scale (SUS) to asses the usability of the CLs++ system.

        -  The SF-36 (short form-36 item) at baseline The subjects will conduct 2 experimental
           trials during the initial phase, this is with the CLs++ modules and with their current
           prosthesis only. The participant can rest between the assessments to let the patient
           recover, with at least 15-30 minutes.

      The second phase of the study consist of a intervention, this is a gait training program on
      the treadmill with the selected combination of CLs++ modules, 1 hour, 3 times a week.
      Participants will be asked to walk at their self-selected speed and they will be allowed to
      stop walking whenever they feel tired. At the end of each month we asses wether the
      experience gained in the training period has effects.

      Data of each patient will be analysed separately in order to highlight the occurence of
      differences between pre- and post- assessment sessions. This is a non-randomized cross-over
      research, a sample size of 16 subjects will be able to detect a 15% change in walking-related
      physical effort, in terms of energy expenditure in a single group of trans-femoral amputees
      with a statistical power >0.9 at the two-sided alpha-level.
    
  