
    
      Exercise training has been incorporated into current guidelines for the management of PAD.
      Multiple societal guidelines, including the American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical
      Practice Guidelines, Intersociety Consensus for the Management of PAD (TASC II), recommend
      supervised exercise therapy (SET) in the treatment of claudication symptoms in PAD.
      Consequently, the European Society of Cardiology proposes walking training as first-step
      therapy for claudicant patients before percutaneous or surgical options. Therefore, SET is
      the gold-standard for walking therapy in PAD patients. Although SET programs have proved to
      be more effective in increasing Maximum Walking Distance (MWD) and Pain-free Walking Distance
      (PFWD) compared with non-supervised exercise programs, they remain an underutilized tool and
      widespread implementation of SET is restricted by lack of facilities and funding. Home-based
      Exercise Therapy (HBET) has the advantage of providing a larger capacity of care, and in most
      cases, being feasibly close to the patients' home environment with reduced transport costs.
      Programs are self-directed with the guidance of healthcare providers that prescribe an
      exercise regimen similar to a supervised program. Thus, the primary goal of this study is to
      evaluate the effectiveness of an HBET program in increasing MWD, PFWD, and Functional Walking
      Distance (FWD). The study's primary outcomes will be MWD, PFWD, and FWD; secondary outcomes
      will be general and PAD-specific health-related quality of life (HRQoL) measures. A web
      platform and a mobile app will be created - WalkingPAD platform and app- allowing
      collaboration between several players, enhancing patient's compliance and accountability in
      their treatment strategy. Thus, an HBET will be prescribed to all the patients included in
      the study. The exercise prescription consists of: walking as the form of exercise, with a
      duration greater than 30 min per session, frequency of at least three sessions per week,
      using a near-maximal pain during training as claudication pain endpoint, and with a 6-month
      of duration. Participants will be randomized by three conditions - Active Control Group
      (ACG), an Experimental Group 1 (EG1), and an Experimental Group 2 (EG2) - stratified by age
      and MWD at baseline, and assessed at Time 1 (T1: before intervention), three months later
      (T2), and six months later (T3; follow-up). With WalkingPAD, investigators intend to
      demonstrate the technical feasibility and economic viability of a personalized medicine
      application in real-life healthcare settings and aspire to ensure coordination with national,
      regional, or local health authorities for dissemination and implementation of a new
      patient-centered, effective and low-cost therapeutic strategy.

      Sample size calculation:

      A total of 200 PAD patients with IC are expected to be recruited from the outpatient clinic
      of the Angiology & Vascular Surgery Department in CHUP-HSA in an attempt to account for the
      dropout rate and still achieve a large enough sample to obtain a 95% confidence interval. The
      minimum sample size of the total computerized sample for the 2 repeated measures (baseline
      and 3 months; and baseline and 6 months) was 54 participants, i.e. a minimum of 27
      participants in each group (interventions groups and control group). The sample size was
      calculated for an effect size of 0.25, alfa of 0.05 and a power of 0,95 (1-beta) by the
      G*Power software.

      Data Analysis:

      Analyses of primary and secondary outcomes and process variables will be conducted on an
      intention-to-treat basis and all included participants will be analyzed as randomized.

      Procedure:

      Patients with PAD and IC, evaluated in the outpatient clinic of the Angiology & Vascular
      Surgery Department of CHUP-HSA between January and December of 2020 will be contacted by
      phone and invited to participate in the study. After obtaining oral consent by phone, a
      clinical, physical, hemodynamic and psychological evaluation will be scheduled at the
      hospital - Time 0 (T0 before assignment). In this assessment (T0), participants will sign a
      written consent and will be screened (1 hour +/-) to ascertain particular and specific
      exclusion and inclusion criteria.

      Then, block randomization with four stratum will be performed. Stratum will be defined by age
      and mean walking distance at baseline. All patients will be informed of the goals,
      experimental procedures, risks, and benefits of the study. Signed informed consent from all
      patients will be obtained confirming adequate understanding of all information, voluntary
      decision and free from undue influence such as manipulation or coercion. The right of the
      recruited participants to change their minds and to abandon the investigation without penalty
      and with no obligation to justify shall be respected. All participants will have access to
      information about the new knowledge generated by the research to which they contributed. The
      privacy and confidentiality of patients' clinical data and respect for autonomy will be
      guaranteed. At Time 1 (T1), patients who meet the inclusion criteria (at T0) and accept to
      collaborate in this study will be (blind) allocated to one of the study's arms - ACG, EG1, or
      EG2, and evaluated with psychological and physical measures. Patients will be assessed after
      3 months (T2) and six months (T3).
    
  