
    
      This clinical trial explores the physiological effects of yoga nidra and its connection to
      sleep. The investigators will measure patterns in brainwave activity, respiration and heart
      rate variability using EEG, and two wireless devices: the Spire® breath monitor and the
      Bodyguard® HRV monitor. This study will also address feasibility questions related to
      credibility and acceptability, using self-report surveys, drop-out rates, and participant
      feedback. Twenty-two participants will be recruited using digital and paper advertisements
      throughout Portland and the National University of Natural Medicine (NUNM). Interested
      individuals will contact the study coordinator, and then complete a screening call. During
      this telephone screening, the study coordinator will ask general questions and use
      standardized surveys to exclude participants based on inclusion/exclusion criteria.
      Prospective participants who pass the telephone screening will then be invited for two visits
      to the Helfgott Research Institute. Each visit will involve informed consent, followed by the
      completion of two eligibility surveys, and several intake questionnaires. The measurement
      periods will involve: 10 minutes of baseline data collection, 30 minutes of lying quietly or
      listening to a recording of yoga nidra, and then 1 hour of resting comfortably. Participants
      will be allowed to fall asleep during this time and will be left alone in the room with the
      lights out during the entire intervention (after the first 10 minutes of baseline data
      collection). When finished, participants will complete a few short questionnaires before
      their departure. The first visit will involve lying quietly as a baseline control. At the
      second visit, half of the population will be randomly selected to do yoga nidra and half will
      complete the baseline control measurements again.
    
  