
    
      Stroke is the third leading cause of disability in the United States. To date, conventional
      rehabilitation is not able to restore normal, safe, gait for many individuals with stroke. We
      have identified nine gait component deficits which respond to the FNS-IM intervention. This
      study will test a refined treatment protocol of 3 months duration to restore volitional gait
      by restoring those nine gait components simultaneously. In addition, we will incorporate into
      the treatment protocol a promising non-invasive technique of partial body weight-supported
      (BWS) gait training on a treadmill. BWS and FNS-IM have the potential to provide additive
      effects for the patient and restore volitional gait more quickly and more completely than
      would otherwise be possible with one technique alone. Therefore, our first hypothesis is
      HYPOTHESIS I: BWS combined with FNS-IM, simultaneously applied to nine critical gait
      components, will restore volitional normal, safe gait to patients with chronic stroke within
      3 months. An advantage of BWS gait training is that it is non-invasive. Consequently, we must
      demonstrate the additive advantage of FNS-IM technique alone. Therefore the second hypothesis
      is: HYPOTHESIS II: FNS-IM plus BWS will restore volitional gait more quickly and completely
      for patients with chronic stroke compared with BWS alone.

      A total of thirty six chronic stroke patients will be randomly divided into two treatment
      groups (1) FNS-IM plus BWS; (2) BWS alone. Outcome measures for hypothesis testing will be
      threefold : 1) Gait normality (kinematics of nine gait components); 2) Safety (number of
      falls); 3) Functionality (gait speed, walking endurance, and CHART, a handicap measure of
      mobility and activity level). Data will be collected every four weeks during the three months
      of treatment. Maintenance of gains will be monitored at two additional data collections at
      six months and one year following the end of the treatment period. Results of this study have
      the potential to provide the following clinically applicable information:

      1. For patients with stroke, a refined treatment protocol of 3 months duration for
      restoration of normal, safe, volitional gait which is practical within the current healthcare
      milieu. 2. A definitive recommendation regarding the most effective treatment for chronic
      stroke patients: (1) BWS plus FNS-IM or (2) BWS alone.

      RESEARCH OBJECTIVES

        1. Build stimulators and electrodes.

        2. Obtain measures pre and post intervention for the two groups (FNS-IM + BWS; and BWS
           alone) to detect gains in: a) gait pattern; b) safety; c) functional capability; and d)
           quality of life.

        3. Analyze data for the group receiving FNS-IM + BWS, in order to test

           Hypothesis I.

        4. Produce therapy protocols for FNS-IM and BWS intervention, and treatment progression.

        5. Test Hypothesis II by comparing the two treatment groups (BWS vs BWS + FNS-IM).
    
  