
    
      Purpose: The primary purpose of this proposed study is to pilot test the planned Alberta
      Cancer Exercise (ACE) program evaluation components at the level of the individual cancer
      survivor. These components include program reach as well as effectiveness as determined by
      outcomes of physical fitness, symptoms, and quality of life. This proposed study will enable
      us to formalize an evaluation strategy to inform effectiveness and implementation of the ACE
      program.

      Methods: A randomized controlled trial (RCT) design will be utilized to examine the
      short-term effectiveness of the proposed community-based cancer exercise program designed for
      cancer survivors. The study will take place at the Cross Cancer Institute/University of
      Alberta and Tom Baker Cancer Centre/ University of Calgary as well as in selected YMCA
      community fitness centres in Edmonton and Calgary. The exercise intervention will be
      delivered by specially trained exercise professionals who have completed the formal cancer
      exercise education course. Eighty participants will be randomized to early (intervention
      group) or delayed community-based exercise programming (standard care group). Participants
      randomized to the intervention group will undertake the ACE Program at a selected Edmonton
      and Calgary YMCA for an 8-week period. Following the 8-week supervised intervention period,
      participants will have the option to continue on a 'fee for service' basis or to continue
      with self-directed exercise at home. Participants allocated to the standard care group will
      receive standard advice and counseling on physical activity and will serve as the 'control
      group' for a 16-week period. The standard care group will be offered participation in the
      8-week ACE program at the completion of the 16-week follow-up period.

      Outcomes: The primary outcome is program feasibility: recruitment, completion and adherence
      rates. For the purposes of the proposed study and the length of follow-up of 24 weeks, the
      RE-AIM components of Reach, Effectiveness and Implementation at the level of the individual
      will be evaluated as potential outcome indicators for the ACE program. Outcomes will include
      measures of health-related physical fitness, cancer-related symptoms and quality of life.

      Summary: ACE is an active living initiative, encouraging cancer survivors in Alberta to take
      a role in their own wellbeing by supporting participation in cancer-specific community-based
      exercise programs.
    
  