
    
      Diabetes is now a pandemic disease affecting 5-10% of global population. More than 60% of
      affected people will come from Asia with the number expected to increase from 85 million in
      2005 to 132 million in 2010 in Asia alone. On average, diabetes reduces life expectancy by
      10-12 years. While stroke, heart disease and kidney failure account for more than 50% of
      global deaths, 30-50% of patients with these conditions have diabetes as a major contributing
      factor. In contrast to the West, the main increase in diabetes prevalence in Asia will occur
      in the young to middle aged population. On average, 17 million people die from stroke and
      heart disease on a yearly basis. Of these, 11 million occur in Asia, affecting many young
      parents and economically active people.

      Despite their devastating nature, many diabetic complications can be prevented and managed
      effectively to preserve health, reduce disabilities and improve quality of life. However,
      there are multiple barriers in the implementation of quality diabetes care. These include
      insufficient knowledge base of health care professionals, fragmented nature of health care
      systems, lack of reimbursement for outpatient procedures including therapeutic patient
      education, poor compliance to treatment in part due to the silent nature of diabetes and
      associated complications as well as the complex nature of care protocols. The latter include
      periodic evaluation of clinical and laboratory parameters and the need for people with
      diabetes to adhere to long term medications and self care.

      While optimal management of risk factors and treatment to targets can substantially reduce
      the risk of diabetes associated complications, the challenge lies in the effective
      translation of this evidence to clinical practice. Since mid 1990s, inspired by the benefits
      of structured care, made possible during the conduct of clinical trials, the CUHK Diabetes
      Care & Research Group has developed prototypes of structured care protocols including an
      annual comprehensive assessment using a doctor-nurse-physician assistant team. Consistent
      with international data, these prototypes substantially improve rates of treatment compliance
      and attainment of multiple treatment targets resulting in reduced death and cardio-renal
      complication rates.

      The Joint Asia Diabetes Evaluation (JADE) Program is a web-based disease management program
      conceptualized, developed and tested by the Asia Diabetes Foundation (ADF) since 2007,
      supported by a MSD educational grant. The objectives of the JADE Program include:

        1. to promote collective learning and sharing of best practices in diabetes based on
           regionally relevant evidence

        2. to increase regional awareness about the magnitude of diabetes and its preventable
           nature through education, ongoing data collection and implementation of evidence-based
           guidelines

        3. to establish a regional diabetes registry

        4. to collect the evidence base to inform relevant stakeholders including public, people
           with diabetes, health care professionals, policy makers and payors to change policies
           and practices in order to make quality diabetes care accessible, sustainable and
           affordable.

      Using state of the art information technology, the JADE and DIAMOND electronic portal
      provides a virtual platform to enable care professionals to record, manage and analyse the
      large amount of information collected during various consultation visits. The Programs also
      incorporate risk equations developed and validated by the CUHK Diabetes Care & Research Group
      to help doctors assess their patients' future event rates. This information, displayed in
      charts and trend lines, can be communicated to patients and doctors to motivate behavioral
      changes and encourage dialogues to set treatment goals.

      Apart from providing templates for documentation of risk factors and complications using
      standardized protocols, the JADE Program also incorporates different evidence-based care
      protocols with recommendations on follow up schedules and care processes in accordance to the
      patient's risk profile. Decision support in terms of prompts, charts, trend lines and
      practice tips are used to help doctors and patients to make informed decisions and to
      optimize care. The JADE Program also possesses matrixes which enable care providers to track
      clinical progress and risk factor control for benchmarking and quality improvement purposes.
      On the other hand, the DIAMOND Program provides the first step to entry of a quality
      assurance program by establishing a diabetes registry at a clinic level. The ongoing
      collection of these data provides an invaluable platform for collaborative epidemiological
      and interventional studies pertinent to Asian populations.

      In this multicentre study, we shall use a trio team consisting of a trained doctor, nurse and
      physician assistant (PA) to deliver protocol-driven diabetes care using a web-based disease
      management program, the Joint Asia Diabetes Evaluation (JADE) Program. To fully realize the
      functionality of the JADE Program requires changes in the practice environment and deployment
      of additional manpower (e.g. a nurse and a PA) to enter data and provide reminders to
      patients and doctors to improve adherence to protocols. In settings where these changes may
      not be immediately possible, periodic comprehensive assessment using the structured template
      in the JADE Program allows recognition of risk factors and complications for early
      intervention. The latter will allow data collected in a systematic manner which forms the
      basis of a DIAbetes MONitoring Database (DIAMOND) as a first step towards quality assurance.

      After explanation by trained doctors and nurses and with written informed consent, patients
      will be randomized to either the JADE or DIAMOND Program. The former encompasses all
      components of the structured care delivered by a trio-team of doctor, nurse and PA while the
      DIAMOND Program only consists of comprehensive assessments at baseline and 12-month with
      patients managed in the usual manner thereafter. At the end of 12 months, all patients will
      undergo repeat comprehensive assessments for comparison of rates of attainment of treatment
      targets, behavioral changes, quality of life and default rates.

      Aims of the study:

        1. To evaluate the reach, adoption and acceptability of the JD Program by patients and
           health care team;

        2. To compare the effectiveness of the JADE (structured care) versus DIAMOND (usual care)
           Programs in attainment of treatment targets, improvement of quality of life and changes
           in behaviors;

        3. To document the pattern of complications, risk factors, use of medications and quality
           of life in type 2 diabetic patients

      Study sites:

        1. Beijing People's Hospital, Beijing

        2. Peking Union Hospital, Beijing

        3. 1st Hospital, Peking University Hospital, Beijing

        4. China-Japan Friendship Hospital, Beijing

        5. Shanghai Sixth People's Hospital, Shanghai

        6. Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou
    
  