
    
      Context: Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) guidelines recommend target values for selected
      CPR parameters related to rate and depth of chest compressions and ventilations, and
      avoidance of CPR-free intervals. Recent studies on adult patients however show that rescuers
      often do not adhere to these guidelines. There is currently very little data on the quality
      of CPR performed on pediatric patients, but given the close similarity in therapy it can be
      expected that the adherence to Guidelines is suboptimal for this patient group as well.
      Feedback on quality of chest compressions and ventilations delivered during CPR are most
      frequently guided by a subjective "code leader", and not objective measurements. Quantitative
      systems that provide CPR feedback have demonstrated improvement to adult patient treatment.
      Based on these studies, these feedback systems (termed Quality of CPR or Q-CPR systems) were
      further improved in a new device called Heartstart MRx with Q-CPR option (MRx/Q-CPR). These
      devices have been approved by the FDA for use for patients >8 years. The MRX/Q-CPR, attached
      by a cord to the defibrillator/monitor, detects, displays and records the rate, force and the
      depth of compressions through an accelerometer and force transducer inside the compression
      pad. These devices have currently been approved by the CHOP Resuscitation Committee and
      Medical device committee for clinical implementation in the CHOP Intensive Care units (ICU)
      and Emergency Department (ED).

      Objectives: The goal of this study is to record and analyze the data from the MRx/Q-CPR
      during in-hospital cardiac arrests of children > 8 years for two research objectives. The
      primary research objective is to evaluate the rate, depth, and quality of chest compressions
      and ventilations delivered to children during in-hospital CPR. A secondary research objective
      is to determine the chest wall stiffness of children in order to improve quantitative CPR
      modeling efforts and to facilitate the construction of more biofidelic pediatric manikins for
      CPR simulation and test dummies for automotive safety
    
  