
    
      The purpose of the study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of pepinemab in
      combination with pembrolizumab and determine a recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) in patients
      with advanced, recurrent or metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (R/M HNSCC). The
      study will consist of a safety run in phase and a dose expansion phase.

      The primary objective of the Safety Run-in phase of the study is to evaluate the safety and
      tolerability of pepinemab in combination with pembrolizumab and determine a recommended Phase
      2 dose (RP2D) for the dose-expansion phase enrolling subjects in patients with advanced,
      recurrent or metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (R/M HNSCC).

      The primary objective of the Dose Expansion phase of the study is to evaluate objective
      response rate (ORR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 of the
      combination of pepinemab/pembrolizumab in immunotherapy naïve patients with advanced R/M
      HNSCC.

      The secondary objectives of the study are to evaluate progression-free survival (PFS) by
      RECIST 1.1 of the combination of pepinemab/pembrolizumab in immunotherapy naïve patients with
      advanced R/M HNSCC, to evaluate the overall survival (OS), and to evaluate the duration of
      response (DOR).

      The exploratory objectives of the study are to evaluate PFS, ORR, and DOR via the iRECIST
      criteria, to evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK), pharmacodynamics (PD), and immunogenicity of
      the combination, to investigate the relationship between treatment with pepinemab and
      pembrolizumab and certain biomarkers and the genomic signatures of baseline or archival tumor
      samples.

      The Safety Run-in phase will enroll a minimum of 3 subject and a maximum of 18 subjects who
      will be treated with intravenous pepinemab IV (starting at 20 mg/kg, with potential dose
      modifications to 15 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg) and pembrolizumab at 200 mg IV, Q3W. The Dose
      Expansion phase of the study will enroll a maximum of approximately 62 subjects who will be
      treated with intravenous pepinemab administered IV at the RP2D, plus pembrolizumab 200 mg IV,
      Q3W.

      Subjects will undergo evaluation for extent of disease (EOD) at baseline, week 9, every 6
      weeks through year 1, and every 9 weeks thereafter. Subjects who discontinue study treatment
      will continue to be followed for survival every 12 weeks after safety follow-up (for up to
      approximately 2 years).
    
  