
    
      Purpose: A prospective, open-label, real life registry of Tolvaptan in hospitalized heart
      failure patients with hyponatremia.

      Hypothesis: Administration of Tolvaptan in hospitalized patients with heart failure and
      hyponatremia will demonstrate improvements in patient symptom status and cost savings from
      decreased healthcare utilization.

      Justification: In clinical trials, Tolvaptan has been shown to quickly, effectively, and
      safely improve sodium levels in heart failure patients, and decrease the length of hospital
      stay and improve symptom status compared to placebo. Although Tolvaptan is an approved drug
      in Canada for the treatment of patients hospitalized with heart failure and hyponatremia, its
      availability is limited to private buyers and not available on hospital formularies due to
      cost constraints. There are no alternatives to this first in class agent.

      Objectives: The primary endpoint is reduction in length of stay for heart failure in registry
      participants compared to length of stay in the Vancouver Coastal Health (VCH) administrative
      data set. Secondary endpoints will include recurrent hospitalization, change in quality of
      life, and B-type Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) levels over the study period.

      Research Method: Patients admitted to Vancouver General Hospital (VGH) with heart failure and
      hyponatremia will be identified through clinical referral by cardiologists who have ensured
      that all other measures have been undertaken to improve the patient's clinical status.

      Tolvaptan is dispensed according to product monograph and clinician discretion, and will be
      discontinued once serum sodium is normalized, or in the case of a drug related adverse event
      or hospital discharge. Bloodwork will be drawn to monitor liver function and electrolytes
      during hospitalization and in follow up. Data will be captured from time of consent until 6
      months after hospital discharge.
    
  