
    
      Background Shortly after the structure of aldosterone (aldo) was determined (1) in 1952, its
      effect on the kidney to cause sodium (Na) retention and potassium (K) and hydrogen ion (H)
      excretion were characterized (2,3). Although the ability of aldo to effect many transporting
      epithelia is now well known, it is this effect on the kidney to retain sodium which is felt
      to play an important role in Na retention to cause edema and, in some settings, hypertension
      (HBP).

      Aldo was shown by Edelman (4) to bind to a specific receptor and then be transported into the
      nucleus of aldo responsive cells and subsequently lead to the production of aldo-induced
      proteins. The first aldo receptor antagonist )ARA(, spironolactone, has been used clinically
      for over 30 years in the management of edema and in the past few years a new agent
      Eplerenone, which is structurally similar to spironolactone, but without the side effect of
      gynecomastia, has come into clinical use in the USA and in Israel.

      Treatment of HBP is usually directed at the cause of the HBP if it is known, for example,
      removal of tumors releasing catecholamines and correcting renal artery stenosis. If HBP is
      due to primary aldosteronism, then surgical removal of the tumor, or use of an ARA is usually
      effective (5,6). When the cause of the HBP is not known, traditionally called essential
      hypertension, therapy today frequently involves drugs that interfere with the RAS (7), but
      until recently the addition of an ARA was not usually included. Recently studies by Epstein
      and others (8,9) have shown that the addition of an ARA to the drug management of what has
      been considered essential HPB can further reduce HBP by over 10 mmHg, thus suggesting that
      the addition of an ARA to the routine tools available to treat HBP is important. Although the
      mechanism by which this addition of an ARA lowers HBP is not clear, the obvious suggestion is
      that by blocking the effect of aldo on the kidney to reabsorb Na there is an increased
      excretion of Na which is responsible for the lowering of HBP.

      In patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), at the time they start dialysis HBP is
      common and has been attributed to volume overload or an active RAS (10). Early in the history
      of hemodialysis the potential for the RAS to be involved in causing HBP was unclear, but
      studies with saralasin (11,12), a competitive angiotensin II antagonist, clearly showed that
      in dialysis patients with elevated plasma renin levels the renin was involved in causing HBP
      by leading to the generation of angiotensin II. Although a number of other mechanisms apart
      from volume and angiotensin II have been considered, there is little evidence today that any,
      including aldo, play a regular role in causing HBP in the dialysis setting.

      Because of the possibility that aldosterone may contribute to the HBP of patients on
      dialysis, independent of an effect on sodium excretion (since such patients excrete little
      urine), this protocol is designed to test this possibility by administering an ARA to
      patients on chronic dialysis with HBP. A positive result would strongly suggest that there is
      an effect to lower HBP independent of sodium excretion. Such a result would be indicative of
      a non-Na mechanism for ARA to lower HBP in dialysis patients, but would also suggest the
      possibility of ARA acting by a non-Na mechanism in lowering HBP in essential HBP.

      Is hyperkalemia a concern in this protocol? Although there is evidence that aldo can
      facilitate potassium excretion, even in patients with renal failure (13) by increasing GI
      excretion, there have been several studies recently which demonstrate that spironolactone
      (14,15) or Eplerenone (16) can be given to renal failure/ dialysis patients without the
      development of hyperkalemia. Thus, it seems that these ARAs can be given to patients with
      chronic renal failure, including patients on dialysis, without hyperkalemia routinely
      developing. Nevertheless, in this protocol, plasma potassium will be regularly measured to
      minimize the development of hyperkalemia.

      A very small study addressed this question using Spironolactone (14). Since it has been shown
      that Eplerenone does not cause gynecomastia in men, and many of our dialysis patients are
      men, we will use this drug, rather than Spironolactone, in this study.

      Rational and Aims The role of aldo to cause HBP by a Na retaining mechanism is well
      described. Since recent studies suggest that aldo may have other mechanisms of action, this
      protocol will address the possibility that aldo can cause HBP by a non-Na retaining
      mechanism. This will be done by giving an ARA, Eplerenone, to patients with HBP on dialysis.
      In these patients the kidney plays no role in Na regulation. Thus, if BP falls with
      Eplerenone, these observations would strongly support the hypothesis than aldo can cause HBP
      by a non-Na retaining mechanism.

      Methods We will select study participants from adult hemodialysis patients treated thrice
      weekly at Shaare Zedek Medical Center Dialysis Unit. Men and women will qualify for the study
      if they were on hemodialysis therapy for more than 3 months, have an average predialysis
      plasma potassium concentration less than 5.6 mEq/L at the time of enrollment and have nil or
      minimal urine output (<500 mL/24 h). All participating women of childbearing age will have a
      negative pregnancy test result before entering into the study. Additional exclusion criteria
      will include a known allergy to Spironolactone or Eplerenone; any acute illness; hypotension,
      defined as a predialysis systolic blood pressure less than 100 mm Hg; severe hypertension
      (predialysis systolic blood pressure >180 mm Hg and/or diastolic blood pressure >100 mm Hg);
      decompensated heart failure; inability to give informed consent; and noncompliance. The
      Institutional Review Board of Shaare Zedek Medical Center will be asked to give approval to
      the study protocol. All participants will give written-informed consent.

      We plan on enrolling 27 patients in a prospective, randomized, double-blinded,
      placebo-controlled, crossover study. At study start, participants will be administered either
      Eplerenone, 25 mg, or a placebo tablet orally twice daily for 4 weeks. This 4-week period
      will be followed by a 3-week washout period. After the washout period, patients will cross
      over in their treatment arms for 4 more weeks. Patients administered Eplerenone for the first
      4 weeks will be given placebo for the last 4 weeks, and vice versa. All patients will serve
      as their own controls.

      Participants will receive outpatient hemodialysis 3 times a week using B. Braun CE0123
      machines (B. Braun, D-34212 Meisungen, Germany). All patients will use B. Braun polysulfone
      membranes. To control for the effects of volume on blood pressure and the RAS, we plan to
      keep target postdialysis weight (dry weight) constant for each patient during the study.
      Dialysate sodium concentrations will be held constant at 140 mEq/L for all patients,
      dialysate potassium concentrations will be maintained at 2 mEq/L thru the study. We do not
      plan to impose additional dietary potassium restrictions beyond the usual recommendations for
      patients with ESRD treated with hemodialysis. We plan to make no changes to dialysate
      potassium concentrations or antihypertensive regimens. Because of a mandate not to alter the
      antihypertensive regimen, target weight, and dialysis potassium bath during the study, we
      will exclude patients with hypotension, severe hypertension, and hyperkalemia. To evaluate
      the effect of Eplerenone independent of its diuretic action, we plan to include only oliguric
      or anuric patients (urine output <500 mL/24 h).

      We plan to determine predialysis and postdialysis weights, interdialytic weight gains
      (IDWGs), and systolic and diastolic blood pressures for each patient by calculating an
      average of 3 measurements obtained during 1 week before the administration of any study
      medication (baseline), during each week of placebo and Eplerenone treatment, and during the
      last week of the washout period. At the beginning and end of each treatment period, we plan
      to measure predialysis and postdialysis plasma potassium and aldosterone levels, renin
      activity (PRA), and, on a nondialysis day, 24-hour urine excretion of sodium, potassium, and
      creatinine. We plan to monitor predialysis plasma potassium concentrations weekly in all
      subjects. Predialysis blood samples will be obtained after cannulation of the vascular access
      before the start of the dialysis session. We plan to obtain postdialysis blood samples from a
      predialyzer blood sample port at the end of the hemodialysis session after slowing the blood
      pump to 50 to 100 mL/min. Shaare Zedek Medical Center Laboratory will perform all laboratory
      tests.

      Statistical Methods Results will be presented as mean ± SD. To compare clinical and
      laboratory parameters, Student t-test will be used for paired samples. Linear regression and
      correlation will be used to assess the relationship between 2 variables. Stepwise regression
      will be used to identify predictors of a single variable. P less than 0.05 will be used to
      define statistical significance. We will perform all statistical analyses using standard
      software packages.
    
  