
    
      Hot flashes are the most severe and fourth most prevalent menopausal symptom reported by
      women with breast cancer. Hot flashes affect over 65% of this population, with 59% rating the
      symptom as severe and 44% reporting they are extremely distressed by the symptom. Despite the
      high prevalence, severity and distress associated with this symptom, the scientific basis for
      managing hot flashes in women with breast cancer is limited. This randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled crossover trial examines the effectiveness and toxicity of sustained
      release venlafaxine hydrochloride (37.5 mg po qd) on hot flashes in women following treatment
      for breast cancer. Venlafaxine is a phenylethylamine derivative that potently inhibits the
      reuptake of neuronal serotonin and norepinephrine and weakly inhibits the reuptake of
      dopamine. A secondary aim of this project is to examine the impact of hot flashes on
      psychological, behavioral, and physical outcomes. This study is based on the Wickham Symptom
      Management Model which depicts interrelationships between symptoms, symptom management
      strategies, and symptom management outcomes. Participants (n = 80) who are at least one month
      post-completion of surgery, radiation, and/or chemotherapy and who have been on tamoxifen (if
      prescribed) for at least six weeks will complete a two-week baseline hot flash assessment and
      be randomized to one arm of the crossover trial. At the end of the first six-week arm,
      participants will crossover to the opposite study arm for an additional six weeks. Outcomes
      to be assessed include effectiveness of the intervention (hot flash frequency, severity,
      distress and magnitude), toxicity of the intervention (subjective preference, side effects),
      psychological outcomes (mood disturbance), behavioral outcomes (quality of life, interference
      with daily activities) and physical outcomes (fatigue and sleep disturbance). Hot flashes
      will be measured daily, using a subjective, prospective diary methodology, and weekly, using
      objective state-of-the art 24-hour physiological monitoring of sternal skin conductance.
      Other outcomes will be measured weekly. Compliance with the intervention/placebo will be
      assessed weekly using medication blister pack cards. Timing of outcome assessments is based
      on limitations of the physiological monitoring device and expected timing of treatment
      effects. Summary statistics (i.e., mean, slope, maximum response, range, proportion,
      achievable difference) will be used to effectively reduce the design to a 2 X 2 crossover and
      data will be analyzed accordingly (i.e., t-tests, linear regression, GEE, mixed model). Study
      findings will significantly contribute to the scientific basis of hot flash management in
      women following treatment for breast cancer.
    
  