
    
      The confluence of obesity and pre-diabetes in older adults increases the risk of diabetes,
      and accelerates functional decline, chronic disease, disability, and death. More research is
      needed to refine and extend preventive interventions to reduce burden for vulnerable
      individuals and society. For over a decade efficacious 6- and 12-month Diabetes Prevention
      Program (DPP) lifestyle interventions have been translated successfully and shown positive
      impact. However, efforts to develop and evaluate scalable programs conforming to current
      guidelines for longer term DPP interventions (up to 24 months), which are consistent with a
      chronic care model, and help a greater proportion of enrollees sustain the recommended weight
      loss target of ≥ 5% are lacking. The scientific premise is that evaluation of translational
      DPP interventions, which has centered largely on strategies for weight loss induction, must
      be extended to include scalable longer-term interventions that show meaningful weight,
      cardiometabolic and functional health benefits for vulnerable older adults in community-based
      settings. A previous DPP-based study from this group of investigators documented the utility
      of telephone follow-up after 12-weeks of DPP weight loss induction and demonstrated that 63%
      of the 65-80-year-old volunteer sample with obesity and other risk factors were able to
      sustain ≥ 5% weight loss at 12-months. Despite good evidence that longer duration lifestyle
      interventions yield better outcomes (reflected in the latest Medicare ruling) there are no
      translational studies of 24-month long DPP-based interventions for older adults exclusively.
      The investigators will recruit participants from a broad array of community settings and
      examine how best to sustain the impact of a healthy lifestyle-healthy aging focused DPP with
      scalable treatment components over a 24-month period. The Sustain-DPP study will recruit and
      enroll adults 60 years of age and older, with overweight/obesity (BMI >= 27) and pre-diabetes
      (either HbA1c of 5.7 to 6.4% inclusive or fasting glucose >=100 but less than 126 mg/dL) (N =
      360) from a network of community centers that offer healthy aging services and from community
      research registries. The intervention program sequence has been designed to align with
      current Medicare guidelines. First, from 0-6 months, experienced lifestyle coaches will
      administer a combination of in-person, video and telephone coaching sessions for all
      participants, at least 25% from ethnic/racial minority groups. Next, individual participants
      will be randomized (N = 180 per arm; stratified by weight loss of < or ≥ 5% and other
      demographic factors) to one of two 18-month follow-up conditions delivered as once-a-month
      telephone sessions only from 6-24 months. The investigators will compare the effects of (1)
      30-minute behavioral intervention sessions, which include a Medicare-DPP and healthy
      lifestyle for healthy aging focus, and (2) 15-minute social support sessions, on measures of
      weight (the primary outcome) at 12-, 18-, and 24-months. In addition, data will be collected
      on cardiometabolic, physical activity, physical function, psychosocial, behavioral and other
      age-sensitive quality of life measures at 12- and 18- and 24-months. Finally, Medicare claims
      data will be examined for a proportion of the sample regarding medication use, outpatient,
      inpatient, and emergency visits and enrollment/participation in elder-focused activity
      programs. This work, if successful, will have immediate potential for DPP-sustainable
      lifestyle interventions that benefit vulnerable aging individuals and society.
    
  