
    
      Post-surgery, patients are traditionally observed and treated in post-anesthesia care units
      (PACU) until they are discharged to the ward (or directly home) assessed by standardized
      international discharge criteria.

      The research project "Why in PACU?" (Rigshospitalet, Denmark), has since the beginning of
      2016 systematically collected and analyzed procedure-related complications in the recovery
      phase. The complications include pain, nausea/vomiting, circulatory and respiratory problems,
      orthostatic intolerance and cognitive disorders. Common to all the above-mentioned
      post-operative problems are the possible links to the inflammatory response caused by the
      surgical trauma.

      Glucocorticoids can in this context be central for the reduction of acute postoperative organ
      dysfunctions, caused by the anti-inflammatory effect. In a number of different surgical
      procedures, single dose, pre-operative glucocorticoids have been shown to reduce
      post-operative nausea and vomiting (PONV), acute pain and need of opioids as well as
      accelerate the convalescence.

      Meta-analyses also showed that single-dose administration of glucocorticoids
      (methylprednisolone and dexamethasone) for surgical patients is safe as opposed to long-term
      treatment.

      Based on positive results in other procedure-specific studies, all mastectomy patients at
      Rigshospitalet, have received pre-operative high-dose steroids, in the form of 24 mg
      dexamethasone injection since mid-2015. This has resulted in a decrease in the proportion of
      patients who need observation in PACU from 30 % to 10 %. The reduction is primarily due to
      less pain, less sedation, and lower opioid administration.

      Whether this is also partly due to a "systemic effect" (Hawthorn effect) as a result of
      increased focus on the area cannot be excluded.

      Prior to creating clinical recommendations and standards, it is required that the results be
      tested in a randomized, controlled, clinical trial.

      The study is not placebo-controlled since the positive effects of dexamethasone 8 mg on PONV
      have been shown in numerous trials, and is already being administered to all patients at the
      clinic. It would therefore not be ethically correct to withdraw from this practise.
    
  