
    
      This study is a dietary trial that examines the effects of increasing ALA by 2 gr or 4 gr per
      day, with and without decreasing linoleic acid, on inflammatory markers linked to CVD. Trial
      participants (n=136), approximately 50% women, 50% men) are age 50 and older and living in
      the town of Montana, Bulgaria during the study. The study uses a double-blinded
      placebo-controlled, randomized cross-over design. Combinations of two oils that are
      considered healthy (sunflower and olive) and an ALA supplement containing either 2 or 4 gr of
      ALA (supplied as flaxseed oil) or placebo are consumed for 6 weeks each: sunflower-ALA (high
      linoleic-low ALA), sunflower-placebo (high linoleic-low ALA), olive-ALA (low-linoleic-high
      ALA) and olive-placebo (low linoleic-low ALA). The participants are indicated to keep their
      usual diet and physical activity through-out the study. The primary endpoints are plasma
      levels of inflammatory markers. Secondary endpoints include systolic and diastolic blood
      pressure, and plasma levels of LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol and triglycerides.

      SPECIFIC AIMS

      To determine the effect of increasing ALA by 2 or 4 gr per day in the context of a diet that
      that is high in linoleic acid (~13% energy) on inflammatory markers. The ALA effect will be
      tested by comparing ALA supplement vs. placebo while using sunflower oil for cooking at home.
      We hypothesize that ALA has favorable effects on inflammatory markers in the context of a
      diet that is high in linoleic acid.

      To determine the effect of increasing ALA by 2 or 4 gr per day in the context of a diet that
      that is low in linoleic acid (~6% energy) on inflammatory markers. The ALA effect will be
      tested by comparing ALA supplement vs. placebo while using olive oil for cooking at home. We
      hypothesize that ALA has favorable effects on inflammatory markers in the context of a diet
      that is low in linoleic acid.

      SECONDARY AIMS

      To determine the effect of reducing linoleic acid from a high level (~13% energy) to a low
      level (~6% energy) while keeping ALA at a high level (2 or 4 gr per day) on plasma levels of
      inflammatory markers. The reduction in linoleic acid will be tested by comparing sunflower to
      olive oil while taking the ALA supplement. We hypothesize that reducing linoleic acid does
      not affect inflammatory markers when ALA intake is high.

      To determine the effect of reducing linoleic acid from a high level (~13% energy) to a low
      level (~6% energy) while keeping ALA at a low level (placebo) on plasma levels of
      inflammatory markers. The reduction in linoleic acid will be tested by comparing sunflower to
      olive oil while taking the placebo. We hypothesize that reducing linoleic acid does not
      affect inflammatory markers when ALA intake is low.

      To determine whether the intervention contrasts specified in the specific aims and secondary
      aims 1 & 2 affect plasma levels of LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol and triglycerides and
      blood pressure.

      We hypothesize that ALA has favorable effects on plasma triglycerides and blood pressure
      compared to placebo regardless of whether linoleic acid is high or low.

      We hypothesize that lowering linoleic acid has favorable effects on plasma HDL cholesterol
      but unfavorable effects on LDL cholesterol,regardless of whether ALA is high or low.
    
  