
    
      Disasters are frequently associated with environmental exposures and socioeconomic
      disruptions that may lead to short- and long-term health consequences. Disaster response
      workers are potentially at the greatest risk for adverse outcomes due to direct exposure to
      hazardous environmental contaminants during the emergency response process. The importance of
      conducting disaster responder research in the immediate aftermath of disasters has become
      widely recognized, but numerous barriers to doing so have also been recognized. The Rapid
      Acquisition of Pre- and Post-Incident Disaster Data (RAPIDD) protocol aims to address this
      gap by registering and characterizing a cohort of disaster response workers early in the
      disaster response phase to obtain baseline characteristics. Disaster response workers
      deployed to a disaster area to conduct emergency response activities will be targeted for
      enrollment. Disaster responders may include police, fire, and emergency medical personnel, as
      well as other responder groups such as public health personnel and workers involved in
      environmental remediation and restoration activities. The primary objective of the RAPIDD
      study is to create a research registry comprised of disaster response workers who are
      rostered before or immediately after deployment to a disaster area. Important secondary aims
      are to administer questionnaires and collect biological samples to characterize the cohort in
      a manner that will allow for future prospective analyses of associations between disaster
      exposures and health outcomes. In order to achieve these aims, we have developed a protocol,
      operational manuals, questionnaires, data collection systems, training plans, and other tools
      to reduce the time required to initiate disaster research. We will also obtain scientific and
      regulatory approval of the protocol in advance of the disaster in hopes that expedited
      amendments, with clarifications of the research, will minimize delays associated with various
      review cycles.

      In order to characterize the cohort prior to their involvement with response activities that
      could lead to disaster-related exposures, we will attempt to collect a wide range of
      questionnaire data, clinical measurements and biological samples. Questionnaires may cover
      topics including contact information, demographics, socioeconomic status, medical history,
      current physical and mental health status, occupational exposures, alcohol and tobacco use
      and other lifestyle factors.

      Biological specimens collected may include the following: blood, urine, nail clippings,
      saliva, buccal cells or hair. Clinical measurements may include vital signs, anthropometric
      measurements and spirometry. By seeking IRB and other regulatory approvals for carrying out
      this research in advance, we anticipate that we will be able to submit expedited amendments
      to clarify the research plan for a specific disaster so that research can be initiated early
      in the response phase. However, in the very early phases of some disaster situations, it may
      not be safe or feasible to collect the data needed to fully characterize a cohort of response
      workers. In these situations, data collection may be limited to rostering and limited
      self-collection of biospecimens. As the response effort stabilizes and more becomes known
      about potential exposures and related adverse health outcomes, we intend to expand our data
      collection effort, and we will seek expedited regulatory approval to do so.
    
  