
    
      Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is an important method to treat malignant
      tumor of blood system, and promoting platelets after HSCT is one of the important factors to
      determine the success of transplantation.

      Recently, the main effective method to treat thrombocytopenia after transplantation is to
      preventively transfuse platelets. However, this method can cause platelet transfusion related
      graft-versus-host disease(GVHD), increase the risk of reaction and infection associated with
      blood transfusion, easily produce platelet related and specific antibodies (HPA), which
      seriously affect the curative effect of platelet infusion and even render platelet
      transfusion invalid. Besides, study has shown that the effective rate of platelet transfusion
      is 30%-70%, and the application of platelets in clinic is limited because of the shortage of
      blood supply at present.

      Recombinant human thrombopoietin (rhTPO) is a glycoprotein molecule modified by full-length
      glycosylation and is of a similar pharmacological effect with endogenous thrombopoietin
      (TPO). TPO is a specific cytokine of megakaryocyte, which can promote the proliferation and
      maturation of macronuclear progenitor cells by binding to the receptor c-mpl. In addition,
      the chinese State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) approved rhTPO for the treatment of
      thrombocytopenia after tumor chemotherapy in 2006. The study shows that rhTPO can increase
      the mean value of platelet count in the low period of platelet, shorten the time of low
      platelet, and improve the peripheral blood platelet aggregation rate in the bone marrow
      depression period.

      Eltrombopag is the first oral non-peptide receptor (TPO-R) agonist, which can induce the
      proliferation and maturation of macronuclear progenitor cells via the Janus kinase (JAK)
      /signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathway. In 2008, the U.S. FDA
      approved the use of eltrombopag for the treatment of chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenia, and
      it has been widely used in tumor patients with thrombocytopenia after chemotherapy. Tanaka et
      al. have proved that eltrombopag can improve the average elevation of the platelet count in
      the bone marrow depression period in patients with stem cell transplantation. Besides, within
      the 9 patients receiving transplantation, the complete response of patients with primary and
      secondary thrombocytopenia were 60% and 71% respectively.

      In China, studies showed that rhTPO could promote the recovery of platelet count, effectively
      reduce the infusion of platelet, decrease the risk of transplanting hemorrhage in acute
      leukemia patients after allo-HSCT. However, it is not clear that the effect of eltrombopag on
      improving platelet count after the treatment of HSCT. In addition, the comparison of efficacy
      and safety of eltrombopag vs rhTPO on platelet recovery after HSCT in clinical trial is not
      investigated. Therefore, it is of great significance to explore the efficacy and safety of
      eltrombopag and rhTPO in improving the recovery of platelet count after HSCT, which will
      provide a better method to recover platelet after HSCT.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy of Eltrombopag vs rhTPO in complete
      response in patients after HSCT in China. To be more precise, Eltrombopag is taken 50 mg po
      daily from day 1 until platelet is completely effectively recovered after HSCT, while rhTPO
      is given by subcutaneous injection 15000 u daily from day 1 until platelet is completely
      effectively recovered after HSCT.

      Complete response (CR) is defined as a platelet count more than 50×109/L without injection of
      platelet for 7 days. Partial response (PR) is defined as a platelet count more than 30×109/L
      without injection of platelet for 7 days.

      After 21 days' treatment, a follow-up of all patients will be performed every week in the
      following 3 months.
    
  