
    
      Six recruited patients (4 females, 2 males; ranging from: 20-30 years old and with mean age
      24.6 years), who needed indirect laminate veneer restorations were included in this study.
      Patients were selected from the outpatient clinic of the Department of Fixed
      Prosthodontics,Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University The participants received a total of 54
      laminate veneers between April 2017 and February 2018. Written informed consent was acquired
      from all participating patients. Randomization was done using a computer generated 2 column
      list by the aid of Random.org in a 1:1 ratio. Allocation concealment was achieved using
      numbered cards in opaque sealed envelopes. Aluminium foil was placed inside the envelope to
      render the envelope impermeable to intense light. These envelopes were placed in a box and
      each participant was allowed to grasp one envelop the day of operation. Allocation
      concealment was performed by an investigator with no clinical involvement in the trial. This
      study is a single blinded study as the assessor was blinded to the assigned study groups.
      Blinding of the participants was not applicable as one of the techniques required extra
      visits. Blinding of the operator was not applicable as one clinician performed the tooth
      preparation in both techniques.A total of 54 laminate veneers were divided into two equal
      groups (n=27) according to the technique of tooth preparation: group T: traditional technique
      and group A: aesthetic pre-evaluative temporary technique. VITA ENAMIC material was used for
      CAD/CAM construction of laminate veneers. Cementation was performed using a light cured resin
      cement. The laminate veneers were evaluated at baseline, after 3, 6 and 12 months according
      to the modified United States Public Health Service (USPHS) criteriea. The data was
      collected, tabulated and statistically analyzed.
    
  