
    
      Postoperative ileus is a well-known problem for patients who have undergone a colorectal
      procedure. It is manifested as abdominal distension, accumulation of gas and fluid within the
      bowels and delayed bowel function (flatus or defecation). It is estimated that with
      traditional perioperative care for open colon resection postoperative ileus can lead to a
      length of stay (LOS) of 10 days. Such factors include the use of narcotics, immobilization,
      over-hydration with IV fluid etc. With about 350,000 colon and small bowel resections
      occurring annually and a bill to the healthcare system greater than US $20 billion, even
      decreasing LOS by one or two days can result in substantial cost savings.

      All patients undergoing colorectal surgery require medications for pain control. The mainstay
      of current treatment includes narcotics/opioids. The effect of these medicines on mu
      receptors of the intestine contribute to delayed bowel function. Protocols that limit the use
      of narcotics/opioids may reduce the risk of ileus, thus reducing length of stay and reducing
      cost.

      A prospective randomized clinical trial at a single tertiary referral academic affiliated
      medical center (OSF St. Francis Medical Center). Patients undergoing minimally invasive
      (laparoscopic or robotic) colorectal resection will be considered for inclusion. Surgery will
      be performed by two surgeons participating in the study protocol. Patient accrual is intended
      to begin May 1, 2016 and terminate either after 80 patients have been accrued or December 31,
      2018, whichever is first. Informed consent will be obtained and preoperative education will
      be provided (appendix A). Patients will be randomized to one of two groups. The randomization
      scheme is a random-permuted-block design without stratification. The block size is a random
      number between 4 and 8. Personnel who are unassociated with patient screening, enrollment, or
      follow-up will create the allocation sequence and will use a computerized, random number
      generator. The allocation sequence will be transferred to sequentially numbered, opaque
      envelopes for purposes of allocation concealment. Clinical trial coordinators/physicians will
      verify patient eligibility and informed consent before opening the envelope to obtain the
      treatment assignment. The experimental group will be placed on a narcotic limited protocol as
      described below. All used medications are FDA approved. No investigational medicines will be
      used.
    
  