
    
      Introduction Central venous catheter (CVC) insertion is a very common procedure in the
      intensive care setting. A recent international guideline advocates the use of ultrasound for
      routine internal jugular central venous catheter insertion1. The needle navigation technology
      is a new innovation, also known as guided positioning system (GPS) which allows clinician to
      visualize the needle position and trajectory in real time as it approaches the target. We
      hypothesised that the use of GPS would increase success rate and decrease performance time in
      vascular access procedures. The objectives of this study are to compare the success, efficacy
      and safety of central venous catheter insertion via internal jugular vein using the
      ultrasound guidance with conventional method versus needle navigation technology.

      Methods:

      This was a prospective randomized controlled study. It was conducted in a single centre -
      intensive care unit (ICU), University of Malaya Medical Centre, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia from
      February 2016 to October 2016. The ethic committee approval was obtained from the Malaysian
      medical research and ethics committee, MREC at the www.nih.gov.my (NMRR-16-334-29476).

      The inclusion criterion was patients in the ICU who required central venous vascular access.
      The exclusion criteria were refusal to participate in this study by patient or their legal
      representative and patient with known history of difficult central venous access at internal
      jugular vein (IJV). The procedure operators were doctors in anaesthesia residency program
      with various level of experiences classified into 3 groups: 1 to < 2 years, 2 to < 3years, 3
      years and above. Simply speaking all the operators have had previous training in ultrasound
      guided vascular access procedure. This would ensure that patient's safety is not compromised.

      Study would be proceeded after obtaining consent from patient or the next of kin. The
      emergency verbal consent would be taken if the next of kin was not immediately available with
      subsequent written consent to follow. The available operator would perform CVC insertion via
      IJV using ultrasound guidance out of plane approach either with conventional method or needle
      guidance technology.

      Study Protocol:

      After obtaining consent, a computer generated randomisation would be assigned to either using
      the conventional or GPS method. Identified operators using GPS method would receive a
      standard 5 minute briefing on the needle guidance technology and got to practice with the new
      technology using the vascular phantom (Blue Phantom Inc., Bothell, WA, USA). The operators
      were allowed to practice until they were ready to perform on real patient.

      All procedure would be performed using the ultrasound machine, eZono 4000 with eZGuide
      (eZono, Jena, Germany) and linear array transducer L3-12NGS (3-12 MHz). This ultrasound
      machine2 has a built-in adaptive needle recognition software called eZGuide. The navigation
      technology of the ultrasound device is based on an electromagnetic field that communicates
      with a transducer and an electromagnetic sensor sheathed by a vascular access needle. Needle
      movements and related magnetic field variation allow navigation system to compute the
      locations of the transducer and needle in the three dimensional space. The ultrasound screen
      would display colour coded alignment of the needle and the position of the tip relative to
      the imaging plane (Figure 1). Superimposed on the image is the real-time electronic needle
      guidance system. The dashed line represents the predicted needle trajectory. The red box
      represents the depth that the needle will cross the plane of the ultrasound. The solid lines
      on either side of the dashed line represent the actual depth of the needle. The top left
      corner shows a diagram of the transducer-needle relation. This allowed the user to identify
      the correct needle trajectory, prior to puncturing the patient's skin and maintain the chosen
      route to the target anatomy. Operators assigned to use GPS method would have activated the
      eZGuide software while those performing conventionally would have the software technology
      turned off when using the ultrasound machine.

      The procedure time was measured in seconds using a stopwatch. The performance time was
      defined as time measured from placing the needle on the skin to successful vessel puncture as
      indicated by blood withdrawn into the syringe.
    
  