
    
      Lewy body disease (LBD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases and second only
      to Alzheimer's disease in terms of prevalence, disability, and societal/financial burden. The
      phenotypic variability of LBD is striking, as it can manifest as the well-known disorder of
      Parkinson's disease without (PD) and with dementia (PDD), as well as DLB, MCI, REM sleep
      behavior disorder (RBD), pure autonomic failure (PAF), and other syndromes.

      One biomarker which is both highly sensitive and specific for evolving LBD in the setting of
      dementia is DaTscan [Ioflupane (123I)] imaging, in which loss of functional dopaminergic
      neuron terminals in the striatum as assessed by DaTscan reflects underlying LBD in those with
      dementia and particularly dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). DaTscan is the one of the first
      radiopharmaceutical agents available to detect DaT distribution within the brain. DaTscan
      imaging involves injection of the Ioflupane radioligand followed by imaging using a standard
      single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scanner. DaTscan provides visualization of
      the dopamine transporter (DaT) distribution within the striata (i.e., striatal uptake, or
      striatal signal) by SPECT imaging in patients presenting with symptoms or signs suggestive of
      dopaminergic neurodegeneration.

      Most DaTscan studies published to date have been conducted in centers outside of the US.
      DaTscan has not been studied in the syndrome of MCI, and minimally in corticobasal
      degeneration (CBD). Very little normative data exists in the aged population either.

      The FDA-approved indication is to assist in the evaluation of adult patients with suspected
      Parkinsonian syndromes (PS). In these patients, DaTscan may be used to help differentiate
      essential tremor from tremor due to Parkinsonian syndromes (such as idiopathic Parkinson's
      disease, multiple system atrophy and progressive supranuclear palsy). DaTscan will be used as
      an adjunct to other diagnostic evaluations. Identifying dopaminergic dysfunction is also
      important in other settings such as those with cognitive impairment with or without
      parkinsonism, and in subjects with REM sleep behavior disorder. The findings on DaTscan in
      subjects with these various disorders will be correlated with clinical diagnoses and other
      multimodal imaging studies (e.g., MRI, MRS, FDG-PET, and amyloid-PET) to enhance our
      understanding of neurodegenerative diseases. A subset of subjects will undergo a 2nd DaTscan
      at least 1 year after the initial scan was performed to determine if changes over time
      provide any prognostic information.
    
  