
    
      Endometrial cancer is the sixth most common cancer diagnosed in women worldwide and the
      leading gynecologic cancer in developed countries, accounting for nearly 50% of all newly
      diagnosed gynecologic cancers in the United States (1,2). The majority of endometrial cancers
      are diagnosed at an early stage which portends a favorable prognosis. Despite early diagnosis
      and generally favorable prognosis in these cancers, approximately 13% of patients will
      experience recurrence (3). Most recurrences occur in patients with known high-risk pathologic
      features, however approximately 3% of recurrences occur in patients with no high-risk
      pathology features (3). While well-defined pathologic factors such as age, tumor grade, and
      depth of invasion have been described for high-risk of recurrence, predicting recurrence in
      low-risk patients has been an ongoing challenge in the management of early stage endometrial
      cancers (4,5).

      One potential contribution to recurrence in low-risk endometrial cancers may be the presence
      of positively malignant peritoneal cytology. Positive peritoneal cytology (PPC) has been an
      ongoing topic of debate regarding its significance and optimal management in early stage
      endometrial cancers. Creasman and Rutledge initially described the prognostic value of
      peritoneal cytology in 1971 by linking PPC with worse survival at 4 years (6). Since then
      multiple studies have sought to address the significance of peritoneal cytology in
      endometrial cancer, many with conflicting results. Studies by Kasamatsu et al, Fadare et al,
      Lurain et al and Scott et al found that PPC is not a significant prognostic factor for
      disease recurrence or survival (7-10). Contrary to these data however studies by Lee et al,
      Garg et al, and Seagle et al have shown a positive correlation with PPC as both a prognostic
      factor and survival (11-13). Despite these conflicting data directing the significance of
      PPC, it remains an important contributing factor in the management and prognosis of
      endometrial cancer. Although peritoneal cytology was removed from FIGO staging in 2009, NCCN
      guidelines continue to recommend the collection of peritoneal cytology in order to further
      elucidate the impact of PPC, with some authors calling for the reinstatement of peritoneal
      cytology in endometrial cancer staging (12-13).

      In addition to the effects of pathological factors and peritoneal cytology on recurrence
      risk, recent studies in other gynecologic cancers have shown how different approaches in
      surgical management play a key role in overall disease prognosis and outcomes. The LACC
      trial, published in 2018, demonstrated the effects of differing surgical technique on
      outcomes by showing that patients undergoing minimally invasive surgery for management of
      cervical cancers fared worse in locoregional recurrence, disease-free survival and overall
      survival than patients undergoing traditional laparotomy (14). This study highlights the
      impact of surgical methodology on the prognosis and outcomes of oncologic surgery.

      Similar to the management of cervical cancers, over the last two decades laparoscopic surgery
      and staging has become the mainstay of management for women with uterine cancers. The
      traditional approach of laparotomy with hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, pelvic
      and para-aortic lymphadenectomy has come to be effectively replaced with the minimally
      invasive, laparoscopic approach which affords an equally efficacious surgery with shorter
      recovery and fewer complications (15,16). In order to perform more efficient and safe
      surgeries, intrauterine manipulators have been employed in laparoscopic hysterectomy. Since
      their introduction into gynecologic oncology surgery questions have risen regarding the
      possibility of increased risk of tumor dissemination with usage of intrauterine manipulators.
      The mechanisms of this have been theorized to include retrograde dissemination via the
      fallopian tubes into the peritoneal cavity as well as increased lymphovascular space invasion
      (17,18). Multiple studies have focused on the question of retrograde dissemination via the
      fallopian tubes with conflicting results. A retrospective study by Sonoda et el (19) found
      that when low-risk endometrial cancer was managed with laparoscopic assisted vaginal
      hysterectomy (LAVH) using an inflatable intrauterine manipulator, it was associated with
      increased incidence of positive peritoneal cytology compared to the control population (10.3%
      versus 2.8%). Lim et al prospectively evaluated the effect of uterine manipulator use on
      peritoneal cytology in laparoscopic hysterectomy using a RUMI manipulator and KOH
      colpotomizer and found that 4.3% of patients in their study were upstaged due to PPC
      following usage of a uterine manipulator (20). However, contrary to this, two prospective
      studies found that usage of a uterine manipulator did not increase the incidence of malignant
      peritoneal cytology in patients undergoing laparoscopic staging. A prospective study by
      Eltabakh et al (21) evaluated conversion from negative to PPC immediately following insertion
      of a Pelosi uterine manipulator in 42 patients. Based on their results that demonstrated no
      patients converted to PPC, they concluded that intrauterine manipulators do not increase the
      incidence of PPC. Additionally, Lee et al (22) published results of a randomized parallel
      trial of 110 patients undergoing laparoscopic surgery and staging for stage I endometrial
      cancer either with or without a uterine manipulator which showed no significant difference in
      the rate of positive cytology in either group.

      This study will be a randomized control trial in which patients will be randomized into two
      study arms following informed consent: a control arm utilizing a non-invasive sponge stick
      (Foerster ring forceps containing a raytec sponge (Vistec Covidien Health, Mansfield, MA))
      placed in the vagina for surgical assistance or a Vcare® intrauterine manipulator (ConMed
      Endosurgery, Utica, NY). Patients randomized to the Vcare® group will have the Vcare® placed
      in the usual fashion under direct visualization following entrance into the abdomen. Cytology
      washings will be obtained following entrance into the peritoneal cavity. Washings will be
      obtained by washing approximately 150cc of normal saline over the bilateral paracolic
      gutters, uterine fundus, and anterior and posterior cul de sacs. Fifty milliliters of fluid
      will then be aspirated for cytology collection. Cytology washings will then be obtained again
      prior to colpotomy. Patients will undergo total laparoscopic hysterectomy or robotic assisted
      total laparoscopic hysterectomy. Peritoneal washings obtained during surgery will be
      processed and undergo pathological examination. Covariate data including age, BMI, history of
      previous tubal ligation, FIGO stage, histologic type, histologic grade, lymphovascular space
      invasion, and gross evidence of tumor spillage will also be obtained.
    
  