
    
      Design. A 16-week triple-blind, placebo-controlled parallel-group, randomised trial of
      high-dose vitamin D supplementation compared to placebo in health care workers (HCW).

      Subjects: HCW caring for individuals at high-risk of infection (i.e., COVID-suspected or
      confirmed cases) will be randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio in variable block size to:
      Intervention-1 oral loading dose of 100,000 IU vitamin D3 + 10000 IU weekly vitamin D3 or
      Control-identical placebo loading dose + daily placebo. Follow-up: 2 (randomisation and
      end-of-study) virtual or in-person visits with weekly reminders, brief health and work-status
      questionnaire, and repeated salivary (or nasopharyngeal) samples.

      Randomisation/allocation concealment: Randomisation will be implemented using a
      computer-generated random list stratified by regions; health care workers will be allocated
      (1:1) using permuted block randomisation to enhance concealment.

      Sample size: A total of 2414 healthcare workers will provide 80% power to detect a 20%
      reduction in the risk of laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 infection. Given uncertainties in the
      infection progression, a Bayesian adaptive design is used where the posterior probability of
      effectiveness is the basis of inference and decision making, for study continuation or
      termination.

      Procedures. Use of remote or in-person randomisation and/or end-of-study visits and remote
      documentation of outcomes via electronic communication, mailing of biological samples, and
      external databases will facilitate enrolment, monitoring, and retention of motivated HCW in
      this high-intensity trial.

      Data analyses: An intention-to-treat analysis will be carried out on all randomized
      participants. Efficacy and safety analyses will be performed under allocation concealment
      with unblinding occurring after trial completion and analysis of primary outcomes.
    
  