
    
      Primary objective :

      Determination of the AUC / MIC and% T> MIC for each patient to confirm the appropriateness,
      in light of the peak and residual, and the interest of the split doses more frequently
      performed in case of too low residual toxicity or secondary objective: Determination of
      points of privileged samples in this context for maximum statistical power and minimal stress
      for the patient.

      - Outlook: Development of a population PK model and determination of co-variables of interest
      and individualized dosages immediately for the next patients

      Methodology :

      Prospective, multi-center, non-interventional type of routine care Study duration: 1 day /
      patient, maximum total duration of recruitment: 6 months, aim 30-40patients included

      Acquisition of data:

      Additional media (Informed consent, sampling protocol, collection form of biological,
      clinical and pharmacological patient and treatment)

        -  Statistical analysis by a software suitable pharmacokinetic

        -  Anonymity of data: an identifier for each subject will be awarded (first name and
           surname / number) and the data will be entered in a computer file that will be retained
           by the sponsor on the GHPSJ site for the realization of determinations of AUC and
           optimal dosages.

      Development of the study:

        -  Performance of the study

        -  Expected duration of patient recruitment: up to 6 months

        -  Number of patients to recruit 30 to 40 patients, limited by the number of hospitalized
           patients in the recruiting center (sanatorium Bligny), combining both MDR-TB and
           treatment with linezolid

        -  Duration of the study for each patient: 12 to 24 hours the time for the 7 samples.

        -  Regarding the iterative sampling and prevention of potentially associated pain, most
           patients already have a KT or a PAC in place for administering IV drugs (amiklin,
           augmentin or vitamins in particular), it is therefore on these it is planned to take
           samples. For the few patients with no system in place for use, it will be explained and
           proposed the establishment of a device Catelon and a patch Emla, the decision on the
           matter will be up to the patient.

      Destruction of samples: the samples will not be retained after being used for the study. They
      will be destroyed in accordance with the rules of good practice research laboratories.

      Data: Data include clinical and biological, bacteriological patient. The GHPSJ guarantee that
      the biological material will be digitally encoded and will not involve direct identifying
      information of subjects participating in research. The shipment will be made by the
      sanatorium Bligny staff under the supervision of the investigator within the department (Dr
      Mathilde Jachym and Damien Le Du).

      Ethical aspects: After notification of the CPP Ile de France II, the project will be
      classified as "research in routine care." The opinion of the CPP Ile de France II will be
      requested at the meeting of June 2015. The manager research center will be the hospital group
      Paris Saint-Joseph (GHPSJ). The latter will contract with the SHAM (usual insurer GHPSJ for
      care and clinical research) to ensure the risk of the blood sample.

      The research information will be issued and the signature of the Circular will be collected
      from the patient. An agreement will be made between institutions, and the GHPSJ Bligny
      Medical Center, including the logistics of transport and harvest management.
    
  