
    
      Chocolate, the main product deriving from cocoa beans (Theobroma cacao, from the Greek "food
      of the gods") has its origin in Mexico, where Maya, Inca and Aztecs practiced its
      cultivation, has for centuries been appreciated for its pleasant taste and its beneficial
      health effects.

      Chocolate is the most sought-after food worldwide, and currently its consumption has
      increased considerably with a wide availability of products on the market.

      Dietary choices are strongly influenced by the taste and consistency of foods. Fat is largely
      responsible for the sensory properties of many foods and, therefore, contribute greatly to
      the pleasure of eating. Dark chocolate consists of ≈43% of lipids, mainly represented by
      cocoa butter. Cocoa butter is composed of an average of 33% of oleic acid, 25% of palmitic
      acid and 33% of stearic acid. Another component of chocolate is polyphenols, in particular
      flavonoids, substances with numerous beneficial effects for health, including
      antihypertensive, anti-inflammatory, antithrombotic, metabolic and prebiotic activity playing
      a role in the change of human intestinal microbiota. Recent scientific studies show an
      inverse correlation between the intake of flavonoids in the diet and the incidence of
      diabetes, such as to hypothesize the use of foods rich in flavonoids as potential food
      supplements in the management of diabetes. The cocoa flavonoids can bring benefits to the
      insulin-resistance condition by improving endothelial function, modifying glucose metabolism
      and reducing oxidative stress, which is considered the main cause of insulin resistance. In
      healthy individuals and even in patients with moderate cardiovascular risk, regular intake of
      flavonoids improves levels of cardiovascular biomarkers, reducing serum LDL cholesterol
      concentrations and triglycerides and increasing HDL cholesterol concentrations. The
      flavonoids present in cocoa may also inhibit platelet aggregation by down-regulation of the
      cellular synthesis of eicosanoids. Chocolate is an effective alternative for increasing fiber
      intake at recommended levels; in addition, it reduces intestinal transit time by increasing
      peristaltic movements.
    
  