
    
      The overall study population (Main Study and Mechanistic Sub-study) will consist of a total
      of 205 male and female patients aged between 18 and 40 years inclusive.

      Main Study The Main Study will be conducted in patients with new-onset moderate to severe
      plaque psoriasis not previously treated with any systemic treatment or phototherapy. A total
      of 160 patients will be randomized to Arm A1 or Arm B1 in approximately 50 sites worldwide.
      Since a maximum screening failure rate of 20% is expected, approximately 200 patients will be
      screened.

      Mechanistic Sub-study Any patient who consents can participate in the Mechanistic Sub-study.
      Patients with new-onset plaque psoriasis will be randomized to Arm A1b, Arm A2, or Arm B1b,
      those with chronic plaque psoriasis will be randomized to Arm C1 and Arm C2 (15 patients
      each). For Arm A1b or Arm B1b, the first 15 patients will be included on a first come first
      serve basis.

      Safety assessments :Physical examination, Vital signs, Height and body weight, Laboratory
      evaluations (hematology, clinical chemistry, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein),
      Electrocardiogram, Pregnancy, Adverse events

      Data Analysis The primary efficacy variable is the proportion of patients who achieve PASI 90
      at Week 52. The analysis for the primary objective will be based on the full analysis set.
      For the primary analysis, the following hypothesis testing will be performed: H01: psec =
      pnbUVB versus HA1: psec ≠ pnbUVB The primary analysis method for PASI 90 response at Week 52
      will use an exact logistic regression model with treatment as an explanatory variable and
      baseline PASI score as covariate. The key secondary variable is the proportion of all
      randomized patients who achieve PASI 90 at Week 104. In order to reduce selection bias, all
      patients who do not achieve PASI 90 at Week 52 will also be included in the analysis at Week
      104 using the PASI improvement obtained at Week 104 only.

      For the key secondary analysis, the following hypothesis testing will be performed:

      H02: p*sec = p*nbUVB versus HA2: p*sec ≠ p*nbUVB
    
  