
    
      This study will recruit 300 caregivers of first stroke survivors to involve in the
      intervention and employ a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to assign the caregivers into the
      intervention group and active control group. Each group will have 150 caregivers. The
      intervention is individualized, tailor-made according to caregivers' needs. Care managers
      will conduct an initial family need assessment with caregivers to determine their care plan.
      The intervention will last for 2 to 3 months with 6 to 10 weekly sessions. If the caregiver
      participants' family member with stroke (stroke survivors) agrees to and is competent enough(
      see Eligibility Criteria Criteria), they will also be invited to take part in up to 4
      intervention sessions.

      The active control group will receive a standard, non-family-based psychoeducation
      intervention provided by the trained volunteers under the supervision of care managers. The
      active control group will not involve stroke survivors. Therefore, a maximum of 150 stroke
      survivors will be involved in the intervention.

      Both caregivers participants (300) and their family members with stroke (300) will be asked
      to do questionnaires before (T1), immediately after (T2) and 2 months after (T3) the
      intervention. The intervention and the questionnaire interview will take place at the homes
      of participants.

      The participation of the stroke survivors in the intervention and the questionnaire interview
      will not affect the involvement of their caregivers in this study. In other words, caregivers
      can still take part in the intervention and the questionnaire interview if their family
      members with stroke refuse to or are not competent ( see Eligibility Criteria Criteria) to
      take part in this study.

      No drug usage and medical treatment will be involved in the study. Intervention and
      questionnaires do not impose any physical or medical risk to participants. The only possible
      problem may be caregivers may feel a little tired after the intervention. Participants can
      voluntarily drop out the study at any time, without giving any reason, without my medical
      care or original rights being affected.

      Both the effectiveness and the cost-effectiveness will be evaluated in this study (See
      Outcome Measures). Chi-square or independent t-tests will be used to examine the differences
      in the baseline characteristics between the intervention and control groups. To assess the
      effectiveness of the intervention, regression analysis will be used to compare the difference
      in outcomes between the intervention and control groups, controlling for the effect of
      potential covariates. Recruitment rate, drop-out rate and missing data will also be examined
      and reported.

      The principal investigator will be responsible for keeping of the personal data during and
      after the study. The data will be for academic and clinical research only and will be kept
      for up to 5 years and will be destroyed after that.
    
  