
    
      Introduction:

      COVID-19 vaccines are the foremost asset to overcome the ongoing pandemic; therefore, mass
      vaccination has become a high priority for the world's governments. While vaccination
      strategies need to be accelerated to minimise daily fatalities and relieve the pandemic's
      economic burdens, vaccine hesitancy (VH) remains a serious challenge for these efforts. VH
      refers to "delay in acceptance or refusal of vaccines despite availability of vaccine
      services",; and it is an emerging public health challenge nourished by misinformation related
      to vaccines effectiveness and safety. Aversion to vaccines' potential side effects is the
      most frequent cause of VH among population groups. Therefore, a recent systematic review
      revealed that raising public awareness of vaccines' effectiveness and side effects is vital
      for improving vaccine uptake.

      Public health systems globally experience a novel and unique challenge due to the variety of
      vaccines manufacturers and the high levels of public awareness about those manufacturers and
      their marketing strategies. This unprecedented situation is predicted to create what we can
      refer to as "vaccine selectivity, " increasing the pressure on our weakened health systems
      and economies and increasing vaccine hesitancy levels. Independent (non-sponsored) studies
      with rigorous methods can perfectly lead the pharmacovigilance efforts of COVID-19 vaccines
      globally. Given their independent nature and transparent design, these studies can play a key
      role in suppressing vaccine hesitancy levels by enhancing public confidence in vaccines.

      Design

      This project comprises two phases; a) a cross-sectional survey for the short-term side
      effects of COVID-19 vaccines; b) a prospective cohort study for the long-term safety of
      COVID-19 vaccines.

      Phase A:

      A validated self-administered questionnaire will be developed and delivered online to the
      target population groups (HCW, OA & ST). The questionnaire will be inquiring about the
      short-term side effects that emerged within 30 days following the vaccine shot (either the
      first or the second dose). The side effects will be classified as local or systemic, and
      their onset, duration, and intensity will be self-assessed and self-reported by the
      respondents. This phase is proposed to take place until December 31st, 2021.

      Phase B:

      A validated self-administered questionnaire will be developed and delivered online to the
      volunteers who participated in Phase A and expressed their interest to report their long-term
      side effects. In this phase, the vaccine effectiveness and side effects will be evaluated
      after booster doses. Phase B will take place for five consecutive years starting from 2022.
    
  