
    
      Background: Bronchiolitis is a lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI) syndrome caused by
      different viruses. It is the most common LRTI in children under 24 months old, accounting for
      approximately 90,000 hospitalizations annually and costing over $700 million in children
      under 12 months. Health care providers vary in diagnosis and management, however. In 2006 the
      American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) released guidelines for bronchiolitis management in an
      effort to standardize clinical practice. Part of these guidelines recommends patients
      admitted to the hospital receive supplemental oxygen if they are persistently hypoxic, which
      is defined as pulse oximeter readings persistently below 90%. However, this recommendation is
      based on expert opinion.

      Research has previously shown healthy infants routinely experience brief episodes of
      decreased oxygen levels while sleeping without significant health effects. Other studies
      demonstrate no relationship between short intervals of transient or mildly decreased oxygen
      levels and long-term mental or developmental delays. Furthermore, children with bronchiolitis
      remain hospitalized longer without any appreciable improvement in the course or outcome of
      their illness when continuously monitored for oxygen level.

      Widespread pulse oximeter use has increased hospitalization rates over 250%, and close
      monitoring increases length of stay for children who otherwise could be discharged home. The
      2006 guidelines discourage continuous pulse oximetry monitoring in children not requiring
      supplemental oxygen, but health care providers routinely ignore this recommendation. No
      studies have assessed the impact of more strictly adhering to the practices recommended by
      the AAP.

      Research Procedures: This is a randomized control study and is a multi-site collaboration
      with University of Missouri Children's Hospital in Columbia, Missouri. Children admitted to
      the study sites with bronchiolitis will be batch randomized (i.e. randomized separately at
      each site) to undergo either continuous pulse oximetry monitoring throughout the entire
      hospitalization or receive intermittent monitoring when not on supplemental oxygen. Patients
      will additionally receive all care standard to the management of their illness. Of note, the
      proposed intervention is the recommended standard of care for oxygen monitoring compared to
      the general practice used at both study sites. Researchers will then review charts after
      discharge for length of stay, number of medical interventions performed, diagnostic testing
      completed, and treatments provided. Cost of stay for patients in each group will be estimated
      and compared as well. Patients will be involved in the study for their entire admission.
    
  