
    
      This will be a randomized, controlled study evaluating the value of fluoroscopy in
      trochanteric bursa injections. Subjects will be recruited solely from the patients we
      normally see at the Blaustein Pain Treatment Center with a clinical diagnosis of GTPS.
      Sixty-four patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio using sealed envelopes to receive
      either TB corticosteroid injection done blind or with fluoroscopy. All patients who provide
      informed consent will be brought into the fluoroscopy suite and placed in the lateral
      decubitus position. In the patients randomized to receive fluoroscopically guided injections,
      a 22-gauge needle will be placed into the TB and correct position confirmed by fluoroscopy
      and contrast injection (1 ml per attempt) before corticosteroid and local anesthetic
      injection (60 mg of depomedrol and 2.5 ml of 0.5% bupivacaine). In the blinded group, one
      sham, pulsed fluoroscopic image will be taken of the femur, and the injection will be done
      based only on physical exam (overlying the area of maximal tenderness) and landmarks. Prior
      to the injection, 1 ml of contrast will be administered and another image taken to determine
      whether or not the needle is within the bursa, but this will not alter the injection. After
      contrast administration, the same corticosteroid and bupivacaine injection will be
      administered. The 2 main questions we propose to answer are: 1) whether using fluoroscopy for
      TB injections results in improved outcomes (comparison of the 32 patients in each group); and
      2) whether injecting into the bursa provides superior results than performing non-bursal
      injections into the area of maximal tenderness (comparison of 32 patients who receive
      fluoroscopically-guided bursa injections + those patients whose blinded injection was noted
      to be intra-bursal vs. those patients whose blinded injection was extra-bursal).
    
  