
    
      After age of 40, testosterone (T) production in men gradually decreases at a rate of 1.6% per
      year for total and to 2-3% per year for bioavailable T. This reduction in T production in men
      parallels the age-associated loss of muscle mass that leads to sarcopenia and impairment of
      function and the age-associated loss of bone mass that leads to osteopenia and fracture risk.

      Hypogonadism is a condition associated with multiple symptom complex including fatigue,
      depressed mood, osteoporosis, gain of fat mass, loss of libido and reduced muscle strength,
      all of which deeply affect patient quality of life. The prevalence of hypogonadism among
      obese men was estimated to be as much as 40% and could as much as 50% if they are also
      diabetic, with levels of androgens decreasing proportionately to the degree of obesity.

      In obese men, the age-related decline in T is exacerbated by the suppression of the
      hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis by hyperestrogenemia. The high expression of aromatase
      enzyme in the adipose tissue enhances the conversion of androgens into estrogens which in
      turn exerts a negative feedback on hypothalamus and pituitary, inhibiting the production of
      gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating
      hormone (FSH) and, as a consequence, of T by the testis resulting in hypogonadotropic
      hypogonadism (HH). Considering the high aromatase expression in the adipose tissue, the
      administration of T among obese men with HHG could increase the conversion of the substrate T
      to estradiol (E2) and fuels the negative feedback on hypothalamus and pituitary, producing a
      greater suppression of GnRH and gonadotropins. Thus, men with obesity induced HHG may benefit
      from other treatment strategies that target the pathophysiology of the disease.

      Although weight loss intervention improves hormonal and metabolic abnormalities related to
      obesity, the increase in T levels induced by weight loss are often lost due to weight regain,
      which is very frequent among patients undergoing massive weight loss. One possible approach
      is the use of aromatase inhibitors (AI) to stop the conversion of T to E2 thereby
      interrupting the vicious cycle of E2 inhibition of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis
      and restoring T production to normal levels. Since weight loss remains the standard of care
      for obese patients, the investigators propose the following OBJECTIVES:

        1. To evaluate the effect of an AI plus WL (AI+WL) compared to WL alone on the changes in
           hormonal profile in severely obese men with HHG.

        2. To evaluate the effect of an AI+WL compared to WL alone on the changes in muscle
           strength and muscle mass, and symptoms of hypogonadism in severely obese men with HHG.

        3. To evaluate the effect of an AI+WL compared to WL alone on the changes in body
           composition and metabolic risk factors in severely obese men with HHG.

        4. To evaluate the effect of an AI+WL compared to WL alone on the changes in bone mineral
           density (BMD), bone markers, and bone quality in severely obese men with HHG.

      As secondary aim, the investigators will elucidate the mechanism for the anticipated positive
      effects of AI+WL on obesity-associated HHG.

      This is a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study comparing the effect of weight
      loss + anastrozole to weight loss + placebo for 12 months on the hormonal profile and
      symptoms associated with hypogonadism in severely obese men with a body mass index (BMI) of
      more or equal to 35 kg/m2.
    
  