
    
      It is a multicenter, single arm treatment, phase II study of the combination in one treatment
      arm with Lenalidomide, Cyclophosphamide and Dexamethasone.

      Subjects who qualify for participation will receive lenalidomide plus dexamethasone and
      cyclophosphamide in 4-week cycles. Subjects will be seen (study visits) every 2 weeks for the
      first 3 cycles of therapy and monthly thereafter.

      Cycles of lenalidomide/dexamethasone/cyclophosphamide will consists of lenalidomide 15 mg by
      mouth for 21 days followed by 7 days rest and 300 mg/m2 of cyclophosphamide on days 1 and 8
      plus oral dexamethasone 20 mg/day on days 1-4 and 9-12 given at 4-week intervals. Patients
      will be treated with 6 cycles of therapy with the option to continue beyond as long there is
      evidence of response. In this case the dose of lenalidomide will be the same and the dose of
      the dexamethasone will be administered only on days 1 to 4 of each cycle and the dose of
      cyclophosphamide only day 1 during 6 cycles. After 12 cycles if the patients remaining in
      response, will be treated with 10 mg/day, cyclophosphamide day 1, and dexamethasone will be
      administered on days 1 to 4 of each cycle.

      For the first 3 cycles, patients will be followed for adverse events with hematologic control
      every 2 weeks and monthly thereafter. Patients will be required to have a blood work-up
      including total serum protein and serum protein electrophoresis, urine protein studies and a
      clinical visit before each cycle. Organ involvement will be assessed every 4 cycles during
      the first year of therapy. Hematologic response will be assessed every 3 months and organ
      response every 6 months after the first year of treatment.

      Treatment modifications will be based on adverse events graded according to the Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE Version 3.0).

      There will be 30 patients enrolled.

      The trial consists of three periods: pre-treatment, treatment and follow up period.

      Pre-treatment phase: include the enrolment visit in order to determine if the patient is
      eligible to participate in the study. The patient will sign the Informed Consent Form to take
      part in the study, and will receive detailed information about the treatment, its benefits
      and risks.

      Treatment phase: include the 12 cycles of 28 days treatment with Lenalidomide,
      Cyclophosphamide and Dexamethasone as induction therapy followed with low doses of
      Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone during three years until progression or unacceptable toxicity
      levels.

      Follow up phase: Once the clinical trial has finished, patients will be followed during usual
      clinical practice visits where progression, free survival and overall survival will be
      evaluated.
    
  