
    
      This was a prospective case-control study conducted from October 2012 to April 2013 at Kasr
      Al-ainy hospital- cairo university.

      The subjects were divided into two groups; Group 1 consists of diabetic patients free from
      diabetic retinopathy (45 eyes). Group 2 consists of non-diabetic subjects, free from any
      ocular pathology(21 eyes).

      All subjects were subjected to full medical and ophthalmological history, refraction, best
      corrected visual acuity (according to the snellen visual acuity chart and recorded in
      decimals), slit lamp examination (including measuring the intraocular pressure by Goldman
      applanation tonometer), dilated fundus examination by binocular indirect slit-lamp
      biomicroscopy and measuring of the retinal ganglion cell complex (GCC) thickness and the
      central foveal thickness (CFT) using the RTVue® SD-OCT (Optovue, Inc.) at the LASER unit,
      Kasr Al-ainy hospital.

      In addition; diabetic patients were subjected to fundus fluorescein angiography to exclude
      diabetic changes that could be missed on clinical examination and measuring level of HbA1C in
      blood at kasr Al-ainy hospital chemical pathology unit.

      Mapping of the GCC using the RTVue GCC scan consists of 15 vertical line scans covering a 7mm
      square region. The GCC scan centers at 1mm temporal to fovea center for better coverage of
      the temporal region.

      The GCC thickness values are analyzed and compared to an extensive age-matched normative
      database. If the patient's values are outside the normal range, the measurement is
      color-coded appropriately. The Deviation Map shows the percent loss from normal as determined
      by the normative database. The significance Map shows regions where the change from normal
      reaches statistical significance. (Figure 1) Focal Loss Volume (FLV) and Global Loss Volume
      (GLV) are two parameters that provide quantitative measures for the amount of significant GCC
      loss. GLV measures the average amount of GCC loss over the entire GCC map. FLV measures the
      average amount of focal loss over the entire GCC map, it is the total sum of significant GCC
      loss (in volume) divided by the map area. As such it provides a percent of significant tissue
      loss for volume. FLV detects focal loss using a pattern deviation map to correct for overall
      absolute changes [5].

      Statistical analysis included comparison of numerical variables between the study groups was
      done using Student t test for independent samples in normally distributed data and Mann
      Whitney U test for independent samples in non-normal data. For comparing categorical data,
      Chi square (2) test was performed. Exact test was used instead when the expected frequency is
      less than 5. Within group comparison between superior and inferior GCC was done using McNemar
      test. Agreement was tested using kappa statistic. Correlation between various variables was
      done using Spearman rank correlation equation. All statistical calculations were done using
      computer programs SPSS (Statistical Package for the Social Science; SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL,
      USA) version 15 for Microsoft Windows.
    
  