
    
      High-intensity gait training is strongly supported in individuals poststroke to facilitate
      neuroplastic changes in the brain in order to maximize the recovery of functional
      independence. Individuals with contraversive pushing behaviors (CPB) poststroke are difficult
      to mobilize as a result of tilted posture with significant balance impairments, a tendency to
      push toward their hemiparetic side, and resistance to external correction. CPB has been
      reported in 12-18% of individuals receiving stroke rehabilitation and often leads to longer
      lengths of stay, poorer functional outcomes, and institutionalized discharge locations
      compared to individuals poststroke without CPB.

      High quality evidence guiding physical therapy intervention, specifically gait training, in
      individuals with CPB is scarce. Traditional therapeutic interventions in individuals with CPB
      consists of progressing functional mobility while orienting to midline with various forms of
      visual and tactile feedback. To further guide best practice in this population, we plan to
      investigate the effect of two high-intensity gait training interventions on CPB in 10
      individuals poststroke in the acute inpatient rehabilitation setting over the course of one
      year.

      Individuals from the inpatient stroke unit at the Shirley Ryan AbilityLab will be recruited
      and placed into one of two intervention groups. Intervention for group one will consist of
      body-weight-supported treadmill training + overground gait training. Intervention for group
      two will consist of gait training in the EksoNR exoskeleton + overground gait training. The
      commercially available EksoNR is approved by the FDA for use in individuals with stroke
      diagnoses. We will also evaluate the effect of these interventions on functional outcomes
      including mobility, strength, balance, walking speed, and walking endurance in addition to
      measuring therapist burden when mobilizing individuals with CPB.

      Both groups will receive their specified gait training intervention three sessions a week for
      at least three weeks until they discharge with the goal of maximizing the number of steps
      within a 60 minute session. Gait training interventions will be progressed to challenge
      individuals as appropriate in order to reach 70-85% of age-predicted maximum heart rate. A
      fourth session will be utilized to assess weekly outcome measures as part of the standard of
      care at the Shirley Ryan AbilityLab. There will be no restrictions set on therapy delivered
      outside of these intervention training sessions as individuals will be getting other
      therapies each day as the standard of care.
    
  