
    
      Severe aplastic anemia (SAA) is a life-threatening blood disease which can be effectively
      treated with immunosuppressive drug regimens or allogeneic stem cell transplantation.
      However, 20-40% of patients without transplant options do not respond to immunosuppressive
      therapies, and have persistent severe thrombocytopenia. Even patients that respond to
      immunosuppressive therapies with an improvement in their life-threatening neutropenia
      sometimes have persistent thrombocytopenia. Both groups of patients (i.e. nonresponders to
      immunosuppressive therapy and responders with persistent thrombocytopenia) require regular
      platelet transfusions, which are expensive and inconvenient, and are a risk for further
      serious bleeding complications.

      Thrombopoietin (TPO) is the principal endogenous regulator of platelet production. On binding
      to the megakaryocyte progenitor TPO receptor, TPO initiates a number of signal transduction
      events to increase the production of mature megakaryocytes and platelets. Thrombopoietin also
      has stimulatory effects on more primitive multilineage progenitors and stem cells in vitro
      and in animal models. A 2nd generation small molecule TPO-agonist, eltrombopag (Promacta )
      has been shown to increase platelets in healthy subjects and in thrombocytopenic patients
      with chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection.
      Eltrombopag is administered orally and has been well-tolerated in clinical trials. Unlike
      recombinant TPO, it has not been found to induce autoantibodies. Eltrombopag received FDA
      accelerated approval on Nov 20, 2008 for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with
      chronic immune (idiopathic) thrombocytopenic purpura who have had an insufficient response to
      corticosteroids, immunoglobulins, or splenectomy.

      Because a paucity of megakaryocytes and decreased platelet production is responsible for
      thrombocytopenia in aplastic anemia patients, we now propose this Phase 2, non-randomized
      pilot study of eltrombopag in aplastic anemia patients with immunosuppressive therapy
      refractory thrombocytopenia.

      Subjects will initiate study medication at an oral dose of 50 mg/day (25 mg/day for East
      Asians), which will be increased or decreased as clinically indicated to the lowest dose that
      maintains a stable platelet count greater than or equal to 20,000/microL above baseline while
      maximizing tolerability. Platelet treatment response is defined as platelet count increases
      to 20,000/microL above baseline at three months, or stable platelet counts with transfusion
      independence for a minimum of 8 weeks. Erythroid response for subjects with a pretreatment
      hemoglobin of less than 9 g/dL will be defined as an increase in hemoglobin by greater than
      or equal to 1.5g/dL without packed red blood cell (PRBC) transfusion support, or a reduction
      in the units of transfusions by an absolute number of at least 4 PRBC transfusions for eight
      consecutive weeks compared with the pretreatment transfusion number in the previous 8 weeks.
      Neutrophil response will be defined in those with a pretreatment absolute neutrophil count
      (ANC) of less than 0.5 times 10(9)/L as at least a 100 percent increase or an absolute
      increase greater than 0.5 times 10(9)/L. Subjects with a platelet, erythroid, and/or
      neutrophil response at 12 weeks may continue study medication (extended access) until they
      meet an off study criteria. Subjects with platelet, erythroid, or neutrophil response at 12
      weeks may continue study medication for an additional 4 weeks (to ensure eligibility) prior
      to being consented for entry into the extended access part of the trial. Patients may remain
      on the extended access trial until they met an off study criteria.

      The primary objective is to assess the safety and efficacy of the oral thrombopoietin
      receptor agonist (TPO-R agonist) eltrombopag in aplastic anemia patients with
      immunosuppressive-therapy refractory thrombocytopenia.

      Secondary objectives include the analysis of the incidence and severity of bleeding episodes,
      and the impact on quality of life.

      The primary endpoint will be the portion of drug responders as defined by changes in the
      platelet count and/or platelet transfusion requirements, hemoglobin levels, number of red
      blood cell transfusions, or neutrophil counts as measured by International Working Group
      criteria and the toxicity profile as measured using the CTCAE criteria. Platelet treatment
      response is defined as platelet count increases to 20,000/microL above baseline at three
      months, or stable platelet counts with transfusion independence for a minimum of 8 weeks.
      Erythroid response for subjects with a pretreatment hemoglobin of less than 9g/dL will be
      defined as an increase in hemoglobin by greater than or equal to 1.5g/dL or a reduction in
      the units of PRBC transfusions by at least 50% during the eight consecutive weeks prior to
      response assessment compared with the pretreatment transfusion number in the previous 8
      weeks. Neutrophil response will be defined in those with pretreatment absolute neutrophil
      count (ANC) of less than 0.5 times 10(9)/L as at least a 100 percent increase in ANC, or an
      ANC increase greater than 0.5 times 10(9)/L.

      Secondary endpoints will include incidence of bleeding; changes in serum thrombopoietin level
      (as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, R&D Systems), and health related quality
      of life (as measured by the Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short Form General Health Survey,
      version 2 [SF36v2J]; Quality-Metric) measured at 12 weeks.
    
  