
    
      laparoscopic appendectomy is one of the most frequently performed pediatric surgeries.
      Although minimally invasive, this technique is still associated with a significant amount of
      pain and anxiety in children . Indeed, children who are highly anxious prior to surgery tend
      to have more postoperative pain, delayed hospital discharge, and higher incidence of
      emergence delirium, sleep disturbances, and other mal-adaptive behavior changes that can last
      up to a few weeks following surgery . To improve analgesia and decrease postoperative anxiety
      in children undergoing laparoscopic appendectomies multimodal approach for pain control can
      be employee; Over the past years, the concept of pain management has extended from simply
      decreasing pain intensity to optimizing patient's condition. The goal is to decrease pain
      scores, stress response that should be avoided in patients, particularly cardiac patients,
      together with a decrease in analgesics-related adverse effects like nausea, vomiting,
      retention of urine and over sedation. By achieving these goals, we can certainly facilitate
      patient recovery and minimize the hospital stay. Improved pain control can be achieved by a
      combination of different types of regional analgesia with systemic analgesics. The main
      contributor to pain post abdominal operations is the pain from abdominal wall incision .

      Many procedures were followed to decrease this intense postoperative pain such as, epidural
      catheter analgesia, Transverse Abdominis Plane (TAP) block, local wound infiltration,
      Patient-Controlled Analgesia (PCA), peripheral nerve blocks, in addition to Systemic
      administration of Non-Steroidal Anti- Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) or opioids.

      The Rectus Sheath Block (RSB) is one of these regional techniques that are suitable for
      operations with a midline incision or laparoscopic surgery with the main incision at the
      umbilical port. A previous study showed the analgesic efficacy of ultrasound guided rectus
      sheath block for laparoscopic appendectomy compared to a control group injected with saline
      instead of a local anesthetic in addition to the usefulness of traditional local anesthetics
      to provide analgesia during the course of the postoperative period is restricted by their
      short duration of action. Dexmedetomidine (DEX) has been shown as a valuable additive to
      local anesthetics in neuraxial blocks and peripheral nerve blocks leading to prolongation of
      postoperative analgesia and better pain control .

      . dexmedetomidine (DEX) α-2 adrenergic receptor consists of three α-2 isoacceptors (α-2a,
      α-2b and α-2c), which regulate the various pharmacodynamic effects of this drug . The α-2a
      receptor seems to promote sedation and anxiolysis in the locus coeruleus, as well as to
      generate bradycardia and peripheral vasodilation by stimulation of the cerebral vasomotor
      center. The α-2b receptor prevents tremor, generates analgesia in the dorsal horns of the
      spinal cord and determines peripheral vasoconstriction. The α-2c receptor modulates the
      mental stat.
    
  