
    
      Joint Protection (JP)is an important intervention in the management of people with arthritis.
      Altering working methods (e.g. use of proximal joints, dynamic activities), energy
      conservation (balance between activity and rest) and using assistive devices should place
      less strain on joint structures weakened by the disease process. These strategies ought to
      decrease pain and stress on joints, improve function, and facilitate maintaining social
      roles.

      The effectiveness of JP has been evaluated in a number of studies, all in a group setting. JP
      has beneficial short-term effects on pain and function in patients with established RA and
      moderate functional problems. Using assistive devices reduces pain during task performance in
      comparison to normal methods and altering working methods significantly reduces difficulties
      in activities of daily living (ADL). However this generally does not result in significant
      behavioral changes and a long-term impact on reducing pain and maintaining function may only
      be reached if JP is taught using behavioral education methods. Additionally, adherence of RA
      patients to different interventions is generally modest, which may well determine the
      effectiveness of any given intervention, especially in the long-term.

      All previous studies were carried out in group settings, however, in Switzerland, standard JP
      education is provided on a one-to-one basis and an individualized education is assumed to be
      a promising approach.

      This clinical trial aims to test the hypothesis that an individualized, resource-oriented JP
      education in RA patients leads to a better therapy success in the short and long-term,
      compared to problem-oriented standard JP education in terms of joint protection behavior.
      Secondary outcome parameters are self-perception, general and specific self-efficacy and
      general and health-related quality of life.
    
  