
    
      World-wide, there is an increasing incidence of multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB)
      and extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB). For patients diagnosed with either of these
      deadly diseases, effective drug treatment options are sub-optimal or non-existent. In South
      Korea, there are a growing number of patients not responding to any therapy who have little
      hope for survival without new drugs. Linezolid (LZD), an antimicrobial approved for gram
      positive bacterial infections, has been used off-label for drug resistant TB and is quickly
      becoming a sought after drug for this population, despite lack of clinical evidence of
      efficacy. At the present time the prohibitive cost of LZD limits widespread use; however,
      when patent exclusivity expires in May of 2015 it will be imperative to have examined the
      benefits versus risks of LZD for TB in a controlled setting. The National Masan Tuberculosis
      Hospital (NMTH) in Masan, South Korea and the National Medical Center in Seoul, South Korea
      provide us with an opportunity to systematically address questions about LZD in a highly
      drug-resistant population.

      This is a Phase 2a, randomized, 2-arm study of LZD, which evaluated the efficacy, safety, and
      tolerability of LZD in subjects whose isolates have shown resistance to all known active TB
      drugs or who have failed to respond to any active drugs to which they are susceptible.
      Subjects were required to have been on a failing regimen for at least 6 months prior to study
      entry, with persistent sputum smear positivity, culture positivity and no significant
      clinical sign of response to therapy. To be considered for the study, a subject's treatment
      plan must have been stable without the addition of drugs to which the subjects isolate was
      suspected to be sensitive: however drugs may have been discontinued during this time.
      Subjects were stratified based upon a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus (type I and II included)
      using block randomization. At the primary randomization, subjects were randomly assigned
      either to immediately add 600 mg LZD once daily to their existing regimen or to a delay of 2
      months before adding 600 mg LZD once daily to their existing regimen. A second randomization
      occurred after 2 consecutive negative sputum smears or at 4 months after the start of LZD
      therapy (whichever came first), when subjects either stayed with their current 600 mg LZD
      once daily or de-escalated to 300 mg LZD once daily (see Section 4.1.4 Study Schema). The
      second randomization was stratified on diabetes. The primary objective of this study was to
      evaluate the efficacy of LZD therapy, as measured by sputum culture conversion. Secondary
      aims of this study included: investigation of the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic
      profiles of LZD in blood; tolerability and toxicity of prolonged LZD administration at doses
      of 300 mg and 600 mg daily; the rate of change of radiological findings by computed
      tomography (CT); the rate of relapse 12 months after discontinuation of therapy; the rate of
      development of drug resistance to LZD; changes in immunologic and bacterial lipid markers
      during LZD therapy; the correlation of whole-blood killing assays with response to LZD
      therapy; and effects of LZD on mitochondrial function, a potential early indicator of LZD
      toxicity. In a substudy, we aimed to investigate the changes in lung architecture and
      cellular activity during treatment using F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose - positron emission
      tomography-computed tomography (FDG-PET-CT) of 20 subjects on LZD therapy. Estimated total
      study duration for each subject was approximately 3 years.
    
  