
    
      The primary aims of this quality control study are:

        1. to determine whether there is an independent association between the intraoperative
           administration of fentanyl (both as a continuous and categorical variable) and PONV
           within 24 postoperative hours

        2. determine whether or not the intraoperative fentanyl amount can be used to successfully
           restratify patients for PONV beyond the simplified Apfel score for PONV

      All required data is collected in regular daily practice. The following variables will be
      assessed by univariable models:

      Preoperative variables (e.g. patient characteristics) Surgical/Anesthesia variables (e.g.
      type/length of surgery, antiemetics) Outcome variables (PONV, worst pain as delineated in the
      outcomes section), Intraoperative fentanyl measured 1) as a continuous variable and 2) by
      predefined limits of 0 to 0.2mg, >0.2-0.5mg, >0.5 to 0.8mg, and >8mg.

      Finally for the multivariable model, the investigators will adjust for confounders,
      specifically for sex (m/f), history (Hx) of PONV (y/n), Hx of motion sickness (y/n), current
      smoker (y/n), age (years), expected duration of surgery (min; >60 min), postoperative opioids
      (y/n), the use of preemptive PONV Therapy (0,1,2 medications), propofol vs. inhalative agents
      (y/n), and surgery type (3 kinds) from the patient's electronic record. In the event that
      insufficient event rates are observed, we will collapse the variables into the simplified
      Apfel score to assess the independent value of fentanyl in predicting PONV.

      In addition to a logistic model as delineated above, we will conduct the following:

        1. receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves of the logistic model without fentanyl,
           with fentanyl (continuous), and with fentanyl (categorical).

        2. additionally, ROCs of a simplified model using the Apfel score, the Apfel score with
           fentanyl (continous), and the Apfel score with fentanyl (categorical) will be made.
           Comparison of area under the receiver operating characteristics(AUROCs) by DeLong

        3. net reclassification improvement (NRI) of both the logistic model with and without
           fentanyl as well as the Apfel score with and without fentanyl

      To assess pain and administered fentanyl, we will examine pain scores by the numeric rating
      scale (NRS).
    
  