
    
      The treatment for LBL is an ALL (acute lymphoblastic leukemia)-based treatment. Additional,
      high dose L-asparaginase was reported to improve disease-free survival for patients with ALL.
      The event free survival (EFS) for pediatric LBL in most western countries have achieved 75%
      to 85%. However, the outcomes of children with LBL in China were not unexpected. In the
      previous study (CCCG-LBL-2010, 2009-2013), 96 patients with newly diagnosed LBL from 7
      Chinese pediatric oncology centers were included. At a median follow-up of 21 months (range,
      0.3~60.7months), the 2-year event free survival was 68±5% in all patients. Patients who had
      achieved complete remission on day 33 of induction had significantly better EFS than those
      who had not (77±6% v.s.17±10%, p<0.005). In the current trial, the investigators try to
      improve survival for children with LBL in China through further modification treatment
      protocols and strengthen domestic multicenter collaboration.

      The BFM backbone will be used as the standard backbone therapy for this study. Three doses of
      daunorubicin are prescribed in induction compared with 4 doses in BFM studies. Cranial
      radiotherapy only saved for patients (>2 yrs) with CNS disease at presentation.

      Complete remission (CR) is defined as at least 75% tumor regression, less than 5% BM (bone
      marrow)blasts, no CNS (central nervous system) disease, and disappearances of all evidence of
      disease from all sites for at least 4 weeks. Partial response (PR) is defined as > 50% tumor
      regression, and no new lesions.Response to treatment is evaluated on day 33 and day 64 of
      induction.Patients will be stratified into 3 risk groups.

      Low risk group: patients (stage I or II) receive induction protocol I followed by the
      extracompartmental protocol M, and maintenance for up to a total therapy duration of 96
      weeks. Totally, 3 doses of PEG-asparaginase (Pegylated-asparaginase) are applied in this
      group.

      Intermediate risk group: patients (stage III or IV or receiving steroids within one week
      prior to the diagnosis) receive induction protocol I followed by the extracompartmental
      protocol M, reintensification protocol II, and maintenance for up to a total therapy duration
      of 104 weeks.Totally, 5 doses of PEG-asparaginase are applied in this group.

      High risk group:patients (failure to qualify a PR, or >5% BM blasts, or with CNS disease on
      d33 of induction) receive induction protocol I followed by 6 intensive polychemotherapy
      blocks (R'), reintensification protocol II, and maintenance for up to a total therapy
      duration of 104 weeks. Totally, 11 doses of PEG-asparaginase are applied in this group.

      Second look biopsy/resection is indicated for patients without CR on day 64 of induction.
      Allo- or auto-hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation is recommended for patients with
      residual tumor. Patients who have disease progression at any time will be removed from this
      protocol therapy.
    
  