
    
      Dentists are expected to identify and effectively treat childhood dental diseases that are
      within the knowledge and skills acquired during their dental education. As every child is
      different, safe and effective treatment of oral diseases often requires modifying the child's
      behavior. Behavior guidance involves interaction of the dentist and dental team, the patient
      and the parent directed towards communication and education. Its goal is to ease fear and
      anxiety while promoting an understanding of the need for good oral health.

      In 1936, Freud defined Anxiety as an unpleasant affective state or condition, which is
      characterized by all that is covered by the word 'nervousness' and it can be prevented by the
      avoidance of negative experiences and promotion of positive experiences in children attending
      the dental operatory.

      In Pediatric dentistry, communicative management and appropriate use of commands have been
      used in both cooperative and uncooperative child.Commonly used techniques associated with
      this guiding process are tell-show-do, voice control, nonverbal communication, positive
      reinforcement and physical restraints. Even though these techniques decrease the perception
      of unpleasantness, avert negative behaviours, gain or maintain the patient's attention and
      compliance, it is impossible for pediatric dentists to divert their attention from perceiving
      pain during invasive dental procedures.

      American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry (2008) described distraction as a technique of
      diverting the patient's attention from what may be perceived as an unpleasant procedure.
      According to McCaul and Malott, one must attend to the pain stimulus in order to perceive it
      and also experience the associated distress. Thus distraction might help in reducing the pain
      perception. As the individual's attentional capacity is finite, a distracting task that
      requires a great deal of the person's attentional resources should leave little attentional
      capacity available for processing painful stimuli.

      Thus, highly engaging and interactive distraction activities that involve multiple sensory
      systems are likely to be more effective than more passive distractors or distracters that
      involve only one or two sensory systems. A number of recent distraction interventions for
      acute pain in children and adolescents have employed virtual reality (VR) technology in
      conjunction with either a passive distraction stimulus, such as a movie (Sullivan, Schneider,
      Musselman, Dummett, & Gardiner, 2000), or an interactive distraction activity, such as a
      computer game (Dahlquist et al., 2007). However, the actual benefit of VR technology over and
      above the benefits of the distracting stimulus that is experienced through the VR equipment
      has not been adequately tested in children.

      It is observed from the literature review that only few studies were found on virtual reality
      distraction and their findings suggest that virtual reality can enhance the effects of
      distraction for some children and thus demands further research.

      Dental problems in children occur due to their poor oral health knowledge and difficulty of
      parents in implementing healthy oral habits for their children at home. Thus in order to
      promote oral health knowledge, method of delivering it should be effective. Till date only
      one study has focused on educating oral health through video game, thus investigators planned
      this study on videogames as videogames has got extreme potential and is a favourite time pass
      for children nowadays. The videogame/ video are the interactive tools which would help
      educate children in a playful way. Hence this study is planned to compare three behaviour
      guiding techniques (active distraction using videogames, passive distraction using video and
      verbatim (verbal distraction) in children( participants) for guiding their behavior during
      dental procedure in a dental operatory. All these three techniques utilize instructions
      related to oral health. In addition to that, investigators have planned to assess whether
      these distraction techniques could effectively deliver Oral Health Education to children (
      participants).
    
  