
    
      Transgender women (TGW) are at high risk for HIV infection, and are an important,
      under-researched population in sub-Saharan Africa. Globally, HIV acquisition risk among TGW
      is 13 times higher than other adults aged 15-49 years. In Uganda, HIV prevalence among TGW is
      22% compared to 5.9% in the general population. Encouraging use of self-controlled HIV
      prevention tools - specifically, HIV self-testing (HIVST), STI self-sampling (STISS) and
      antiretroviral pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) - among those testing HIV negative could
      decrease HIV incidence among African TGW and secondary transmission to their sexual partners.
      This study comprises formative research and a pilot trial to develop an HIV prevention
      intervention for African TGW. The investigators will evaluate whether peer-delivered
      combination HIV prevention increases testing uptake and empowers effective prevention
      decision making in TGW. Peer-led interventions are effective in increasing HIV and STI
      testing among other hard-to-reach vulnerable populations with high HIV prevalence but low
      testing coverage and are recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO). Exploring
      peer-delivery approaches to increase coverage of combination HIV prevention interventions is
      key to addressing research gaps in HIV epidemic control. However, little is known about the
      effectiveness of peer-delivered combination HIV prevention (HIVST, STISS and PrEP) for
      African TGW, or the best way to deliver care to this population. Key knowledge gaps include:
      1) whether peer delivery increases testing rates and status knowledge, 2) the role of peers
      in creating demand for repeat testing and PrEP, and 3) how to optimize peer delivery of
      combination HIV prevention (HIVST, STISS and PrEP).

      To address these questions, this protocol describes formative research to inform
      implementation of peer-delivered combination HIV prevention for African TGW, followed by
      implementation of a pilot cluster randomized trial to evaluate the feasibility, acceptability
      and preliminary effectiveness of peer delivered combination HIV prevention, and in-depth
      interviews to explore how peer-delivery of HIVST, STISS and PrEP influences prevention
      choices among TGW and sexual partners. This will be the first clinical trial, to our
      knowledge, to evaluate HIV self-testing and STI self-sampling in HIV-uninfected TGW.

      Aim 1: Conduct formative research to inform implementation of peer-delivered combination HIV
      prevention for African TGW.

      Approach: Using the Social Ecological framework, the investigators will conduct in-depth
      interviews with TG peers, healthcare providers, civil society members, and Ministry of Health
      officials to: a) explore barriers and likely facilitators of HIVST, STISS and PrEP; and b)
      assess feasibility of respondent-driven sampling (RDS), the recruitment strategy for Aim 2.

      Hypothesis: Respondents will provide insights into the feasibility and acceptability of
      peer-delivered HIVST, STISS and PrEP, and RDS recruitment.

      Aim 2: Evaluate the feasibility, acceptability and preliminary effectiveness of
      peer-delivered combination HIV prevention (HIVST, STISS and PrEP) for African TGW by
      implementing a pilot cluster randomized controlled trial.

      Approach: To pilot-test the effectiveness of this peer-delivered combination HIV prevention
      intervention, 10 TGW peer groups (1 peer and 8 participants) will be randomized in a 1:1
      ratio to either monthly peer delivery of HIVST, STISS and PrEP (intervention arm) or
      quarterly in-clinic HIV testing and PrEP prescription (control arm). All will enroll at
      clinic and initiate PrEP. In between quarterly clinic visits, trained peers will: a) deliver
      additional HIVST kits and PrEP refills; b) distribute STI self-sampling kits to TGW for own
      use and with regular partners; and c) use smart phone instructional videos showing TGW how to
      self-collect pharyngeal, rectal & urine specimens. The investigators will provide: i) free
      testing and treatment of Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis; and ii)
      peer-assisted partner notification services. Primary outcomes are intervention feasibility,
      acceptability & PrEP adherence.

      Hypothesis: Peer delivery will be feasible and acceptable, with higher uptake of testing and
      PrEP compared with control arm.

      Aim 3: Explore how peer-delivery of HIVST, STISS and PrEP influences prevention choices among
      TGW and sexual partners.

      Approach: To clarify the process through which peer-delivery may influence prevention
      choices, the investigators will conduct in-depth interviews with participants and their
      partners to assess perceptions and experiences with peer-delivered HIV/STI services, status
      disclosure, partner notification, behavior change and PrEP use.

      Hypothesis: Peer-delivered combination HIV prevention will empower TGW to engage in
      prevention services, facilitate partner testing and efficiently identify persons with
      undiagnosed HIV and/or STIs.
    
  