
    
      The investigation was designed as a multi-center, prospective, single-arm, historical
      (literature) controlled clinical study of VenaTech Convertible filter safety and performance
      in 75 subjects in whom the filter has been implanted, converted, and followed for 6-months.
      The study could enroll up to 323 patients to ensure 75 converted subjects with 6 months of
      follow-up data. Converted subjects were followed at 30-days, 3-months, and 6-months post
      conversion. Subjects that were unable to undergo conversion were followed at 6-months post
      filter implant (permanent filtration subjects).

      Study subjects were to be identified from the pool of candidates with a time-limited risk for
      pulmonary embolism. Subjects who signed the informed consent were evaluated to determine
      eligibility for the study based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Following completion
      of baseline procedures including a bilateral Doppler ultrasound of the legs to assess for
      baseline DVT and contrast venacavography to assess baseline IVC diameter, subjects underwent
      implantation of the VenaTech Convertible filter.

      After device implant, a clinical assessment was completed to determine eligibility for filter
      conversion. This assessment was done at an interval post-implant and frequency per the
      investigator's discretion, often with input from the primary care physician. If the clinician
      determined the subject was no longer at risk for pulmonary embolism, there was no thrombus in
      or below the filter, and there was no clinically significant deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in
      the legs, the filter could be converted. After conversion, subjects were followed at 30 days
      and 3-months by telephone, and at a 6-months post-conversion office visit with imaging (KUB
      or spot film and Doppler or CT).

      If during the conversion clinical assessment(s), the subject remained at risk for pulmonary
      embolism, additional conversion assessment(s) were completed per the investigator's
      discretion until the filter was either converted or the subject was determined to require
      permanent filtration.

      At 6-months post-implant, if a study subject's filter had not been converted, no further
      conversion assessments were to be performed and no attempts were to be made to convert the
      filter as part of the study. The 6-month post filter implant visit was the final follow-up
      for nonconverted subjects, which also included imaging (KUB or spot film and Doppler or CT).
      The study protocol allowed the investigators flexibility as to the best IVC imaging modality
      based on the condition and anatomy of the subject.

      The core laboratory reviewed all screening/baseline, filter implantation, conversion
      eligibility assessment, conversion, and 6-month follow-up images, with the exception of the
      ultrasounds. (The core laboratory recommended ultrasound images be evaluated by the expert
      sonographers at the sites). Additionally, any images taken as a result of a suspected
      filter-related adverse event or technical complication, with the exception of ultrasounds,
      were also sent to the core laboratory for review.
    
  