
    
      Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men, with the exception of non-melanomatous skin
      cancer, and the second leading cause of cancer death among men. According to the Center for
      Disease Control and United States Cancer Statistics (USCS), in the year 2007 there were
      29,093 deaths caused by prostate cancer, and 223,307 men were newly diagnosed with the
      disease in the United States Given the clinical heterogeneity of this disease as well as the
      toxicities of current therapies, new prognostic and predictive biomarkers are much needed to
      facilitate informed therapeutic decision making.

      A strong correlation between the CTC and the progression of breast, colon and prostate
      cancers has been demonstrated, being both prognostic and predictive of response to therapy
      and overall survival. The use of the Veridex CellSearch™ CTC assay has been approved by the
      FDA to monitor breast and colon cancer therapy. CTCs are a standard of care for monitoring
      response to prostate cancer treatment, as well. It is likely that changes in the number of
      CTCs may also be a predictive indicator of treatment response.

      Techniques utilized in the Veridex Cellsearch™ severely damage CTC in the process, removing
      the possibility for further study and characterization of the CTC. This study will attempt to
      improve upon the technology by developing and testing a novel strategy for isolation of
      intact and viable CTCs, and compare the results to the CellSearch™ benchmark. CTC Development
      of short or long-term cell lines from these samples would greatly facilitate further
      characterization of metastasis-producing cells from individual patients. For example, this
      may allow identification of somatic gene mutations (e.g. in AR) that predict drug therapy
      responses, global gene and protein expression patterns, drug sensitivity and resistance
      testing.

      Following informed consent, all patients will have two 7.5 cc samples of blood drawn at a
      time when routine blood work related to disease monitoring or treatment is drawn. In
      addition, those patients with a diagnosis of breast cancer, prostate cancer, or colorectal
      cancer will have an additional 10cc drawn into a CellSave tube for standard of care
      CellSearch™ CTC enumeration if their insurance covers the cost. Additional samples will be
      obtained from selected patients during or following treatment to monitor disease progression
      or treatment response.

      Samples will be de-identified and sent to Dr. Goodman's laboratory at Roseman University of
      Health Sciences. Samples will be processed and results entered into a password-protected
      database. Results of experiments on the research samples will not be shared with the patient.
      Results from the CellSearch™ CTC assay will be de-identified by an honest broker and entered
      into the database. Patient information will also be collected, de-identified and entered into
      the database. Information will include age, gender, tumor status (TNM), serum LDH, other
      pertinent standard of care tumor markers (PSA, CEA, or CA 27-29, if available), date of tumor
      diagnosis, treatment history, date of regional and metastatic progression and date of death
      (if applicable).
    
  