
    
      PROTOCOL SYNOPSIS Background Despite highly active current treatment for metastatic
      gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) with the use of imatinib, most people will ultimately
      relapse and die of multifocal metastatic disease. Using an alternating regimen of imatinib
      and regorafenib with brief drug free intervals may allow tumour stem cells to re-enter the
      cell cycle and become susceptible once more to drug therapy. Regorafenib, a multi-targeted
      tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) with activity against angiogenic, stromal and oncogenic
      receptor tyrosine kinases, has demonstrated activity in the treatment of GIST and is FDA
      approved for third line therapy of advanced GIST.

      General aim To determine if an alternating regimen of imatinib and regorafenib has sufficient
      activity and safety to warrant further evaluation as a first line treatment for metastatic
      GIST.

      Design Prospective, randomised, open label phase II trial, stratified by participating site,
      previous adjuvant therapy (prior vs none), and previous imatinib for metastatic disease for
      less than 21 days.

      Population The target population is adults with histologically confirmed, measurable
      metastatic GIST, who have received no prior treatment for metastatic disease. Patients who
      are currently taking, and have had up to 21 days of uninterrupted treatment with 400mg daily
      of imatinib are eligible to participate in this study.

      Study treatments

      Patients will be randomised to receive either:

      Arm A - imatinib 400mg orally daily continuously (control arm); or Arm B - alternating 28-day
      periods of imatinib 400mg orally daily for 21 to 25 days followed by a washout (drug free)
      period of 3 to 7 days, then regorafenib 160mg orally daily for 3 weeks followed by a 7 day
      washout (drug free) period.

      Treatment will continue until disease progression or prohibitive adverse events as detailed
      in the protocol.

      Statistical considerations In order to demonstrate a relative increase in progression free
      survival at 24 months from the date of randomisation from an expected 78% to 88%, with 80%
      power and 95% confidence based on A'Hern's adjustment to Fleming's design, approximately 110
      evaluable participants will be required in each arm. Thus, it is proposed to enrol 240
      participants into the trial, allowing for approximately a 10% drop-out rate. Currently 80% of
      participants are expected to achieve a clinical benefit at 24 months (CBR - rate of complete
      or partial response, or stable disease). A secondary outcome would be to determine whether a
      minimum 25% relative increase of the CBR (from 80% to 85%) in the experimental cohort can be
      attained. The study will be open to recruitment for 36 months while follow-up will continue
      until the last enrolled participant has been followed for a minimum of 24 months timed from
      the date of commencement of treatment.
    
  