
    
      Claudication, defined as walking-induced leg discomfort and gait dysfunction relieved by
      rest, affects 5% of Americans over 55 years of age. Claudicating patients adopt sedentary
      lifestyles and cluster at the extreme low end of the physical activity spectrum, escalating
      risk for adverse health effects. The primary therapeutic goals for claudicating patients are
      restoration of leg function and prevention of disease progression. Current, rehabilitative
      interventions focus on inadequate blood flow as the only cause of claudication. Operative
      revascularization and/or exercise therapy are the principal conventional therapeutic
      modalities, providing only modest rehabilitative benefit. Applying biomechanical analysis to
      gait of claudicating patients, the investigators team has developed preliminary data
      indicating that blood flow is not the only mechanism producing the limb dysfunction of
      claudication. Several laboratories including the investigators own have demonstrated a
      myopathy, characterized by mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative damage and inflammation, in
      leg skeletal muscle of claudicating patients. These conditions have not been quantified,
      comprehensively, in relation to claudication, and their association with severity of
      claudication is not known. The investigators hypothesis is that blood flow restriction is not
      a good predictor of limb dysfunction in claudication, whereas muscle mitochondrial
      dysfunction, oxidative damage and inflammation are strong predictors of limb dysfunction both
      at baseline and after conventional therapy with revascularization or supervised exercise.
      Under Aim #1, the investigators will acquire precise measurements of gastrocnemius
      mitochondrial function, oxidative damage and inflammation in claudicating patients, at the
      time of their initial presentation, and evaluate these measurements as predictors of
      objective measures of limb function and subjective measures of quality of life. Under Aims #2
      and #3, the investigators will evaluate the effects of revascularization (Aim#2) and
      supervised exercise therapy (Aim#3) on mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative damage and
      inflammation in claudicating gastrocnemius and on objective measures of limb function and
      subjective measures of quality of life. If the investigators hypothesis is correct, the work
      in Aim #2 will for the first time definitively demonstrate that blood flow restriction due to
      blockages in the arterial tree is not the only cause of claudication. The work under Aims #2
      and #3 will determine whether revascularization or exercise therapy has a beneficial effect
      on the myopathy of claudicating muscle with associated improvement in limb function and
      quality of life. Finally, the proposed studies under Aims #1, #2 and #3 will provide
      quantitative modeling of a panel of mechanistic (bioenergetics, oxidative stress and
      inflammation) parameters as predictors of objective measurements of claudicating limb
      function and subjective measures of quality of life commonly used for clinical assessment.
      Measurements of gastrocnemius mitochondrial function, oxidative damage and inflammation may
      be useful tools that permit staging of disease for optimum intervention and evaluation of
      therapeutic interventions that specifically target these conditions, improving rehabilitative
      outcomes.
    
  