
    
      Blood clotting during surgery is a complex process affected by many factors, including low
      levels of clotting factors and/or platelets resulting from liver disease, varying levels of
      factors that promote clotting, medicines that inhibit clotting, dilution of clotting factors
      by fluids given during surgery, body temperature, haemoglobin levels, inflammation, and
      tissue factors that speed up the breakdown of newly formed clots. The treatment of excessive
      surgical bleeding and abnormal clotting (thrombosis) depends on distinguishing between these
      factors to target the probable cause. Measurement of the blood's 'thickness' (ability to
      clot) in the operating theatre helps identify the cause and can both indicate the best
      treatment and monitor the body's response to that treatment.

      This study will evaluate the ability of a new measurement device using high frequency sound
      (ultrasound) rebounding from a tiny sample of clotting blood to demonstrate different types
      of clotting disorder, and to compare it's accuracy to an existing device that works by
      measuring the stickiness of blood as it clots in a small cup. It will also compare the
      ability of both devices to match the surgeon's visual assessment of bleeding and clot
      formation in the surgical wound.

      A recent National Institute of Clinical Excellence guideline (DG13 - 2014) acknowledges that
      standard laboratory screening tests are of limited diagnostic value in the setting of cardiac
      surgery owing both to delays in obtaining results and to their frequent inability to
      distinguish between causes of abnormal clotting. This guidance recommends point-of-care tests
      that measure changes mechanical strength of blood clot over time ("viscoelastic testing"),
      such as the TEG6 device. The new Quantra device measures similar changes in the physical
      properties of clotting blood using ultrasound, and has recently shown promising results in
      cardiac surgery. In this setting it appears to help distinguish between low levels of the
      clotting factor fibrinogen and low platelets as causes of impaired clotting, and may be
      superior to the TEG6. The present study will assess clotting in a group of patients with more
      severe clotting abnormalities and much heavier bleeding, and the benefits seen in cardiac
      surgery may be more marked.

      Patients having major abdominal organ transplants (liver and liver-intestine transplants)
      typically have heavy bleeding, as much as all the blood in the body (about 5 litres) many
      times over (up to 30 litres or more). This is replaced continuously with donated or recycled
      blood and clotting factors to keep the patient alive, but frequent blood testing is
      essential. This is to identify what treatments are needed to maintain normal function of the
      heart, lungs, kidneys and other organs, and normal blood clotting. Blood samples are taken
      from special tubes or 'lines' routinely placed in blood vessels while the patient is asleep
      before surgery begins. When bleeding occurs during surgery special clotting factors and drugs
      can be given to improve clotting and help reduce bleeding, but these can have harmful
      effects, so the types and doses need to be guided by the results of clotting tests.

      Routine blood sampling during these procedures consists of 15 ml (3 tsp) taken every 60
      minutes 5-10 times during the operation. In this study, an extra 6 ml (1.2 tsp) will be taken
      at the same times and from the same lines as these standard samples, allowing us to study the
      clotting measurements in the new Quantra device and compare these to similar measurements in
      another theatre-based device already in routine use, as well as to standard clotting tests
      done in the laboratory. At times of sampling the operating surgeon will also give a score
      indicating the state of blood clotting from visual assessment of the internal surfaces
      exposed by the surgery. The two devices' measurements of clotting, laboratory tests and the
      visual score given by the surgeon will be compared to assess the best indicator of the
      severity of the bleeding and response to treatment.

      The patient will not be managed differently from normal routine in any way apart from the
      small additional amounts of blood (maximum of 15-60 ml, or 3 -12 tsp) needed for Quantra
      measurements. No treatments will be based on these measurements.
    
  