
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Restless Leg Syndrome (RLS) affects nearly 12 million Americans. Although the precise
      etiology of RLS is not well characterized, there are specific diagnostic criteria. Symptoms
      are typically worse in the evening, consisting of a strong urge to move the affected limb(s)
      and relief with movement. Current medical therapies pose several challenges for many
      patients, as side effects include extreme drowsiness, hallucinations, nausea, headaches and
      insomnia. An alternative, non-medical therapy may provide a suitable option to this subset of
      patients. Intermittent pneumatic compression devices have previously been studied in this
      population, and have demonstrated effectiveness. However prior models have required subjects
      to remain immobile during use, representing a significant limitation given that immobility
      may actually promote worsening of symptoms. An effective, alternative non-pharmacologic
      therapy that does not interfere with patient mobility should provide a valuable treatment
      option.

      The purpose of this study is to assess whether the Vasculaire Intermittent Pneumatic
      Compression System will improve validated measures of symptom relief, patient satisfaction,
      and quality of life for RLS. This is a pilot study to determine whether or not the Vasculaire
      device improves validated measures of symptom relief, patient satisfaction, and quality of
      life in RLS patients. Depending on the outcome of our study we hope to develop a
      sham-controlled clinical trial as a follow-up study.

      METHODS:

      We are performing a Prospective cohort study.

      We will recruit patients until we reach an N=40.

      After informed consent, the patient's record will be reviewed to ensure that they have had a
      serum iron panel and ferritin checked within the preceding 6 months. For those patients
      missing these laboratory studies, they will have their blood drawn for a full serum iron
      panel (serum iron level, serum ferritin, and total iron binding capacity), as per standard of
      care (to exclude iron deficiency as a cause or contributor to their symptoms). Patients with
      inadequate serum iron stores will be excluded. Patients with adequate iron stores will be
      asked to complete a comprehensive medical questionnaire to document medical conditions and
      medications with doses prescribed.

      This questionnaire will also record previously tried therapies, both home remedies and
      medically prescribed treatments. Specific undesirable side effects will also be documented.

      Severity will then be determined based on 5 previously validated questionnaire instruments
      (The Restless Legs Syndrome Rating Scale, The Restless Legs Syndrome-Quality of Life
      Instrument (RLS-QLI), The Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), The Johns Hopkins Restless Legs
      Severity Scale (JHRLS), The International Restless Legs Syndrome Rating Scale).

      Once the medical history has been reviewed, documentation of severity assessed and the
      determination of unresolved treatment post medical therapy, the patient will be eligible for
      enrollment.

      The Vasculaire Intermittent Pneumatic Compression System will be introduced to the patient
      and instructions provided on how to optimize the use of device in accordance with the study
      protocol.
    
  