
    
      RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

        1. To study the Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices (KAP) regarding tobacco among BEST
           employees in Mumbai

        2. To study the occupational correlates of tobacco consumption across various grades of
           BEST employees

        3. To educate them regarding hazards of tobacco.

        4. To offer BEST employees Preventive Oncology screening facilities and evaluate the
           compliance for screening and determine the rate of oral pre-cancers.

        5. To study the post-intervention KAP regarding tobacco

        6. To randomly assign the BEST employees using tobacco to one of the four tobacco cessation
           interventions and study the compliance to the same.

        7. To determine the rate of tobacco cessation after twelve months of follow-up.

        8. To comparatively evaluate the success of the four approaches of tobacco cessation, viz.
           providing self help material, telephone counseling, behavioural therapy and behavioural
           + pharmacotherapy, among users of different forms of tobacco.

      Methodology:

      Study Design: Four arm interventional study

      Step 1: Around 4000 BEST employees in Mumbai will be enrolled after explaining the programme
      and obtaining informed consent. They will be interviewed with the help of a well structured
      questionnaire to collect information about their Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices (KAP)
      regarding tobacco, their attitudes and experiences regarding smoke free public places with
      specific reference to smoke free BEST buses.

      Step 2: The BEST employees will be given detailed health education regarding hazards of
      tobacco and the need for smoke free BEST buses. The BEST employees will be invited to
      participate in Preventive Oncology (PO) screening (mainly oral cancer screening).

      Step 3: The BEST employees will be again interviewed with the help of a well structured
      questionnaire to collect information of their post-intervention KAP regarding tobacco and
      smoke free public places.

      Step 4: The BEST employees using tobacco will be registered at the Tobacco cessation clinic
      and will be invited to participate in the first session of tobacco cessation counseling.

      The BEST employees using smoking forms of tobacco will be offered interventions and will be
      followed up as per the TCC protocol.

      The smokeless tobacco users will be randomly assigned into one of the four groups to receive
      intervention. Each group of employee will receive one of the four interventions as follows:
      self help material, telephone counseling, behavioural therapy and behavioural +
      pharmacotherapy.

      The pharmacotherapy intervention in the form of Nicotine Replacement Therapy comprising of
      Nicotine chewing gums or patches (Transdermal patches) will be based on individual need
      assessment to relieve withdrawal symptoms in tobacco users when trying to quit.

      Nicotine Chewing Gums:

      Dose: 2 mg/4 mg, 10-15 pieces per day with maximum dose of 24 pieces/day depending on
      cravings Total Duration: 12 weeks Duration of treatment: Higher dose for 4-6 weeks, with
      weaning till 2-3 months Side effects: Bad taste, Throat irritation, burning in mouth, nausea,
      vomiting, hiccups, increased heart beat etc

      Nicotine Transdermal patches:

      Dose: 7 mg/10 mg/14 mg/21 mg -for 24-hours use. Total Duration: 12 weeks Duration of
      treatment: Higher strength patch for 2 weeks and depending on cravings will be gradually
      decreased till 4 weeks Side effects: Skin irritation, dizziness, sleep problems, increased
      heart beat etc

      Step 5: The BEST employees with lesions will be followed up at the Preventive Oncology
      screening clinic as per PO protocols. The tobacco users enrolled in the TCC will be followed
      up over a period of twelve months with three interventions in between and a post-intervention
      follow-up.

      Variables to be estimated:

        1. Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices (KAP) regarding tobacco among BEST employees.

        2. The compliance for availing the services at Preventive Oncology screening facilities and
           Tobacco cessation clinic at the Tata Memorial Hospital

        3. The rate of oral pre-cancers among BEST employees.

        4. The post-intervention KAP regarding tobacco.

        5. The rate of tobacco cessation after one year follow-up.

        6. Compare the success of various approaches for tobacco cessation and assess the
           compliance for the same.

      Data Analysis:

      Data entry will be done in the Department of Preventive Oncology, Tata Memorial Hospital
      using Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) version 18. Checks for consistency, data
      safety and analysis will be carried out at regular intervals. Both descriptive and
      inferential statistics will be generated for describing variables under the study objectives.
    
  