
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility of implementation of molecular (genomic) predictive testing
      for patients with localized (stage I-III) invasive carcinoma of the breast who are candidates
      for either adjuvant or neoadjuvant treatment of their breast cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate the frequency of tumors in each of the four molecularly defined cohorts, overall
      and within subsets defined by nodal status and estrogen receptor (ER) status.

      II. Estimate the concordance of genomic analysis of gene expression levels for ER and HER2
      from the microarray (published previously), compared with standard testing with
      immunohistochemistry (IHC) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to determine ER and
      HER2 status in these tumors.

      III. Estimate the rates of indeterminate results and other variables of feasibility for
      tissue obtained by different procurement methods.

      IV. Estimate the impact of adjuvant therapy as measured by disease free survival (DFS) at 3
      and 5 years for the patients within each cohort who received a neoadjuvant or adjuvant
      treatment that is concordant with the application of the prediction result.

      V. Estimate the impact of neoadjuvant therapy for patients within each cohort, as measured by
      pathologic response in the breast and regional lymph nodes (pathologic complete response rate
      [pCR] and residual cancer burden [RCB]).

      VI. Estimate the predictive performance of other pre-validated and published genomic
      predictors of chemotherapy or endocrine therapy sensitivity by calculating those predictions
      from the microarray data that are produced or by using available results if the test was
      performed separately for clinical use.

      VII. Determine molecular characteristics of residual disease by analyzing resected surgical
      specimens of residual disease in patients who have received neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      VIII. Determine molecular characteristics of recurrent or metastatic disease by analyzing
      tumor tissue obtained from diagnostic biopsies of a recurrent or metastatic tumor and
      comparing these samples to the primary tumor.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo biopsy or surgery to obtain tumor sample for genetic testing. Patients are
      then assigned to 4 treatment cohorts as determined by genetic test results.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up for 5 years.
    
  