
    
      Study visits: 3 total over 12 weeks. Screening prior to enrollment will include consent to
      complete three 24-hour dietary recalls prior to the first study visit.

      Visit 0. Subject will be seen in the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics (UIHC)
      Neurology Clinic, prevention intervention center or clinical research unit to review the
      consent, answer questions and sign the consent.

      Subjects will provide phone numbers and best times for the dietitian to call for the dietary
      recall interviews and will be given a 2-dimensional food portion booklet to assist with
      reporting amount of food eaten.

      Letters and a copy of the study consent will be sent to eligible ALS patients from the UIHC
      ALS clinic with follow up calls as previously descried.

      Questions will be answered, the consent will be reviewed. If the patient wants to participate
      in the study, a Visit 1 will be scheduled and permission to complete the 24 hour dietary
      recalls will be obtained.

      Height and weight will be documented from the participant clinic visits (neurology and
      primary care if needed) to obtain at least 2 weights and a height obtained in a clinic
      setting in the prior 6 months to calculate a slope of projected weight loss per month and a
      projected weight loss and muscle mass loss that may be observed at visit 2.

      Visit 1. Subjects will be asked to fast for 12 hours prior to visit. Urine specific gravity
      will be obtained. The target is 1.004 to 1.028. If the urine is too dilute, the patient is to
      stop drinking and the other tests will be obtained and urine specific gravity will be
      repeated. The urine specific gravity that is noted that is within the range -- will be the
      target specific gravity for future BIS tests (ideally within .005). Patients are asked to
      report with the same level of hydration for future tests. Resting energy expenditure, forced
      vitality capacity and hand grip test will be completed. Fasting blood specimens and vital
      signs will be obtained. Subjects will be provided with a snack (or asked to bring a snack).
      Questionnaires will be completed. Subjects will be educated how the subject's personal family
      history (genetic vulnerability) may have interacted with the patient's unique DNA and
      lifetime of diet, lifestyle choices and environmental exposures to contributed to the
      participants' current health circumstances. The subject will be instructed on a
      stress-reducing practice on mindfulness and the subject will do a practice session of
      mindfulness. The participant will be taught the study diet by the intervention dietitian. A
      diet checklist that offers guidance to the subject in the form of prompts to eat the foods
      that are recommended and to avoid those that are not recommended will be provided. The
      subject and their adult companion will be given a study-compliant meal and will practice
      recording the meal in the diet checklist to facilitate the learning of the principles of the
      study diet and how to use the daily diet checklist. The subject and adult companion will be
      instructed on mindful eating.

      The study visit will take approximately 5 to 6 hours. The subject will be given a 'loaner'
      food blending machine to use to make smoothies and soups that are compliant with the study
      diet. The subject will be asked to add 20 grams of bone broth protein powder and consume that
      in a study compliant smoothie or warm beverage each day to increase protein intake in a food
      or beverage item that does not require chewing (such as a smoothie or soup.

      After the study visit:

      Subjects will work by telephone with the study dietitian as they implement the study diet and
      stress reducing practice. The subject will be called 2 to 3 days after the visit by the study
      dietitian to review the study diet and answer questions. The dietitian will call again in one
      week to review the study diet with the study subject and ask how the participant is managing
      the diet. The dietitian will ask the participant if they are willing to continue on the study
      diet for the remainder of the study which is called the intervention phase of the study. If
      he participant is willing to continue the study diet, they will begin adding the various
      vitamins and supplements according to schedule in the diet checklist. If the participant does
      not wish to continue the study diet, the coaching calls will stop. Even if the participant
      resumes their usual diet, the participant will still come in for the end of study visit 3 at
      12 weeks. The participant will not come back for 12 week visit.

      Visit 2: 6 weeks.

      Subjects will be asked to fast for 12 hours prior to visit. The patient will be weighed.
      Urine specific gravity will be obtained. The target urine specific gravity for the patient
      future BIS tests (ideally within .005) from the first BIS will be identified. A urine sample
      will be obtained The urine specific gravity will be obtained and compared to the target
      value. If the urine is too dilute, the patient is to stop drinking and the other tests will
      be obtained and urine specific gravity will be repeated in 1 hour.

      The changes in muscle mass between visit 1 and visit 2 will be calculated and compared to the
      projected muscle mass loss. If the participant has lost more muscle mass than was projected,
      the study dietitian will instruct the participant on strategies to increase calories and
      protein while following the study diet. In addition, the participant will be asked to
      increase the intake of bone broth protein to 40 grams per day.

      This visit will take 3 hours.

      Visit 3: End of Study visit at 12 weeks. Participants will return the blending machine. The
      target urine specific gravity for the patient future BIS tests (ideally within .005) from the
      first BIS will be identified. A urine sample will be obtained The urine specific gravity will
      be obtained and compared to the target value. If the urine is too dilute, the patient is to
      stop drinking and the other tests will be obtained and urine specific gravity will be
      repeated in 1 hour. Patients are asked to report with the same level of hydration for future
      tests.

      Resting energy expenditure, forced vitality capacity and BIS will be completed. Fasting blood
      specimens and vital signs will be obtained. Subjects will be able to eat a snack. The hand
      grip test will be completed. Questionnaires will be completed. The study team will answer
      questions about the study. Three 24 hour recalls will be completed in the week before and or
      the week after the end of study visit.

      The changes in muscle mass between visit 1 and visit 2 will be calculated and compared to the
      projected muscle mass loss. The participant will be informed if the muscle mass is greater
      than projected and will be informed of strategies to increase calorie and protein intake.

      The study visit will take approximately 2 to 3 hours.
    
  