
    
      Hemodialysis（HD） and peritoneal dialysis (PD) are both the main methods to treat with
      end-stage renal disease (ESRD) uremia patients. The first 3-month mortality and
      hospitalization rate of new dialysis patient is much higher than that of regular dialysis's.
      So it is very important to set up dialysis pathway and from inducing dialysis into regular
      dialysis smoothly. But in the global 50-70%, more than 70% of the patients in China can not
      establish the dialysis pathway in advance according to the plan. With the common, a temporary
      deep venous catheter would be used first, then the fistula established later, as the final
      transition for hemodialysis. Urgent peritoneal dialysis can be established 24 hours after the
      establishment of permanent access dialysis, simply and easily, it can protect the residual
      kidney function; reduce treatment costs, hemodynamic stability, no anticoagulant is its
      unique advantages, At the same time, also avoid the temporary deep venous pathway prone to
      local bleeding, infection, venous thrombosis, central venous stenosis, direct impact on the
      future of the mature of fistula , or transplanted kidney vascular conditions. Automatic
      peritoneal dialysis (APD) in the treatment of urgent dialysis patients can save more manpower
      and resources, and improve the efficiency of peritoneal dialysis. The study on the efficacy
      and safety of urgent dialysis lacks the precisely designed multi-center, prospective and
      controlled clinical trial, and APD only induces 3 days, it is difficult to really reflect the
      safety and effectiveness of APD. Therefore, it is of great practical significance to study
      the difference of safety, efficacy and cost-effectiveness between urgent PD and HD in a
      prospective, control and multicenter clinical trial. 206 ESRD uremia patients will involve in
      this multi-center, prospective and controlled clinical trial, the mode of urgent dialysis
      will choose by patient guided by nephrologist, the HD group will receive the standard
      traditional treatment: from induction HD to regular HD. The PD group will receive the APD
      daily. All patient will be monitor the physiological and biochemical marker for 14 day, and
      all adverse events and dead within 90days will collected to evaluated the safety, efficacy of
      the two urgent dialysis modes.
    
  