
    
      Nipple discharge is a relatively frequent complaint in females, being the third most common
      breast symptoms prompting medical care, after breast pain and breast palpable mass. Over 80%
      of females will have an episode of nipple discharge during their fertile life,which can be
      categorized as lactional which is milky in nature and occur during pregnancy or breast
      feeding. Physiological nipple discharge, is yellow, milky or greenish in nature, it cannot
      happen spontaneously and it can often be seen coming from multiple orifices,Some causes of
      physiological nipple discharge are hypothyroidism and medication side-effects. . Pathological
      nipple discharge is defined as a clear, serous, or bloody secretion , spontaneous,
      discharging from a single duct and unilateral. It is frequently caused by a benign lesion,
      such as intraductal papilloma (35-56%) or ductal ectasia (6-59%), but an underlying
      malignancy can be present in a percentage of cases reported to be variable from 5 to 33%.

      Majority of nipple discharge cases are more frequently due to benign conditions, so less
      operative ,nonsurgical methods can be applied to limit the need for surgical intervention ,
      the woman that presents with nipple discharge should be managed as follow , ultrasound which
      is always performed in cases with nipple discharge for detection of ductal carcinoma in situ
      or invasive carcinoma , the sensitivity and specificity of ultrasound were 65% and 75% to
      85%respectively ,mammography which plays an important role in diagnosis of breast diseases
      however it has low (20-25%)sensitivity in cases with nipple discharge as the associated
      lesions are usually retro areolar ,small, intraductal and non calcified so negative
      mammography do not exclude the possibility of underlying disease , ductography,which has long
      been considered the gold standard for evaluation of nipple discharge but it has low
      sensitivity , MRI has high sensitivity in evaluation of nipple discharge up to 88% to 95%,
      and its negative predictive value is (90%) , demonstrate not only ductal lesions but also
      lesions in adjacent parenchyma and it is superior in assessment of location and extent of a
      lesion.

      Recently, contrast enhanced digital mammography has shown a very high sensitivity and
      specificity in diagnosis of breast lesions, it was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
      Administration in 2011. The utility of CEM in the diagnostic setting for evaluation of breast
      lesion is 100% sensitivity, 87.7% specificity, 76.2%, positive predictive, 100%negative
      predictive .CEM has been found to result in more accurate tumor size estimation . In the
      evaluation of suspicious micro calcifications, the negative predictive value of CEM has been
      reported to be up to 93% . The literature also suggests that the improved performance of CEM
      relative to that of mammography is greater in women with dense breast tissue as compared with
      nondense breast tissue, with fewer false-negative cases . Additionally CEM can evaluate
      response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy and assessment of disease recurrence and also in
      screening of high risk women .
    
  