
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGvHD) is the leading cause of non-relapse morbidity
           and mortality in persons after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplants.

        -  About 50% of persons with cGvHD have disease refractory to systemic corticosteroids and
           there is no standard second-line therapy.

        -  Thalidomide, a drug with immune-modulating effects, was active in advanced cGvHD but was
           difficult to use at appropriate doses.

        -  Pomalidomide is related to thalidomide but with higher potency and more favorable
           toxicity profile. It is active in multiple myeloma and myeloproliferative neoplasm
           associated myelofibrosis. Preliminary data in humans with cGvHD are encouraging but data
           are limited.

      OBJECTIVES:

      - Primary: Determine whether pomalidomide is effective in persons with moderate or severe
      cGvHD not controlled by corticosteroids.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      Inclusion Criteria

        -  Moderate or severe cGvHD per National Institutes of Health (NIH) criteria

        -  Age 18 to 75 years old

        -  Karnofsky performance score greater than or equal to 60%

        -  Has cGvHD that did not respond to high-dose corticosteroids (average 0.5 mg/kg/d
           prednisone for greater than or equal to 8 weeks) or second-line therapy

        -  Receiving stable or tapering doses of systemic therapy in the preceding 4 weeks

        -  Agree to adhere to methods of contraception and other fertility control measures as
           prescribed by the protocol

      Exclusion Criteria

        -  Acute GvHD (classic and late per NIH criteria)

        -  Absolute neutrophils <1.0x10(9)/L, platelets <75x10(9)/L, estimated creatinine clearance
           <50 mL/min/1.73m(2)

        -  NIH lung score 3

        -  Pregnant or lactating

        -  Uncontrolled infection

      DESIGN:

      Randomized phase 2 trial with the single stage selection design. Patients will receive either
      a constant low dose of pomalidomide (0.5 mg/day) for six months or a strategy of increasing
      dose of pomalidomide from 0.5 mg/d up through each individual patient's maximum tolerated
      dose, with escalations by 0.5 mg/d every 2 weeks to a maximum of 2.0 mg/d. As an early
      stopping rule for futility, if after 7 patients have enrolled on either arm, 0 have
      responded, then no further patients will be accrued to that arm as soon as this can be
      determined. To protect patient safety, an early stopping rule will be implemented. With two
      arms, each of which has a maximal accrual of 16 patients, up to 32 evaluable patients will be
      randomized. Response assessments will occur every 3 months with primary efficacy endpoint
      evaluated at 6 months. Patients with responding disease will continue therapy for another 6
      months.
    
  