
    
      The patients will be recruited at the Children's Hospital of Michigan burn center or clinic
      by research personnel. If a patient is determined to fit inclusion criteria, parental consent
      will be obtained using the attached consent form by one of the research personnel. If the
      parent speaks another language, written consent will be obtained after explanation of the
      study and a short consent form in the native language. Also, a translator will be used to
      explain the full consent form used for English speaking patients. This form will be witnessed
      by a person who speaks the native language fluently. Only one parent will be required to sign
      consent as many patients only have one parent available in the hospital with them and this
      study involves only treatments that are current standard of care. If the patient is ages 7-12
      years, an oral assent will be completed before participation in the study. If the patient is
      between ages 13-17, an assent form will be explained to them and their signature required to
      participate in the study. If they speak another language, assent will be obtained using a
      translator and the same methods listed above for parental consent. If the recruitment accrues
      beyond 4-6 non-english speaking participants, who speak a certain language, the consent forms
      will be translated into this language for future participants.

      Study Protocol:

      Once consent is obtained, and the patient is determined to be ready for a dressing
      application, one half of the extremity burn will be treated with Mepilex Ag and the other
      half of the extremity burn will be treated with Xeroform. Both of these treatments are
      current standard of care for a partial thickness scald burn in pediatric patients. The
      patients will be followed inpatient until they are discharged and then followed weekly at
      burn clinic appointments, the same care all of our burn patients receive. A survey will be
      administered to burn staff and patient's parents when the treatments are applied, at
      follow-up clinic appointments, and after the wound is healed completely. We will evaluate
      clinician and nurse ease of use, comfort of each dressing for the child, pain and itching
      associated with each dressing and dressing change, healing time, appearance of the scar after
      it is completely healed using the Vancouver Scar Scale, and parental satisfaction and ease of
      use for each dressing.

      Data Collection and Evaluation:

      A chart review will be performed for all patients to obtain demographic data including age,
      name, birth date, date of injury, injury details, the initial treatment applied if a
      different dressing was used before the patient was ready for application of Xeroform or
      Mepilex Ag, and any other pertinent information regarding the burn treatment. Study personnel
      and an attending physician will evaluate each patient at weekly follow-up visits or inpatient
      if the patient is being treated in the hospital. Survey results and other data will be
      evaluated after 10 patients complete treatment. Photographs taken as part of every burn
      patient's care may be reviewed as part of the study. These are obtained by medical
      photography and securely stored digitally. The Vancouver Scar Scale will be used for final
      evaluation of the healed scar after treatment is complete.

      All data obtained in paper form will be stored in a locked filing cabinet in a locked office
      in the Pediatric Surgery Department and data obtained in digital form will be secure in a
      password protected file on the electronic medical record server.

      Statistics will be performed using Statistical Package for Social Sciences (IBM version 22.0)
      and the statistical program R (r-project.org). The statistics to be performed for continuous
      variables (which are most of the assessment measures) will include a dependent groups
      analysis (e.g. paired samples t-test or robust analogue of this test such as Yuen's method
      for trimmed means, comparing medians, or bootstrap methods). The statistics to be performed
      for dichotomous measures will be the Sign test, which assesses differences in positive and
      negative outcomes for each treatment group.
    
  