
    
      The volunteers performed in random order two experimental sessions separated by 48 hours and
      being: 1) Control and; 2) Inhalation Essential Oil of Eucalyptus. The experimental sessions
      were always performed in the morning and in the same time of day for the same volunteer,
      avoiding possible influences circadian rhythm. The experimental sessions were held at the
      Exercise Physiology Laboratory at the Federal University of Vale do São Francisco with
      controlled temperature 25°C. At times the pre session (rest), recovery and during the
      isometric resistance exercise (post-session) in upper limb by hand grip, blood pressure
      measurements were taken, heart rate and records of the intervals R-R in the absolute time and
      frequency domain, and are calculated the rate product pressure values (systolic blood
      pressure x heart rate). Using a disposable face mask participants inhale for ten minutes 0.25
      ml of essential oil of eucalyptus measured through adjustable Pipettor 100/1000μl. Inhalation
      of the substance occurred immediately after the 20 minute rest period in the session
      Essential Oil of Eucalyptus. In the control session the volunteers remained in a similar
      manner, with the installed face mask, however inhaling fresh air. The test for determining
      the maximal voluntary contraction was held in hand grip device Hydraulic Hand Dynamometer
      Saehan Model SH5001 ranging from 0-90 kgf of grip and precision of 2 kgf. Before the test was
      performed familiarization session with two series each of 10 seconds with the minimum load
      allowed by the equipment, the series being separated by a 2-minute recovery period. The value
      of the maximum voluntary load was determined by the highest value obtained in three attempts
      of 10 seconds each, with 2 minutes between each trial and the position of the grip handle has
      been self selected. The experimental isometric resistance exercise sessions were undertaken
      after 48 hours of interval maximum voluntary contraction test, and the same equipment
      previously used for the test. The isometric resistance exercise series were held with
      volunteers sitting positioned comfortably and with the shoulder adducted, the elbow flexed at
      90° and the forearm in neutral position, and the position of the self selected grip handle.
      The highest value obtained in kgf in maximum voluntary contraction test was used as a
      reference to calculate the absolute intensity of the exercise, which was corresponding to the
      relative intensity of 30% of the test. Three sets were performed with duration of 1 minute
      recovery at the same time in both sessions (Eucalyptus Essential Oil and Control).
    
  