
    
      Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), characterized by an inability to recover from a stress
      reaction to a traumatic event, is a widely prevalent disorder within the U.S. and across the
      world. Currently, several psychotherapies are empirically-supported for the treatment of
      PTSD. However, because of treatment refusal due to treatment type, non-response, and dropout,
      many individuals continue to experience severe symptoms and meet criteria for PTSD following
      treatment.

      Emerging observational and early clinical evidence suggest that cannabis (marijuana) may have
      the potential to reduce or ameliorate a number of symptoms experienced by those with PTSD,
      including sleep difficulty and anxiety. Indeed, some evidence has suggested that
      delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) may serve to reduce nightmares among those with PTSD,
      while other studies have shown anxiolytic effects of cannabidiol (CBD). However, there have
      been no randomized controlled trials of cannabis, in any form, for PTSD.

      The present triple-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled crossover trial aims to examine the
      safety and efficacy of four types of cannabis (i.e., high THC, low CBD; high CBD, low THC;
      equal ratio THC/CBD; and placebo) among 76 military veterans with PTSD of at least six
      months' duration. Participants will be recruited from one study site, the Scottsdale Research
      Institute (Phoenix, AZ).

      After giving written informed consent, participants will undergo screening for initial
      eligibility. Potential participants will be required to stop using non-study medical cannabis
      for two weeks during screening, and for the duration of the study if enrolled. After the
      two-week washout, a blinded independent rater will administer the Clinician-Administered PTSD
      Scale (CAPS-5) to assess presence and severity of PTSD symptoms. Self-report measures will
      also be completed. Eligible participants will then be enrolled and randomized. In the active
      portion of the study, participants will receive two of four different types of cannabis
      during two stages (Stage 1 and Stage 2), each lasting three weeks, with crossover and
      re-randomization at Stage 2. Prior to each stage, participants will complete two introductory
      sessions where they will be trained on cannabis self-administration. During each stage,
      participants will be provided 1.8 grams of cannabis daily to smoke ad libitum. Each stage
      will be followed by a two-week cessation. To reduce the risk of diversion, after the second
      cessation period, participants will have the option to complete a third stage of the study
      where they can request the remaining unused cannabis from either Stage 1 or 2.

      Study outcomes will be assessed objectively, behaviorally, via self-report, and by a
      third-party rater. Specifically, blood and urine will be collected to confirm cannabis use
      status throughout the study, participants will be required to video record
      self-administration of cannabis, and any unused cannabis from each weekly allotment will be
      returned to the investigator or designee to be weighed and accounted for prior to dispensing
      of the next weekly supply. Sleep will be measured via self-report and tracked with
      actigraphy, clinical interviews will be conducted by blinded independent raters will provide
      an independent rating of participant behavior.

      Participant suicidal ideation will be assessed weekly with the C-SSRS, and daily if results
      indicate development of suicidal ideation. Weekly evaluations will include measures of
      symptoms of PTSD, depression, anxiety, sleep quality, general functioning, and responses to
      cannabis. During each evaluation, actigraph data will also be downloaded and a urine-dip EtG
      test will be performed. Analysis of blood/urine cannabinoids will be conducted after
      cessation periods, in addition to weekly urine drug screening for substances other than
      cannabis. At Baseline and end of Stage 1, Cessation 1 and end of Stage 2, additional blood
      samples will be collected for analysis of inflammation markers. At the end of Stage 1 and 2,
      endpoint measures will be administered; an independent rater will evaluate symptoms of PTSD
      on the CAPS-5 via telemedicine, and self-reported symptoms of anxiety, depression,
      withdrawal, sleep quality, and psychosocial functioning will be assessed.
    
  