
    
      The aims of this study are exploring the current situation of end-stage liver disease in
      China, and the optimization of diagnosis and treatment. Liver cirrhosis includes cirrhosis
      caused by hepatitis, alcoholic cirrhosis, non-alcoholic cirrhosis and schistosomiasis
      cirrhosis. Liver cirrhosis often accompanied by a series of complications, including portal
      hypertension and gastrointestinal bleeding, ascites and related infections, hepatorenal
      syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy, portal vein thrombosis, etc. Therefore, it is necessary to
      standardize the diagnosis and treatment of liver cirrhosis and its complications, but there
      are still disputes about most of the complications in various editions of the guidelines. In
      order to formulate the best empirical treatment plan, it is indispensable to master the
      epidemiological situation of cirrhosis in different places. However, there is a lack of
      support from large clinical data from China. End-stage liver disease mainly refers to the
      late stage of liver disease caused by various chronic liver damage. Its main feature is that
      liver function can not meet the physiological needs of human body. It covers the final stages
      of various chronic liver diseases, mainly manifested as severe impairment and decompensation
      of liver function, including chronic and acute liver failure, acute decompensation of
      cirrhosis, chronic liver failure and hepatocellular carcinoma. The concept of end-stage liver
      disease was first put forward in the 1980s and has not been strictly defined yet. However,
      due to the complications of end-stage liver disease, such as infection related to liver
      failure and portal hypertension, septic shock, hepatic encephalopathy, and serious decline in
      quality of life, and the one-year survival rate of most patients is less than 90%, it is
      necessary to put forward this concept. Therefore, there is still a need for large sample data
      to define end-stage liver disease and formulate evidence-based treatment plans.

      The aim of this study is to explore the efficacy, safety and economic benefits of different
      treatment options for patients with cirrhosis and complications and end-stage liver disease
      in the real world of China. To investigate the epidemiological rates of cirrhosis and
      end-stage liver disease, and to provide evidence-based medical evidence for the treatment and
      follow-up of cirrhosis and end-stage liver disease in China in the future.

      This study is a single-center, prospective and observational real-world study aimed at
      investigating and analyzing the current diagnosis and treatment of end-stage liver disease in
      China, exploring the situation of end-stage liver disease in China, exploring the treatment
      options for patients with end-stage liver disease that can effectively improve their
      prognosis, and seeking high-quality evidence-based medical treatment for cirrhosis and
      reducing the mortality of end-stage liver disease.
    
  