
    
      Background:

      Kaposi's sarcoma is a highly vascular tumor. As such, it may provide a good model for the
      study of angiogenesis-based therapy in cancer. However, there are no standardized techniques
      now available to assess the effects of anti-angiogenesis therapy on blood flow in KS tissues.
      The present protocol was written to allow us to explore and gain experience with four
      promising techniques to examine tumor vasculature in cutaneous KS lesions: a) laser Doppler
      imaging; b) multi-spectral imaging; c) infrared thermal imaging; and d) optical coherence
      tomography.

      Objectives:

      The main objective is to assess, in preliminary fashion, non-invasive methods for studying
      tumor vascularity and vascular changes in patients with Kaposi's sarcoma using four different
      imaging techniques. Other objectives are to correlate these techniques to each other and to
      conventional KS tumor assessment, and to assess the response of these techniques in patients
      receiving therapy for Kaposi s sarcoma.

      Eligibility:

      Patients 18 of more years of age with biopsy-proven cutaneous Kaposi's sarcoma involving the
      skin or mucosa are eligible. They must be willing and able to give informed consent.

      Design:

      This will be a preliminary study to explore these techniques in Kaposi's sarcoma. Selected
      Kaposi's sarcoma lesions of patients will be assessed using laser Doppler imaging,
      multi-spectral imaging, infrared thermal imaging, and optical coherence tomography at entry
      and then additional time points for up to 4 years. Lesions will also be assessed by
      conventional measurement and photographs with conventional cameras. In selected patients in
      which there are Kaposi's sarcoma lesions on the arm, the effects of stopping venous flow for
      up to 10 seconds will be assessed on the measurements. A complete blood count will be done
      the day of the measurements. The results of the imaging techniques will be compared with each
      other, and with conventional tumor assessments. Changes over time will be assessed.
    
  