
    
      The investigators aim to recruit 100 participants for this RCT (50 per treatment condition).
      This will provide adequate power (0.80) to detect differences between groups of medium effect
      size (d=0.50). Eligibility criteria will include being 18 years of age or older, being a
      current Utah State University (USU) student, not having participated in previous self-help
      studies conducted by the USU Contextual Behavioral Science (CBS) Lab, being interested in
      self-help for social anxiety, and scoring at least a 6 on the Mini-SPIN, a screener for
      social anxiety symptoms. Participants will be recruited via SONA, flyers, online postings,
      classroom announcements, and through a general online screener for various USU CBS Lab
      studies.

      Total study participation will occur over approximately 8 weeks. All study procedures will be
      completed online, on a computer/mobile phone. After completing informed consent, participants
      will complete a baseline survey.

      At the end of the baseline survey, participants will be randomly assigned to use a book based
      on CBT (The Shyness and Social Anxiety Workbook) or on ACT (The Mindfulness and Acceptance
      Workbook for Social Anxiety and Shyness). Note that participants will be asked not to access
      other self-help books during the study duration. Participants will be provided with an 8-week
      reading schedule and a link to the assigned book. Participants will be asked to complete a
      midtreatment survey 4 weeks after the beginning of treatment. The midtreatment survey will
      include questions about adherence. Participants will be asked to complete a posttreatment
      survey 8 weeks after the beginning of treatment. This survey will also ask about adherence
      (reading, use of strategies taught in the book, and exposures). Researcher contact will
      involve reminders to complete assessments, a basic email assistance in identifying and
      responding to any barriers to using the self-help book, and twice-weekly reminders of the
      suggested reading schedule.

      After completing the initial assessment participants will be sent a link to The Mindfulness
      and Acceptance Workbook for Social Anxiety and Shyness if they are assigned to the ACT
      condition, or a link to the Shyness and Social Anxiety Workbook if they are in the CBT
      condition. They will be able to access the book online at any time. Participants will be
      asked to read assigned chapters on an 8-week schedule.

      The primary treatment components in the Mindfulness and Acceptance Workbook for Social
      Anxiety and Shyness are psychoeducation, values and goals, mindfulness, acceptance, defusion,
      and committed action. The book uses writing exercises to identify
      patterns/values/goals/committed action, guided and unguided mindfulness meditations, and
      acceptance exercises.

      The primary treatment components in The Shyness and Social Anxiety Workbook are
      psychoeducation (introducing the cognitive behavioral model), self-assessment (e.g., anxiety
      hierarchy, identifying beliefs, identifying avoidance), cognitive restructuring, situational
      exposure, exposure to physical symptoms, and maintenance/consolidation. The book also
      includes a chapter on motivation and treatment options and a chapter on medication, but these
      were omitted in a previous trial of the book and will also be omitted in the present study.
      There is also a chapter on social skills, which will be omitted in order to keep dosage
      similar between the two books. The book briefly mentions acceptance in the context of
      exposure (e.g., fear will stick around longer after fighting it) but includes no major
      acceptance or mindfulness components.
    
  