
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the 2-year progression-free survival of older patients with previously
           untreated bulky stage II or stage III or IV diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
           treated with iodine I 131 tositumomab in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide,
           doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone.

        -  Determine the response rate (partial response, complete unconfirmed response, and
           complete response) in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the 2-year progression-free survival and response rate (partial response,
           complete unconfirmed response, and complete response) in B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL-2)
           positive patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Rituximab and chemotherapy: Patients receive R-CHOP comprising rituximab IV over 6
           hours; cyclophosphamide IV over 15-45 minutes; doxorubicin IV over 5-20 minutes; and
           vincristine IV over 5-15 minutes on day 1 and oral prednisone on days 1-5. Treatment
           repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo a restaging evaluation. Patients without
           progressive disease receive CHOP chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin,
           vincristine, and prednisone as outlined above. Treatment with CHOP chemotherapy repeats
           every 21 days for 2 courses.

        -  Radiolabeled monoclonal antibody therapy: Approximately 4-8 weeks after completion of
           chemotherapy, patients receive tositumomab IV over 1 hour followed by a dosimetric dose
           of iodine I 131 tositumomab IV over 20 minutes. Patients then undergo gamma scans over a
           1-week period in order to determine the correct treatment dose of iodine I 131
           tositumomab. No more than 2 weeks after administration of the dosimetric dose, patients
           receive tositumomab IV over 1 hour followed by a treatment dose of iodine I 131
           tositumomab IV over 20 minutes.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 80 patients will be accrued for this study within 15 months.
    
  