
    
      Decrease in movement and limitation is common in older adults. Compared to the general
      population where mobility is restricted in 10.1% of individuals, this rate rises to 15.4% for
      those aged 50-69 and increases to 36.2% after 70 years of age . Mobility has direct and
      direct consequences for maintaining the independence and autonomy of all older adults.
      Decreased mobility increases both quality of life and formal and informal care needs . For
      older adults, mobility can be the most important functional skill required to maintain social
      roles and quests, and the decrease in mobility is often in front of disability in daily
      living activities (GYA) (2). Mobility assessments range from biomechanical measurements to
      broader assessments of people's daily lives .

      Ambulation problems are fundamentally conceptualized in relation to internal and upper-level
      movement (when a person leaves his / her home or takes a mile of distance üst etc.). This
      limitation of movement is common among older adults and increases with age. The emergence and
      progression of age-related chronic diseases is a reason why the elderly population continues
      to be at increased risk for mobility loss.

      Traditional measures such as GYA (bath, dressing, transfer, toilet and food) and Instrumental
      Activities of Daily Life (GYAA - light and heavy housework, food preparation, shopping and
      money management) are special functions that are an integral part of mobility. On the other
      hand, the living space reflects integration and social inclusion in geographically defined
      areas and measures how much, how often, and how independently individuals act in their
      environment. This assessment provides a measure of mobility throughout the observed function
      among elderly adults living in the community, which may have different and multiple chronic
      diseases and different disability levels. Living space mobility enables the participation of
      individuals in the community or the mobility of the individual.

      While the maintenance of all aspects of health in aging individuals has gained importance as
      the focus of the research, there has been much debate about proper measurement. Muldoon et
      al. Reported that it is very important in the post-illness effects beyond the immediate
      effects of the disease to examine the effects of people on their daily lives. Traditional
      treatment and evaluation methods are focused on function and ability to perform certain tasks
      . However, the difficulty in these measures may not be evident until later in disability
      models. In contrast, the habitat provides a measure of full mobility continuity, which allows
      for differentiation in the upper limits of in healthy aging.

        -  The methodological model of the study is validity reliability study.

        -  The validity and reliability of Turkish LSA , whose validity and reliability have been
           demonstrated in different languages (French, English), will be investigated.
           Authorization from the author of the original LSA (Prof. Patricia SAWYER) was obtained.

        -  Hypotheses:

      H1 1: The Turkish version of LSA is a valid scale. H1 2: The Turkish version of LSA is a
      reliable scale.

        -  It is planned that the data will be collected on a voluntary basis from the individuals
           who live in the province of Elazığ and comply with the inclusion criteria.

        -  In the validity and reliability studies, it is stated that the sample size should be at
           least five times or even ten times the number of items. Since LSA is a 20-item scale and
           the sample size is recommended as x5-x10 in similar studies, it is planned to carry out
           the study on 100 volunteer individuals .

        -  Inclusion Criteria of the Volunteers

             -  65 years and over,

             -  Contactable,

             -  Individuals who are independent in their daily activities.

        -  Criteria for Exclusion of Participants in Research

             -  64 years and under,

             -  Do not read, understand and write in Turkish,

             -  Unable to communicate,

             -  Individuals dependent on one in daily living activities.

      Age, gender, height, body weight, body mass index, marital status, working status, residence
      area (urban - rural), accessibility of the housing (fully accessible, partially accessible
      and not accessible) information about the life expectancy in the neighborhood, the history of
      falling within the last 6 months, the use of ancillary equipment, the existence of the
      driver's license, the existence of a single life, the education and income levels, and the
      information contained in the demographic information form.

      In order to evaluate the quality of life of the participants in the study, the validity and
      reliability study developed by Ware in 1987 and in our country was reviewed by Koçyiğit et
      al. SF-36 scale was used. In this scale, where health is examined in 8 components, high
      scores indicate a better level of health. SF-36 scale; physical function (FF) (limitation in
      physical activity due to health problems), physical role (FR) (restriction in daily living
      activities due to health problems), bodily pain (BA), general health (GS) (assessment of
      health of the person in general), vitality ( CA) consists of general mental health (GRS),
      social functionality (SF), and emotional role (DR) (restriction of daily living activities
      due to mental health problems). The SF-36 scale scales 100 points and the scores vary between
      0 and 100 points for each component .

      The translation process for the preparation of the Turkish LSA form to be applied to the
      cases will include:

      In order to translate the LSA into Turkish and to investigate its validity and reliability,
      the recommendations developed by Guillemin et al. And Beaton et al. Will be utilized . The
      English version of LSA will be translated into Turkish by two persons independently. These
      two different Turkish versions will be analyzed by an expert committee. The translations will
      be evaluated by considering Turkish cultural characteristics. A common version (Version1)
      will then be created from these translations. Version 1 will be translated back to English by
      a non-medical specialist and a native speaker. This will be compared with the original LSA by
      the expert committee to determine the equivalence of the reverse translation. At the end of
      this phase, the common version 2 will be obtained and compared with the original LSA to
      determine equivalence. A pilot study will be carried out with 20 participants (10 males and
      10 females) after confirming the equivalence of the original LSA and Turkish version of the
      committee or, if necessary, making some corrections. The main objective of this phase is to
      determine whether participants understand the questions. The clarity and clarity of each item
      will be scored by the participants with the Likert scale and the Content Validity Index (CVI)
      of the LSA will be calculated. The Turkish version of the LSA will be reviewed by the expert
      committee in the light of the findings and minor changes will be made if necessary. Once the
      final decision has been made, the Turkish version of the LSA will be applied to the study
      population. To investigate the reliability of the scale, the test-retest procedure will be
      followed and the scale will be applied to the same participants for the second time in
      24-hour intervals.

      SPSS for Windows 20.00 computer package program will be used for all statistical analysis.
      Descriptive statistical information shall be given as mean ± standard deviation (x ± SD) or%.
      Interclass Correlation Coefficients (ICC) and Cronbach güvens coeffi for reliability and
      internal consistency of LSA
    
  