
    
      Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is the leading cause of death in developed countries. In
      patients with AMI, prompt reopening of an occluded coronary artery is the main goal of
      reperfusion therapies in order to restore normal blood flow to the myocardium, thus
      preventing left ventricular (LV) adverse remodelling and occurrence of heart failure. Primary
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PPCI) represents the pivotal step in the current
      management of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) (1). Yet, in a sizable
      proportion of patients, PPCI achieves epicardial coronary artery reperfusion but not
      myocardial reperfusion, a condition known as no-reflow (2), that increases the extent of
      myocardial damage. The proportion of patients who get optimal myocardial reperfusion, among
      those without cardiogenic shock undergoing PPCI, is about 35% (3). Thus, the prevalence of
      no-reflow remains extremely high. Furthermore, a series of consistent data has clearly shown
      that no-reflow has a strong negative impact on outcome, negating the potential benefit of
      PPCI (4-10). Indeed, as compared to patients without no-reflow, patients with no-reflow
      exhibit a higher prevalence of: 1) early post-infarction complications (arrhythmias,
      pericardial effusion, cardiac tamponade, early congestive heart failure); 2) LV adverse
      remodelling; 3) late re-hospitalizations for heart failure; 4) mortality. In man, no-reflow
      is caused by the variable combination of four pathogenetic mechanisms: 1) distal
      atherothrombotic embolization, 2) ischemic injury, 3) reperfusion injury, 4) susceptibility
      of coronary microcirculation to injury (3). As a consequence, appropriately designed
      strategies to prevent or to treat, at the right time, each of these components are expected
      to reduce the final number of patients with no-reflow. Manual thrombus aspiration (MTA) has
      been clearly shown to improve microvascular perfusion and survival in STEMI patients treated
      by PPCI (9,10). Accordingly, in current guidelines of the European Society of Cardiology
      (ESC), MTA is a 2a recommendation (1). Yet, complete ST-segment resolution (defined as >70%)
      is obtained in only about 50% of patients (3,6), thus suggesting that microvascular perfusion
      may be further improved. In such a context, Excimer laser (EL) may play an important role in
      order to reduce the rate of microvascular obstruction. Coronary lasers are devices emitting
      electromagnetic energy which, upon absorption within the atherosclerotic plaque, can debulk
      the target tissue (11-12). Over the past decade, a second generation of pulsed-wave lasers
      was introduced (13). These devices combine a brief pulse duration of light emission with a
      long pause interval, thus ensuring prevention of thermal injury and adverse effect on the
      arterial wall to be laser. The pulsed wave EL (308 nm, ultraviolet wavelength, in the UVB
      region of the spectrum) is an FDA and EMEA approved device for treatment of atherosclerotic
      coronary lesions considered "non ideal" for standard balloon angioplasty (14-16).
      Furthermore, continuous saline flush of saline during laser advancement has allowed to
      further reduce heat generation and tissue damage. Taken together device improvement and
      technical advancement have allowed to lower procedural complication rate and to confirm in
      published registries the safety of the EL assisted angioplasty (17-18). In the setting of
      thrombotic lesion, EL has the potential to vaporize thrombotic and plaque material, leading
      to particles smaller than the size of erythrocytes unlikely to plug the microcirculation
      (19-20), and inhibits platelet aggregation, by inducing platelets stunning (21). Furthermore,
      laser is able to debulk underlying thrombogenic plaque thus limiting its thrombogenicity
      (22). EL has been used in the setting of STEMI within registries (23-26) and in a small
      randomized trial vs balloon assisted PPCI (27), showing a very low rate of myocardial
      no-reflow, as assessed by angiography (around 5%) and electrocardiography (around 35%). These
      studies, however, were limited by the small sample size and for most of them by the
      non-randomized design. Thus, a randomized study of EL assisted PPCI has become necessary in
      order to evaluate the efficacy of this mechanical strategy for STEMI patients. As
      MTA-assisted PPCI is nowadays the recommended approach by current guidelines, the
      effectiveness of EL-assisted PPCI should be evaluated against MTA-assisted PPCI. The goal of
      this trial, which will be carried out in patients with STEMI undergoing PPCI, is to assess
      the superiority of EL-assisted vs MTA-assisted PPCI, having as primary end-point the rate of
      90-min ST segment resolution>70% and as secondary end-points the rate of angiographic
      no-reflow, defined as TIMI flow3 and MBG >=2 (28), the evaluation of infarct size, as
      assessed by the area under the curve of cardiac markers (29) and the rate of adverse
      remodelling as assessed by echocardiography at 6 months follow-up

      Description of LASER-AMI trial

      Study design

      LASER-AMI is a randomized, open-label, blind-examination (PROBE), active controlled,
      multinational clinical trial. Patients undergoing PPCI will be randomly assigned to 1 of 2
      interventional strategies of reperfusion: MTA-assisted PPCI alone or EL-assisted PPCI alone.

      Study protocol and procedure

      The informed consent will be signed before angiography. The randomization process will start
      after the completion of diagnostic angiography and patients will be allocated to one of the
      following two arms: MTA-assisted PPCI alone; or EL-assisted PPCI alone. A consecutively
      numbered and sealed envelope will be opened to have knowledge of the randomization arm. Each
      enrolling center will receive from the promoting center an exact number of numbered envelopes
      to use for the randomization.

      The interventional procedure will be carried out according to usual site's local protocol.
      The choice of vascular access and stent type will be left to operator discretion. All
      patients will receive aspirin per os (150-325 mg), clopidogrel (600 mg) or prasugrel or
      ticagrelor in the emergency department. Anticoagulant therapy in the catheterization
      laboratory will be left to the operator's choice according to recent ESC guidelines (1); GP
      IIb/IIIa inhibitors will be considered for bailout therapy if there is angiographic evidence
      of massive thrombus, slow or no-reﬂow or a thrombotic complication. After identification of
      culprit vessel and crossing the lesion by the guidewire, vessel recanalization will start by
      using either MTA or EL, according to randomization (see appendix 1 about advices for ELCA
      use). The choice of the MTA devices will be left to each site's usual availability.
      Complications related to either ELCA or MTA will be recorded (perforation, dissection) as
      well as failure to restore antegrade flow and lack of crossing culprit stenosis. The use of
      balloon after MTA or EL is left to operator discretion, even if direct stenting is
      recommended. In all patients, after MTA or ELCA, intracoronary adenosine (120 µg as fast
      bolus followed by 2 mg given in 33cc of saline in 2 minutes as slow bolus) will be
      administered.

      Vessel recanalization will be completed by coronary stenting. Postdilatation of the stent is
      left to the operator's discretion, although stent overexpansion is not recommended in order
      to reduce the risk for no-reflow.

      Angiographic and electrocardiography analysis

      Angiographic analysis will be performed off-line by the angio core lab (IsMeTT, Palermo,
      Italy) and will include: quantitative coronary angiography (31), TIMI flow (32), corrected
      TIMI frame count (33), MBG (34), combined evaluation of TIMI flow and MBG (27), thrombus
      score (35), and Rentrop collateral grading (36). Angiographic no-reflow will be defined as a
      final TIMI flow of < 2 or final TIMI flow 3 with a MBG 0/1 (3,27). These parameters will be
      assessed according to validated methods (31-36).

      At 90 minutes after the end of the procedure a 12 leads ECG will be recorded for the analysis
      of ST-segment resolution as compared to admission ECG. Complete ST-segment resolution will be
      defined as >70% of ST-segment as compared to baseline in both single lead showing maximum
      ST-elevation on admission and on the sum of leads showing ST-elevation on admission (37,38)
      Baseline ECG will be also assessed off-line for number of Q waves and terminal distorsion of
      QRS (39).

      ECG analysis will be performed offline by an ECG core lab (Clinica di Cardiologia, UNIVPM,
      Ancona, Italy).

      Echocardiographic protocol

      At day 3 to 5 and at 6-month after the index procedure all patients will undergo
      comprehensive 2D transthoracic echocardiography examination at rest. End-systolic (LVESV) and
      end-diastolic volumes (LVEDV), LV ejection fraction (LVEF), presence and degree of mitral
      insufficiency and wall motion score index (each segment scored from 1= normal/ hyperkinetic,
      to 4 = dyskinetic, in a 16 segment model of the left ventricle) will be calculated following
      the recommendations of the American Society of Echocardiography (40). LV volumes and ejection
      fraction will be measured by modified biplane Simpson's method, and adjusted for body surface
      area. LV remodeling will be defined as an increase in end-diastolic volume > 20% at 6 months
      after AMI as compared to in-hospital examination (7).

      Serious Adverse Events

      Serious adverse events will be recorded and defined as any untoward medical occurrence that
      results in cardiac death, vascular death, death, re-infarction, target lesion
      revascularization, target vessel revascularization, or stent thrombosis. They will be
      communicated to the Safety Board within 24hours from their occurrence.

      Blood sampling

      Blood samples will be collected before the PCI and at 4, 8, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 72 h after
      the procedure to measure creatine kinase-myocardial band (CK-MB) (mass), troponin-T (mass),
      and hemoglobin levels.

      Clinical follow-up

      The incidence of cardiac death, myocardial infarction, target lesion revascularization and
      heart failure requiring hospitalization will be assessed at 6 months by interview and
      clinical check and at 1 year by telephone contact. In line with protocol, interviewers and
      examiners will not know which drug was administrated at the time of procedure. The
      accumulation of such end-points will be defined as major adverse cardiac events (MACEs).

      Study end-point

      The end-point of the study is the comparison of the rate of ST-segment resolution at 90
      minutes post PPCI between patients randomized to MTA-assisted PPCI and EL-assisted PPCI.
      Thus, the study will test whether EL-assisted PPCI is superior to MTA-assisted PPCI in
      reducing of the incidence of electrocardiographic no-flow after performing PPCI.

      Secondary endpoints are: a) angiographic no-reflow defined as a TIMI flow ≤2 or a TIMI flow 3
      with a MBG 0/1; b) LVESV, LVEDV, LVEF, and WMSI assessed by in-hospital and 6 months
      echocardiography; c) infarct size, defined as CK-MB and troponin-I area under the curve; d)
      MACEs rate in the two groups at 6 and 1 year follow-up.

      Power calculation

      LASER-AMI is a randomized, open-label clinical trial, in which patients will be randomly
      assigned to 1 of 2 interventional strategies (MTA-assisted PPCI; or EL-assisted PPCI). The
      primary objective of LASER-AMI trial is to test the superiority of EL-assisted PPCI vs
      MTA-assisted PPCI based on the rate of post-procedural STR>70% after PPCI. The study sample
      size was powered to demonstrate a significant difference in the primary end point of rate STR
      >70%, which was around 56% in a previous trial of PPCI with MTA only (10). Starting from such
      figures and thus assuming an 76% event rate in the control group with an absolute 20%
      decrease in the experimental group, we calculated that 194 patients (97 per group) had to be
      enrolled to have an alpha error of 0.05 and a power of 0.80 in a prospective 1:1 randomized
      study.

      Statistical analysis

      All analyses will be planned and conducted according to the intention-to-treat principle, as
      this approach minimizes the risk of selection bias and alpha error. Continuous variables
      (presented as mean ± standard deviation) will be compared by the Student t test for normally
      distributed variables and by the Wilcoxon test for nonnormally distributed variables.
      Chi-square tests will be used to compare discrete variables (reported as raw numbers [%]).
      Odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) will be calculated to compare event rates
      in the EL-assisted PPCI group versus those observed in the MTA-assisted PPCI group
      (considered as the control group). A multivariable logistic regression analysis will be also
      performed to further assess and confirm the independent predictive value of randomization to
      EL-assisted PPCI for the achievement of STR>70% (cut-off for entry 0.05, cut-off for removal
      0.10). Moreover, infarct size assessment will be perfomed, defined as CK-MB and troponin-I
      area under the curve, calculated by the linear trapezoidal method (29). If baseline or 72-h
      values are missing, the value will be set to 0, whereas missing intermediate values will be
      substituted by linear interpolation. For patients dying in the first 72 h after enrollment,
      the area under the curve will be set as the largest area under the curve recorded in the
      study (29). Analyses will be carried out using SPSS for Windows 11.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago,
      Illinois). Statistical significance will be defined by two-tailed p < 0.05.

      In addition, prespecified subgroup analyses by means of multiple logistic regression or
      multiple linear regression, as appropriate, will be performed according to the following
      variables: age class, sex, diabetes, anterior myocardial infarction, total ischemic time
      cutoff, pre-infarction angina, baseline angiographic thrombus score, baseline TIMI flow,
      number of diseased vessels.
    
  