
    
      There are two arms in this study. The control arm of the trial will involve the current
      standard primary care asthma management, and the intervention arm will involve personalized
      asthma management.

      Inclusion criteria include: 1) child age 6-17 years, 2) doctor diagnosed asthma, 3) at least
      one asthma exacerbation in the previous year. Children with other coexistent pulmonary
      diseases such as chronic lung disease and cystic fibrosis will be excluded.

      The period of participation will be three months for each participant. After screening, each
      participant will have an initial clinic visit. During this baseline visit, the investigators
      will collect DNA by taking a saliva sample, the investigators will conduct spirometry, and
      the investigators will survey the families regarding household level environmental exposures,
      demographics, and other key variables. The participant will be randomly assigned to a study
      arm at the end of the baseline visit. The data gathered at the baseline visit will be used to
      develop a management plan. The investigators will mail a plan to the participant and the
      primary care provider within a couple weeks of the baseline visit. The investigators will
      then discuss the plan with the participant via phone. Both groups will receive a plan which
      MAY be used to guide asthma care. Sample letters follow the protocol. The intervention group
      will receive basic information on the skin testing, genetic testing, and spirometry. The
      control group will not receive the genetic information. The control arm will receive the
      genetic information at the end of the study follow up.

      After the baseline visit, the participants will receive a monthly phone call for two months
      to conduct a survey to assess our study outcomes and covariates. At the 3rd month
      participants will return to the GCRC for a final clinic visit. During the final visit the
      investigators will conduct our survey and spirometry and request permission for medical
      record release.
    
  