
    
      Lupus nephritis (LN) is one of the most serious complications and the main cause of death in
      patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Type III, type IV and type V LN are severe
      clinical entities with poor prognosis, and its treatment remains challenging. Currently, type
      III, type IV, type V, type III plus V and type IV plus V LN are treated mainly according to
      the guidelines developed by KDIGO and the European Association for Anti-Rheumatism and
      European League Against Rheumatism/European Renal Association-European Dialysis and
      Transplant Association (EULAR/ERAEDTA). The main therapeutic regimens recommended by these
      guidelines include glucocorticoid combined with immunosuppressants such as cyclophosphamide
      (CTX), mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), etc. These medications can significantly induce disease
      remission and improve the long-term survival. However, some patients do not adequately
      response to the treatment of the combination of steroids and immunosuppressants, and the
      disease activity cannot be well-controlled. The high prevalence of steroids and
      immunosuppressants related adverse effects, such as steroid-related diabetes, bone necrosis,
      hypertension, peptic ulcer, CTX-related bone marrow and gonadal suppression, MMF-related
      infection risk and so on, have been found in long-term follow-up study. In addition, to date,
      there is insufficient data to support the use of new biologics, such as rituximab and
      abatacept in the induction therapy in patients with LN.

      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) can be obtained from several tissues and possess multiple
      differentiation potencies and immunomodulatory effects. The investigators have investigated
      the usefulness, and confirmed the efficacy and safety of MSC treatment of LN in animal
      models, in vitro experiments and phase I clinical trial. The studies also for the first time
      found that the MSC abnormalities are involved in the onset and development of lupus both in
      the lupus mice model and in SLE patients. The investigators found that the efficacy of
      allogeneic (xenogeneic) MSC transplantation is superior to autologous MSC transplantation in
      LN mice model. Thus, in current opinion, SLE is not only a hematopoietic stem cell disease,
      but also a mesenchymal stem cell disease. The investigators treated the refractory LN
      patients with allogenic MSC treatment, the outcomes revealed that the total response rate was
      60%, the mortality rate of 2 to 5 years decreased from 35% - 45% to 6%. These results
      strongly support the use of allogenic MSC transplantation in the refractory LN patients. The
      mechanisms of MSC treatment include correcting the immune unbalance, inducing immune
      tolerance, tissue repair and the improvement of organ function. Allogeneic MSC
      transplantation for the treatment of SLE and other refractory autoimmune diseases have shown
      significant efficacy and excellent safety. However, these studies have limitations due to the
      lack of large-scale, multi-center, randomized, controlled, prospective study to further
      confirm the efficacy of allogeneic MSC transplantation, as well as the guideline for MSC
      treatment in SLE needs to be developed. Therefore, a randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel
      group, non-inferiority, prospective, multicenter clinical trial is urgent needed to promote
      the application of MSC transplantation in SLE treatment, to bring the benefit of the patients
      with SLE.
    
  