
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
      represent two of the most prevalent respiratory disorders in clinical practice and their
      coexistence is often described has "overlap syndrome" (OS) In patients with COPD, the
      coexistence of OSA is associated with an increased risk of death from any cause, and
      hospitalization because of COPD exacerbation. Treatment with continuous positive airway
      pressure (CPAP) has been showed to be effective and associated with improved survival and
      decreased hospitalizations. When CPAP became established treatment for overlap syndrome, a
      multivariate analysis revealed that the hours of CPAP use were an independent predictor of
      mortality. Furthermore, it has been showed that the survival benefit of CPAP favors
      hypercapnic patients with overlap syndrome.

      Regarding hypercapnic stable COPD patients, the best results with long-term non-invasive
      positive pressure ventilation have been noted in studies using more intensive strategies of
      ventilation, with higher inspiratory pressures and higher backup rates that improved or even
      normalized daytime hypercapnia. In fact, survival benefits occurred when ventilation was
      targeted to significantly reduce hypercapnia.

      As for typical COPD, overlap syndrome patients might also benefit from optimal daytime
      hypercapnia correction, which could be better achieved using bi-level ventilation instead of
      CPAP, since it could not only maintain airway patency but also improve alveolar ventilation.

      This study aims to compare CPAP therapy to bi-level ventilatory support in overlap syndrome
      patients, not only for the efficacy to achieve hypercapnia reduction, but also regarding
      acute disease exacerbations, symptoms and treatment compliance. Therefore, the authors
      designed a randomized controlled trial with recruitment and power calculations based on the
      applicant's own data.

      After the diagnosis, patients will be randomized either for CPAP or BPAP treatment.

      If CPAP is to be initiated, optimal pressure to maintain upper airway patency will be
      determined. If there are continued obstructive respiratory events at 15 cm H2O of CPAP,
      patients will cross-over to the BPAP study arm.

      Regarding BPAP titration, patients will be treated with ventilators set in pressure support
      spontaneous/timed mode, both inspiratory and expiratory positive airway pressures (IPAP and
      EPAP) will be manually titrated. EPAP will ensure optimal pressure for maintaining upper
      airway patency and IPAP will be defined according to patient tolerance and pressure support
      necessary to achieve normal PaCO2 values or to reduce baseline PaCO2 by 20% or more;
      Follow-up will be performed at 1, 6 and 12 months. Follow-up will include clinical evaluation
      with physical examination and questionnaires (COPD Assessment test, Epworth Sleepiness Scale
      and MRC dyspnea score), blood gas analysis, treatment adherence, AHI, nocturnal pulse
      oximetry and exacerbations.

      12-month follow-up will also include lung function test, 6-min walking test and nocturnal
      capnography.
    
  