
    
      Glucosinolates (GSLs) are non-volatile sulphur-containing phytochemicals (secondary
      metabolites) found in plant tissues of cruciferous crops, such as broccoli, cabbage and
      watercress. Glucosinolates accumulate in these foods with glucoraphanin being the predominant
      glucosinolate found in broccoli. When tissue is disrupted the glucosinolates are converted to
      isothiocyanates (ITCs) by the enzyme myrosinase. Sulforaphane is the predominant ITC obtained
      by enzymatic hydrolysis from glucoraphanin. When vegetables are cooked very thoroughly the
      myrosinase enzyme is denatured which results in GSLs passing through the gastrointestinal
      (GI) tract into the colon.

      The ITCs have been shown in animal studies to exert diverse biological effects, such as
      anti-oxidant effects; anti-inflammatory properties; inhibition of platelet aggregation;
      reduction of systolic blood pressure and the reduction of cholesterol levels; all of which
      reduce the risk developing cardiovascular diseases. Sulforaphane has been linked to health
      benefits in humans, such as cancer chemoprevention and helping to maintain a healthy heart.

      When cooked cruciferous vegetables, in which the myrosinase enzyme has been inactivated, are
      consumed, some of the microflora in the colon produce a myrosinase-like enzyme that can also
      convert glucosinolates to ITCs. This process of gut microbiota conversion of glucoraphanin to
      ITC is abolished by enteric antibiotics and bowel cleansing. There have been several in vitro
      studies performed with both pure and mixed cultures of bacteria confirming the ability of
      bacterial strains found within the human gut having the ability to metabolize GSLs in
      culture. It has been shown that the extent of conversion of GSLs to ITCs by human gut
      microbiota varies greatly between individuals but the conversion rate from repeated
      determinations within individuals are much more consistent. A recent study attempted to
      correlate the conversion of glucosinolate ex vivo by human gut bacteria to in vivo data of
      glucosinolate metabolism from a small number of individuals, however no specific link to
      individual bacterial specials was established.

      Our study is a human dietary intervention in which participants will consume one capsule
      containing 100mg purified glucoraphanin from broccoli. The levels of glucoraphanin delivered
      by the capsule are similar to one to two portions of broccoli. As this is purified
      glucoraphanin there is no myrosinase enzyme present. All conversion of the glucoraphanin,
      contained within the capsule, to ITC will therefore occur by enzymes found in the gut
      microbiota.

      The ability of the glucoraphanin in the capsule to be metabolised to ITCs by the gut
      microflora is unknown and will be assessed by measuring ITCs excreted in the urine. In brief
      each participant on the study will be requested to abstain from any glucosinolate and ITC
      containing foods for three days prior to dietary intervention, and for a further 24 hours
      during the intervention. They will be requested to fast overnight prior to the study day
      intervention and on the morning after the fast collect a urine sample. This will effectively
      constitute a negative control sample and be used as a measure of compliance with the dietary
      restriction. The participant will then be given the glucoraphanin capsule along with their
      breakfast. The dietary restriction will continue for a further 24hours, during which time the
      participant will collect all the urine they produce. The ITCs will be quantified in urine by
      HP-LC and LC-MS using validated analytical methods. Once the 24 hour urine collection is
      complete the dietary restriction will cease.

      It has been shown in human dietary intervention studies that the extent of conversion of
      glucosinolates varies greatly. In order to assess possible causative factors for variation in
      rate of glucoraphanin metabolism each participant will provide a faecal sample from which
      their faecal gut microbiota phylogeny will be analysed. A detailed description of how the
      sample should be collected along with all equipment necessary will be provided. The faecal
      samples will be returned to the study scientist within two hours of production in order to
      maintain faecal bacteria viability.

      For a small number of participants a second faecal sample will be requested (a maximum of 3
      participants). The aim is to select one low, one medium and one high ITC excreter. Ideally
      the low and high excreters would be within the lowest and highest 5% excretion of ITC and the
      third participant will be as close to the mean ITC excretion as possible. The aim is to
      culture the faecal microbiota over time with repeat dosing of glucoraphanin in order to
      select for microbiota that are able to metabolise glucoraphanin. It is known that the main
      hydrolysis product of glucoraphanin, sulforaphane, has a variety of benefits to human health,
      however there is no known clinical relevance to being a high, medium or low excreter of ITC.

      Several epidemiological and intervention studies suggest that the health benefits and
      physiological response to cruciferous vegetables may be mediated by an individual's GSTM1
      genotype (glutathione-S-transferases (GST) gene family). When ITCs are absorbed into the
      body, they conjugate with glutathione and are then metabolised through the mercapturic acid
      pathway. Conjugation happens spontaneously due to the relatively high concentration of
      glutathione within cells compared to the ITC concentration. However as non-conjugated ITCs
      occur in the plasma, at some stage there must be dissociation of the ITC-thiol conjugate. It
      is thought that this may be catalyzed by the GSTM1 enzyme. Approximately 50% of the
      population have a homologous deletion of the GSTM1 gene resulting in a null genotype, and 20%
      has a deletion of the GSTT1 gene. There are some studies, including one of our own, that
      suggests that GSTM1 genotype may affect the rate of ITC excretion in urine, but have not
      suggested that GSTM1 genotype affects the peak plasma ITC concentration.

      Unpublished results from a previous intervention, the Diet and Vascular Health study;
      Clinical Trials.gov: NCT01114399 have added credence to the notion that GSTM1 nulls
      metabolise sulforaphane in a different manner to those with a functional GSTM1 allele. Along
      with the GST gene family and their association with cruciferous vegetables there may be other
      genes of interest that may be able to determine the extent of glucoraphanin conversion to
      sulforaphane. Work carried out on our previous intervention, the Diet and Vascular Health
      study has sought to investigate possible candidate genes. With a substantial amendment
      looking to take a more global approach in identifying candidate genes of interest by
      performing an Affymetrix SNP analysis on samples from participants who had been on a high
      glucoraphanin diet.

      Therefore the GSTM1 genotype and other, as yet, unidentified candidate genes of each
      participant will be determined to assess whether genotype affects the rate of ITC excretion
      in urine, either alone, or in combination with their phylogenic profile. A 5 ml blood sample
      will be taken from each participant and the DNA extracted, PCR will then be used to test
      whether the gene is present or not.
    
  