
    
      At each of the study locations, individuals testing HIV positive who also have OUD (n=4x70)
      will receive concurrent anti-retroviral therapy (ART) and methadone maintenance treatment
      (MMT) based on the usual care standards. Their patient level outcomes will be compared with
      individuals meeting the same inclusion criteria (n=4x70) and treated under the proposed
      improved model (post implementation evaluation). The usual care standard will consist of
      provision of ART and medical care for HIV and other medical HIV co-morbidities provided at
      the HIV/AIDS treatment center with an expedited and facilitated referral to a methadone
      maintenance treatment (MMT). The improved care model will include the usual care supplemented
      by continuing education and coaching of medical staff at HIV/AIDS and MMT clinics and by
      provision of additional peer-based counseling intervention focused on behavioral skills and
      strategies that patients can learn and master to achieve uninterrupted, long-term ART
      treatment participation while continuing OUD recovery through MMT. The primary outcome
      measure, rates of patients with virologic suppression (< 20 copies/mL) in the two care models
      will be assessed at 24 weeks. The secondary outcomes, also followed for 24 weeks, will
      include ART adherence measured by objective measures (tenofovir dried blood spots, clinic
      records) and self-report; decreased illicit opioid use measured by rates of opioid negative
      urine toxicology results and self-report; and improvements on other health-related and
      functional status outcomes.

      Aim 1: To evaluate comparative effectiveness of fully implemented seek, test, treat and
      retain strategy (FI-STTR) the study will compare clinical, patient level, outcomes between
      enhanced usual care (EUC) and FI-STTR across the four study sites.

      Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize a statistically significant effect on the primary
      outcome favoring the FI-STTR over EUC. It is also hypothesized that FI-STTR will be superior
      over EUC on all secondary outcomes.

      Concurrently at each study location, using implementation science mixed methods research
      tools and engaging key local stakeholders (treatment providers, patients, their families, and
      community activists), and evaluating clinical and healthcare data, the study will assess
      existing barriers (organizational, personnel, and community level factors) and uncover
      available resources and facilitators for a successful implementation of the improved care
      model.

      Aim 2: To assess existing barriers; organizational, personnel, community level factors; and
      available resources and potentially facilitating factors for successful implementation of the
      FI-STTR at HIV/AIDS clinics. There are no hypotheses specified a priori for Aim 2 of the
      proposed study.
    
  