
    
      Following informed consent, potential subjects will undergo a screening visit to determine
      study eligibility. Within 2 weeks of screening, they will undergo a Day 1 visit for blood
      testing. At the Day 8 visit on the following Monday, after study visit procedures have been
      completed, they will commence taking diflunisal 500 mg twice daily by mouth for 4 weeks (Days
      8-36, study treatment period), during which they will be seen once a week for blood tests.
      Following the last dose of diflunisal which will be taken on the morning of Day 36, they will
      be seen for blood tests after 1 week off the study drug (Days 43, washout phase), and again
      for a final visit after 2 weeks off study drug, on Day 50.

      Subjects will be instructed to take diflunisal 500 mg by mouth in two doses approximately 12
      hours apart (+ or - 1 hour), with or without food. A 2-week supply will be dispensed on Days
      8 and 22. Study medication bottles (empty or not) will be returned to the clinic on Days 22
      and 36. Pill counts will be performed to assess adherence. Adherence will further be
      evaluated by measuring diflunisal drug levels in plasma samples collected weekly starting at
      the baseline visit, and assayed at the end of the study.

      After the subject has provided informed consent, a screening visit will be performed
      including a complete medical history and record of concomitant medications to determine study
      eligibility. Complete physical exam, CBC, platelet count, serum creatinine and estimated GFR,
      serum potassium, AST, ALT, total bilirubin, CD4 cell count, and pregnancy test for women of
      child-bearing potential will be performed at the screening visit and repeated at the final
      study visit. At each study visit, blood will be drawn for HIV RNA, and a serum sample will be
      collected and stored for measurement of C-reactive protein (CRP), d-dimer, and possibly other
      inflammatory biomarkers. Plasma (for diflunisal drug level measurement) and peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMC's) will be collected and stored weekly from the baseline visit to Day
      50. PBMC's will be frozen and shipped in batches to Eric Verdin, MD at the Gladstone
      Institute of Virology and Immunology (1650 Owens St San Francisco, CA 94158, USA) for
      analysis of T cell subsets (naïve, memory CD4 and CD8 T cells) and levels of protein
      acetylation (histone or other) as a surrogate marker of drug activity. Adverse events and
      concomitant medications will be recorded at the baseline visit and updated weekly.

      After completion of the final study visit, subjects will be compensated for their time in the
      amount of $500. Subjects who need to discontinue the study early, e.g. due to significant
      clinical or laboratory adverse events related to the study drug, will receive the full
      stipend at the end of their participation in the study. Subjects who choose to withdraw from
      the study early or who are withdrawn for study noncompliance will not be eligible to receive
      the stipend. Subjects who require ongoing reimbursement for travel expenses to enable them to
      attend study visits will receive advances on their stipend upon providing receipts for
      parking, etc.
    
  