
    
      Introduction Interstitial cystitis/painful bladder syndrome (IC/PBS) is a debilitating
      chronic disease of unknown etiology characterized by urgency frequency and suprapubic pain at
      full bladder. Current treatments are usually unsuccessful in completely eradicating bladder
      pain and increasing bladder capacity. Intravesical resiniferatoxin once was considered to be
      effective but this has not been shown in a large scale multiple center trial. Several oral
      medication such as pentosanpolysulphate (PPS), amitryptynine, cyclosporin have been tried but
      the therapeutic efficacy have been proven ineffective. Intravesical treatment with heparin,
      hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulphate, bacillus Calmette-Guerin, dimethylsulphoxide,
      resiniferatoxin, or botulinum toxin A has been shown early effectiveness in some patients.
      However, the placebo effect should be weighed and randomized, double-blind trials should be
      undertaken to demonstrate the actual therapeutic effects of these therapeutic modalities.

      Although botulinum toxin type A (BoNT-A) has been widely reported in its efficacy in the
      treatment of neurogenic and idiopathic detrusor overactivity (DO) with satisfactory results,
      there have only been few studies using BoNT-A in treatment of IC/PBS. In recent basic
      researches, BoNT-A has been shown to inhibit not only the release of acetylcholine and
      norepinephrine, but also that of nerve growth factor, adenosine triphosphate, substance P and
      calcitonin gene-related peptide from the nerve fibers and urothelium. In clinical
      experiments, BoNT-A has been shown to reduce DO, impaired bladder sensation, and decrease
      visceral pain in chronic inflammatory diseases. These results suggest that BoNT-A treatment
      can modulate sensory transmission as well as reduce detrusor contractility. Although BoNT-A
      injection seems promising in treating symptoms of IC/PBS, long term results did not provide
      successful outcome. The limited successful result is possibly due to inadequate distribution
      of BoNT-A delivered to the bladder wall, inadequate dose of toxin, or lacking of some
      promoting factors to enhance the therapeutic effect of BoNT-A. Repeated intravesical BoNT-A
      injections was recently performed in refractory IC/PBS and the therapeutic effects seems
      promising. About 70% of the patients with non-ulcer type IC/PBS may benefit from repeated
      BoNT-A injections every 6 months. Immunohistochemistry study also confirmed the reduction of
      inflammatory biomarkers and pro-apoptotic proteins such as Bax and Bad expressions after
      repeated BoNT-A injections.

      Concerning the injection sites of BoNT-A for IC/BPS bladders, there is no consensus.
      Suburothelial injection and Trigonal injection have all been used in treatment of IC/BPS and
      the short-term and long-term results are equivalent. It is unmet to clarify which injection
      method is superior in clinical efficacy and patient safety. This study was designed in a
      randomized, double-blind trial to test the therapeutic effects and adverse events between
      intravesical BoNTA injection into suburothelium and trigone. The results of this study might
      provide clinical evidence for a better therapeutic regimen of BoNT-A in the treatment of
      IC/PBS.

      Materials and Methods

      A total of 60 patients with IC/PBS who have failed previous treatments for at least 6 months
      will be enrolled in this study. A diagnosis of IC/PBS has been established based on
      characteristic symptoms and cystoscopic findings of glomerulations, petechia, or mucosal
      fissures after hydrodistention. All patients have been treated with at least two types of
      treatment modalities including non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs, oral PPS, intravesical
      instillation of heparin, hyaluronic acid, or tricyclic antidepressant for at least 6 months
      but the symptoms remained unchanged or relapsed. They will be investigated thoroughly on
      enrollment and will be excluded if not meeting the inclusion criteria of NIDDK. However, in
      this study the patients with Hunner's ulcer will not be included because previous study has
      shown that ulcer type IC/BPS does not respond to intravesical BoNT-A injection.

      Patients will be requested to keep a 3-day voiding diary prior to treatment to record the
      functional bladder capacity (FBC) and the number of urinary frequency and nocturnal. The IC
      symptoms will be assessed by the O'Leary-Sant symptom and problem indexes. The pain score
      will be reported by patient self-assessment using a 10-point visual analog scale (VAS)
      system. Videourodynamic study and potassium chloride (KCl) sensitivity test will be routinely
      performed and patients will be informed of the possible complications associated with BoNT-A
      injection such as generalized muscle weakness, difficult urination, transient urinary
      retention, or urinary tract infections.

      Videourodynamic study will be performed by standard procedures using a 6 Fr dual channel
      catheter and an 8 Fr rectal balloon catheter. Cystometric study will be performed with normal
      saline at a filling rate of 20 ml/min. All descriptions and terminology in this report are in
      accordance with the recommendations of the International Continence Society. After the
      videourodynamic study, 40ml KCl solution of 0.4M will be infused slowly into the bladder and
      the test will be regarded as positive when painful (of ≧2 VAS score) or urgency sensation
      (urgency severity score increased by ≧1) is elicited compared to normal saline infusion
      during urodynamic study.

      This study will be performed in Hualien Tzu chi General.The study should be approved by the
      Institutional Review Board (IRB) and ethics committee of the university and will be
      registered in ClinicalTrial.gov. Each patient will be informed about the study rationale and
      procedures, and written, informed consent will be obtained before treatment.

      Eligible patients will be admitted for the treatment. They will be randomly assigned to
      receive intravesical injection of 100U of BoNT-A (BOTOX, Allergan, Irvine, CA, USA) into the
      trigone (the treatment group) or suburothelium (the comparative group) immediately followed
      by cystoscopic hydrodistention under intravenous general anesthesia in the operation room.
      Blood (10ml) and urine samples (30ml) will be collected before intravesical injection and
      after bladder hydrodistention. Bladder wall biopsies will also be performed after
      hydrodistention. The patients will be allocated to treatment or control group by the permuted
      block randomization code which is centrally controlled by a clinical pharmacist who prepares
      the solution for injection. The intravesical injection was performed by a urology attending
      doctor without recording the injection mode in the medical chart. The principle investigator,
      patients, and study nurse did not know the injection mode to the patients' bladder to keep
      the study in a double-blind condition.

      Each vial of BoNT-A will be diluted with 10 ml of normal saline, resulting in 10U BoNT-A per
      1.0 ml. Patients assigned for suburothelial BoNT-A injections received 20 injections in the
      bladder body whereas those assigned trigonal injections will receive 10 sites injections at
      the trigonal area (5 injections behind interureteric ridge and 5 inside the trigone). The
      injection needle will be inserted about 1mm into the urothelium at the bladder wall, using a
      23 gauge needle and rigid cystoscopic injection instrument (22 Fr, Richard Wolf, and
      Knittlingen, Germany). Cystoscopic hydrodistention will be performed to an intravesical
      pressure of 80 cm water for 15 minutes and the maximal bladder capacity (MBC) under
      hydrodistention will be recorded. Bladder biopsies will be taken at the four sites about 2cm
      lateral and posterior to the ureteral orifice after hydrodistention.

      After the BoNT-A injections, a 14 Fr urethral Foley catheter will be indwelled for one night
      and patients will be discharged on the next day. Oral antibiotics will be prescribed for 7
      days. Patients will be followed up in the outpatient clinic 2 weeks and 4 weeks later. Then
      the patients will be followed up at out-patient clinic at 2 weeks, 4 weeks and 8 weeks.

      Data from the 3-day voiding diary and symptom inventory using the O'Leary-Sant symptom score,
      as well as information on FBC, daily urinary frequency, nocturia, and pain VAS will be
      recorded at baseline, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, and 8 weeks. The largest voided volume in the 3-day
      voiding diary will be considered as a measure of FBC. At 8-week follow-up after the
      intravesical injection patients will be questioned of the current bladder condition and a
      urodynamics study with KCl test will be performed.

      The urodynamic study will be performed at baseline and 12 weeks after intravesical treatment.
      The urodynamic parameters include first sensation of bladder filling (FSF), urge sensation
      (US), cystometric bladder capacity (CBC), detrusor pressure (Pdet), maximum flow rate (Qmax)
      during voiding and postvoid residual (PVR). KCl test will also be performed.

      The primary end-point of this study is the reduction of bladder pain at 8-week follow-up. If
      patient has a reduction of VAS pain score of 2 or more, they will be considered as
      successfully treated. The treatment outcome will also be assessed by the global response
      assessment (GRA) to evaluate the overall perception of treatment result. The result will be
      considered as excellent when patients report improvement in the GRA by >2 or patients become
      free of bladder pain (VAS=0). The outcome will be considered improved if there is improvement
      in the GRA by =1. Patients with excellent and improved results will be considered as having
      subjectively successful result.

      The results of voiding diary, urodynamic study, IC symptom score and pain VAS will be
      compared between baseline and 8-week end-point. Long-term successful results will be assessed
      by self-reported improved GRA and pain VAS at 6 months and further. Data will be compared
      between treatment and placebo groups. A p-value of less than 0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant.

      If patients still feel bladder pain and unsuccessful results at the end-point, repeated
      BoNT-A injection will be given at 3 months in the same procedure. At the same time, bladder
      biopsy, urine and blood samples will also be collected for further study. . If patient does
      not want to receive repeat BoNT-A injection, intravesical hyaluronic acid instillations will
      be proceeded.
    
  