
    
      Paracetamol (acetaminophen, APAP) is a ubiquitous painkiller and antipyretic available
      worldwide in numerous over-the-counter and prescription medications. At supra-therapeutic
      doses, APAP is a well described hepatotoxic agent and a significant public health concern
      since 30'000 hospitalizations are estimated to be related to APAP drug induced liver injury
      (DILI) each year in the US. APAP is indeed the commonest cause of acute liver failure (ALF)
      in the US and Europe with an estimated overall mortality of 28%. Half APAP overdoses are
      unintentional and the poor ability of patients to identify products with APAP has been
      documented. In hospitals, 1% all drug prescriptions have contained an overdosed APAP
      prescription highlighting the need for increased awareness on unintentional APAP overdose.

      At the recommended therapeutic dose of 4g/d, APAP is usually considered safe. However,
      associations between APAP therapeutic dosing and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) elevations
      have been demonstrated. Indeed, up to 1/3 healthy volunteers treated with therapeutic doses
      of APAP experienced 3x ALT elevation (up to 14x) after 3 days of treatment for up to 11 days.
      These results were confirmed in non-drinker patients. The multinational case-population SALT
      study reported 81 cases of ALF (49 in France) leading to transplantation after non-overdose
      APAP exposure in a 3 year follow-up and non-overdose APAP was associated with a 2x higher
      rate of ALF than NSAIDs. In the US, 17% of APAP induced ALF over a 41 month period were
      reported with an APAP dose inferior to 4g/day.

      Malnutrition as a risk factor Some authors have suggested that therapeutic doses of APAP may
      be hepatotoxic in the presence of malnutrition and low body weight as well as chronic alcohol
      consumption and drugs inducing cytochromes P450 (CYPs). As glutathione (GSH) is synthesized
      from 3 amino-acids (aa)(Cys, Glu and Gly), protein or aa deficiency may result in GSH
      depletion. In rats, fasting was associated with increased APAP hepatotoxicity as a
      consequence of hepatic GSH decrease, and a 16h fasting period was sufficient to deplete GSH
      stores. GSH levels have been shown to be reduced in anorexic female patients as compared to
      controls and a positive correlation between GSH levels and BMI was observed. A small
      retrospective study (n=10) showed that severe hepatotoxicity after moderate APAP dose (4 to
      10g/day) was preceded in 80% of cases by malnutrition. Several case reports of severe
      hepatotoxicity (some fatal) after therapeutic APAP doses in malnourished adults have been
      published. In the pediatric population, ALF cases were reported after therapeutic APAP doses
      after viral infection and low nutrition status. However, no well conducted study has aimed to
      prospectively assess the impact of malnutrition on the toxicity to therapeutic doses of APAP.

      FDA experts pointed out that APAP is frequently used in cachexia patients. Cachexia is a
      complex syndrome characterized by several homeostatic perturbations including progressive
      involuntary weight loss, accompanied by wasting, early satiety, weakness and anorexia. A
      broad spectrum of clinical disease is associated with cachexia. The prevalence of
      malnutrition has been observed in 20-29% of hospitalized patients in Europe, and 33% in
      surgical wards. Pickering et al. demonstrated that APAP metabolism shifts toward the toxic
      oxidative pathways after major aortic surgery suggesting that those patients may be
      particularly susceptible. Drug consumption data also indicates that APAP utilization is high
      is post-operative settings. The British National Formulary has recommended a maximal dose of
      60mg/kg IV APAP for use in adults whose weight is less than 50kg and 3g/day IV in chronic
      malnutrition or dehydration. Surprisingly, no such recommendation is available for oral APAP
      and which is commonly prescribed independently of the nutritional status. It is likely that
      cases of liver damage secondary to normal recommended dose are under-represented as the dose
      is not perceived as excessive and not described as such in international guidelines for pain
      management. Considering the widespread use of APAP and the prevalence of malnutrition in
      surgery wards, it is of crucial clinical importance to clarify whether malnutrition
      predispose to APAP induced hepatotoxicity at the recommended dosage of 4g/day.

      Biomarker of APAP hepatotoxicity:

      APAP is metabolized by glucuronidation (55%) and sulfatisation (40%). The metabolites of APAP
      are excreted out of the liver by multidrug resistance-associated proteins (36-38). APAP is
      oxidized (5%) by cytochromes P450 (CYP) 2E1, 3A and 1A2 to the highly reactive
      N-acetyl-p-benzo-quinone (NAPQI), electrophilic and cytotoxic metabolite, responsible for
      APAP liver toxicity.

      At therapeutic dose, APAP is usually rapidly detoxified by conjugation with GSH, cleared from
      the liver and excreted in urine. Slattery et al. have shown that GSH depletion begins over
      the range of 0.5-3g APAP. After excessive APAP intake, both sulfonation and glucuronidation
      pathways become saturated in favor of the oxidation pathway. This results in the formation of
      large amounts of NAPQI and liver GSH depletion. NAPQI covalently binds to macromolecules,
      reacting with sulfur groups in hepatic proteins, and is responsible for the histopathological
      hepatic centrilobular necrosis with periportal sparing. N-acetylcysteine (NAC) is a scavenger
      for NAPQI. Within 24h of a single acute ingestion, APAP plasma concentrations are used to
      predict the likelihood of hepatotoxicity and the need for NAC antidote. However the normogram
      is not relevant to patients presenting later than 24h after ingestion or after a chronic
      ingestion. Developing and validating an early and easily accessible marker of hepatotoxicity
      would especially be useful in higher risk and fragile populations to improve diagnosis and
      management of APAP induced hepatotoxicity. Indeed, unrecognized cases of APAP hepatotoxicity
      carry a poor prognosis as antidote administration will not be instituted or delayed. APAP
      covalently binds to protein as a result of a reaction between NAPQI and cysteine residues to
      produce APAP-CYS protein adducts. In APAP related ALF, peak concentrations of APAP-CYS
      adducts were shown to correlate with peak aminotransferase concentrations and detected up to
      12 days post-ingestion. In 157 adolescents and children with APAP overdose, peak APAP-CYS
      adducts correlated with peak hepatic transaminases, time to treatment with NAC and risk
      determination using the normogram. It has also been demonstrated that APAP-CYS concentrations
      varied according to the degree of exposure and APAP-CYS is specific for APAP exposures.
      However, no direct detection of APAP-CYS on full-length proteins or long polypeptides was
      performed. Detection was carried out after digestion with a non-specific endopeptidase. Thus,
      the exact adduct position and the identity of modified proteins is unknown.

      The binding of chemical substances on hemoglobin and plasma albumin is a well-known
      phenomenon and most chemicals acting via reactive metabolites form such adducts. Hemoglobin
      and albumin adducts are easily accessible from a blood sample and have a well-defined life
      span due to the absence of repair. Recently, direct protein analysis protocols relying on
      LC-MS/MS analysis of intact globin chains or peptides were described for the analysis of
      hemoglobin and albumin adducts. The clinical utility of APAP-CYS modified albumin and
      hemoglobin as biomarkers of APAP hepatotoxicity will be evaluated and compared to the serum
      level of transaminases, APAP, APAP-CYS and metabolites.

      Microvesicles (MVs) have progressively emerged as potential fruitful biomarker holders. MVs
      are circulating vesicles released from almost all cell types, and are composed of a huge
      variety of biomolecules such as messenger RNAs, micro RNAs, proteins and lipids.
      Interestingly, their composition is related to their original cell, tissue or organ, and is
      influenced by stimulation and micro-environmental changes of the donor cell. This gives them
      "signatures" of a physiological state. MVs are rapidly released in the blood after a stimuli
      or a change of condition and are thus potential early indicators of a physiological state,
      containing precious information for the monitoring of pathologies. Specific molecules
      released directly in the blood via MVs from hepatocytes, could contain interesting biomarker
      candidates to improve patient treatment management following APAP intoxication. Quantitative
      proteomics strategies will be used to isolate new protein biomarkers for APAP-induced
      hepatotoxicity from MVs. Alternatively, circulating micro-RNAs have been shown to be powerful
      potential biomarkers for a variety of diseases including hepatotoxicity following
      APAP-overdoses. Micro-RNAs are small ~22 nt long non-coding regulatory molecules affecting
      the expression levels of hundreds of genes that are stable in circulating fluids. In cases of
      APAP-overdoses, several studies have shown that the plasmatic concentration of the liver
      specific miR122 correlates and even slightly precedes the increase in blood levels of the
      classic hepatotoxicity markers. Transcriptomic screening from plasma and MVs will be used to
      identify potential new miRNA candidates for APAP induced liver toxicity.

      Detection of new biomarkers can be a tedious process that can be facilitated by using extreme
      samples as filters to identify the most relevant candidates whether on protein or nucleic
      acid level. In the context of this study, extreme samples will be provided by 6 patients
      arriving at hospital after ingestion of an APAP overdose.

      Genetic marker of susceptibility Gene polymorphisms in drug metabolizing enzymes (DME) and
      transporters involved in the pharmacokinetics of APAP might be used as biomarkers of
      susceptibility to APAP liver toxicity. The principle routes of elimination of APAP are phase
      II DMEs UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) and sulfotransferases (SULT). Three UGT isoforms
      appear to be involved in APAP glucuronoconjugation and up to 15x variability in APAP
      glucuronoconjugation has been demonstrated. UGT1A1*28 and *6 are associated with reduced
      enzymatic activity and increased irinotecan toxicity. In animals, UGT deficient Gunn rats had
      an increased susceptibility to APAP as compared to controls. Gilbert syndrome is a hereditary
      hyperbilirubinemia due to UGT1A1*28 leading to a 40% enzymatic activity reduction, reduced
      APAP glucuronidation and increased active metabolite production. Sulfatisation of APAP is
      catalyzed in human by SULT isoforms that can have up to 50x difference in activity. However
      the impact of SULT polymorphisms on APAP toxicity is unknown. Bioactivation of APAP into
      NAPQI is mediated by the CYP family wiht CYP2E1 and 2D6 appearing as the most relevant
      isoforms. Both are highly polymorphic and can undergo gene duplication. Cyp2e1knockout mice
      are less sensitive to APAP hepatotoxic effects than wild-type animals. . In humans, the
      impact of CYP2D6 and 2E1 polymorphisms on APAP toxicity is unknown. NAPQI is detoxified by
      GSTP1 in the liver for which two common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been
      described, one of them reducing enzymatic activity. Finally, up-regulation of efflux
      transporters has been described after toxic APAP ingestion. This project will aim to
      characterize in vitro the metabolic pathways involved in APAP metabolism and reactive
      metabolite formation, as well as their impact on metabolites production.
    
  