
    
      A prospective, randomized clinical trial will be conducted to determine whether cyanoacrylate
      tissue adhesives or sutures are better tolerated by patients receiving soft tissue gum
      grafts.

      Periodontal plastic surgery procedures have become an integral part of periodontal treatment
      by addressing esthetic and functional demands. Several therapeutic modalities such as free
      gingival graft, pedicle flaps, connective tissue grafts, grafts combining the two lateral
      modalities and guided tissue regeneration have been used for covering the denuded roots and
      augmenting the width and thickness of the keratinized gingiva. Among various surgical
      techniques, subepithelial connective tissue (SECT) grafts remain the most commonly used and
      most successful root coverage procedures. The esthetic and functional success of SECT graft
      techniques is highly predictable and reliable and they have given them a common place in the
      clinical practice. Subepithelial connective tissue graft procedures require harvesting tissue
      from a donor area, usually the palate. This addition of another surgical site extends the
      complexity of the procedure and increases patient discomfort.

      Single interrupted or continuous interlocking sutures are suggested at the donor site.
      Suturing is the most common method of wound closure. Other biomaterials such as staples,
      adhesive tapes, adhesive glues and fibrin sealants have been used generally to hasten the
      pace of healing. Adhesives interact with different materials, merge and allow them to remain
      whole. Cyanoacrylates are bio-adhesives that were discovered by Ardis in 1949 and first used
      for surgery by Coover et al in 1959. When applied to two opposing, wet, living tissue
      surfaces, they have the ability to cement them in place. Their general chemical formula is
      CH2=C(CN)-COOR , where R can be substituted for any alkyl group, ranging from methyl to
      decyl. They polymerize rapidly within seconds in an exothermic reaction following contact
      with proteinaceous surfaces to form strong and flexible bonds. Methyl cyanoacrylate was the
      first glue developed, but tissue toxicity precluded its use. The process of causing
      histologic toxicity is thought to be related to the byproducts of degradation into
      cyanoacetate and formaldehyde. Further research showed that changing the type of alkyl chains
      in the compound to one with a longer molecular chain can reduce tissue toxicity.
      Cyanoacrylates are simple, inexpensive and practical adhesives. Cyanoacrylates have been used
      for achieving hemostasis at intraoral and extra-oral surgical sites treating ulcers,
      attaching grafts, managing cerebral spinal fluid leaks, stabilizing the bone fragments during
      plating, sealing sinus membrane perforations, and achieving peripheral nerve re-anastomosis;
      as periodontal dressings; and for a number of other dental applications. They are sloughed
      from the surface of the skin and mucosa 7 to 10 days after adhesive application. Butyl
      cyanoacrylate is a bacteriostatic, biodegradable, hemostatic cyanoacrylate with a long
      half-life and good tissue compatibility. It can adhere in moist environments and is available
      in a formulation appropriate to be used in the oral cavity. It has been proven to be
      effective in closure of uninfected intraoral incisions on edentulous areas in the mandible,
      in extractions and periapical surgery.

      Few studies are focused on evaluating the wound healing and assessing patient-centered
      outcomes at the palate donor area after different harvesting techniques To the best of our
      knowledge, there is no study that compares different methods of wound closure at the donor
      site.

      This prospective clinical trial aims at obtaining information to determine which technique
      from the patient's standpoint is superior.

      The participants will be randomly assigned to one of two groups. The wound closure at the
      palatal donor area will be achieved with polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) sutures in one group
      and with high viscosity cyanoacrylate tissue adhesives on the other group. The surgical
      procedure will be performed by one of three calibrated periodontics residents (CS, JB, DR).
      Patients will be followed for 1 month post-operatively by the same resident to monitor the
      healing process and obtain patient feedback. Data will be collected at the baseline-day of
      the surgery, one day post-operatively and at the 1-week follow-up appointment. Randomization
      will be achieved using a computerized randomization scheme and will be communicated to the
      surgeon during the surgery by an independent examiner (AC). Participants will be
      block-randomized for each of the three operators for balance.

      Anesthesia will be achieved with greater palatine block anesthesia and local infiltrations,
      if needed, on the palate with 1.8ml Lidocaine 2% 1:100,000 epinephrine. The single incision
      harvesting technique is chosen. Following administration for local anesthesia a single
      incision is made on the anterior hard palatal vault. The length of the incision depends on
      the size of the graft that is needed.

      Once the graft is harvested pressure is applied to the palate until hemostasis is achieved
      and the graft is maintained in a moist environment.

      Using 5-0 PTFE suture, continuous interlocking sutures 4mm apart are placed in the suture
      group leaving 3-4mm tails. Thin layers of cyanoacrylate are applied and rinsed with saline at
      least 3 times with interval at least 30s to allow complete polymerization in the
      cyanoacrylate group until hemostasis is achieved.

      The harvested tissue graft is sutured to the donor site. The day of the surgery-a baseline
      record is obtained (see attached form). A loading dose of Amoxicillin 2g or Clindamycin
      600mg, in case of allergy to penicillin, is provided to all participants immediately after
      the surgery with Ibuprofen 400mg for pain control. Postoperative instructions are also
      provided. They are also provided with an ice pack for the first 24 hours to minimize swelling
      from the recipient site. Sufficient amount of Ibuprofen 200mg is provided in a bag for the
      participants to consume 1-2 tablets po q4-6h PRN. They are instructed to return the bag for
      recording of the number of painkillers consumed at the 1-week follow-up appointment. A pain
      visual analogue scale (VAS) questionnaire with no pain on the left site and unbearable pain
      on the right site is given to the participants to note the level of pain from the palatal
      site the day after the surgery before the consumption of any painkillers. Participants are
      encouraged to contact the operator if they have any problem at any time.

      Post-operative complications like severe bleeding, infection, abnormal pain, root exposure of
      the teeth adjacent to the donor site or sloughing, that need to be addressed before the
      scheduled appointments, will be recorded for 1 month after the surgery.

      At the 1-week follow-up appointments the modified early-wound healing index (EHI), the wound
      length and width, and the presence of normal or abnormal inflammation will be recorded. The
      number of painkillers consumed the 1st week after the surgery will be counted and recorded.
      Participants will be asked to report any self-medication for pain. Sutures will be removed in
      the suture group. A 1-week follow-up VAS questionnaire is given to participants to fill
      during the 1-week follow-up appointment. The participants are asked to note the level of pain
      from the donor and recipient site and the level of discomfort (eating, speaking,.) from the
      donor site during the week after the surgery. Photos will be taken in all appointments.)
    
  