
    
      In The investigators' model, the APN will participate in comprehensively planning individual
      discharge, coordinating services, consulting with other healthcare professionals, assessing
      needs on a case by case basis, and coaching the family from birth to 6 months after discharge
      from the NICU. The APN will be supported by specialized neonatology nurses; together, they
      will form the Advanced Nursing Practice Team (ANP Team). Currently, 4 APNs are in training
      for the project.

      The most important tasks of the APN are listed below:

        -  at birth and during initial hospitalization: first contact of the APN with the family,
           followed by regular visits, consultations, and educational training for and coordination
           with other services like lactation consultant, psychologist, social support etc. The APN
           will conduct family interviews at regular intervals, consult with and train parents on
           predefined topics in a structured manner while closely collaborating with nursing and
           medical staff. The APN will take a family-centred approach to making joint decisions.
           The APN will coordinate health care providers, encourage information flow and
           collaboration between the professionals as well as organize and manage regular
           interprofessional exchanges.

        -  discharge from the hospital: the APN will plan the comprehensive discharge together with
           parents and the interprofessional team.

        -  at home: the APN will make systematic follow-up after discharge. The APN will also offer
           telephone support for requests and answer parent's questions. They will also make
           follow-up home visits to assess the situation, including assessing physical and mental
           well-being of parents and infants. The APN will evaluate the interventions the family
           requested, discuss them with the family, and initiate further services if they are
           necessary.

        -  end of the 6 month period: towards the end of the period, the APN will determine, with
           the parents and other professionals, if the family needs further support, and which
           specialist would be most appropriate to continue the collaboration with the family.

      The role of the interprofessional team:

      Within the new model of transitional care, some interprofessional interventions were
      augmented or adapted.These will be available to families in the intervention group:

      Outpatient care by the neonatologist for families that have difficulty getting to a
      paediatrician, because they live in a rural area with no paediatrician; Standardized
      psychological support to re-establish emotional stability, improve the ability of parents to
      cope with the situation and to prevent parental and family adaptive disorders and child
      developmental disorders; More frequent and standardized involvement of lactation consultant;
      Standardized involvement of physiotherapy and social workers; Outpatient music therapy.

      The APN will contact and involve other health care professionals, like the family's
      paediatrician, the outpatient midwife, the community health care nurse or the mother and
      father counselling as soon as need becomes evident. The APN will help set up meetings between
      health care professionals and the family, and will keep them up-to-date on the family's
      situation..

      Interprofessional roundtable meetings with health care professionals involved in the care of
      a specific family will be held every two weeks. The meeting is aimed at developing consensus
      on the best possible support in the care of preterm infants and their families. Parents will
      be invited to participate in these meetings.
    
  