
    
      Background/Purpose: This project will expand the capacity of selected mental health agencies
      to provide services in the participating schools through school therapeutic services (STS).
      The project will provide enhanced training in evidence-based behavioral health interventions
      to school-based mental health providers. The services will be implemented by STS Master's
      level therapists supervised by their mental health agency supervisors (Internal Support), who
      are in turn supported by the research team (TT) or external consultants (TT+).

      Population: 18 schools in Philadelphia will be chosen for participation. Students who present
      excessive anxiety in grades 4-8 would be potentially eligible to participate in the
      interventions offered by the agencies' therapists in their school.

      Intervention: This study is designed to test: a) the effectiveness of an adapted version of a
      group cognitive behavioral therapy program (aFRIENDS) compared to the original version of
      this program (FRIENDS), and b) the effectiveness of two implementation support strategies for
      aFRIENDS: Train-the-Trainer and Train-the-Trainer Plus. aFRIENDS is a shorter, more
      culturally sensitive, focused, and feasible CBT for anxiety in children than FRIENDS and
      addresses one of the major barriers to implementation (intervention-context fit).

      Design: Therapists and supervisors will be randomly assigned to one of three conditions: a)
      FRIENDS with Train-the-Trainer implementation strategy (i.e., Masters-level supervisors
      receive training by experts on conducting supervision); b) aFRIENDS with Train-the-Trainer
      strategy; c) aFRIENDS using the Train-the-Trainer Plus strategy (i.e., supervisors receive
      training and consultation by experts on conducting supervision).

      Analyses: Effectiveness will be measured by comparing A to B; Implementation will be measured
      by comparing B to C. Agency therapists will conduct all treatment groups in the schools.
    
  