
    
      It's well-known that the long-term outcome of adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) lags
      far behind that of pediatric ALL,associated with different molecular cytogenetics make-up and
      treatment strategies. In search of an optimal regimen for pediatric ALL, comprehensive series
      of clinical trials of intensive chemotherapies have been conducted and lead to 80%-90%
      long-term survival. At the same time, pediatric-inspired chemotherapy protocol aslo yielded a
      charming result of 50-60% 3-year EFS in adolescent and young adult. In comparison with the
      leading role of intensive chemotherapy in pediatric ALL, allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (allo-HSCT) plays an important role in treatment strategy of adult ALL.
      According to the state-of-art understanding of ALL, total therapy of ALL should consist of
      molecular-cytogenetics classification at diagnosis, minimal residual disease (MRD) monitoring
      and redefining risk classification during treatment, pediatric-inspired chemotherapy with
      high-dose Methotrexate/L-asparaginase during consolidation
      therapy,furthermore,risk/MRD-adapted allo-HSCT for high-risk and refractory/relapsed ALL.In
      pre-pediatric-inspired protocol era, allo-HSCT still represents the major role for improving
      the outcome of adult ALL, especially for high-risk and refractory/relapsed ALL. It's
      established that graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effect was weak in ALL and patient shows poor
      response for donor-lymphocyte infusion (DLI). Intensified conditioning regimen allo-HSCT is
      based on a hypothesis of that intensifying condition with less-used drugs could overcome
      resistance,reduce tumor burden, and most importantly, spare enough time for slow-growing GVL
      effect following immune reconstitution to finally get rid of MRD and control the disease. Our
      previous trial of HDE-ALL-2011 (NCT01457040) have confirmed the role of intensified
      conditioning allo-HSCT in adult ALL, resulting in significantly improved OS and EFS in
      comparison with previous standard TBI/CY2 conditioning regimen(data not yet published). But
      at the same time, FA-TBI/CY2-VP16 conditioning regimen was associated with high
      transplantation-related mortality (TRM), which might be attributed to excessive suppression
      on both bone marrow and immune. TT-ALL-HIE-2013, substituting FA with idarubicin, is aimed at
      maintaining anti-tumor effect with less cross-resistance and immune suppression and reducing
      TRM.
    
  