
    
      Rationale Bronchoscopy is one of the most important procedures in diagnosis of lung cancer
      and other pulmonary diseases. This procedures renders important anatomical information and
      subtle changes in the epithelium or vascularity of the bronchial tree are clues to guide the
      endoscopist in this procedure, especially in case of centrally located lung cancer. These
      subtle changes may influence the choice of treatment, site of biopsy and resectability of
      cancers when determining resection margins but also in case of multifocal premalignant
      disease. A recently published meta-analysis has shown diagnostic superiority of
      autofluorescence bronchoscopy (AFB) over routine white light bronchoscopy (WLB). Furthermore,
      patients with a head and neck cancer have an increased risk of developing lung cancer given
      their smoking habits. Through technological improvement a new technique has become available
      in the form of high-definition (HD-) bronchoscopy. Current normal video white light
      bronchoscopy is the standard, and video-autofluorescence bronchoscopy (AFB) is offered by
      specialized centers only. The impact of this development with high-definition
      videobronchoscopy using a 1.1 megapixel chip on the diagnostic performance of bronchoscopy is
      however unknown.

      Objective (primary and secondary outcome)

      (1) Investigate sensitivity of HD bronchoscopy, with or without surface enhancement or tone
      enhancement in comparison to AFB (the 'gold standard') and standard WLB for detecting
      abnormalities of the tracheobronchial tree. Furthermore we aim to investigate determination
      of resection margins of (suspected) malignancies in the glottic and supraglottic area or
      centrally located lung cancer in comparison to autofluorescence bronchoscopy (SAFE 3000 dual
      video mode) in a high risk population with biopsies from all suspect lesions identified by
      either technique. (2) When the sensitivity and specificity of HD videobronchoscopy in either
      mode in the abovementioned study is in the vicinity of the reported sensitivity and
      specificity of SAFE3000 dual mode videobronchoscopy we suggest to use the results of this
      study perform a power analysis. With this information it may then be possible to design a new
      future study to compare sensitivity for detecting premalignant lesions in a high risk
      population in a prospective study.

      Study design This study is a descriptive exploratory randomized observational study with a
      blinded post procedure analysis of the diagnostic performance of HD bronchoscopy in
      comparison to WLB and AFB.

      Study population Patients scheduled for diagnostic or therapeutic procedure under general
      anesthesia by the cardiothoracic or thoracic surgeon or ear-, nose- and throat (ENT) surgeon
      with suspected or proven lung cancer or head and neck cancer are eligible for this
      exploratory study. Eligible are patients with ASA physical status 1-3 patients aged 18 years
      or older. Ineligibility criteria are all known contraindications for diagnostic bronchoscopy
      (bleeding disorders, indication for use of anticoagulant therapy (acenocoumarol, warfarins,
      therapeutic dose of low molecular weight heparins or clopidogrel), known allergy for
      lidocaine, known pulmonary hypertension, recent and/or uncontrolled cardiac disease).
      Presence of contraindications for the use of laryngeal mask (anatomical abnormalities,
      increased risk for intubation (mallampati score 4), ASA classification greater than or equal
      to 4.

      Study procedure Prior to surgery by the ENT surgeon or cardiothoracic surgeon bronchoscopy
      will be performed by an experienced chest physician through a laryngeal mask under general
      anaesthesia. Bronchoscopy will be performed in a standardized order using five different
      imaging modes. The order of the different modes will be randomized. High-definition digital
      videos will be made from all procedures without in screen indications of date, time or
      reference to study site or patient identification. The five imaging modes used in this study
      are: Standard white light videobronchoscopy (WLB); High Definition (HD-) bronchoscopy;
      HD-bronchoscopy + surface enhancement; HD-bronchoscopy + tone enhancement and Auto
      Fluorescence Bronchoscopy (AFB - SAFE3000) in dual video mode. All visible abnormalities
      suspected for malignancy or pre-malignancy will be biopsied afterwards. The HD-digital
      video's will be reviewed by the experienced bronchoscopists in random order and blinded for
      patient, study site and date and scored using a predefined scoring system to describe
      surface, vascularity and tumours. Premalignant lesions identified by multiple techniques are
      considered as non-inferior. From each patient 5 HD- films will be generated. These films will
      be reviewed in a blinded fashion and random order by two experienced pulmonologists and an
      independent equally experienced third pulmonologist. When new clinically relevant
      abnormalities are found the normally indicated diagnostic procedures will be followed and
      performed immediately after completion of the videoregistration. All findings will be
      disclosed to the patient and the physician in charge by the investigator and the impact of
      these findings on the planned diagnostic or therapeutic procedure will be registered.

      Main study parameter / endpoints The bronchoscopy videos will be scored by blinded
      experienced endoscopists on epithelial changes, vascularity changes, presence or suspicion of
      dysplasia, presence of suspicion of carcinoma in situ, and tumor margins. The study is a
      descriptive exploratory study of diagnostic performance of HD-bronchoscopy using different
      imaging techniques in comparison to standard white light bronchoscopy and autofluorescence
      bronchoscopy in determining epithelial changes, changes in vascularity and tumour margins. As
      a secondary outcome we aim, when differences are established between the different
      bronchoscopy modes, to perform a power analysis to determine the feasibility of a
      prospectively designed study to investigate the diagnostic performance of HD bronchoscopy.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness After start of the general anaesthesia for the planned operation a laryngeal mask
      airway is inserted by the anesthesiologist. Bronchoscopy is then performed by a very
      experienced pulmonologist using routine topical anesthesics. In this way the burden for the
      patient and the risk of complications is very low. These patients have an indication for the
      planned surgical procedure and have been evaluated by an anesthesiologist prior to the
      procedure and are considered fit for surgery. The total anesthesia time for the planned
      procedure will be increased by 10 to 15 minutes.

      Bronchoscopy is a very safe diagnostic procedure, the reported complications are in general
      attributable to te more invasive diagnostic procedures performed during that diagnostic
      bronchoscopy like biopsy, lavage and needle aspirations. This is not the aim of this study,
      invasive diagnostic procedures will only be performed in case of a clinically relevant new
      finding. In general we expect that the vast majority of the patients involved will not have
      any benefit of participating in this study
    
  