
    
      Pelvic radiation, which is a critical component in the treatment of many gynecologic,
      bladder, rectal and anal cancers, often results in devastating and long-lasting sexual side
      effects. Vaginal changes following pelvic radiation include adhesions, agglutination,
      fibrosis, dryness, atrophy, and stenosis. Pelvic radiation-related sexual problems are often
      undertreated, resulting in poor symptom management and reduced quality of life.
      Rehabilitation programs including pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) and vaginal dilator
      exercises may help minimize post-radiation vaginal changes and related sexual problems, but
      use of these rehabilitation strategies is inconsistent and infrequent in routine clinical
      practice. For many women, engaging in these rehabilitation strategies can be difficult and
      adherence is low (e.g.,1% to 35% for dilator use). Barriers to engaging in PFMT and dilator
      exercises include lack of information, pain, embarrassment, fear, and reliving invasive
      treatments. There is a critical need for interventions to help women access and engage in
      rehabilitation following pelvic radiation treatment. We propose to develop and pilot test a
      novel physical therapist delivered intervention to improve women's sexual function after
      pelvic radiation that integrates pelvic health physical therapy interventions (i.e., vaginal
      dilators, PFMT) and cognitive-behavioral based coping skills training for managing symptoms
      and improving treatment adherence. Pelvic health physical therapy interventions have
      demonstrated effectiveness for treating pelvic pain and sexual pain disorders. Coping skills
      training interventions have demonstrated benefits for reducing symptoms and improving
      treatment engagement.This study includes two phases: intervention development and pilot
      testing. For intervention development (months 1-6), qualitative data obtained from patient
      and healthcare provider interviews will be used to develop and refine the integrated PT and
      coping skills training intervention. Using information obtained in qualitative interviews, we
      will develop the intervention. In pilot testing (months 7-12), we will pilot the developed
      intervention with women who were treated with pelvic radiation. : The specific aims of this
      study are to: 1) develop and refine an integrated PT and coping skills training intervention
      based on qualitative data from interviews with cancer survivors, oncology providers, and
      pelvic health physical therapists; 2) pilot the developed intervention to examine its
      feasibility and acceptability; and 3) examine the patterns of change and relationships among
      outcome variables including vaginal changes, pelvic floor function, sexual function and
      satisfaction, and use of rehabilitation exercises.
    
  