
    
      The primary objectives of this application are 1. To use a diet intervention setting to
      rigorously evaluate the mechanisms responsible for the previously observed effects, focusing
      on gut microbiota and markers of gut health and inflammation and 2. To prove that targeted
      dietary intervention based on genes can provide additional, tailored benefit to genetically
      vulnerable individuals. The overall hypothesis proposes that significant cross-talk between
      the human host genome, the microbiome, and the diet, defines the observed inter-individual
      variation in metabolic and physiological responses. Accordingly, the investigators propose
      the following specific aims and hypotheses.

      AIM 1: To catalog the response of the plasma metabolome to diets differing in saturated fat
      and prebiotics content (animal-based diet versus plant-based diet) in individuals from the
      USA carrying CC (n=20) and TT (n=20) genotypes at the common APOA2 -265T>C SNP using a
      crossover, randomized dietary intervention study.

      Our primary hypothesis states: A significant and biologically relevant proportion of the
      individual variation in changes in the plasma metabolome in response to dietary saturated fat
      and prebiotic intake will be due to APOA2-265T>C genotypes. Specifically, subjects homozygous
      (CC) for the less common C allele will respond to decreases in total dietary saturated fat
      and increases in prebiotics (i.e., plant-based diet) with significantly greater improvement
      of metabolites related to gut health, inflammation and other cardiometabolic traits than
      subjects homozygous (TT) for the common T allele.

      AIM 2: To characterize differential impacts of low SFA/high prebiotic (plant-based) diet vs.
      high SFA/low prebiotic (animal-based) diets on gut microbiota patterns between CC and TT
      persons at APOA2-265T>C.

      Our primary hypothesis states: CC subjects have a preference for high-fat and -protein foods
      and therefore high levels of Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria and similar species in the gut are
      expected. Moreover, reducing intake of saturated fat and increasing prebiotics will be more
      effective in inducing a healthier gut microflora profile in CC subjects than in those with
      the TT genotype, with opposite effects observed when the diet is switched to one high in
      saturated fat.

      AIM 3: To integrate the metabolomic and gut microflora taxonomic information generated in
      AIM1 and AIM2 in order to elucidate the physiological mechanism(s) by which diet impinges on
      metabolic pathways through APOA2 genotypes.

      Our primary hypothesis states: A diet low in saturated fat and high in prebiotics induces
      beneficial changes in gut microbiota, metabolic processes and inflammation, which are
      significantly more pronounced in CC than in TT subjects.
    
  