
    
      This study aims to determine whether 4-aminopyridine (4AP) can reduce attacks of ataxia in
      patients with episodic ataxia type 2 (EA2), a rare but often debilitating condition. Episodic
      ataxia (EA) is a group of inherited disorders characterized by recurrent, discrete episodes
      of vertigo and ataxia variably associated with progressive ataxia. EA2, the most common and
      the best characterized of all the EA syndromes, is caused by heterozygous mutations in
      CACNA1A, which encodes the main subunit of a neuronal voltage-gated calcium channel, Cav2.1.

      Although observational data suggest symptomatic resolution with acetazolamide in many EA2
      patients, the investigators found in our patient databases that at least a third of the EA2
      patients continue to suffer debilitating ataxia attacks, either because of incomplete control
      while on acetazolamide or because of intolerability or hypersensitivity to acetazolamide. For
      these patients there is no alternative intervention. 4-Aminopyridine (4AP) has been found to
      be helpful in a handful of patients with EA2. Recently, dalfampridine, an extended release
      formulation of 4AP (AMPYRA) by Acorda Therapeutics, received FDA approval to improve gait in
      multiple sclerosis.

      The investigators plan to recruit 20 subjects with genetically defined EA2 who suffer
      frequent ataxia episodes (at least 3 episodes a month) to conduct a randomized trial of 4AP
      to examine its efficacy and tolerability in EA2. Study subjects will be recruited at UCLA and
      the University of Rochester to participate in a randomized, double-blind, double-crossover
      trial of 4AP.Each treatment period is 2-months with a 1-week wash-out period in between each
      treatment period. Participating subjects will undergo standardized history and physical
      examination at the time of enrollment. Participants will log their ataxia attacks daily by
      interactive voice response (IVR) system and will be interviewed monthly for events and side
      effects/toxicity. Study visits will occur at the beginning and the end of the study.
    
  