
    
      This is an observational cohort study. A total of 300 subjects will be enrolled. Cases are
      defined as unique subjects who have a monomicrobial blood culture positive for growth of 3rd
      Generation Cephalosporin Resistant Escherichia coli (3GCR-Ec), defined as resistance to
      ceftriaxone or cefotaxime, during hospitalization. For each case, the next available unique
      subject from the same study site, with a monomicrobial blood culture positive for growth of
      3rd Generation Cephalosporin Sensitive Escherichia coli (3GCS-Ec) during hospitalization will
      be included as a control. A waiver of informed consent and HIPAA will be requested. This is a
      minimal risk study without any direct subject contact. In addition, no subject information
      will be collected that is not part of routine clinical care.

      The trigger for enrollment in the study will be the identification in a participating local
      microbiology laboratory of a 3GCR-Ec in a monomicrobial blood culture. These will be reported
      to study personnel at the study site, who will evaluate eligibility. If the subject is deemed
      eligible, the 3GCR-Ec isolate will be saved for shipping to the Laboratory Center, and the
      isolate also saved at the local laboratory. Sites will be advised to destroy any samples
      saved at the local laboratory as part of this study at the end of the study. The local
      microbiology laboratory, or designee, will then identify the next subject available with a
      3GCS-Ec in a blood culture. These will also be reported to study personnel for evaluation of
      eligibility as a control. If the control subject is eligible, the corresponding 3GCS-Ec
      isolate will be saved for shipping to the Laboratory Center, and the isolate will also be
      saved at the local laboratory . Sites will be advised to destroy any samples saved at the
      local laboratory as part of this study at the end of the study.

      For cases and controls, clinical data will be collected from the electronic health records
      (EHR) for up to 30 days after the index blood culture. Data collection will be performed by
      study personnel at the site into a central, secure, research database.

      One E. coli isolate per study subject will be collected from the index blood culture. No
      other biologic samples will be collected. Data will be entered at or after the 30-day time
      point. There will be no long-term follow-up for subjects.

      Primary Objective:

      To evaluate the use of oral step down therapy in subjects with 3GCR-Ec and 3GCS-Ec
      bacteremia.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. To describe the treatment regimens used in subjects with 3GCR-Ec and 3GCS-Ec bacteremia.

        2. To determine the association between duration of intravenous antibiotics and Inverse
           Probability Weighting (IPW)-adjusted Desirability Of Outcome Ranking (DOOR) outcomes at
           30 days

        3. To determine the association between total duration of antibiotics and IPW-adjusted DOOR
           outcomes at 30 days

        4. To determine risk factors on days 0, 3, 5, and 7 after first positive blood culture for
           poor outcomes (either DOOR composite score or individual outcomes) at 30 days.

      Exploratory Objective:

      • To describe phenotypic and genotypic characteristics of bacterial isolates.

      This study is minimal risk to study participants, and has no data safety monitoring board.
    
  