
    
      Hypertension affects approximately 50 million individuals in the United States. As the
      population ages, the prevalence of hypertension will continue to increase if broad and
      effective preventive measures are not implemented. According to the World Health
      Organization, hypertension is the most common attributable cause of preventable death in
      developed nations, as uncontrolled hypertension greatly increases the risk of cardiovascular
      disease, cerebrovascular disease, and renal failure.

      A major component of blood pressure regulation is the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, a
      system of hormone-mediated feedback interactions that results in the relaxation or
      constriction of blood vessels in response to various stimuli. Angiotensin II, a polypeptide
      hormone, is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin-converting
      enzyme as part of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. AII is the principal pressor
      agent of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system with a myriad of effects on the
      cardiovascular system and on electrolyte homeostasis. Two receptors for angiotensin II have
      been identified. Angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptors are located predominantly in vascular
      smooth muscle, where activation by angiotensin II results in vasoconstriction, hypertrophic
      proliferation, and inflammation. In contrast, stimulation of angiotensin II type 2 (AT2)
      receptors by angiotensin II results in vasodilation, antiproliferative effects, and other
      effects that are opposite from those of AT1 receptor stimulation.

      Drugs that modulate the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system are used commonly worldwide for
      the treatment of hypertension. Of these, some block the synthesis of angiotensin II by
      inhibiting angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, while others inhibit the action of
      angiotensin II by binding directly to the AT1 receptor (angiotensin II receptor blockers),
      thereby allowing blood vessels to dilate, resulting in a reduction in blood pressure. The
      effects of angiotensin II receptor blockers on other conditions in which the
      renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system plays a significant role, such as congestive heart
      failure, post-myocardial infarction management, and diabetic nephropathy, also are being
      investigated.

      Takeda Global Research & Development Center, Inc. is developing TAK-491 (azilsartan
      medoxomil) to treat mild to moderate essential hypertension. Nonclinical studies have
      indicated that azilsartan medoxomil is an antagonist of the AT1 receptor subtype.

      This study consists of 2 phases. The first phase will be a 26-week, open-label, multicenter
      phase to evaluate the safety and tolerability of TAK-491 in participants with essential
      hypertension. Investigators were instructed to manage participants according to a
      protocol-specified treatment algorithm to achieve target blood pressure. All participants who
      completed the open-label phase then were randomized into a 6-week double-blind,
      placebo-controlled (azilsartan medoxomil [maintained at the final dose from the open-label
      phase] or placebo, in addition to their current other antihypertensive medications including
      chlorthalidone, as applicable) reversal phase to evaluate maintenance/durability of
      azilsartan medoxomil -mediated blood pressure reduction, as well as potential rebound
      following the cessation of azilsartan medoxomil.

      Study participation is anticipated to be about 8.5 Months. Multiple procedures will occur at
      each visit which may include fasting, blood collection, urine collection, vital signs
      including sitting and standing blood pressure and pulse, body height and weight, physical
      examinations and electrocardiograms.
    
  