
    
      Among patients with cGVHD, 60% - 90% are affected by dry eye symptoms, presenting as
      progressive development of dryness, foreign body sensation, photophobia, pain and even
      blindness, which seriously affect their life quality. At present, the standard first-line
      treatment of cGVHD is still hormone or combined with immunosuppressant of cyclosporine. The
      dry eyes related to cGVHD are treated with artificial tears, lacrimal punctum embolization,
      local immunosuppressant or even blepharoplasty to reduce dry eye symptoms. Although a variety
      of new immunosuppressants and monoclonal antibodies have been used in clinic, the overall
      efficacy is still unsatisfactory with apparent side effects, and the period of treatment is
      long with high-costs. Therefore, it is an urgent task for clinicians to explore new methods
      of cGVHD related dry eye therapy and improve the survival rate and quality of life of
      patients.

      Exosomes are a kind of membrane vesicles secreted by parental cells, which can mediate the
      transfer of RNA, protein, DNA and other functional molecules between cells and regulate the
      function of target cells. The therapeutic potential of UMSC exosomes has been widely studied
      in diseases of liver, kidney, skin and so on. Previously, we found that UMSC exosomes can
      significantly alleviate the symptoms of dry eye in the dry eye animal model. At present, we
      plan to clarify its efficacy in clinical research.

      The main objective of this study is to assess the alleviation of dry eye symptoms in patients
      with cGVHD after UMSC-exo treatment by measuring Ocular Surface Index Score (OSDI), and the
      second objective include the measurement of tear secretion amount, tear break time, the areas
      stained by fluorescent, ocular redness, tear meniscus and best corrected visual acuity.

      Approximately 27 study subjects will be recruited. The treatment group will receive
      artificial tears for 2 weeks to normalize the baseline, followed by intervention of UMSC-exo
      10ug/drop, four times a day for 14 days. The follow-up visit will be 12-week, progression of
      dry eye will be measured.
    
  