
    
      Central venous catheterization technology is a compulsory clinical skill for resident
      physicians. Because of its difficulty in operation and the possibility of serious
      complications, teaching this skill is a key and difficult point in clinical teaching in
      anesthesiology. This skill training has gone through the traditional "apprentice mode"
      teaching to the current video demonstration teaching, bedside feedback teaching, etc.. The
      attempts of multiple teaching modes are to help low-age resident doctors master the
      technology as soon as possible, improve the operation success rate, and reduce the incidence
      of complications.

      The Department of Anesthesiology in our hospital is a key base for the standardized training
      of anesthesiologists in China. In recent years, the introduction of video demonstration
      methods for the central venous catheterization technology of low-age residents has achieved
      some results. Residents watch the demonstration operation videos specially recorded by the
      department, and perform operation exercises after passing the pre-operation assessment. The
      trainees self-reported that the teaching mode increased their confidence in learning this
      skill. However,in the actual training process, bedside comments (feedback teaching) were also
      involved, and it was discovered that it could cause panic and dissatisfaction of the patient,
      which was later improved into the paper-based feedback of the teacher.

      The video demonstration teaching method was first applied to athletes' competitive training
      and was found to be effective in improving athletes' competitive skills.It was also used in
      medical education for surgical operation training, such as laparoscopic operation, which also
      obtained significant results. Feedback, as a method of attracting learners, has long been
      regarded as an important part of learning in medical education. We used bedside feedback
      teaching in the early stage, which was criticized by patients. Research has shown that video
      feedback may not only be superior to traditional verbal feedback methods alone, but it can
      also avoid problems from patients. When learners watch their own operation videos, video
      feedback will occur regardless of whether there is guidance from the instructor. Learners can
      watch these videos individually or with the teacher who can provide guidance at the same
      time. This teaching method is believed to be helpful for the assessment of skills. The use of
      video feedback originated from track and field sports learning. A large number of studies
      have found that video feedback teaching can be used as an effective means of medical
      communication skills training. Recently, it has also be used in clinical skills teaching.
      Current studies have confirmed that this teaching method can improve students' confidence in
      learning skills, but there is still relatively little research on skill acquisition.

      In summary, video demonstration teaching and video feedback teaching are both useful in
      deliberate practice teaching (such as skill operation training). Skills operation training
      involves targeted repetitive exercises to improve skills, and feedback is the key to
      strengthening clinical learning. By video demonstrations, learners can observe and analyze
      the performance of experts (demonstrators) at key decision points under the guidance of the
      teacher. And video feedback can help promote self-assessment. It shows that the combination
      of the two may be more conducive to the integration of observational learning, imitation and
      self-evaluation, and speed up the progress of skill training. This joint teaching has been
      studied in sports research, while there are few studies in medical education. At present, a
      small study found that compared with oral feedback, the combined method can achieve better
      hernia repair skills, and there are recent research reports in peripheral vein indwelling
      operation training. But whether it is also suitable for the operation training of high-risk
      skills with greater difficulty coefficient, it needs to be confirmed by further research.

      This project intends to observe the impact of video demonstration combined with video
      feedback teaching on the central venous catheterization time of low-age resident physicians,
      aiming to obtain a better method of central venous catheterization skills training, and to
      improve the learning confidence of students to better master this skill, improve the success
      rate of operation, reduce complications, and promote the application.
    
  