
    
      Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty (RSA) is a relatively new solution for the patient with
      osteoarthritis of the glenohumeral joint with a deficient rotator cuff, or patients with
      glenohumeral osteoarthritis with excessive erosion of the posterior glenoid. Since the
      approval of RSA in 2003, the utility has increased such that this procedure represented 33%
      of all shoulder arthroplasties performed in the United States in 2011, and represents greater
      than 90% in some European countries The RSA prosthesis is effective at providing improved
      active motion and function due the semi-constrained design--substituting for the centering
      effect of the rotator cuff and allowing the deltoid to elevate or abduct the arm with
      fixed-fulcrum kinematics without a functional rotator cuff. Many factors influence the
      potential for successful outcome following RSA: proper patient selection, surgeon experience
      level, prosthesis characteristics, surgical technique and approach, and postoperative
      rehabilitation. Prior researchers have explored the effect of surgical technique, type of
      prosthesis, and surgery indications on outcome following RSA, however there is no data
      published on the impact of postoperative rehabilitation following this surgery.

      A systematic review of the literature reveals that complications following RSA occur with
      four times greater incidence than complications following anatomic total shoulder
      arthroplasty (TSA). Complications following RSA which may be impacted by the exercises
      associated with physical therapy include instability and acromion stress fractures. A
      systematic review of the literature was conducted to determine if complication rates
      following RSA differ due to surgical approach, type of prosthesis (medialized or lateralized
      center of rotation), and the indication for the procedure. The authors of this review
      acknowledge that postoperative rehabilitation can impact the clinical and functional outcome
      of RSA and complication rate, however did not study this variable due to the heterogeneous
      approach to rehabilitation for the multi-center study.

      Experts in the field of shoulder rehabilitation have published clinical guidelines for
      rehabilitation following reverse shoulder arthroplasty. One set of published guidelines is
      based on biomechanical and basic science healing timeframes associated with the tissue
      attrition following RSA. The authors describe precautions to protect the prosthesis from
      dislocation and acromial stress fractures, and propose a slow progressive approach to
      restoring motion and functional strength. The clinical guidelines published by these authors
      contrast with a very progressive criterion based rehabilitation plan that allows early use of
      the arm and very little immobilization. Neither of these two proposed rehabilitation plans
      are associated with clinical trials that track clinical or functional outcome measures or
      complication rate. A chapter devoted to rehabilitation following RSA in the book "Reverse
      Shoulder Arthroplasty" suggests that physician directed video-based rehabilitation may be
      just as effective as formal physical therapy. The author points out the need for randomized
      controlled trials to determine the need for physical therapy following a variety of shoulder
      surgeries. Clarifying the impact of formal clinic based PT intervention following RSA is
      important in determining the best plan of care for this population following surgery, while
      ensuring that there is not an increase in complications associated with the therapy.
    
  