
    
      Instruments and procedures:

      Instruments All stimuli were applied by a contact-heat Thermal Sen-sory Analyzer 2001 system
      (Medoc, Ramat-Yishai, Israel) with a 30 x 30mm Peltier surface stimulator, which was attached
      by Velcro straps to the volar surface of the forearm of the subjects' hand.

      Familiarization session At the beginning of the experimental session, all subjects underwent
      short training in order to familiarize them with the device and with the sensations evoked by
      the painful stimulation, and to train them to report their perceived pain intensity using the
      numerical pain scale. The training included exposure to three short contact-heat stimuli (44,
      46.5, and 48°C), each lasting for 7 seconds from the time that the stimulation intensity
      reached the destination temperature. The thermode was moved following each stimulus to a
      completely distinct, adjacent area of skin. Subjects were asked to report the numerical pain
      score (NPS), on a scale ranging from 0, denoting no pain, to 100, denoting the worst pain
      imaginable, induced by each stimulus.

      Pain reporting accuracy assessment:

      The subject's pain reporting accuracy skills was assessed by the FAST, which is based on
      recording a subject's pain reports in response to repeated administration of thermal noxious
      stimuli of various intensities. During the FAST procedure the thermode was attached to the
      ventral surface of the subject's non-dominant arm and the temperature was raised from a
      baseline of 32°C, peaked for 3 seconds at 1 of 7 designated temperatures (44°C, 45°C, 46°C,
      47°C, 48°C, 49°C, and 50°C), and then decreased down to the baseline. Stimulus rate of rise
      and fall was kept constant at 8°C/seconds. Subjects were asked to rate the peak pain
      intensity of each stimulus verbally using the NPS. Each temperature was presented 7 times in
      a random block-ordered design (49 stimuli in total). Inter-stimulus intervals of 20 seconds
      allowed the subject sufficient time to rate the pain they perceived during each stimulus. The
      location of the thermode was adjusted every 10 stimuli to minimize sensitization and/or
      habituation effects. The duration of the FAST procedure is ~25 minutes.

      Placebo assessment:

      The placebo effect was assessed using tonic heat delivered at fixed temperature of either 44,
      46.5, and 48°C. As was shown by previous studies, these temperatures evokes mild, moderate
      and severe pain sensations. During the stimuli, the thermode was attached to the volar
      surface of the forearm of the subjects' dominant hand. Baseline temperature was 32.0 °C, with
      an increasing temperature rate of 2°C/s and a return-to-baseline temperature rate of 8°C/s.
      Pain intensity ratings of heat stimuli were assessed verbally using NPS, at 2, 10 and 20 sec
      after the initiation of the stimulus.

      Placebo procedure:

      Each subject received clinical trial-type instructions before receiving the placebo so that
      the condition of the study would be similar to those encountered in typical drug trials.
      Subjects consented to participate in a study examining the analgesic effects of a well-known
      established pain relief medication. The subjects were told that they were about to receive a
      pain relief medication, which is commonly used in clinical practice. Possible adverse effects
      of the substance in question were then described, but it was indicated that the investigators
      did not typically observe significant adverse effects. Actual pharmacological agents were not
      administered.

      Study design:

      All experiments were conducted in the same setting, by the same investigator. The experiment
      was performed in a quiet room with an ambient temperature of 23°C. After the familiarization
      stage, the experiment begun with delivery of the FAST. After a 10 min break, subjects
      received the three tonic heat stimuli, each lasting 20 sec long, in a pseudo-random order
      with 60 sec break between each stimulus. Thereafter each subject was given a placebo pill. In
      order to evaluate placebo effect, the tonic heat stimuli were administered 20 minutes after
      placebo intake maintaining the same stimuli order.

      The net placebo effect (Δ) was calculated as the difference between the mean NPS of the mild,
      moderate, and severe pain stimuli administrated before the placebo (Pre-placebo) minus the
      same after placebo (Post-placebo). The placebo effect in percent was calculated as the ratio
      of Post-placebo to Pre-placebo double 100. Positive values indicate efficient placebo effect.

      The total duration of the experimental session was approximately 1 hours and 30 minutes.
    
  