
    
      The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends malaria prophylaxis for all pregnant women
      living in endemic areas in order to reduce maternal anemia, low birth weight and perinatal
      mortality by 25-45%. The most commonly used regimen is intermittently dosed
      sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP).Unfortunately, SP prophylaxis is contraindicated for
      HIV-infected pregnant women since co-administration with TMPS (trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole)
      causes serious adverse events. TMPS (Bactrim or Cotrimoxazole) is an effective,
      well-tolerated, low-cost antibiotic that is used as prophylaxis in HIV-patients with low CD4
      counts. It has anti-malarial activity with prophylactic efficacy that is comparable to SP
      (30-90%). Daily TMPS is recommended as malaria prophylaxis in pregnant women with HIV in many
      African countries (including Cameroon) but malaria infection rates are high even when
      medication compliance is excellent; thus, new and improved options are urgently needed.
      Azithromycin (AZ) is a macrolide antibiotic with activity against malaria, a good safety
      profile in pregnancy and proven utility as a part of combination malaria prevention regimens
      (such as SP-AZ). It also has activity against sexually transmitted infections (STI) and
      perinatal pathogens, including chlamydia (CT), gonorrhea (GC), syphilis and GBS
      (Streptococcus agalactiae or Group B Streptococcus), a potential but understudied contributor
      to high rates of newborn sepsis and death in Africa. SP-AZ prophylaxis in HIV-uninfected
      pregnant women has been reported to reduce prevalence of low birth weight (RR 0.74, 95%
      confidence interval (CI) 0.6-0.9) and preterm delivery (RR 0.66, 95% CI 0.48-0.91) compared
      to SP alone.

      Thus, the central hypothesis is that a TMPS-AZ combination will be more effective than
      standard TMPS malaria prophylaxis in pregnant women with HIV, and that it will also decrease
      STI coinfection. Investigators plan a test-of-concept of the central hypothesis by conducting
      a double blinded, Phase II randomized controlled trial (RCT).
    
  