
    
      Non Invasive Prenatal Diagnosis (NIPD), based on the analysis of circulating cell-free fetal
      DNA (cff-DNA) is very promising for early diagnosis of monogenic diseases. Such an approach
      is a safer alternative to invasive methods of prenatal testing (amniocentesis or
      choriocentesis) which entails a significant risk of miscarriage (0.5%-1%). However, technical
      issues related to the characteristics of cff-DNA remain and do not allow the search of all
      the mutations, in particular triplet expansion mutations which concern rare and incurable
      diseases (Huntington's disease, Steinert Myotonic dystrophy, Fragile X syndrome, SCA1, 2, 3).
      Indeed, the strong fragmentation and the short size of cff-DNA (143 bp) do not allow direct
      detection of these mutations. However, Prenatal Diagnosis (PND) requests for this group of
      pathologies represent the second most frequent PND indication at the national level after
      cystic fibrosis (ABM 2013). An alternative approach is to perform analysis on circulating
      fetal trophoblastic cells (CFTC) from maternal blood. Several methods have been used to
      isolate CFTCs from maternal blood. However, to date, no test is reliable enough for a routine
      application to replace invasive protocols. Recently, new enrichment systems have been
      optimized for circulating tumor cells (CTCs) as a liquid biopsy of cancer. Some of these new
      technologies can be easily applied to the isolation and characterization of CFTCs. The
      objective of this study is to complete our NIPD services by developing an approach on CFTC
      adapted to the analysis of triplet repeat diseases, which cannot be performed on cff-DNA.

      It is a multicenter, prospective study for performance evaluation of a diagnostic method. The
      subjects included will be pregnant women between 9 and 34 weeks of gestation and their
      partner (future fathers). Pregnant woman and future father genotypes (sick or healthy) are
      known for one of the following diseases: Huntington's disease, Steinert's myotonic dystrophy,
      fragile X and spinocerebellar ataxias types 1, 2 or 3. The main objective is achieved by the
      agreement between gold standard (PND by amniocentesis or choriocentesis) and NIPD results for
      each pregnant woman participating in the study (the absence or presence of the mutated
      allele).

      The couple inclusion will take place in one of the participating medical genetic centers
      during genetic counseling consultation for a pregnancy at risk for one of the pathologies
      mentioned above.

      During this visit, the pregnant woman's blood sample (blood sample taken on 3 x 10 ml BCT and
      5 ml on EDTA) and the future father (5 ml on EDTA) will be carried out. The duration of
      inclusion is the time of the visit. Blood collection of pregnant women on cell-free DNA
      "Blood Collection Tubes" (BCT) to screen CFTCs will be addressed to the Human Rare
      Circulating Cells Laboratory (LCCRH). The molecular analysis of the CFTC isolated by the
      LCCRH as well as the genomic DNA extraction and analysis (from the 5 ml of blood on EDTA) of
      the couple will be carried out by the Laboratory of Molecular Genetics (LGM) located in the
      same Building (IURC - Montpellier University Hospital).

      The analysis performed on a simple maternal blood test will allow to determine whether the
      future child is affected or not by the inherited disease. With this new NIPD approach, there
      could be a 50% decrease in the use of the invasive method for PND. This analysis can be
      offered to women carrying foetuses at risk for triplet repeat diseases. Finally, this
      approach can be applied to any monogenic diseases by CFTCs isolation automation from maternal
      blood.
    
  