
    
      This is a phase II pilot study comprising 159 patients. The sample size was calculated for a
      study using a test of difference between proportion considering alpha and beta errors . With
      an estimated curing ratio of 80 % for group 3 Pentamidine applications 7 mg / kg group and
      the pentamidine at a dose of 7 mg / kg 58.1 % cure rate, with a significance level 95 % and a
      80 % test power .

      Clinical and laboratory workup: Full body skin examination will be performed. Ulcerated
      lesions will be measured and pictured before treatment. Follow-up measurements and pictures
      were also taken one week, one, two and six months after treatment. Species identification was
      made through polymerase chain reaction (PCR) as described elsewhere. Two months after
      treatment, additional smears will be obtained from lesions that were not completely healed
      and/or showed an increase of, at least, 50% of its original dimensions.

      Other laboratory exams included complete blood count, sugar, AST, ALT, urea, creatinine and
      amylase blood levels, stool parasite examination, routine urine examination and rapid test
      for HIV.

      Drug administration: PI (300mg) was diluted in 5 ml of saline solution and a single IM
      injection (7 mg/kg) was administered at the outpatient unit of the FMT-HVD.

      Patients were given a carbohydrate enriched meal before treatment to prevent hypoglycemia and
      were kept at rest and under close clinical observation until one hour after medication.
      Rescue treatment with IV injections of antimonials (15 mg/kg every 20 days) was prescribed
      for those who fail to improve.

      Therapeutic failure was defined as the persistence of clinical signs (onset of new lesions,
      >50% increase in the size of preexisting lesions) or laboratory findings (positive smears)
      two months after treatment or anytime during the follow-up period.

      Adverse effects will be classified as mild (drug-related, well tolerated, with no need of
      prescription for symptomatic relief); moderate (drug-related, symptomatic prescription
      required) and severe (clinically detectable impairment of renal, hepatic or cardiac
      functions).
    
  