
    
      Background:

      The human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine offers the unprecedented opportunity to prevent nearly
      all cervical and anal cancers and a high proportion of vaginal, oropharyngeal, vulvar and
      penile cancers, where HPV is the etiologic agent. HPV vaccination is recommended for all
      children ages 11-12, with catch up for females to age 26 and males to age 21. However,
      despite clear and indisputable value in cancer prevention, uptake and completion of the HPV
      vaccine series has lagged far behind the goal of 80%. Provider recommendation is the
      strongest determinant of HPV vaccination, but slow translation of guidelines for preventive
      services, such as immunizations, into practice is a known challenge. Practice Facilitation
      (PF), also called quality improvement coaching, is a multicomponent quality improvement
      intervention approach that has well-established efficacy, in which external support and
      resources are provided to build the internal capacity of practices to improve quality of care
      and patient outcomes.

      Objectives:

      The central goal of the study is to identify the optimal approach to implementing an
      evidence-based intervention for the uptake and completion of HPV vaccine among adolescents
      receiving care in the community, guided by implementation science theory.

      AIM 1: Determine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of two modalities for
      delivering a multi-component PF intervention to increase HPV vaccination initiation and
      completion in community-based pediatric practices.

      The investigators will compare the traditional In-person Coaching modality to a
      lower-resource Web-Based Coaching modality. The primary patient outcome is HPV vaccination.
      The investigators will also examine and compare the sustainability of practice changes on
      vaccination rates and the effects over time for each intervention modality.

      H1: Both interventions will result in significant increases in HPV vaccination from baseline
      over time.

      H2: Increases in the rate of HPV vaccination will be higher and sustained for a longer period
      of time in the In-person Coaching PF Arm as compared with the Web-Based Coaching Arm.

      H3: The Web-Based Coaching Arm will be more cost-effective than the In-person Coaching Arm.

      AIM 2. Understand mechanisms of why the PF intervention may work better for some pediatric
      practices than others for HPV vaccination.

      The investigators will examine theory-based determinants at the organizational, provider, and
      patient levels that may mediate (explain) or moderate (change) the effects of the PF
      intervention on vaccination outcomes.

      H4: Adoption of changes (process variables) and patient factors will mediate effects of the
      intervention on HPV vaccination outcomes.

      H5: Organizational factors, provider attitudes, and intervention characteristics will
      moderate intervention effects on HPV vaccination outcomes.

      Implications:

      The findings will inform organizations about which PF modality to use among their constituent
      practices to improve HPV vaccination rates, with potential for future national dissemination.
    
  