
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Sunitinib malate is designed to block pathways that control important events such as the
      growth of blood vessels that are essential for the growth of cancer.

      Luteinizing Hormone-Releasing Hormone (LHRH) Analogues like Lupron® (leuprolide) and Zoladex®
      (goserelin) are hormonal treatments used to help stop the body from making testosterone (male
      sex hormones) in the body. Prostate cancer cells need testosterone to survive.

      Anti-Androgen drugs, like Casodex® (bicalutamide) also stop cell growth by blocking male
      hormones like testosterone.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group. The group you are assigned to and dose of sunitinib malate you receive will depend on
      when you join this study. Three (3) dose levels of sunitinib malate will be tested. The first
      group of participants will receive the lowest dose of sunitinib malate. The next group
      enrolled will receive a higher dose of sunitinib malate, if no intolerable side effects were
      seen.

      Before you begin taking sunitinib, you will begin receiving hormone therapy. You will receive
      leuprolide or goserelin. Leuprolide is given through a needle in your muscle, and goserelin
      is given through a needle under the skin in the abdomen. You will receive 1 of these
      injections every 3 months. Which hormonal drug you are given (leuprolide or goserelin) will
      be assigned by your doctor and/or will depend on your insurance coverage.

      You may also receive bicalutamide. This will be left up to the doctor. You will take
      bicalutamide by mouth once a day for 2 weeks (with or without food).

      After at least 4 weeks of hormone therapy have been given, you will begin taking sunitinib
      malate in combination with the hormone therapy. You will take sunitinib malate once a day
      (either with or without food) for 16 weeks in a row.

      Radiation Therapy:

      After 4 weeks of combined treatment with sunitinib and hormone therapy, you will begin
      radiation treatments. Radiation treatments will be given once a day, 5 days a week, for about
      8 weeks. Each treatment will take 20-30 minutes. This procedure will be discussed with you in
      more detail. You will continue taking sunitinib and hormone therapy while you are on
      radiation treatments.

      Study Visits:

      On the day you start treatment with sunitinib, you will have the following tests and
      procedures performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurements of your blood pressure and weight.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had since your last visit.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      About Day 15 of treatment with sunitinib, and on the day you begin radiation therapy (before
      your first treatment), you will have the following tests and procedures performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurements of your blood pressure and weight.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had since your last visit.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Every 2 weeks during radiation therapy, you will have the following tests and procedures
      performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurements of your blood pressure and weight
           (every 2 weeks)

        -  You will have blood drawn (about 2 teaspoons) for routine testing.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had since your last visit.

      About 4 weeks after you stop radiation therapy, you will have the following test and
      procedures performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurements of your blood pressure and weight.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests. The blood
           testing will include measurement of prostatic specific antigen (PSA) and testosterone
           levels.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you have had since your last visit.

      Length of Study:

      You will continue taking sunitinib malate on this study for a total of 16 weeks. Radiation
      treatments will last for up to 8 weeks. Hormone injections will continue for a period of 2
      years. You will be taken off this study if intolerable side effects occur or the disease gets
      worse.

      Long-Term Follow-up:

      You will be followed every 6 months via telephone call and/or a review of your medical
      record. If contacted, you will be asked about any side effects you have had, or therapies you
      may have had since stopping treatment on this study. You will be followed for up to 10 years
      once you have taken sunitinib malate for 20 weeks.

      This is an investigational study. Sunitinib malate is FDA approved and commercially available
      for the treatment of adults with kidney cancer.

      Bicalutamide, leuprolide, and goserelin are FDA approved and commercially available for use
      in prostate cancer.

      Up to 22 patients will be enrolled in this multicenter trial. Up to 12 will be enrolled at MD
      Anderson.
    
  