
    
      The current medical management for heart failure invariably employs a 'one treatment fits
      all' approach. The failure to appreciate specific genotypic/phenotypic features in heart
      failure subjects is postulated to be a reason recent heart failure studies evaluating the
      efficacy of tumor necrosis factor alpha antagonists and endothelin receptor blockers showed
      no overall benefit. This experience suggests that the future improvement in the medical
      management of patients with heart failure may require pre-prescription genotyping/phenotyping
      to tailor drug therapy to the underlying mechanistic processes orchestrating the development
      and progression of heart failure.

      In this regard, the insulin-resistance syndrome has been recognized as a significant
      associated factor with the development of cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure. A novel
      class of agents has been developed that increase insulin sensitivity via the activation of
      the transcription factor-peroxisomal proliferators activated receptor gamma (PPAR gamma).
      These drugs, known as the thiazolidinediones are currently licensed for the treatment of type
      II diabetes mellitus. Interestingly, at the preclinical level, PPAR gamma appears to play a
      regulatory role in attenuating the development of cardiac hypertrophy and thiazolidinedione
      therapy has been shown to attenuate the development of contractile dysfunction in mice
      following myocardial infarction.

      The hypothesis intrinsic to this proposal is that insulin resistance is commonly associated
      with the development/progression of heart failure and that improving insulin sensitivity will
      be of clinical benefit in this select group of patients with heart failure. The primary
      objective of this study is to establish the safety and efficacy of thiazolidinedione therapy
      in insulin-resistant heart failure subjects. The study is designed as a phase II, randomized,
      double-blind, placebo-controlled dose escalation study. The primary outcomes will be the
      safety of administration, and the evaluation of the modulation in contractile function in
      heart failure subjects treated with thiazolidnediones. Moreover, changes in functional
      capacity and the determination of the biochemical and genomic modification of heart failure
      and insulin-resistance will be measured in response to thiazolidnedione therapy in heart
      failure subjects.
    
  