
    
      The design of the current study is a prospective, randomised, controlled, double blinded,
      single centre trial.

      On the day of their initial appointment in the outpatient department, patients diagnosed with
      tennis elbow by their consultant who meet all of the necessary inclusion and exclusion
      criteria will be introduced to the study by the consultant. They will also be provided with a
      copy of the participant information sheet.

      When the potential participant then attends their pre-operative assessment appointment, they
      will be invited to discuss the study further with a member of the host Trust's research team.
      If they then wish to proceed, they will be invited to read and sign a copy of the study
      consent form. Consenting patients will then be asked to complete a questionnaire designed to
      record all relevant demographic data including: Age, gender, affected side, dominant side,
      weight, height (so that BMI may be calculated), duration of symptoms, current use of
      pain-relieving medications, occupation, leisure activities and ethnicity. They will also be
      asked to complete a visual analogue pain scale, and the following 4 validated patient
      reported outcome measures.

      Following completion of the patient reported outcome questionnaires, participants will then
      be randomised to one of the following three treatment groups: Group(A)will receive a
      standardised, class-based physiotherapy program in addition to a single therapeutic injection
      of Platelet-Rich Plasma; Group (B) will undergo an identical physiotherapy program to group
      A, but with a single therapeutic injection of sodium hyaluronate with mannitol; or group (C)
      who will undergo an identical physiotherapy program to both groups (A) and (B), however they
      will receive a sham injection, which will penetrate the skin, but no therapeutic substance
      will be injected.

      The randomisation sequence will be generated using freely available online randomisation
      facilities prior to the start of the study. Participants will be randomised to either Group
      A, Group B or Group C in a 1:1:1 ratio (see above for group descriptions). The allocation
      sequence will be concealed in sealed opaque envelopes which will be prepared prior to the
      start of the study and will be opened after informed consent has been gained and baseline
      data has been collected.

      Consenting participants will all attend Wrightington Hospital for their allocated injection
      to be administered under ultrasound guidance to ensure accurate needle placement. All
      participants will have 30mls of whole blood drawn under aseptic conditions in order to aid
      blinding of participants to their treatment allocation.

      For those allocated to receive a PRP injection (Group A), the whole blood will be placed in a
      cell separator and centrifuged at 32000 rpm for 15 minutes. Whilst the blood is being
      centrifuged, 2ml of 2% plain lidocaine will be injected into the subcutaneus layer at the
      site where the PRP is to be injected. 1ml of the PRP produced will then be drawn into a
      syringe which will be wrapped in silver foil so as to conceal the contents from the
      participants. The PRP will then be injected into the lateral epicondyle via a blue (20 gauge)
      hypodermic needle using a peppering technique under ultrasound control.

      For Groups (B) and (C), the withdrawn blood will be discarded into a suitable clinical waste
      container out of sight of the participant in an adjoining room. The centrifuge, also in the
      adjoining room, will be set to run at 32000rpm for 15 minutes in order to aid in participant
      blinding. For those in group (B), whilst the centrifuge is running, 2ml of 2% plain lidocaine
      will be injected into the subcutaneous layer at the site of injection. A pre-prepared
      'Ostenil Tendon' syringe will be wrapped in silver foil (again to help conceal the nature of
      the contents from the participants) and 2ml will be injected into the peri-tendinous area via
      a blue (20 gauge) hypodermic needle under ultrasound control.

      For those in group (C) whilst the centrifuge is running, 2ml of 2% plain lidocaine will be
      injected into the subcutaneous layer at the site of injection. An empty syringe wrapped in
      silver foil with a blue (20 gauge) will then be used to perform a sham injection into the
      subcutaneous tissue only, by passing the needles into the tissue with no injectate.

      In order to further aid blinding of participants, during the procedure they will be
      distracted by asking them to confirm their personal details.

      In order to gain a measure of how the participant's pain changes in the days and weeks
      following surgery, they will be given a pain diary on the day of their treatment to complete
      on days 1,2,3,7,14, and at 6 and 12 weeks.

      Prior to discharge from the hospital participants will be taught basic home exercises by a
      physiotherapist who is unaware of the participant's group allocation. they will then begin a
      specifically designed, formal, class-based physiotherapy program 5-15 days post-injection.
      Exercises taught on the day of treatment will include eccentric loading exercises of the
      wrist extensors and they will be asked to commence these exercises the day after the
      injection and to complete 3 sets of 15 repetitions 3 times per day. They will also be taught
      simple stretches of the wrist extensors to complete after each set of eccentric strengthening
      exercises.

      The formal physiotherapy program will include fortnightly physiotherapy classes taught by a
      blinded physiotherapist. After being taught the exercises on a 1:1 basis in order to ensure
      correct technique, the participants will be supervised during a circuit style exercise
      program. The circuit will include exercises to load the common extensors, strengthening of
      the rotator cuff muscles, strengthening of the scapular stabilising muscles and upper limb
      strengthening using the full kinetic chain. Participants will also be taught a home exercise
      program which will reflect the content of the class circuit.

      At 3 months and 12 months post-injection participants will be assessed by a clinician who
      again is unaware of the participant's grouping. At each follow-up, the participants will be
      asked to complete the patient reported outcome questionnaires. They will also be asked
      regarding their use of rescue medication (i.e. how much analgesic medication they require to
      manage their pain) and this will be recorded by the clinician.

      If any participant is unable to attend the hospital for follow-up at either the 3 or 12 month
      time-point, they will be contacted by telephone to gather the outcome information. All
      participants will be discharged from the care of the treating consultant at 12 weeks unless
      enduring or subsequently manifesting symptoms are present and the final 12 month visit will
      therefore be solely for the purposes of research.
    
  