
    
      Post-stroke hand impairment is highly prevalent and severely restricts functional ability and
      independence. Yet, there is no assistive device to help hand function at home, every day,
      during activities of daily living. Existing devices such as hand-opening orthoses are
      expensive, uncomfortable, bulky, and meant for use during short therapy sessions as opposed
      to during daily living. Thus their impact is limited. Consequently, the development of
      efficacious and affordable assistive device is of importance. This project addresses this
      critical gap by providing an innovative patent-pending technology. The "TheraBracelet" is a
      wristband applying imperceptible vibration to skin. TheraBracelet is efficacious, as it has
      been shown to immediately improve chronic stroke survivors' touch sensation and hand
      dexterity in previous studies. TheraBracelet is affordable by using only a low-cost vibrator.
      TheraBracelet is also translational, because a vibrator strategically placed at the wrist
      does not interfere with dexterous finger motions, and it is low-risk by involving only
      imperceptible vibration on skin. These practicalities assure easy adoption in home
      environment for large impact on sensorimotor impairment. The essential next step, thus the
      objective of this Phase I project, is to determine the feasibility and safety of using this
      assistive device all day every day for a month during daily activity. This objective will be
      accomplished in a double-blinded, randomized, controlled, crossover design study. Feasibility
      (compliance of using the device everyday) and safety will be assessed for the real vibration
      condition compared to the sham vibration condition (wearing the device without vibration).
      The feasibility and safety level comparable to those of wearing a watch and of a comparable
      FDA-approved device will support viability of TheraBracelet with necessary regulatory
      approvals. This project is expected to lead to an assistive wristband that increases hand
      function during activities of daily living for a large number of stroke survivors with hand
      impairment.
    
  