
    
      Background: Fiberoptic intubation is the preferred method of intubation in patients with
      acute symptoms or signs of cervical myelopathy. This approach minimizes cervical spine
      movements to prevent new neurologic deficits or further neurologic injury, and is the safer
      method to secure the airways in patients with foreseen difficult intubation. In these
      patients anaesthesia induction is aimed to prevent cervical spine movements and to maintain
      hemodynamic stability. The most commonly reported technique for anaesthesia induction in
      patients with cervical myelopathy is based on local anaesthesia and propofol administration.
      Aim of this trial is to compare propofol-based anaesthesia vs. sevoflurane-based anaesthesia
      induction in patients with cervical myelopathy receiving oral or nasal fiberoptic intubation.

      Methods: This randomized controlled trial is designed to prove equivalence. A series of 116
      patients aged between 18 and 75 years, with cervical myelopathy will be enrolled. In all
      patients topical anaesthesia will be accomplished before anaesthesia induction. Patients will
      be randomly assigned to one of two anaesthesia induction strategies (sevoflurane + O2 + air
      or propofol + O2 + air). When loss of consciousness occurs (indicated by Bispectral index
      values between 40 and 50), oral or nasal fiberoptic intubation will be performed. The
      hemodynamic effects of the anaesthesia induction strategies will be assessed measuring mean
      arterial pressure at 4 time points: before anaesthesia induction (T1: baseline), at the end
      of anaesthesia induction when an adequate sedation level, with Bispectral index values 40-50,
      is achieved (T2: sedation steady state); immediately after placement of endotracheal tube
      (T3: intubation); five minute after tracheal intubation (T4: post-intubation). Secondary
      end-points of the study include the incidence of apnoea during induction process, diagnosed
      as absence of carbon dioxide trace for more than 10 seconds, the incidence of induction
      complications, defined as presence of laryngospasm, coughing and patient movement, and
      intubation conditions, defined as cord opening.

      Discussion: We present the development phase of this anaesthesiological trial. A total of 40
      patients have been enrolled from April 2009.
    
  