
    
      Childhood anxiety disorders are quite common and associated with significant psychosocial
      impairment and distress. Offering equivalent efficacy to pharmacotherapy without the common
      side effect profile, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a first line treatment for anxiety
      disorders in youth. However, dissemination of CBT to community settings is very limited.
      Effective treatment via traditional CBT often necessitates that the patient travel to a
      center that specializes in this treatment, and cost can prove an impediment to those of lower
      socioeconomic status, in particular. As well, differing theoretical approaches and training
      result in a minority of children with anxiety receiving evidence-based CBT. Accordingly,
      there is a great need for more widely accessible practices. As such, we are proposing a two
      phase trial that evaluates the feasibility of implementing a patient-centered intervention in
      community mental health centers, followed by an efficacy trial. In Phase I, an open trial of
      computerized CBT (CCBT) will be completed that focuses on feasibility issues of providing
      this intervention in community mental health centers. Thereafter, we will complete a
      randomized controlled trial comparing CCBT to treatment as usual (TAU) in Phase II. The open
      trial will recruit 18 youth ages 7 to 13 years, with the purpose of testing both practicality
      and management of an already developed CCBT protocol (Kendall & Khanna, 2008). The outcome
      trial will recruit 110 youth, with the purpose of measuring the efficacy of the CCBT protocol
      in front-line settings. Significantly greater symptom reductions in the CCBT group as
      compared to the TAU group would provide critical evidence for the inclusion of CCBT as a
      treatment option for anxious youth without immediate access to such in-person care. While
      this study will be coordinated by the University of South Florida Rothman Center for
      Neuropsychiatry team who is located at All Children's Hospital (USF/ACH), recruitment will
      take place at three community mental health centers throughout Florida that serve families of
      lower socioeconomic status. Primary outcomes will be assessed by an independent evaluator,
      and will include change in anxiety symptom severity; response rates; and remission rates.
      CCBT will follow the Kendall and Khanna (2008) manual with appropriate integrity checks. The
      implications of this study are significant, as computerized CBT may enable widespread
      dissemination of efficacious therapy for anxiety disorders among youth.
    
  