
    
      Type of study and design

      Prospective, Randomized, open-label, three-arm, parallel, controlled adaptive phase II/III
      clinical trial in which subjects will be randomly assigned in a 1:1:1 ratio as per the
      following:

      Arm 1 Arm 2 Arm 3 Day 1 HCQ 400 mg (twice daily) HCQ 200 mg (twice daily) Standard
      measurements of the country until the end of the participation in the study Day 2 HCQ 400 mg
      (once daily) HCQ 200 mg (once daily) Day 3 HCQ 400 mg (once daily) HCQ 200 mg (once daily)
      Day 4 HCQ 400 mg (once daily) HCQ 200 mg (once daily) Day 5 HCQ 400 mg (once daily) HCQ 200
      mg (once daily)

      Amount needed: Plaquenil 200mg: 558 tables per protocol. 42 tablets are needed as preserved
      supply: total 600 tables.

      Randomisation Subjects who meet the eligibility criteria at the study locations will be
      invited to take part in the study.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to the treatment arms. Index cases will be used for
      the assignment of contacts. For example, number 1,4,7, 9. will be on arm 1, number 3, 5,
      10.etc. will be in arm 2, number 2,6, 8, etc. will be in arm 3.

      All close contacts of the same index case will be allocated to the same arm. This would allow
      more valid results through prevention of potential further exposure to the virus mainly for
      the control arms, who are expected to have higher incidence of the disease.

      Blinding This clinical trial is open-label. The study does not compare multiple medicinal
      products; it also does not include the use of a placebo product, as it is a Proamtic clinical
      trial.

      Study procedures and evaluations Baseline assessment

        -  Medical history

        -  Inquiry about previous history of G6PD

        -  Check for contraindications

        -  Vital signs

        -  Physical examination

        -  RT-PCR

        -  IgM, IgG AB for SARS-Cov-2

        -  Hematology

        -  Biochemistry

        -  Urinalysis

        -  Retinopathy

        -  Pregnancy test

        -  ECG

        -  Retinopathy screening

      During follow-up visits subjects will assessed for:

        -  Random glucose level

        -  Vital signs

        -  Assessment of study intervention adherence

        -  Assessment of adverse events.

        -  ECG

        -  Retinopathy screening Study schedule

      Sampling technique:

      This adaptive phase II/III clinical trial will be conducted in two sites in Tunisia. The main
      study is planned in 2 sites in Tunisia.

      As soon as a new subject in identified, he/she will be consented for reaching his contacts
      according to Eligibility criteria. The research team within 48 hours of index case
      identification will call his/her contacts who fulfil below criteria for participation in the
      trial. All potential participants will be tested using RT-PCR and IgM and IgG antibodies to
      rule out current or previous disease status. Results will be obtained on the same day and
      before consenting for taking part in the study. Subjects positive for COVID-19 will be
      referred to local authorities for treatment according to their protocols.

      We will follow multistage sampling technique in involved countries. Samples will be
      stratified by gender and then follow simple random sampling process.

      Screening

      Before carrying out any procedure in this study, subjects will be provided "subject
      information and consent form". The study will be thoroughly explained and all questions will
      be answered to the satisfaction of the subject. Subjects will be given enough time to think
      about their participation through and inquire about any detail that may influence the
      decision. Consent procedure will be carried out by the clinical investigator & delegated
      clinical staff. Neither the investigator nor the study staff will coerce or unduly influence
      subjects to participate or to continue to participate against their will. Prior to the
      subject's participation, the subject will personally sign & date the consent form, along with
      one witness at least & the principal investigator (the principal investigator may delegate
      the clinical investigator to sign the ICF whenever needed).

      Enrollment (Baseline) All potential participants will be tested using RT-PCR and IgM and IgG
      antibodies to rule out current or previous disease status. Results will be obtained on the
      same day and before consenting for taking part in the study. Subjects positive for COVID-19
      will be referred to local authorities for treatment according to their protocols.

      Only subjects eligible for this study will be enrolled. Refer to section 5 for eligibility
      criteria.

      Informed consent, , demographics, vital signs, Medical History and contraindications,
      physical examination,hematology, KFT, LFT, urinalysis,IgM and IgG antibodies for SARS-CoV-2,
      RT-PCR, Pregnancy test, ECG, Retinopathy screening, Blood Glucose, dosing, Adverse event
      review

      During screening and follow-up visits, subjects will be examined and vital signs will be
      taken with relevant medical history taken to determine the lack of contraindication of the
      use the IMP and the achievement of the inclusion criteria Laboratory evaluations Laboratory
      evaluations will be conducted as per Table 6.1 of visits and procedures elaborated on table
      6.1.

      Safety considerations Methods and timing for assessing, recording, and analysing safety
      parameters Adverse events The study period during which adverse events must be reported is
      normally defined as the period from the initiation of any study procedures to the end of the
      study treatment follow-up. At each contact with the subject, the Clinical Investigator will
      seek information on adverse events by specific questioning and, as appropriate, by
      examination. Information on all adverse events will be recorded immediately in the source
      document, and also in the appropriate adverse event module of the case report form (CRF).

      All adverse events occurring during the study period will be recorded. The clinical course of
      each event will be followed until resolution, stabilization, or until it has been determined
      that the study treatment or participation is not the cause. Serious adverse events that are
      still ongoing at the end of the study period will be followed up to determine the final
      outcome. Any serious adverse event that occurs after the study period and is considered to be
      possibly related to the study treatment or study participation should be recorded and
      reported immediately.

      The AE report will include the intensity, severity, duration of the event. It will also
      explain how the case was managed. At the end of the study, all records and follow up forms of
      AEs/ADRs/SAEs/SADRs will be enlisted in the final report.

      4 Discontinuation criteria 4.1 Participant's premature termination

      The reason for participant's premature termination will be documented on the appropriate page
      of the CRF and specified which of the following possible reasons were responsible for the
      study premature termination:

        -  Serious Adverse Event / SUSAR

        -  Participant's consent withdrawal

        -  Inappropriate enrolment

        -  Development of exclusion criterion

        -  Protocol deviation: as described below:

        -  Such as not taking study treatment on time or the prescribed dose more than one time.

        -  Decline PCR test at baseline or during the follow-up

        -  Decline ECG or ophthalmoscopy exams.

        -  Migrated/moved from the study area

        -  Lost to follow-up. A 'lost to follow-up' is any participant who completed all protocol
           specific procedures up to the administration of the investigational product or
           intervention, but was then lost during the study period to any further follow-up, with
           no safety information and no efficacy endpoint data ever became available.

      It is vital to collect safety data on any participant discontinued because of an AE or SAE.
      In any case, every effort must be made to undertake protocol-specified safety follow-up
      procedures. If voluntary withdrawal occurs, the participant should be asked to continue
      scheduled evaluations, complete an end-of-study evaluation, and be given appropriate care
      under medical supervision until the symptoms of any AE resolve or the participant's condition
      becomes stable.

      5 Statistical considerations Following an adaptive seamless phase II/III design assuming 60%
      efficacy (an odds ratio of about 0.3) of hydroxychloroquine in reducing COVID-19 infections
      for primary contacts, and reported secondary attack rate of 35% (incidence amongst close
      contacts), Liu Y., et.al. 90% power, a confidence level of 95% and 10% loss to follow-up, 31
      COVID-19 contacts are needed in each arm for phase II totaling 93 contacts for the three
      arms.

      The primary endpoints of this study are observed COVID-19 infection and observed ADRs.
      Descriptive statistics including means, frequencies and proportions will be used to summarize
      collected contacts data. Incidence of the primary endpoints will be reported as well. All
      summaries will be provided for the three study arms. Chi-squared test will be used to compare
      incidence levels of the primary endpointsacross the three study arms. To examine for
      associations among categorical contacts attributes, Chi-squared and Fishers exact tests
      whenever appropriate will be used.When needed, ANOVA will be used to test for significant
      differences among numerical attributes.Logistic Regression techniques with stepwise selection
      method will be used to identify significant predictors of the primary endpoints Intention to
      treat analysis will be followed in this clinical trial

      Data handling and record keeping Source documents and access to source data The Principal
      Investigators will maintain appropriate medical and research records for this study in
      compliance with the principles of good clinical practice and regulatory and institutional
      requirements for the protection of confidentiality of participants. The study team members
      will have access to records.

      Authorised representatives of the sponsor, the ethics committee(s) or regulatory bodies may
      inspect all documents and records required to be maintained by the investigator for the
      purposes of quality assurance reviews, audits, inspections, and evaluation of the study
      safety and progress. This will include, but not limited to, medical records (office, clinic,
      or hospital) for the participants in this study. The clinical study site will permit access
      to such records.

      Missing data will be reported as missing indicating the reasons where applicable.

      Protocol deviations A protocol deviation is any noncompliance with the clinical trial
      protocol, good clinical practice (GCP), or other protocol-specific requirements.

      If a deviation from, or a change of, the protocol is implemented to eliminate an immediate
      hazard(s) to trial participant without prior ethics approval, the PI or designee will submit
      the implemented deviation or change, the reasons for it, and, if appropriate, the proposed
      protocol amendment(s) as soon as possible to the relevant ethics committee(s) for review and
      approval and to the sponsor for agreement.

      The PI or designee will document and explain any deviation from the approved protocol on the
      CRF, where appropriate, and record and explain any deviation in a file note or deviation form
      that will be maintained as an essential document.

      Deviations from the protocol, GCP or trial specific requirements that might have an impact on
      the conduct of the trial or the safety of participants will be reported within 5 working days
      to the sponsor and relevant EC, as appropriate.

      Ethical considerations The investigator will ensure that this study is conducted in full
      conformity with the principles set forth in the ICH Harmonised Tripartite Guideline for Good
      Clinical Practice and the Declaration of Helsinki in its current version, whichever affords
      the greater protection to the participants.

      Rationale for participants election Study population will be males and females aged 18-65
      years (non-pregnant and non-lactating) with primary exposure to COVID-19 patients. The study
      is proposed to be conducted in Tunisia.

      Financing and insurance All subjects will be covered by insurance throughout the study and in
      case of an injury to health caused by the trial.
    
  