
    
      China currently has 1.2 to 3.5 million heroin users (50% with current injection drug use,
      IDU), and more than 650,000 HIV infected individuals, with 75,000 new infections each year
      and the majority of HIV infections attributable to IDU. The Chinese government recently
      embarked on an ambitious program to make methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) widely
      available to all heroin addicts. By the end of 2008, approximately 560 methadone maintenance
      treatment clinics had been established, providing treatment to an estimated 166,000 heroin
      users. However, the current methadone programs provide limited or no drug counseling, and,
      despite considerable initial promise, many patients continue drug use and risky behaviors
      while still in MMT or discontinue treatment prematurely. In addition to risky injecting
      practices, drug users in China also commonly engage in risky sexual practices. Most of
      China's drug users are young, unmarried, sexually active and only a small fraction report
      consistent condom use. Their knowledge about HIV/AIDS, sexually transmitted diseases and
      blood borne viruses is very poor. The combination of poor knowledge and frequent engagement
      in high-risk behaviors increases their own risk of infections, and also contributes
      significantly to the spread of HIV into the general population. [Consequently, we propose a
      randomized clinical trial to compare the efficacy of MMT combined with one of three
      manual-guided counseling approaches, Behavioral Drug and HIV Risk Reduction Counseling
      (BDRC), Educational Counseling (EC), and counseling approximating what is provided as
      treatment as usual (TAU) in China. Efficacy will be evaluated with regard to our primary
      outcome measures: reduction of drug- and sex-related HIV risk behaviors, reduction of
      frequency of heroin or other illicit opiate use, and duration of opiate abstinence. The study
      will also evaluate treatment effects on secondary outcome measures (including treatment
      retention, reductions in other illicit drug use, and improvements of functional status of MMT
      patients) and incremental resource utilization associated with BDRC, EC and TAU. In
      preliminary work, we have developed and pilot tested Mandarin versions of the BDRC manual,
      BDRC and EC training materials, and assessment instruments. Treatment seeking
      volunteers(N=300) entering MMT will be randomly assigned to 4 months of treatment with one of
      the three manual-guided treatments. A standard methadone induction and dosing protocol will
      be used for all subjects to ensure comparable methadone dosages in all groups. All primary
      and secondary outcome measures will be evaluated during the 4 months of MMT treatment phase
      and for 6 months following the active treatment phase.
    
  