
    
      Background : Primary immune deficiencies (PID) are characterized by a failure of the immune
      system that is not explained by any infectious, neoplastic, or iatrogenic causes. By 2017,
      more than 350 different inherited rare PID disorders had been described. The occurrence of
      PID is rare in adults, with a prevalence of approximately 6.7 per 100,000 inhabitants in
      France. Infections are the most common manifestations of PID .Theses Infections are usually
      recurrent and/or invasive, lead to hospitalization and have high rates of morbidity and
      mortality. Antibody deficiencies were the first PID to be diagnosed in adulthood and are
      mainly represented by common variable immune deficiency. The main manifestation of these PID
      are encapsulated bacterial infection. Diagnosis of PID in adulthood may be supported by six
      warning signs from the European Society of Immunodeficiencies (ESID). However, their
      guidelines do not comprehensively describe symptoms of PID, even for patients with
      infections. The guidelines recommend screening adults for PID after at least two severe
      bacterial infections. The aim of this study is to screen for PID adult admitted to our
      hospital for encapsulated infection without any predisposal factor.

      Material and methods :

        -  Monocentric study. Inclusion between September 218 and September 2021

        -  Every months, micriobiologists will transfer to infectious diseases doctors and internal
           medicine doctors the name of patients who had a sample (cerebral fluid, articular fluid,
           blood culture, urine culture...) positive for Streptococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus
           pyogenes, Haemophilus influenzae, Neisseiria meningitidis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae.

        -  Doctors will look at their medical records to see if they are eligible.

        -  Inclusion criteria :

             1. Age 18 to 65 years old

             2. Invasive encapsulated infection (Streptococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogènes,
                Haemophilus influenzae, Neisseiria meningitidis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae )

        -  Exclusion criteria :

             1. Medical history of PID

             2. Medical history of Secondary immune deficiency (SID)

             3. Local-regional factor that could predispose them to infection

             4. Hospital-acquired infection

                If patients are eligible, a consultation in the infectious Diseases Department or
                Internal Médicine Department will be scheduled the hospitalization 3 months later
                to include patients and perform PID screening.

        -  PID screening included the following: complete blood count, blood smear, immunoglobulin
           (Ig) isotype (IgA,M, G) and IgG subclass levels, total hemolytic complement and
           complement fractions (C) 3 and 4, alternative complement pathway (AP50) in case of
           Neisseria meningitidis (NM) infection, quantitative immunophenotyping of T, B and
           natural killer cells, specific antibody response to diphtheria, tetanus and pneumococcal
           vaccine and HIV serology. The clinical and laboratory diagnostic criteria used to
           identify PID were based on guidelines from the ESID and the Pan-American Group for
           Immunodeficiency (PAGID)
    
  