
    
      Design of the trial The data reported in this study are derived from the cognitive testing
      and determination of humoral growth factors at the time of the survey 1 (recruitment phase).
      To determine whether extensive endurance training enhances cognitive abilities in the
      elderly, we plan to compare longitudinally the outcomes of various neuropsychological tests
      and humoral markers in elderly marathon runners or bicyclists with controls matched for age,
      sex, and years of education at the time of the survey 2 (5-year follow-up) and at the time of
      the survey 3 (10-year follow-up). Runners participating in the 2008 Wachau half marathon
      (21,2 km) and the Vienna City marathon (42,5 km) as well as bicyclists participating at the
      Corinthian marathon (180km) were recruited with the assistance of the organizers and via
      personal contacts. Runners or bicyclists were eligible for inclusion in the study if (a) they
      had participated in at least one of these 3 marathons in the preceding two years, (b) were
      still in continuous training during the recruitment phase (at least 2 hours/week) and (c)
      were over the age of 60. Exclusion criteria were (a) present or past exposure to neurotoxic
      substances (b) if they did not speak German as their native language (verbal intelligence)
      (c) diseases that markedly affect CNS functions: for example, cerebrovascular stroke, brain
      tumor, depression, Alzheimer's disease, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease,
      etc. (d) manifest cardiovascular disease, (e) chronic alcoholism (daily alcohol intake > 60 g
      or diagnosed history of alcoholism) and (f) unwillingness to give informed consent. Controls
      were subsequently contacted via personal contact and three additional advertisements (two in
      an Austrian newspaper ("Krone") and one in an Austrian bicyclist journal ("Bicyclist
      Sports"). The controls were matched according to age, sex and years of education. Detailed
      information about education, smoking habits, family history, exercise training and medication
      was obtained. All participants had an extensive medical evaluation carried out by an
      experienced internal specialist including blood withdrawal when entering the study. Since it
      has been shown that humoral growth factor levels can vary with the circadian rhythm , all
      examinations were started between 10 am and 10.30 am. In cases where the examination revealed
      neurological abnormalities, participants were additionally examined by a neurologist. Besides
      the physical examination with blood withdrawal described above, the study protocol included
      an ergometry, neuropsychological testing, the use of a set of questionnaires and magnetic
      resonance imaging. All participants underwent the study protocol tests in the above-mentioned
      same chronological order.

      The study was approved by the ethics committee of the medical faculty of the University of
      Vienna (number EK 401/2005). All subjects gave written informed consent before entering the
      study. Procedures followed were in accordance with institutional guidelines.

      Ergometry Individual working capacity was calculated as a percentage of the predicted (=100%
      work load) Watt value (derived from the tabulation, standardized for sex, age, and body
      surface [28]). Briefly, the workload was increased every two minutes in steps of 25 W,
      beginning with 25 W and going on until the point of exhaustion (Ergoline, Ergometrics 900).
      The individual physical working capacity (PWC) was expressed as the individual maximal power
      (Watt)max in percent of a reference value (Wattref): PWCind = 100 x Wattmax/Wattref [28].

      Neuropsychological testing and questionnaires The Vienna Neuropsychological Test Battery
      (VNTB)as well as the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD) were
      selected in order to assess cognitive functions, such as visuo-construction,
      concentration/attention, language, memory and executive functioning domains. These cognitive
      abilities are known to be commonly affected by Alzheimer's disease and other dementias. The
      two batteries of tests have been found to be sensitive in the evaluation of mild cognitive
      impairment.

      Each test run began with a screening of global cognitive functions via the Mini Mental State
      Examination (MMSE) and the Clock Drawing Test. Thereafter participants were subjected to a
      cognitive testing assessing visuo-constructional abilities, attention, language functions,
      memory and executive functions. Details of cognitive testing are described in the Appendix.

      After finishing the test batteries, subjects were asked to fill out several self-rating
      scales and forms to assess premorbid intelligence levels, subjective memory functions,
      psychological and physiological well-being , depression, and activities of daily life.

      Laboratory procedures Blood counts, all clinical chemistry tests, vitamin B12 and folic acid,
      thyroid hormones and HbA1c determinations were performed according to standard routine
      laboratory testing procedures.

      As preanalytical factors crucially affect levels of growth factors, the collection and
      processing of specimens was carried out under strictly standardized conditions.

      Whole blood for DNA extraction and serum samples for growth factor measurements were stored
      at -80°C within the MedUni Vienna Biobank facility. Post-storage isolation of DNA was done on
      a Corbett X-tractor Gene CAS 1820 semi-automated nucleic acid extraction system (Qiagen,
      Hilden, Germany) using a Macherey Nagel Nucleospin 96 blood kit (Macherey Nagel, Dueren,
      Germany). Quantification of genomic DNA by Warburg-Christian method (260/280 nm) on a
      Nanodrop spectrophotometer (PEQLAB Biotechnologie GmbH, Erlangen, Germany) revealed an
      average nucleic acid concentration of 25 ng/µL. ApoE genotyping of 1:10 (v/v in Buffer BE,
      Macherey Nagel) diluted aliquots was performed on a ABI TaqMan® 7900HT Real Time(RT)-PCR
      thermocycler (Applied Biosystems, Rotkreuz, Switzerland). For this, pre-designed TaqMan
      SNP-Genotyping assays to distinguish the ApoE ε4 allele from ε2 and ε3 at amino acid position
      112 (ApoE rs429358, Assay ID C_3084793_20, Applied Biosystems) and the ApoE ε2 allele from ε3
      and ε4 at amino acid position 158 (rs7412, Assay ID C_904973_10, Applied Biosystems) were
      purchased. RT-PCR was accomplished in a total reaction volume of 5µL using TaqMan® Genotyping
      Master Mix (Applied Biosystems) in a 384-well format according to the standard protocol
      supplied by the manufacturer. Thermal conditions: enzyme activation for 10 minutes at 95°C,
      followed by 45 cycles of alternating denaturation (15 seconds, 95°C) and primer
      annealing/elongation (1 minute, 60°C). Allelic discrimination was achieved using SDS 2.3
      software (Applied Biosystems).

      Insulin-like growth factor 1 was measured with the LIAISON® IGF-1 test on a fully automated
      LIAISON chemiluminescence analyzer (both from Diasorin, Saluggia, Italy).

      Measurement of BDNF concentration was done manually using RayBio Human BDNF ELISA Kit (Ray
      Biotech, Inc, Norcross, USA) according to the standard protocol supplied by the manufacturer.

      Magnetic resonance imaging

      Magnetic resonance imaging was performed on a 1.5 T superconducting magnet (Siemens Symphony
      1,5 T, Siemens Co., Erlangen) using a standard head coil, as previously described [40]. The
      standardized imaging protocol included:

        1. axial FLAIR (fluid attenuated inversion recovery): TR 696 msec, TE 24 msec, 5mm slice
           thickness, distance factor 20%, FOV (field of view) 210 mm x 100 mm, number of slices
           20.

        2. axial T2* flash 2d: TR 477, TE 12 msec, 5mm slice thickness, distance factor 20%, FOV
           210 x 100, number of slices 20. (c) axial T1 TSE (turbo spin echo sequence) TR 477 msec,
           TE 12 msec, 5mm slice thickness, distance factor 20%, FOV 210 x 100 mm, number of slices
           20. (d) coronal T2 TSE: TR 4480 msec, TE 94 msec, high resolution (perpendicular to
           hippocampus), 2mm slice thickness, distance factor 20%, FOV 220 x 100, number of slices
           24. (e) coronal 3D MPRAGE: TR 1420 msec, TE 3,2 msec, slice thickness (partition) 3 mm,
           FOV 240, number of slices 36. Quantitative, morphometric imaging data were not acquired.

      Data management and statistical analyses A separate database was maintained by the biobank.
      All results were sent to the trial office of the Occupational Medicine Unit, where they were
      matched and appended to the participant´s records on an Access 2000 database.

      All statistical analyses were performed using SPSS 17.0. Depending on the scale properties of
      the data, mean and standard deviation or frequencies and percentages are provided. Univariate
      group differences were evaluated by means of t-tests/Mann & Whitney U-Test or Fisher exact
      tests, and MANOVA models were used to evaluate multivariate group differences with
      Wilk's-being reported. Multiple correlations between the sets of psychological parameters and
      the biomarkers BDNF and IGF were performed exploratively. All statistical analyses were
      conducted at a significance level of 5%; due to the large number of comparisons and to reduce
      the risk of an inflation of the error type I the significance level will be adjusted to 2.5‰
      (Bonferroni-Holm adjustment of error type I) when discussing the results. For the follow-up
      evaluation, sample sizes of n=41 patients per group are aimed at to achieve the detection of
      group differences in the percentage of cognitive impairment; this will make it possible to
      prove differences in percentages for median up to large effects (H>.50) at a level of
      significance of 5% and a power of 80%.
    
  