
    
      Purpose:

      To describe the demographic, clinical, and echocardiographic characteristics and management
      of outpatients heart failure (HF) with midrange ejection fraction (HFmrEF) and heart failure
      with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) followed by a representative setting of cardiology
      centres.

      Background:

      About 50% of all patients suffering from HF exhibit a reduced ejection fraction (EF ≤ 40%),
      termed HFrEF. The others may be classified into HF with midrange EF (HFmrEF, EF = 40-50%) or
      preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF, EF ≥ 50%). Presentation and pathophysiology of HFmrEF and
      HFpEF is heterogeneous and its management remains a challenge since evidence of therapeutic
      benefits on outcome is scarce. Up to now, there are no large scale studies evaluating
      patients with HFmrEF and/or HFpEF in Turkey.

      Objective:

      Several studies have been conducted in western countries differentiating features of
      epidemiology, treatment, and outcomes among patients with preserved and reduced EF. Scarce
      data are available in the middle-east populations in general and Turkish patients in
      particular, who have different etiology, ethnic, cultural backgrounds and risk factors from
      those patients in the West. The aim of this study was to study Turkish patients with HFmrEF
      and HFpEF, and define their clinical characteristics and the signs and symptoms of heart
      failure, echocardiographic findings and medications at admission. With this national study,
      we will evaluate how recommendations of most recent European guidelines regarding
      pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments are adopted in clinical practice. We will
      also evaluate the prevalence of the clinical profiles of patients with HFmrEF and HFpEF,
      according to the definitions proposed by the European Society of Cardiology, and to
      investigate their appropriateness in characterizing patients with different clinical
      presentations and needs.

      Methods:

      We have designed a prospective, multicentre, national, observational study to characterize
      HFmrEF and HFpEF. Patients presented to cardiology outpatient clinics with signs and/or
      symptoms of HFmrEF and HFpEF will be screened. The eligibility criteria included patients
      older than 18 years with signs and/or symptoms of HF, admitted to public or private
      hospitals. Assessed outcomes included the causes of decompensation, use of medications, care
      quality indicators.

      Data:

      Clinical data, including the medical history, cardiovascular risk factors, and associate
      comorbidities, will be collected. The symptoms of patients will be graded according to NYHA
      classification. Blood samples will be collected for analysis of NT-pro-BNP and /or BNP, and
      complete laboratory investigations will performed as well. A 12-lead surface ECG will be
      recorded at 25 mm/s speed. Interpretation will be performed by a skilled investigator, and
      left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) will considered according to Sokolow index.

      Diastolic function parameters will be measured as follows: peak early diastolic filling (E)
      and late diastolic filling (A) velocities, E/A ratio, E deceleration time, early diastolic
      septal mitral annular velocity (e') (averaged from three cardiac cycles), and E/e' as an
      index of LV filling pressure. Left atrial volume index was calculated from apical four-and
      two-chamber views, using area - length formula. Diastolic dysfunction will be classified into
      four grades according to 2009 ASE guidelines.

      Conclusion:

      A ComPrehensive, ObservationaL Registry of Heart FaiLure With Mid-range and Preserved
      EjectiON Fraction (APOLLON) study aims to characterize baseline characteristics of patients
      with HFmrEF and HFpEF in Turkey.
    
  