
    
      Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths throughout the world and accounts for more
      than 1.2M new cases worldwide annually, making lung cancer one of the most serious public
      health problems in industrialized countries. Up to date there is no valid screening method
      for lung cancer. Thus it is often diagnosed at an advance stage when treatment is less
      effective, which consequantly leads to high mortality rate. However, with early diagnosis and
      treatment, the 5-year survival rate improves dramatically from 1% in stage 4, 20% in stage 3
      to 70% in stage 1 disease. Therefore early diagnosis plays a pivotal role in improving
      survival for this otherwise uniformly fatal disease. In recently studies, it was found that
      some of the products of metabolism, called volatile organic comounds (VOCs), are carried in
      the breath and can serve as biomarkers. Cancer cells produce different types of VOCs than
      normal cells do. More importantly, these VOC markers can be found in exhaled breath for
      cancer stages 1 through 4.

      Combining the strength of IME's in the biophotonics, the research groups at NUS in basic
      science and the NUH clinician's knowledge and expertise in lung cancer, this proposal is
      aiming to tackle the challenge of lung cancer screening by developing a non-invasive,
      inexpensive, and accurate sensor platform to detect VOCs in exhaled breath. The device will
      consists of arrays of silicon micro-ring resonator sensors coated with polymers with
      different organic functionalities, in which each sensor is widely responsive to a variety of
      VOCs. In this proposal, we plan to build a prototype device and test for the detection of
      VOCs in exhaled breath from healthy controls and lung cancer patients. The successful outcome
      of this proposal would have an immense impact on lung cancer management by enabling an early
      stage cancer screening.
    
  