
    
      Direct oral anticoagulants (DOAC), either factor IIa inhibitor (dabigatran) or factor Xa
      inhibitors (rivaroxaban, apixaban) are an alternative to vitamin K antagonist in patients
      with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (AF) . These drugs have demonstrated their
      non-inferiority, compared to warfarin, for the prevention of thromboembolic events in high
      risk (CHA2DS2-VASc ≥1) non-valvular AF patients . These medications have predictable
      pharmacological effects and limited drugs and foods interactions which relieve from the need
      of routine anticoagulation monitoring compared to warfarin.

      One of the limitations of these drugs is their short half-lives (about 12 hours for all three
      drugs) . Thus, a single missed dose of DOACs regimen may result in suboptimal
      anticoagulation. Adequate adherence to DOACs is essential to achieve effective levels of
      anticoagulation. It has been reported that up to 28% of patients treated with dabigatan for
      AF had poor adherence (proportion of days covered <80%). In a recent study including 500 AF
      patients, 43% and 44% of them, respectively treated with VKA and DOACs, self-reported non
      adherence to their anticoagulation treatment . Lower adherence is associated with a greater
      risk for combined all-cause mortality and stroke in AF patients .

      The aim of this study is to evaluate a specific dosage of anticoagulation level to detect non
      adherence to oral anticoagulant treatment in AF patients treated with anti factor Xa
      inhibitor.

      One hundred and fifty consecutive AF patients treated with either rivaroxaban 20 mg or 15 mg
      once daily or apixaban 5 mg or 2.5 mg twice daily and not meeting exclusion criteria will be
      included in this study.

      Planned and unplanned admissions. Patients will have to be under ACODs regimen for at least
      30 days before inclusion.

      Informed consent will be given. Blood sample with specific anti factor Xa activity dosage
      will be performed. Thereafter, adherence to oral anticoagulant treatment will be evaluated
      using biological results. Primary endpoint will be the prevalence of medication nonadherence
      based on anti factor Xa activity below therapeutic level at time of admission
    
  