
    
      Chronic pain affects at least 15% of the veteran population and represents a high priority
      for the VA. In addition to primary pain conditions, chronic pain is a common secondary
      condition resulting from battlefield injuries, traumatic accidents, and congenital and
      acquired disorders. Unlike most forms of acute pain, treatment options available for patients
      suffering from chronic pain frequently offer only short-term or partial relief from symptoms.
      The focus of rehabilitative intervention thus becomes the reduction of disability and
      emotional distress and improvement in quality of life and activity levels.

      Chronic pain rehabilitation has evolved from a primarily one-dimensional, medically oriented
      approach to a multidisciplinary approach that incorporates a biopsychosocial formulation to
      pain management with physiological, cognitive, behavioral, and emotional components. This
      conceptualization of pain recognizes that multiple intervention modalities, including
      psychosocial approaches, are required when providing treatment to chronic pain patients.

      A relatively new psychosocial approach to chronic pain management and rehabilitation involves
      acceptance of pain-related experiences. The Acceptance-based Therapy (AT) model is based on
      the theory that attempts to escape, avoid, or control negative experiences that cannot be
      changed, such as chronic pain, may paradoxically contribute to the increased experience of
      them. Instead of seeking to control the negative experience, AT teaches individuals to use
      mindfulness strategies to enlarge the scope of experience beyond pain and to engage in
      behaviors that are consistent with personal values and goals when total elimination of pain
      or other negative experiences is not possible. Empirical support for acceptance-based
      approaches to chronic pain management is growing. Data from one of the first comparisons of
      AT to a well-established psychosocial intervention, Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy (CBT),
      performed at VASDHS by the PI, suggests that AT may be superior to CBT as an adjunctive
      treatment for chronic pain.

      The proposed study assembles a multidisciplinary team with extensive experience in chronic
      pain interventions research to evaluate the benefits of a brief, manualized
      group-administered psychosocial intervention which could be easily integrated into
      multidisciplinary pain rehabilitation programs throughout the VA system to reduce disability
      in veterans with chronic pain secondary to other conditions. Specifically, we propose to
      examine the effects of a promising new chronic pain intervention based on AT principles on
      the primary outcome of pain interference and secondary outcomes of emotional distress,
      quality of life, physical activity, pain intensity, and treatment satisfaction among 94
      veterans with chronic benign pain as a secondary condition. The AT intervention will be
      compared with treatment as usual (TAU) in a within-subjects design and with CBT in a
      randomized, between-subjects design. Outcomes include an objective measure of physical
      activity, actigraphy, as well as self-reported measures and will be evaluated at baseline, 6
      weeks (after a TAU phase), 12 weeks (after treatment), and at a 6-month follow-up period to
      investigate maintenance of gains. The study design also allows for an investigation of
      hypothesized mechanisms of change, acceptance (for AT) and perceived pain control (for CBT).
      Thus, the proposed project has the potential to enhance the current VA standard of care as
      well as to add to the scientific literature on psychological models and rehabilitation of
      chronic pain.
    
  