
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Stanford Coronary Risk Intervention Project was a four-year randomized clinical trial
      that showed that risk reduction through lifestyle change and lipid-lowering medications
      significantly reduced the rate of narrowing of the minimum diameter of coronary artery
      segments with angiographically visible lesions in 119 patients versus 127 controls who
      received usual physician care. In collaboration with this trial, Dr. Ronald Krauss measured
      high-density lipoprotein (HDL) subclasses by gradient gel electrophoresis. HDL may be divided
      into two HDL2 and three HDL3 subclasses that are approximated by their estimated particle
      diameters: HDL3c (7.2-7.8 nm), HDL3b (7.8-8.2 nm), HDL3a (8.2- 8.8 nm), HDL2a (8.8-9.7 nm)
      and HDL2b (9.7-12.9 nm). The HDL- distribution can also be characterized by the diameter of
      the predominant peak, which may lie in either the HDL3b or HDL3a interval. Case control and
      angiographic studies suggest that coronary heart disease risk is increased when HDL2b is
      reduced relative to HDL3c and HDL3b. See also Study 27.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Using data from the Stanford Coronary Risk Intervention Project (SCRIP), the following
      specific questions were examined : 1. Did the risk reduction program change specific HDtL
      subclasses as compared to controls? 2. Did the HDL gradient gel profile characterize men most
      likely to benefit from multifactor risk reduction? 3. Did HDL-subclasses change significantly
      in patients that reduced fat intake, reduced body weight, or who took one or more of the
      following medications: colestipol, nicotinic acid, clofibrate, probucol, gemfibrozil,
      fenofibrate, lovastatin, guar gum or fish oils? 4. What were the cross-sectional associations
      of HDL-subclasses with adiposity, fasting and post-load insulin and glucose, diet and
      medications at baseline? Preliminary analyses suggested that: 1) During the trial, men in the
      treatment group increased HDL2b; 2) the special intervention was most effective in reducing
      coronary disease progression in subjects with a baseline predominant HDL-peak diameter below
      the median; 3) HDL- subclasses were more strongly influenced by diet and adiposity than by
      drugs during the trial; 4) carbohydrates, alcohol and caffeine were associated with specific
      subclasses at baseline.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  