
    
      Patients and their physicians are often confronted with a decision between more intensive
      versus less intensive treatment for a particular diagnosis. Quality decision-making between
      these options requires careful balancing of the risks and side-effects, as well as weighing
      the expected outcomes and their associated value as assessed by the patient.

      Although the incidence of DCIS has risen dramatically (1), there exists considerable debate
      about optimal treatment. In general, people with DCIS have high rates of recurrence-free
      survival. Intensive therapies for DCIS such as mastectomy (removal of the breast) or
      radiation therapy following BCS reduce the likelihood of a second breast diagnosis,(2-5) but
      have not been shown to improve survival.(6) In addition, radiation usually necessitates
      mastectomy should a new cancer or DCIS develop in the same breast at any point during the
      patient's lifetime. Patients also have a small chance of experiencing long-term toxicity.
      Previous radiation can also complicate reconstructive options following mastectomy. The
      tradeoff between risk of second breast diagnosis and side-effects and potential consequences
      of radiation therapy underscores the need for patient preference-driven decision making.

      Patients who receive BCS alone without radiation therapy may be candidates for repeat BCS if
      they have a second breast event in the same breast. One study suggests that some women choose
      not to have radiation after DCIS because they want to preserve a breast-preservation option
      should a second breast diagnosis occur.(7) However, the likelihood of mastectomy versus BCS
      at time of new diagnosis in a previously un-irradiated breast is variable.(8-10) Whether a
      woman receives repeat breast-conserving surgery for a new diagnosis may not only be a
      function of the stage of diagnosis, but may be also determined by the regional treatment
      patterns used for management of DCIS. We sought to study whether regional intensity of
      radiation use for DCIS treatment increases the likelihood of mastectomy at time of second
      breast event, among women who have not received radiation therapy at initial DCIS diagnosis.
      (Punglia RS, Cronin AM, Uno H, et al. Association of Regional Intensity of Ductal Carcinoma
      In Situ Treatment With Likelihood of Breast Preservation. JAMA Oncol. Published online July
      21, 2016.)
    
  