
    
      A. Specific Aims and Objectives

        1. Peripheral arterial reactivity by tonometry after a high fat meal with pomegranate
           consumption

        2. To measure nitric oxide and insulin response after a high fat meal and pomegranate
           consumption These studies will lead to a better understanding of the role of bioactive
           substances from plant foods such as the pomegranate may demonstrate the importance of
           plant-based nutrients on cardiovascular health.

      B. Background Polyphenols belong to the largest group of secondary metabolites produced by
      plants, mainly, in response to biotic or abiotic stresses such as infections, wounding, UV
      irradiation, exposure to ozone, pollutants, and other hostile environmental conditions. It is
      thought that the molecular basis for the protective action of polyphenols in plants is their
      antioxidant and free radical scavenging properties.

      Pomegranate (Punica granatum L.) is grown commercially in the Near East, India, Spain, Israel
      and the United States (California) where it is of significant economic importance.
      Pomegranate fruits and products, including juice, tea, wine and extracts are widely consumed
      and recognized for their health benefits. Pomegranate (Punica granatum L.) fruit possesses
      strong antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and antiproliferative properties.

      High-calorie meals rich in saturated fat can lead to transient exaggerated elevations in
      blood glucose, free fatty acids, and triglycerides. This condition, termed postprandial
      dysmetabolism, generates excess free radicals (or reactive oxygen species). The ensuing
      oxidative stress triggers a biochemical cascade throughout the circulation, inducing
      inflammation, and endothelial dysfunction. These postprandial changes, when repeated multiple
      times each day, can create a milieu conducive for the development of atherosclerotic risk
      factors and coronary heart disease (CHD).

      In order to investigate the impact of pomegranate polyphenols on postprandial flow-mediated
      dilation, nitric oxide, glucose, insulin, triglycerides levels in men, we propose to achieve
      the following specific aims using a randomized study design:

        1. Peripheral arterial reactivity by tonometry after a high fat meal with pomegranate
           consumption

        2. To measure nitric oxide and insulin response after a high fat meal and pomegranate
           consumption
    
  