
    
      Methionine is an essential amino acid. Many solid tumors depend on the methionine that is
      taken in through the diet. The tumors need methionine to grow. A methionine free (or reduced)
      diet may help to shrink or slow the growth of some tumors. Temozolomide is a drug that is
      commonly used in the treatment of glioma. A methionine free (or reduced) diet may increase
      the effectiveness of temozolomide in the treatment of glioma.

      Before treatment, you will have a complete physical exam and blood (around 2 tablespoons)
      will be collected for routine tests. You will have either a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      scan or a computed tomography (CT) scan of the brain. Women who are able to have children
      must have a negative blood pregnancy test. You will then meet with a study dietician. The
      dietician will give you written instructions and make a food plan based on your needs. The
      instructions and food plan will help you maintain a methionine-free (or reduced) diet during
      the study.

      During the study, all participants will receive standard chemotherapy with temozolomide by
      mouth once a day at bedtime for 7 days on Days 8 through 14 and 22 through 28, every 28 days,
      4 weeks This 4-week period is called a cycle of chemotherapy. This 4 week cycle will be
      repeated as long as the disease does not get worse.

      During treatment, you will be asked to maintain a methionine free diet during Days 1 - 7 and
      Days 15 - 21. During the periods of methionine free diet, you will consume only "shakes"
      containing Hominex-2®. The Hominex-2® shakes are nutritionally complete and easy to prepare.
      You will be given instructions on how to maintain this methionine-free diet.

      All participants enrolled in the study will consume a methionine free diet for 1 week,
      alternating with temozolomide chemotherapy for 1 week. The participants will then be switched
      to a methionine "replete" diet for 1 week while taking chemotherapy. This diet and
      chemotherapy schedule will be continued for as long as the treatment is effective and
      tolerable. This replete diet contains methionine. The dietician will record what you eat to
      make sure you are eating the right amount of methionine during this period. This 4-week
      schedule will be repeated as long as you are on the study.

      If you experience any intolerable side effects or the disease gets worse, you will be taken
      off the study and your doctor will discuss other treatment options with you.

      During treatment, you will have blood (around 1 tablespoon) collected every 2 weeks for
      routine tests. Every 4 weeks for the first 16 weeks then every 8 weeks for the rest of the
      study, you will have check up visits. At these visits, you will have a complete physical exam
      and have blood collected (around 1 tablespoon) for routine tests. You will also have a
      dietary consultation. Every 8 weeks during the study, you will have either a MRI scan or a CT
      scan of the brain. If your doctor feels it is necessary, the tests may be done more often or
      you may have other tests as needed for your care.

      This is an investigational study. Methionine restriction diet (Hominex®-2 Amino Acid-Modified
      Medical Food) has been approved by the FDA for nutrition support of children and adults with
      vitamin B6-nonresponsive homocystinuria. However, its use in this study is investigational.
      Temozolomide has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of brain tumors and is
      commercially available. The use of this combination is experimental. Forty-four participants
      will take part in this study.
    
  