
    
      The number of operations in pediatric urology performed on the basis of one day surgery has
      been increased tremendously over the last years. The shortening of the hospital admission
      intends to increase the efficacy of the health system, however at the same time puts an
      additional burdening regarding the postoperative care on the parents of the operated
      children. The parents often have no or has little experience with regards to the basic
      medical education. The lack of the proper tutoring in terms of possible complications, normal
      postoperative period may cause unnecessary patients and parents anxiety, visit to the
      emergency room or calls to the medical stuff, and in some case delay medical attention which
      can cause major surgery related complications. Visual guidelines and tutoring of the patients
      upon surgery may avoid these undesirable effects of the early hospital discharge

      Patients and methods:

      The investigators are proposing prospective study of 3 groups of patients which undergo the
      most often urological surgery Group 1 penile surgery, Group 2 inguinal surgery. Group 3 renal
      surgery required nephrostomy tube leave or drainage. Each group will be divided into two
      subgroups (20 patients each) with and without visual tutoring prior to the surgery. Visual
      tutoring will include the photograph pictures reflecting different stage of the convalescent
      period following surgery. The parents will be asked to answer on questionnaire regarding the
      level of anxiety before surgery, immediately after surgery, week and 3-6 months after
      surgery. The number of parents calls to the hospital staff, emergency or outpatient clinic
      visit will be recorded and compared between two groups. The statistical analysis will
      performed utilizing Graph Pad Prism version 5.00 for Windows, (Graph Pad software, San Diego,
      California, chi square and Fisher test), considering p value of <0.05 as significant).
    
  