
    
      Objective:

      Cesarean section is one of the most common major abdominal operation in women worldwide and
      its rate is increasing every year. Although cesarean birth is considered as safe, it is a
      potentially morbid procedure with associated risks of hemorrhage, thromboembolic events,
      infection, and anesthesia risks. The incidence of postpartum infection has been estimated to
      be 1-4% after vaginal delivery and 10-20% after cesarean section. Manual removal of the
      placenta is widely accepted by surgeons worldwide. This method enables the surgeon quick
      intervention. Beside, it helps uterine cavity to be examined for damage and the presence of
      placental remnants. However, manual removal of the placenta is still a conflicting issue due
      to the risk of post-partum endometritis, post-partum hemorrhage and abnormal placentation in
      subsequent pregnancies. It is assumed that controlled cord traction reduces the risk of
      postpartum hemorrhage and infection.

      The aim of this study is to examine whether there is an association between the method of
      removal of the placenta and increase in postpartum white blood cell counts

      After informed consent, all patients are randomized according to the removal of placenta from
      the uterus after childbirth; manually (Group 1) or controlled cord traction without putting
      hands inside the uterus (Group 2). Patients are examined regarding to maternal infection. BMI
      measurement, obstetrics and medical history are recorded. The operative procedures are
      similar in all patients and followed the same technical steps. In both groups, oxytocin and a
      first-generation cephalosporin antibiotic are administered intravenously after the delivery
      of the infant. All uterine incisions were low transverse and all were closed without
      exteriorisation of the uterus. Complete blood count before delivery, on pastpartum day 1 and
      2, fever during hospitalisation, average blood loss during operation and the endometritis
      cases are recorded. All the patients are asked to come to control on postpartum day 10. Also,
      patients are asked to come to control if they have fever, abnormal vaginal bleeding, abnormal
      vaginal discharge, general feeling of sickness and pain in the pelvis. Fever is defined as a
      temperature above 38.5°C on two consecutive days, excluding the first 24 hours.
    
  