
    
      Subjects expressing interest in doing the study, were interviewed in the Human Performance
      Lab (HPL) to determine whether they appear to qualify to participate in the study. Qualifying
      subjects, were then invited back to the HPL for an entry/familiarization session and be
      verbally told all of the requirements of the study. During this session, subjects signed
      Informed Consent Statements and completed personal and medical history questionnaires.
      Subject were familiarized to the study protocol via a verbal and written explanation
      outlining the study design. This included describing the testing sessions to the subjects
      about the tests to be performed including the Makoto testing system (reaction time testing).
      Subjects practiced several times during this session to eliminate the learning curve of using
      new equipment. Subjects were also taken through 1 round of the dynamic exercises to ensure
      ability to complete each exercise as needed. Subjects were then given an appointment time to
      perform qualifying Makoto testing to achieve greater than or equal to 70% accuracy on 3
      towers at a level 7 for three consecutive trails.

      Following the practice session, subjects recorded all food intake via MyFitnessPal for three
      days (3-d) prior to baseline testing. Subjects were instructed to refrain from exercise,
      caffeine, and alcohol the day prior to baseline testing and to consume their normal breakfast
      the morning of testing. Subjects were given a meal replacement bar in place of lunch, to
      consume ~2 hours before their testing session. During this time, subjects had body
      composition and hemodynamic assessments recorded. Two hours after ingestion of meal bar
      subjects reported back to the HPL and completed a Visual Analog Scale (VAS) questionnaire, a
      baseline Makoto prior to ingesting their assigned supplement. Thirty minutes after ingestion,
      Makoto and dynamic exercisers were completed. This involved subjects doing a standardized
      full body workout in 2 different rounds of exercise. After each round of exercise subjects
      filled out the VAS and performed Makoto testing. Subject then were instructed to wash-out and
      were scheduled for their 2nd testing session ~7 days later.
    
  