
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of death in China and the second leading cause of death in the
      world. In addition, stroke is the leading cause of long-term disability worldwide and a major
      financial burden to society. It is estimated that there are probably more than 3 million new
      strokes every year in China. In 2013, more than 1.9 million Chinese adults died from stroke,
      which represented an increase of 47.7% from 1.3 million in 1990.

      Elevated blood pressure (BP) is common in the acute phase of ischemic stroke, occurring in
      ≥75% of all patients. The early BP increase following ischemic stroke often reflects
      uncontrolled chronic hypertension. In addition, the potential causes of this transient rise
      include disturbed cerebral autoregulation, damage or compression of brain regions that
      regulate BP, neuroendocrine disturbance, and non-specific mechanisms such as headache, urine
      retention, and psychological stress. Several clinical trials have tested the effects of
      immediate BP lowering on adverse clinical outcomes in patients with acute ischemic stroke and
      showed a neutral effect on death or dependency. The China Antihypertensive Trial in Acute
      Ischemic Stroke (CATIS) suggested a beneficial effect of BP lowering on death or major
      disability (odds ratio [OR] 0.73, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.55-0.96, p=0.03) and
      recurrent stroke (OR 0.25, 95% CI 0.08-0.74, p=0.01) among patients with acute ischemic
      stroke who received antihypertensive treatment between 24-48 hours in a subgroup analysis.
      There are important knowledge gaps in BP management in acute ischemic stroke, such as when is
      the optimal time for initiation of antihypertensive treatment.

      The investigators propose to conduct a multicenter randomized controlled trial to test the
      primary hypothesis of whether early antihypertensive treatment starting between the first
      24-48 hours after the onset of an acute ischemic stroke will reduce the risk of composite
      case-fatality and major disability (modified Rankin scale score ≥3) at three months compared
      to delayed antihypertensive treatment (starting on day 8 after stroke onset). Patients with
      acute ischemic stroke will be randomly assigned within the first 24-48 hours after stroke
      onset to the early and delayed treatment groups. Patients in the early treatment group will
      immediately receive antihypertensive treatment aimed at lowering average systolic BP by
      10-20% (with a mean reduction of 15%) within the first 24 hours, achieving an average
      systolic/diastolic BP <140/90 mmHg within five days, and maintaining this level afterward.
      Patients in the delayed treatment group will discontinue antihypertensive medications for the
      first seven days. After then, both groups will receive antihypertensive treatment with an
      average systolic/diastolic BP goal of <140/90 mmHg. The primary study endpoint will be a
      composite outcome of death and major disability (modified Rankin Scale score ≥3) at three
      months after randomization. The major secondary endpoint will be the first recurrent stroke
      (hemorrhagic or ischemic) within three months. Other secondary endpoints include ordered
      7-level categorical score of the modified Rankin Scale, all-cause mortality, major vascular
      events, cognitive impairment, and health-related quality of life at three months.

      In the proposed China Antihypertensive Trial in Acute Ischemic Stroke II (CATIS-2), the
      investigators will recruit 4,776 patients (2,388 for each group) from 100 hospitals within
      the China Stroke Clinical Research Network. Eligibility criteria for the trial participants
      include age ≥40 years, acute ischemic stroke confirmed by computed tomography (CT) or
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), symptom onset between 24-48 hours, and an average systolic
      BP between 140-200 mmHg. The proposed study provides 85% statistical power to detect a 15%
      reduction in the primary study endpoint at three months at a significance level of 0.05 for a
      two-sided test. Based on experience from our previous CATIS trial, we assumed an event rate
      of 25% for the primary study outcome and potential loss to follow-up of 5% over three months.
      To achieve the CATIS-2 study objectives, we plan to:

        1. Recruit and randomize 4,776 eligible patients (2,388 for each group) to the early
           antihypertensive treatment group or the delayed antihypertensive treatment group
           according to the study eligibility criteria;

        2. Achieve and maintain target treatment goals for BP in the randomization groups;

        3. Follow a study-wide strategy to encourage a standard of care based on clinical
           guidelines for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke other than BP for all
           participants;

        4. Obtain follow-up data on clinical endpoints, neurological and functional status,
           cognitive function, and Health related-quality of life (HRQoL) for each participant
           according to the study protocol; and

        5. Estimate the effect of early antihypertensive treatment vs. delayed treatment on the
           primary and secondary endpoints according to intention-to-treat analysis and conduct
           predefined subgroup analyses.

      The CATIS-2 study will provide important information for the development of clinical
      guidelines in the early management of BP among patients with acute ischemic stroke for
      reducing mortality and major disability.
    
  