
    
      COVID-19 is a respiratory infectious disease caused by a novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2. The
      first batch of COVID-19 patients were found in December 2019 (1). The disease is mainly
      transmitted through respiratory droplets and close contact, and all people are susceptible to
      it (2). SARS-CoV-2 is highly contagious (3), and has quickly spread to most countries and
      regions of the world. COVID-19 has become a global pandemic and has received great attention
      from all over the world (4, 5). Till April 7, 2020, 1,214,466 confirmed cases of COVID-19
      have been found in 211 countries and regions, causing 67,767 deaths (6). The main clinical
      manifestations of COVID-19 are cough, fever, malaise, chest distress and tachypnia and
      complications such acute respiratory distress syndrome.

      Healthcare workers (HCWs) are on front line of treating patients infected with COVID-19.
      However, data related to infection rate among HCWs are limited. Early available evidence
      suggested that HCWs are being increasingly infected with the novel infection ranging from 15%
      to 18% and in some cases up to 20% of the infected population. Major risk factors of
      infection among HCWs include lack of understanding of the disease, inadequate use and
      availability personal Protective Equipment (PPE), uncertain diagnostic criteria,
      unavailability of diagnostic tests and psychological stress. Therefore the protection of HCWs
      by authorities should be prioritized through education and training, the readiness of staff,
      incentives, availability of PPEs, and psychological support. In this time of COVID-19
      pandemic, big problem in hospitals that are flooded with infected symptomatic and
      asymptomatic patients. A critical aspect is the protection of the HCWs who are at risk,
      including individuals more than 50 years old those with presence of a systemic disease,
      smokers and disabled individuals. These HCWs should be identified and not assigned duties
      inwards and premises managing COVID 19 patients
    
  