
    
      -  Participants will have the following tests and procedures within 2 days before the first
           dose of MK-2206: medical history, physical examination, blood tests, urine tests and
           EKG.

        -  Participants in Part 2 of this research study may also have optional FDG-PET imaging
           done. If the participant agrees, they will have two PET scans performed; one within a
           week before beginning study drug, and another within 3 days after starting study drug.

        -  Participants in Part 1 will take MK-2206 orally prior to surgery on days 1-8 (with
           surgery after the MK-2206 dose on day 8). They will have an EKG within 4-8 hours after
           their first dose of MK-2206, and again on Day 8. During surgery, a sample of the tumor
           will be taken for research. The tumor tissue will be analyzed to measure the level of
           MK-2206 in the tumor and to study the effect of the drug on the tumor. Genetic tests
           will be done on the tumor tissue to determine if the tumor's genetic profile can predict
           response to treatment. You will also have 3 teaspoons of blood drawn to measure the
           level of MK-2206 in the blood. An assessment of the participant's tumor by MRI or CT
           scan will be done within 96 hours of surgery to determine how much of the tumor has been
           removed. One to 4 weeks after surgery (within 14 days of the last MRI/CT scan), MK-2206
           treatment will restart at the same schedule as before surgery (weekly dosing). Within 2
           days prior to restarting MK-2206 the following tests and procedures must be completed:
           medical history, physical examination, blood tests, urine test and EKG.

        -  Participants in both groups will receive MK-2206 by mouth once a week (Days 1, 8, 15,
           and 22). Participants will receive an EKG within 4-8 hours after their first dose of
           MK-2206 (for Part 1 participants, this is day 1 pre-surgery; for Part 2 participants,
           this is day 1 of the first cycle of treatment). Participants will receive an EKG weekly
           during their first cycle of treatment with MK-2206. The following tests and procedures
           are required within 2 days before the start of each subsequent 4-week cycle of MK-2206
           treatment: medical history, physical examination, blood tests, urine test, and EKG. Each
           treatment cycle lasts 4 weeks during which time participants will be taking the study
           drug once a week. In addition, patients will also need the following tests/procedures
           performed during treatment cycles: medical history and physical examination on Day 15
           (+/- 2 days) of Cycles 1 and 2 and blood tests weekly during Cycle 1 and on Day 15 (+/-
           2 days) of cycle 2.

        -  Assessments of the tumor by MRI will be performed within one week prior to the start of
           each odd-numbered cycle, starting with cycle 3.

        -  Participants can continue to receive study drug until their disease worsens or develop
           unacceptable side effects.
    
  