
    
      Research setting

      The study will be performed in a dental care trailer which simulated a regular dental office
      and it is located inside a public school of the city Barueri (São Paulo, Brazil).

      Sample size calculation

      For sample size calculation, data regarding longevity of CT in occlusal and occlusoproximal
      restorations after 2 years were extracted from the literature as 86% for occlusal and 60% for
      occlusoproximal restorations. A difference of 15% and 20% between the longevity of CT and ART
      was set as non-inferiority limit. Considering the level of significance as 5%, power as 80%
      and adding 40% due to the study design (cluster per child), a number of 204 occlusal
      restorations and 240 occlusoproximal restorations will be needed.

      Randomization

      The child will be the unit of randomization which means that all eligible teeth of a
      participant will be treated according the same restorative approach. Randomization list will
      be obtained using blocks of 4, 6 and 8 generated by software Sealed Envelope Ltd. Opaque,
      sealed and sequentially numbered envelopes will be used for randomizing all participants
      immediately before restorative treatments' beginning.

      Allocation concealment

      To assure allocation concealment, the participant will be randomized immediately before the
      treatment. When two or more cavities is available, preventing the finalization of the
      treatment in only one session, breach of allocation concealment will be signalized in the
      participants' record.

      Blinding

      Due to differences between the techniques, it will be not possible to blind operators,
      participants and evaluators.

      Operators

      All operators will be masters or PhD students from the Pediatric Dentistry Department,
      Faculty of Dentistry, University of São Paulo, previously trained. All procedures will be
      performed with the assistance of a dental student previously trained to manipulate all
      restorative materials.
    
  