
    
      Although stroke remains a leading cause of death in the United States, incidence and
      mortality rates have declined over the past two decades in association with advanced
      pharmaceutical therapies and revascularization, primarily by carotid endarterectomy (CEA).
      While CEA's efficacy for preventing stroke in patients with severe (≥70%) carotid artery
      stenosis and neurological symptoms is well documented, the surgical intervention's usefulness
      decreases as stroke risk falls in patients with less severe stenosis and patients without
      symptoms. It is estimated that as many as 13 out of 14 symptomatic patients with 50-69%
      stenosis and 21 out of 22 asymptomatic patients with 70-99% stenosis undergo CEA surgery
      unnecessarily. These data demonstrate the inadequacy of degree of stenosis as the primary
      indication of stroke risk and underscore the urgent yet unmet need for improved biomarkers
      that differentiate patients at low risk of embolic stroke from those in need of CEA to
      prevent it.

      This urgent need for improving CEA indication could be met by assessing the structure and
      composition of carotid plaques. Plaques composed of thin or ruptured fibrous caps (TRFC),
      large lipid rich necrotic cores (LRNC), and intraplaque hemorrhage (IPH) are associated with
      thrombosis in morphological studies from autopsy. Further, plaque hemorrhage and increased
      intraplaque vessel formation in CEA specimens are independently related to future cardio- and
      cerebrovascular events or interventions. Finally, previous stroke or transient ischemic
      attack (TIA) is associated with TRFC and IPH - while increased risk of future stroke or TIA
      is conferred by TRFC, LRNC, and IPH - in human carotid plaques as determined by in vivo
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

      The goal of this work is to develop a low-cost, noninvasive imaging method that reliably
      delineates carotid plaque structure and composition and is suitable for widespread diagnostic
      application. Previous research has demonstrated that Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI)
      ultrasound delineates LRNC/IPH, collagen/calcium deposits, and TRFC in human carotid plaque,
      in vivo, with TRFC thickness measurement as low as 0.49 mm - the mean thickness associated
      with rupture. This project will exploit ARFI Variance of Acceleration (VoA) imaging, higher
      center frequencies, and harmonic imaging to newly enable separate discrimination of TRFC,
      LRNC, and IPH and accurate feature size measurement. The investigators will determine the
      association between advanced ARFI's plaque characterization and recent history of ipsilateral
      stroke or TIA.
    
  