
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Depending on the type of treatment, between 25 percent and 80 percent of smokers fail to quit
      with a program, and of those who initially quit, as many as 80 percent may relapse within a
      year. Thus, we need to understand more about the consequences of these 'failures' on
      subsequent cessation attempts and success and to develop more effective treatment programs to
      recycle these smokers into sustained abstinence.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study focused on two subsets of smokers frequently ignored by researchers and
      intervention programs: subjects who failed to quit with a cessation program and subjects who
      relapsed after achieving abstinence. The primary aim was to develop and evaluate the efficacy
      of an intervention tailored to stage of change (still smoking, abstinent, relapsed) that used
      extended contact, motivation, and efficacy building strategies to: 1) increase the percentage
      of subjects who achieved subsequent abstinence after failing to quit with a core group
      treatment; 2) decrease relapse rates; and 3) increase the rate of sustained recycling (i.e.,
      maintained abstinence) following a relapse. The investigators also tested the extent to which
      the effects on abstinence were explained by the mediating variables of motivation and self-
      efficacy. Secondary aims included: 1) examining the role of several psychosocial variables in
      the maintenance, relapse, and cessation processes; 2) describing and examining longitudinal
      changes following smoking cessation; and 3) examining the long-term (beyond two years)
      effects of the study's intervention.

      The design of the study comprised two conditions: 1) Control Condition (N = 452) and 2)
      Enhanced Treatment Condition (N = 452). the two treatment conditions had a common core
      seven-week cessation and relapse prevention group program. Following the group program, the
      two conditions differed in both format and content of treatment. Subjects in the Control
      Condition received seven counselor-initiated phone calls over a three month period. The
      content of the phone calls represented the most effective components of the study and varied
      depending on whether the subjects were smoking or abstinent. Treatment in the Enhanced
      Condition was tailored to three groups of subjects: smokers, abstainers, and relapsers.
      Subjects who were smoking at the end of the core program received three more weekly group
      meetings followed by three phone calls, and then six monthly calls. The content of their
      treatment was based on the factors that the study found most related to failure to quit
      (negative affect, low motivation, low efficacy). Subjects who were abstinent at the end of
      the core program received seven phone cells over a three month period and then six monthly
      calls. The content of their treatment included efficacy and motivation building exercises as
      well as the continued contact for six more months than in the Control condition. Follow-up
      data were collected every three months for 15 months beyond the core cessation program. The
      hypothesis was that the Enhanced Treatment, compared with the Control, would improve rates of
      recycling after a failure to quit, decrease relapse rates, and increase sustained recycling
      following a relapse.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  