
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess toxicities of decitabine plus escalating doses of pegylated interferon alfa-2b
      (PEG-Intron) in patients with metastatic solid tumor.

      II. To identify the dose-limiting toxicity of decitabine in combination with escalating doses
      of pegylated interferon alfa-2b in these patients.

      III. To identify the maximum tolerated dose of pegylated interferon alfa-2b in combination
      with decitabine in these patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate pretreatment and post-treatment blood and tumor samples to identify changes in
      global (genomic) DNA methylation.

      II. To evaluate pretreatment and post-treatment blood, skin and tumor samples to identify
      changes in Mage-1 mRNA and protein expression, DNMT-1 levels (due to sequestration by
      5-azacytidine), p53 induction (evidence of DNA damage response), as well as changes in levels
      of 2'5'-oligoadenylate synthesis, MxA and HLA class I as indicators of interferon response.

      III. To evaluate complete and partial response rates in patients receiving decitabine in
      combination with escalating doses of pegylated interferon alfa-2b.

      OUTLINE:

      This is a dose-escalation study of pegylated interferon alfa-2b. Patients are assigned to 1
      of 2 treatment groups.

      GROUP 1 (control): Patients receive decitabine IV over 1 hour on days 1-5 and 8-12. Courses
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      who experience disease progression after the first course of treatment may crossover to
      receive treatment in group 2.

      GROUP 2: Patients receive decitabine as in group 1 and pegylated interferon alfa-2b
      subcutaneously on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.

      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients undergo blood sample, normal skin, and tissue biopsy collection at baseline and
      periodically during study. Blood, normal skin, and tissue samples are analyzed for global
      (genomic) DNA methylation (gene-promoter methylation, gene and protein expression, p53
      induction by DNA damage) and interferon levels by high-performance (pressure) liquid
      chromatography and PCR methylation assays, and for pharmacodynamic studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 28 days and then every 3
      months.
    
  