
    
      The health and well being of military personnel, and consequently the capacity for optimal
      functioning of military units, are compromised by posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). PTSD
      is associated with high personal and societal costs. Post-deployment rates of PTSD range from
      5-20%; approximately 8% of combat exposed military personnel develop new onsets of PTSD. PTSD
      is frequently comorbid with other psychiatric disorders. Untreated PTSD is associated with
      high rates of suicide, medical services utilization, relationship impairment, legal
      difficulties, decreased worker productivity, and decreased military readiness.

      While PTSD treatment can be effective, individuals with PTSD may not seek treatment. Drop out
      and medication noncompliance are common. Moreover, military personnel encounter both real and
      perceived barriers to seeking treatment. Given the availability of effective treatments
      contrasted with the low rates of military personnel who present and complete treatment,
      figuring out how to connect individuals with PTSD symptoms into treatment and then helping
      them to stay engaged is a high priority. Motivational enhancement therapy (MET) has shown
      promise in promoting treatment entry and enhancing both retention and successful outcomes. A
      brief, telephone-delivered MET called a "check-up," has shown promise in promoting
      self-initiated behavior change as well as voluntary treatment entry, enhanced retention, and
      more successful outcomes for substance abuse. Despite these promising findings, no work has
      focused on adapting MET for enhancing self-referral and treatment seeking with individuals
      with PTSD who are active duty and who are not already in treatment. Active duty military face
      additional challenges to entering treatment than veterans and thus specific research is
      necessary to evaluate whether similar programs would be efficacious for active duty
      personnel.

      Adapting the "check-up" application with military personnel is warranted for three key
      reasons: (1) it has the potential of overcoming barriers to treatment-seeking, i.e., stigma
      and apprehension of a negative impact on one's military career; (2) it has the potential of
      attracting voluntary participation; and (3) protocols for disseminating this low cost
      intervention for use with deployed military can readily be developed and evaluated.
    
  