
    
      University of Michigan(UM) is the clinical coordinating center (CCC) and data coordinating
      center (DCC) for this study. There are no subject recruitment or interaction will take place
      at UM. CCC engages clinicians and the clinical research mission and provides the training and
      professional development to ensure effective study by recruiting and maintaining the study
      sites performed at the Hurley Medical Center at Flint, Michigan, The National Technical
      Institute of Technology(NTID) at Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester, New York,
      and The Sinai Deaf Health(SDH)program in Chicago, Illinois including participates. Thus,
      educating and training investigators, study coordinators, and other research staff to ensure
      an ongoing quality improvement of research processes. DCC is highly invested in producing the
      highest quality survey questionnaires for use with deaf ASL-users and hearing, English
      speakers. The study team will only use the best possible ASL translations of the data
      collection measures in order to best obtain accurate, high-quality research.

      University of Michigan (UM) will function as the lead site, not as a performance site. UM
      will oversee all three other sites and conduct quality checks with each site, assist with
      training of the staff for standardization, and conduct data management/storage of
      de-identified data along with analysis. Hard copies and identifiers will be maintained at
      each site as per their approved IRB protocols.

      The two primary objectives of this proposal are:

        -  To elucidate the role of information marginalization on health literacy in Deaf American
           Sign Language (ASL) users

        -  To better understand the mechanisms of health literacy in this population so as to
           identify viable targets for future health literacy intervention development. This
           proposal is responsive to PAR-10-133's request for studies that assess mechanisms
           underlying health literacy, including roles of cognition, culture, language fluency, and
           information-seeking and interpretation ability in the deaf population and, how these may
           differ from the hearing population.

      A secondary objective is to assess how varying levels of hearing loss can affect individuals'
      abilities to access and comprehend health information and their health literacy adequacy.
    
  