
    
      Background: Pulses, including dry peas, beans, lentils and chickpeas, are a rich source of a
      number of healthy dietary components including dietary fiber, low glycemic index
      carbohydrate, vegetable protein and polyphenolics. To support health claims and
      evidence-based dietary guidelines, it is important to establish whether the glycemic control
      and weight loss benefits observed with dietary pulses are attributable to their proposed
      mechanism-of-action, whereby they reduce acute postprandial excursions in glycemia and
      contribute to satiety and decreased intake at subsequent meals.

      Objectives: The objective of this project is to conduct two systematic reviews and
      meta-analyses of the effect of dietary pulse consumption on acute postprandial metabolic
      endpoints: (1) postprandial glycemia and (2) food intake regulation.

      Design: The planning and conduct of the proposed meta-analyses will follow the Cochrane
      handbook for systematic reviews of interventions. The reporting will follow the Preferred
      Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines.

      Data sources: MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
      will be searched using appropriate search terms.

      Study selection: Acute, single bolus controlled feeding trials that investigate the effect of
      isocaloric exchange of dietary pulses for other carbohydrate foods on cardiometabolic risk
      outcomes in humans will be included. Studies that have a chronic feeding design, lack a
      control, or report comparisons not matched for available carbohydrate will be excluded.

      Data extraction: Independent investigators (≥2) will extract information about study design,
      sample size, subject characteristics, pulse form, dose, follow-up, and the composition of the
      background diets. Mean±SEM values will be extracted for all outcomes. Standard computations
      and imputations will be used to derive missing variance data. Risk of bias and study quality
      will be assessed using the Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool and the Heyland Methodological Quality
      Score (MQS), respectively.

      Outcomes: Each analysis will assess a different set of endpoints related to acute
      postprandial metabolic control: (1) postprandial glycemia (area under the curve [AUC], GI)
      and (2) food intake regulation (subjective appetite scores, 2nd meal intake).

      Data synthesis: Separate pooled analyses will be conducted for each area of metabolic control
      using the Generic Inverse Variance method with random effects models. Random-effects models
      will be used even in the absence of statistically significant between-study heterogeneity, as
      they yield more conservative summary effect estimates in the presence of residual
      heterogeneity. Paired analyses will be applied to all crossover trials. Heterogeneity will be
      tested by Cochrane's Q and quantified by I2. Sources of heterogeneity will be explored by
      sensitivity and subgroup analyses. A priori subgroup analyses will include disease status,
      duration of test, pulse type, pulse dose, study design, study quality, baseline values, and
      change in fat, protein, and dietary fibre intake. Standard GI methodology compliance will be
      another a priori sungroup analysis for the postprandial glycemia analyses only. Significant
      unexplained heterogeneity will be investigated by additional post hoc subgroup analyses (e.g.
      age, sex, level of feeding control [metabolic, supplemented, dietary advice], washout in
      crossover trials, energy balance of the background diet, composition of the background diet
      [total % energy from fat, carbohydrate, protein], change in cholesterol intake, change in
      glycemic index, etc.). Meta-regression analyses will assess the significance of subgroups
      analyses. Publication bias will be investigated by the inspection of funnel plots and
      application of Egger's and Begg's tests.

      Knowledge translation plan: Results will be disseminated through traditional means such as
      interactive presentations at local, national, and international scientific meetings and
      publication in high impact factor journals. Innovative means such as webcasts with e-mail
      feedback mechanisms will also be used. Knowledge Users will act as knowledge brokers
      networking among opinion leaders and different adopter groups to increase awareness at each
      stage. Four Knowledge Users will also participate directly as members of nutrition guidelines
      committees. Target adopters will include the clinical practice, public health, industry,
      research communities, and patient groups. Feedback will be incorporated and used to guide
      analyses and improve key messages at each stage.

      Preliminary findings: We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of the effect of
      dietary pulses on glycemic control in 41 controlled feeding trials. We found that pulses
      alone or in low-glycemic index or high-fibre diets improved markers of glycemic control.
      Although the improvement was clinically significant, it came at the expense of substantial
      inter-study heterogeneity. Knowledge translation from this preliminary project has already
      begun. It has provided a rationale for a large trial of the effect of pulses in type 2
      diabetes to address some of the identified sources of heterogeneity and is being used in the
      development of the 2013 CDA Clinical Practice Guidelines (CPG) for Nutrition Therapy.

      Significance: The proposed project will demonstrate that the improvement in longterm glycemic
      control seen in our previous systematic review and meta-analysis of longterm randomized
      controlled feeding trials of pulses can be attributed to acute reductions in postprandial
      glycemia, reductions in appetite, and decreased intake at subsequent meals. This
      demonstration will aid in knowledge translation related to the effects of dietary pulses on
      cardiometabolic risk, strengthening the evidence-base for dietary recommendations and health
      claims and improving health outcomes through informing healthcare providers and patients,
      stimulating industry innovation, and guiding future research.
    
  