
    
      The investigators propose a church-based health promotion program designed to reduce colon
      cancer risk in a mostly African American community served by the Lincoln Memorial Church in
      South Los Angeles. The Los Angeles County of Public Health has divided the county into nine
      service planning areas (SPAs), of which South LA is one. Of all the SPAs, the South LA SPA
      has the highest prevalence of obesity and the lowest adherence to federal nutrition
      recommendations. With seed grant funds from a cooperative NIH grant shared by the Drew School
      of Medicine and University of California-Los Angeles (UCLA), the Lincoln Memorial Church of
      Los Angeles is sponsoring a behavioral intervention featuring 10 weekly sessions composed of
      cooking demonstrations, brief didactic nutrition education and 10-minute exercise bouts. All
      sessions will take place in the church kitchen and meeting room. Participants are expected to
      be 20 mostly African American, overweight/obese community members. The behavioral goal of the
      health promotion sessions is to encourage participants to eat more fiber-rich plant foods,
      minimally processed, to consume fewer pro-inflammatory foods including foods rich in
      saturated fat, sodium and refined sugar, and to engage in federally recommended amounts of
      physical activity. If research resources become available to enable blood chemistry results
      and/or fecal metagenomic results, the investigators would predict that 3 months after
      participant enrollment in the study, participants would experience a reduction in their
      high-sensitivity-C-reactive protein concentration and an increase in the relative abundance
      of obligate anaerobic bacteria relative to other bacteria in fecal samples. As seems likely,
      however, results will be limited to evaluating the weight and form of participant stool
      samples using the Bristol Stool Chart and evaluating participants' waist circumference and
      systolic blood pressure. The 3 month follow-up assessment is expected to show increased stool
      weight, improved Bristol Stool Chart score, decreased waist circumference, decreased systolic
      blood pressure, reduced intake of saturated fat and refined sugar, and increased weekly
      physical activity.
    
  