
    
      USG guided popliteal nerve block known to be effective in postoperative pain management in
      foot and ankle surgical procedures but clinical use of the procedure is not yet widespread.
      However, the volume and concentration of local anesthetic drugs to be administered is still
      controversial. The study was designed to be prospective and randomized. Patients will be
      divided into 3 groups by simple randomization. The results of power analysis (G-power 3.1)
      revealed that a total of 60 patients were required to be included in the study. Because of
      that, approximately 20 patients are planned for each group. Spinal anesthesia will be
      performed in all three groups. During procedure 8 ml saline with 8 ml bupivacaine will be
      apply to the first group and 8 ml bupivacaine and 16 ml of saline will be apply to the second
      group. Only spinal anesthesia will be given to the third group without peripheral nerve
      block. The patients participating in the study will not be informed about which group they
      belong to, the person who makes the block will not prepare the drug and the person who makes
      the block, the patient and the nurse will not know which concentration drug applied to which
      patient. Between two groups duration of motor block, duration of sensory block, post-op
      analgesia time, mobilization time will be investigate. Also the first pain time, the opioid
      requirement and opioid dose used will be investigated. Analgesia, duration of analgesia, time
      and requirement of administered IV analgesics, mobilization time after popliteal nerve block
      will be investigate. package statistical program SPSS (Statistical Package for Social
      Sciences version 18) will be used for statistical analysis. The parametrical values from the
      descriptive values will be given as mean and standard deviation, the non-parametric values
      will be given as number and percentage or median and min-max value. The suitability of the
      data to the normal distribution will be evaluated with the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. One-way
      ANOVA will be use for the comparison of the quantitative data which is appropriate to the
      normal distribution. The Tukey HSD test will be used to identify the group that caused the
      difference. Kruskal Wallis-H test will be used to compare quantitative parameters that do not
      show normal distribution. Mann Whitney U test will be applied to determine the cause of the
      difference and chi-square test will be used to compare qualitative data. For the analyzes,
      the level of significance in the 95% confidence interval was found in p < 0.05.
    
  