
    
      Direct laryngoscopy for invasive procedures in children is performed under general anesthesia
      with spontaneous or controlled ventilation.Preventing under-or over-sedation and titration of
      sedation according to patient needs with spontaneous ventilation is a real challenge. It is
      common practice that dexmedetomidine and remifentanil are titrated based on the evaluation of
      respiratory clinical signs (cough, spasm, movement) and immobility of the vocal
      cords.NeuroSENSE ®NS 701 Monitor( NeuroWave Systems incorporated - Cleveland Heights,OH) is a
      sedation depth monitor that uses automated electroencephalogram quantification. It provides
      information about depth of anesthesia before change of clinical signs.The primary reason for
      WAVCNS monitoring is to prevent under-or over-sedation, to titrate sedation according to
      patient needs. NeuroSENSE ® is validated for monitoring sedation depth in adults but not in
      children. The Wavelet-based Anesthetic Value for Central Venous System (WAVCNS) index
      calculated by this monitor is scaled into the 100-0 range, where 100 denotes a brain state
      consistent with an awake patient and a 0 denotes a total and prolonged absence of cortical
      activity. The recommended WAVCNS index range for general anesthesia is between 40-60 as
      within this range there is very low probability of a patient being either awake or in deep
      anesthetic state. The validated use of a sedation depth monitor in children, who are at risk
      for medication overdosage or airway spasm by underdosing sedatives, could be a major
      advantage. In this trial ten children scheduled for direct laryngoscopy with surgical
      intervention will be enrolled after obtaining written informed consent of their parents or
      legal guardian.The NeuroSENSE ®monitor will be installed previous to anesthesia induction.
      The attending anesthesiologist is instructed to guide titration of dexmedetomidine/
      remifentanil according to clinical signs, which is standard of care. He is blinded for the
      NeuroSENSE ® monitor.Induction of anesthesia will be done with sevoflurane an a bolus of
      dexmedetomidine 4 microgram/kilogram will be administered. Maintenance of anesthesia will be
      accomplished with dexmedetomidine infused at 2 microgram/kilogram/hour and adjusted to
      clinical needs with top up bolus dexmedetomidine of 0.5 microgram/kg/hour. Remifentanil will
      be infused at 0.3 mcg/kg/min and adjusted to clinical needs to 0.5 mcg/kg/min. Before start
      of surgery, on visualising the vocal cords 1 spray of 10 percent lidocaine is delivered to
      anesthetize the vocal cords. all children receive pharyngeal tube for oxygen supplementation.
      Spontaneous ventilation will be maintained. In case of laryngospasm and desaturation,
      propofol will be used as rescue medication. After surgery all children will be monitored on
      Intensive Care or Post Anesthetic Care Unit as standard of care. Heart rate, non-invasive
      blood pressure, pulse oxygen saturation, respiratory rate will be recorded at Innovian
      (Drager Medical Systems, Andover, USA) Induction time, adverse events, incidence of leg
      movements during anesthesia, cough, postoperative awakening and recovery time will be
      assessed.Surgery satisfaction will be assessed using score 1 is extremely dissatisfied; 2 is
      not satisfied but able to manage; 3 is extremely satisfied. At end of surgery total
      cumulative dose of dexmedetomidine and remifentanil will be calculated. Results from
      NeuroSENSE ® are extracted as raw data from the device.
    
  