
    
      The major goal of antiviral therapy against chronic hepatitis B is to suppress viral
      replications successfully, ultimately preventing the chronic liver damage, development of
      liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. In Korea, the number of multi-drug resistant
      CHB has been rapidly increased last few years. It is because that the national health
      insurance coverage is very limited for the patients who experienced primary treatment
      failure. The only switch to adefovir has been allowed in lamivudine resistant patients and
      thus this sequential rescue therapy generated multi-drug resistance to both adefovir and
      another drugs. Thus, nowadays, add-on therapy rather than switch therapy might be preferred
      from major guidelines in this point.

      However, the number of suboptimal responders to rescue combination therapy is also
      increasing. As a matter of fact, according to the investigations in Korea, HBV DNA
      undetectability at 48 weeks of adefovir and lamivudine combination rescue therapy for
      patients with lamivudine resistance was reported to be only 32.4%, which suggested that the
      appropriate another rescue therapy might be urgently required. However, there is no promising
      oral antiviral agents to control these patients in Asia-Pacific region, where tenofovir is
      not widely available. Tenofovir has a higher potent antiviral efficacy and a negligible drug
      resistance rate. It belongs to the different class compared to other oral nucleoside
      analogues (NAs) such as lamivudine, telbivudine, clevudine and entecavir. The switch from
      adefovir to tenofovir in patients who have insufficient hepatitis B virus (HBV) suppression
      (HBV DNA ≥ 60 IU/mL by PCR) may lead to increased viral suppression or more HBeAg
      loss/seroconversion. The results of this study will provide a rationale for switch from
      adefovir to tenofovir in combination to another drug continued (lamivudine, telbivudine,
      clevudine and entecavir).

      Here, the investigators aimed to conduct a randomized study on evaluating the antiviral
      efficacy, safety, and tolerability of switching from adefovir to tenofovir in chronic
      hepatitis B patients who have suboptimal response to adefovir-based combination rescue
      therapy due to nucleoside analogues Resistance (SATIS study).
    
  