
    
      Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a heterogeneous group of stem cell disorders
      characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis with dysplasia and a propensity to acute myeloid
      leukemia. Patients are affected in the elderly with a global incidence of 10/100,000/year.

      During the past 3 years, a significant progress has been made in the understanding of
      molecular pathogenesis through identification of mutations in epigenetic genes like TET2,
      ASXL1, EZH2, RUNX1, DNMT3A, IDH1/2, transcription factors, signalling molecules, cohesion and
      splicing regulators. Inactivating mutations targeting the hematopoietic stem cell may alter
      its gene expression pattern and could be an early mechanism of clonal selection. However, a
      single genetic alteration does not readily recapitulate the apoptotic and dysplastic
      phenotype. Several clones may co-exist, but their architecture is still unclear.

      This study aims at prospectively enrolling a cohort of 350 incident cases at diagnosis, to
      identify evaluate the impact of recurrent mutations on overall survival and event-free
      survival, using next generation sequencing.

      Considering the current knowledge, investigators propose to:

        -  perform whole exome sequencing to identify new mutations in a subset of 30 patients at
           diagnosis and in 10/30 samples at follow-up, and validate the recurrence of the new
           mutations in a training set.

        -  validate a high throughput technology for extensive genotyping to determine the
           mutational status of 54 target genes in the entire prospective cohort.

        -  analyze the frequency and impact on phenotype, OS and EFS of the most frequent mutations
           including SF3B1, SRSF2, ZRSR2, U2AF1, TET2, ASXL1, EZH2, IDH1/2, DNMT3A, NRAS, TP53, and
           RUNX1 and possibly of the newly discovered new mutations. Individual follow-up will be
           36 months.

      As ancillary studies, the evolution of mutation profiles after leukemic transformation in
      10/30 MDS tested by WES, or after evaluation of the response to treatments in 100 MDS
      included in clinical trials of the "Groupe Francophone des Myélodysplasies" will be analyzed.

      Understanding clonal architecture at diagnosis and after leukemic transformation is crucial
      for the knowledge of the pathophysiology of MDS. Better knowledge could help to adapt the
      therapeutic strategy. The study will help to delineate the pattern of genes which mutations
      with independent prognostic value modify the natural course of the disease. Then,
      investigators will apply for a grant to support a medico-economic evaluation of the molecular
      diagnosis in MDS.
    
  