
    
      The effects of CRT will be examined in 30 combat veterans with current PTSD, to be randomized
      to either CRT or to a non-therapeutic video game. PTSD status and other clinical data will be
      collected via interview to include the Clinician Administered PTSD Scale; the Hamilton
      Depression Rating Scale; and the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV (SCID). Subjects
      will also complete self-report measures, including the Posttraumatic Stress Disorder
      Checklist-Stressor Specific Version; Deployment Risk and Resilience Inventory; Combat
      Exposure Scale; Trauma History Questionnaire; Childhood Trauma Questionnaire; State-Trait
      Anxiety Inventory-State; Beck Depression Inventory-II; Post-Traumatic Cognitions Inventory;
      Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale; and the Inventory of Daily Living. Baseline cognitive
      functioning will be assessed using the Measurement and Treatment Research to Improve
      Cognition in Schizophrenia (MATRICS) Consensus Cognitive Battery; the vocabulary and block
      design tasks of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III; the Wide Range Achievement
      Test-III; and the Logical Memory Test, the Letter-Number Sequencing task, and the Digit Span
      tasks from the Wechsler Memory Scale-III.

      After evaluation, 15 subjects will be randomized to receive 10 weekly 60-minute sessions of
      CRT using CogPack Professional (version 8.2, Marker Software, Mannheim, Germany).
      Approximately six different exercises will be presented in each training session, with the
      starting level of difficulty individualized on the basis of baseline neuropsychological
      performance and difficulty level adjusted based on the subject's performance on CogPack
      exercises.

      Another 15 subjects will be randomized to use a non-therapeutic video game, Tetris. Tetris is
      a video puzzle game that involves manipulating falling shapes. The object of the game is to
      manipulate these shapes, by moving them sideways or rotating them, to create a horizontal
      line of blocks without gaps. As the game progresses, the shapes fall faster. This game
      primarily involves using visuospatial and motor abilities, rather than memory and attentional
      abilities, and thus will serve as an adequate control condition to Cogpack. Subjects will use
      Tetris in 10 weekly 30-minute sessions.

      Subjects will again complete neuropsychological and psychiatric evaluations (with the
      exception of the SCID) in addition to self-report measures after 10 weeks of CRT or video
      games. Changes from baseline will be examined in the cognitive measures as well as in PTSD
      symptom severity, other clinical measures, and overall functioning.
    
  