
    
      Paired Associative Stimulation (PAS) is a neurostimulation approach that induces cortical
      plasticity by simulating spike-timing-dependent plasticity. Combining PAS with
      electroencephalography (EEG) (PAS-EEG), we can assess dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC)
      plasticity in vivo. Using PAS-EEG, we have demonstrated that patients with AD are impaired on
      DLPFC plasticity compared to healthy control (HC) individuals and that DLPFC plasticity is
      associated with working memory in AD and HC individuals. We have also shown that a 2-week
      course of daily PAS to the left DLPFC restores DLPFC plasticity in patients with AD and
      enhances their working memory.

      Thus, we propose to study DLPFC plasticity and its relationship to executive function in MCI
      and then assess the efficacy of a 2-week course of PAS in enhancing DLPFC plasticity and
      executive function in this population.

      If successful, this project will identify a novel neurostimulation intervention (PAS) to
      enhance prefrontal cortical function in MCI patients. This enhancement could result in
      modifying the trajectory of Alzheimer's disease by delaying the progression from MCI to
      clinical AD. This project will also identify a mechanism (neuroplasticity) that underlies
      enhanced prefrontal cortical function. Other interventions (e.g. behavioral,
      neurostimulation, pharmacological) could then be tested whether they engage neuroplasticity
      to enhance prefrontal cortical function.

      The primary objectives and hypotheses of the study are as follows:

      Objective 1: To compare baseline DLPFC plasticity and its relationship to executive function
      in MCI vs. HC participants. Hypothesis 1a: MCI participants will be impaired on PAS-LTP
      (TMS-induced cortical evoked activity) in the left DLPFC compared to HC participants.
      Hypothesis 1b: MCI participants will be impaired on 2-back d' and a composite executive
      function measure compared to HC participants. Hypothesis 1c: PAS-LTP will be associated with
      2-back d' and composite executive function measure in MCI and HC participants after
      controlling for age, sex, and education.

      Objective 2: To assess the efficacy of a 10-session course of bilateral PAS in enhancing
      DLPFC plasticity and executive function in MCI participants. Hypothesis 2a: MCI participants
      randomized to 10-session course of active PAS will experience higher PAS-LTP in the left
      DLPFC immediately and 1 and 4 weeks after the course compared to MCI participants randomized
      to a 10-session course of a sham control PAS condition (PAS-C). Hypothesis 2b: MCI
      participants randomized to a 10-session course of active PAS will experience better 2-back
      performance and higher composite executive function immediately and 1 and 4 weeks following
      the 10-session course compared to MCI participants randomized to the course of PAS-C.

      Objective 3: To assess whether changes in DLPFC plasticity mediate changes in executive
      function in MCI participants following the 10-session course. Hypothesis 3: Changes in
      PAS-LTP immediately and 1 and 4 weeks following the 10-session course will mediate changes in
      2-back d' and composite executive function measure at all three follow-up time points.
    
  