
    
      The Safety of Flexible Bronchoscopy in Patients with Pulmonary Hypertension

      1Pulmonary department and 2Devision of Cardiology Affiliated with Sackler Faculty of
      Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel; Meir Medical Center, Kfar Saba, Israel

      Background

      Flexible bronchoscopy (FB) is one of the most common invasive procedures performed by
      pulmonologists (1) . Typically performed under topical anesthesia and conscious sedation, the
      procedure is considered to be safe, effective and well tolerated in patients with a wide
      variety of pulmonary diseases (2). Complications associated with the procedure are rare and
      studies have estimated an incidence of 0.5-4% (3) The most commonly recognized complications
      include hypoxia, bleeding, bronchospasm, cardiac dysrhythmias, pneumothorax, and vagal
      reactions (4). Several conditions increase the risk of complications including pre-existent
      hypoxemia, use of mechanical ventilation, uremia, profound thrombocytopenia, coagulopathy and
      pulmonary hypertension (PH) (5). Although previous reports suggest that transbronchial
      biopsies increase the risk for hemorrhage in this population, data are is limited to survey
      analyses and isolated reports. Recently Guzman et al. reported a retrospective analysis about
      the safety of FB in PH. (6) They found that FB can be performed safely in patients with mild
      and moderate PH. However, the study was small and retrospective analysis. Furthermore, there
      is no consensus regarding levels of pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) considered to be safe for
      invasive diagnostic interventions such as TBLB or transbronchial needle aspiration.

      Objective To assess the safety of FB in patients with PH and to study the occurrence of
      complications associated with different diagnostic bronchoscopic procedures.

      Materials and Methods Study Population 100 patients that will undergo a bronchoscopy
      according to the regular indications during the study period (12 months) will be eligible for
      the study.

      Criteria for exclusion Exclusion criteria will be age under 18 years and patients who are
      unable to obtain informed consent. Patients with known severe pulmonary hypertension (PAP
      above 70 mmHg) will be exclude from the study.

      Procedural Conduct All procedures will be performing in the bronchoscopy suite of the
      Pulmonary Department in Meir Medical center. Fluoroscopy will be available for all
      procedures. FB will be performed by a training pulmonary physician that will be blinded to
      the echocardiograpgic findings. Oxygen will be administered to all patients to ensure SpO2
      >90% prior to the introduction of the bronchoscope. Continuous pulse oximetry,
      electrocardiogram and noninvasive blood pressure monitoring will be obtained throughout the
      procedure. Sedation will be achieved using midazolam. Topical anesthesia (was) will be
      obtained using 2% lidocaine.

      Study Subjects All the patients will undergo a Doppler echocardiogram in the day of the
      bronchoscopy after the bronchoscopy. The diagnosis of PH will define as (1) mean PAP (mPAP)
      >25 mm Hg measured by right heart catheterization (RHC), or (2) right ventricular systolic
      pressure (RVSP) >40 mm Hg estimated by Doppler echocardiography.

      PAP will be calculated as the sum of tricuspid regurgitation gradient and estimated right
      atrial pressure, provided there is no increase in pulmonic valve flow velocity .Maximal
      tricuspid regurgitation velocity (taken from all available views) will be measured by
      continuous wave Doppler echocardiography to evaluate the pressure gradient from the right
      ventricle to the right atrium. Right atrial pressure will be estimated on the basis of
      inferior vena cava (IVC) size and inspiratory collapse (7,8).

      Data Collection Data will be collected from all patients including baseline characteristics
      of age, sex, medications and electrocardiogram. Blood tests including blood count, indication
      for bronchoscopy, duration and bronchoscopic procedures. All echocardiogram findings will be
      collected by physicians that will be blinded to the bronchoscpoic details.

      Outcome Measures The primary outcome will be the incidence of complications after FB.
      Complications will define as hypoxemia (SpO2 <90% and need of supplemental oxygen within 30
      min of a completed procedure), hypotension (mean arterial pressure <60 mm Hg or systolic
      blood pressure <90 mm Hg for more than 5 min and/or need for administration of intravenous
      solution or vasopressors), cardiac dysrhythmias (new onset of arrhythmia or worsening of
      underlying arrhythmia that caused hemodynamic instability and/or required urgent
      intervention), bleeding, and death.

      The amount of bleeding will be estimated as: no bleeding - minimal bleeding that does not
      require suctioning; mild bleeding - the need to continually suction the airways; moderate
      bleeding - the need to wedge FB in the segment involved; severe bleeding - the need for
      additional interventions or transfusion.

      Statistical Analysis Results will express as the mean ± SD for continuous variables.
      Qualitative data will express as the percentage of patients with a 95% confidence interval.
      Nominal variables will be compared with Pearson's 2 or Fisher's exact test. Continuous
      outcome variables will be compared using Student's t test or rank-sum tests as appropriate.
      Statistical significance will be defined as p < 0.05.

      Statistical analysis will be performed using a statistical software package (SPSS, version
      13.0; SPSS Inc., Chicago, Ill., USA).
    
  