
    
      Multiple myeloma (MM) is a neoplastic disease of older adults, with a higher incidence in
      elderly patients: 26% are aged 65-74 years, and 37% are older than 75 years. The annual
      prevalence of MM is approximately 31 cases per 100,000 people in patients aged 65-74 years,
      and it increases to 46 cases per 100,000 people in patients aged ≥75 years. The prevalence of
      myeloma is likely to increase due to the extended survival and the growing life expectancy of
      the general population.

      Recently, the introduction of novel agents such as thalidomide, lenalidomide, pomalidomide
      and bortezomib, has changed the treatment paradigm of MM and extended survival.

      The prognosis of patients who are refractory to novel agents is especially poor. A
      retrospective study has recently demonstrated that patients with relapsed MM, who were
      refractory to bortezomib and were relapsed following, refractory to or ineligible to receive
      treatment with an IMiD, had a median overall survival (OS) and event free survival (EFS) of 9
      and 5 months, respectively.

      STUDY DESIGN When patients experience biochemical relapse during lenalidomide maintenance,
      they will stop lenalidomide, as established in the related experimental protocol. Afterwards,
      patients can be considered for the enrollment in the present study if all inclusion and
      exclusion criteria are met.

      This is a multicenter, randomized, open label phase III study designed to assess the safety
      and the efficacy of two different pomalidomide combinations as salvage treatment in multiple
      myeloma (MM) patients.

      Patients will be evaluated at scheduled visits in up to 3 study periods: pre-treatment,
      treatment and long-term follow-up (LTFU).

      The pre-treatment period includes screening visits, performed at study entry. After providing
      written informed consent to participate in the study, patients will be evaluated for study
      eligibility. The screening period includes the availability of inclusion criteria described
      above.

      The treatment period includes administration of pomalidomide and dexamethasone in arm A and
      pomalidomide combined with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in arm B. The response will be
      assessed after each cycle. Patients will be randomized to receive treatment at biochemical
      relapse (ARM I) or at clinical relapse (ARM II).

      The LTFU periods will start after development of confirmed progression disease (PD), all
      patients are to be followed for survival during the LTFU period every 3 months via telephone
      or office visit.
    
  