
    
      Clinical need

      Non-invasive identification of patients with coronary artery disease using a single, highly
      reliable technique is challenging. Computed tomography coronary angiography (CTCA) has
      emerged as a patient-friendly, accurate diagnostic tool. Compared to invasive coronary
      angiography, the sensitivity and specificity of CTCA for detecting significant coronary
      stenosis has been reported to be higher than 90%. Moreover, CTCA allows the detection of
      nonobstructive coronary plaques (CAPs). However, the advantage of CTCA is frequently reduced
      by significantly higher radiation exposure.

      New MyoVista™ iECG technology

      The MyoVista™ (Heart Test Laboratories Inc., Colleyville, TX, USA) is a novel
      electrocardiographic device. The clinical set up of MyoVista™ is identical to that of a
      traditional 12-lead ECG but it acquires and processes signal information in a way that
      permits much greater resolution of the electrical activity associated with the myocardium
      (iECG). This technology property of Heart Test Laboratories allows analysis of the entire
      myocardium and provides visual indicators and waveforms for clinical evaluation.

      Study rationale

      MyoVista™ technology has been so far validated in cohorts of Asian patients undergoing a
      clinically-indicated coronary angiography. These studies showed high positive and negative
      predictive values for identification of CAD. In addition, preliminary studies performed in
      the USA suggest a potential incremental value of iECG over routine surface ECG as a screening
      tool for detection of subclinical LV dysfunction and latent cardiovascular risk.

      The aim of this prospective controlled evaluation is to assess

        1. the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value of MyoVista™ iECG in consecutive
           individuals without any history of cardiovascular disease undergoing a clinically
           indicated Computed Tomography Coronary Angiography (CTCA) in detecting Coronary Artery
           Plaque (CAP) and/or Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) (Group 1);

        2. the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value of MyoVista™ iECG in consecutive
           individuals with history of cardiovascular disease undergoing a clinically indicated
           CTCA in detecting the extent of CAP or CAD (Group 2);

        3. whether MyoVista™ iECG abnormality is a better predictor of traditional risk factors to
           prevalence of CAP in individuals without history of cardiovascular disease.
    
  