
    
      BACKGROUND:

      This is a phase II study to determine the activity of bevacizumab, a putative antiangiogenic
      agent, in Kaposi's sarcoma (KS). Bevacizumab is a humanized recombinant antibody to vascular
      endothelial cell growth factor (VEGF), an important cytokine in the pathogenesis of KS.

      OBJECTIVES:

      To assess the antitumor effect of bevacizumab 15 mg/kg administered intravenously once every
      three weeks in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated Kaposi's sarcoma
      (KS). Other objectives include assessment of the antitumor effect of bevacizumab 15 mg/kg
      administered intravenously once every three weeks in patients with classical KS; assessment
      of the toxicity profile of bevacizumab in HIV-infected and HIV-negative patients with KS;
      exploration in a preliminary fashion effect of bevacizumab on KS progression free survival;
      and study of a number of biochemical parameters, including stromal cell-derived factor-1
      (SDF-1) expression in KS lesions; human herpes virus-8 (HHV-8) viral load in peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells; serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) levels over the course of
      treatment; and changes in viral interleukin 6 (IL-6) levels over the course of treatment.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      Key eligibility parameters include HIV-associated or classical Kaposi's sarcoma, age greater
      than or equal to 18 years, and life expectancy greater than 6 months. Patients with HIV
      infection must have either KS progression on a regimen of highly active antiretroviral
      therapy (HAART) for at least one month, or no KS regression while on an optimized regimen of
      HAART for 4 months or longer.

      DESIGN:

      Patients will be sequentially enrolled, administered a loading dose of 15 mg/kg bevacizumab
      intravenously on day 1, and then administered 15 mg/kg bevacizumab intravenously every 3
      weeks beginning one week after the loading dose. The drug will be temporarily discontinued
      for toxicity, intercurrent major surgical procedures, or other factors that would pose a
      safety concern. Patients will undergo a biopsy of a KS lesion at entry, on cycle 4, day 21,
      and at the time of a formal response or when the patient stops treatment. Patients will
      undergo a number of other tests as well, including blood tests and non-invasive imaging
      studies of KS lesions.
    
  