
    
      Eligible patients should have a diagnosis of definite ALS according to the El Escorial
      revised criteria with clear clinical upper and lower motor neuron signs. Twenty patients with
      definite ALS will be enrolled and will be allocated to the treatment: 10 active and 10 sham
      stimulation. Patients will be randomly allocated by one of the investigators not involved in
      follow-up evaluations and data analysis. Stratified block randomisation will be performed
      such that the two treatment groups will be evenly balanced for disease severity, as evaluated
      with the revised ALS functional rating scale (ALSFRS-R), and duration. The patients and the
      neurologists assessing the outcomes will be blinded to group assignment.

      Outcome measures Patients will be evaluated at the beginning of the treatment and every month
      until the end of the study at 1 year. At each visit, patients will be evaluated using the
      ALSFRS-R and manual muscle testing (MMT). MMT testing will be performed by means of the
      Medical Research Council (MRC) Scale. To obtain an estimate of the overall limb muscle
      strength we will calculate a MRC compound score by adding the MRC scores of eight upper limb
      muscles and five lower limb muscles for each side and dividing the sum by the number of
      muscles tested (26 muscles). We will test the following muscles: biceps brachii, deltoid,
      triceps brachii, extensor carpi radialis , extensor digitorum communis, abductor digiti
      minimi, abductor pollicis brevis, opponens pollicis, iliopsoas, rectus femoris, tibialis
      anterior, extensor hallucis longus, gastrocnemius.

      The primary outcome measure will be the rate of decline of ALSFRS-R scores. Secondary outcome
      measure will be the rate of decline in MMT.

      Transcranial brain stimulation Central motor conduction time for the first dorsal
      interosseous muscle will calculated by subtracting the peripheral conduction time, from
      spinal cord to muscles, from the latency of responses evoked by cortical stimulation at the
      maximum stimulator output during voluntary contraction at about 20% of maximum.

      Repetitive TMS will be applied over the hand motor area using a MagPro (Medtronic A/S
      Denmark) stimulator and a figure of eight-shaped coil.

      Active rTMS will be performed using the cTBS pattern in which 3 pulses of stimulation are
      given at 50Hz, repeated every 200 ms for a total of 600 pulses. We will use a butterfly coil
      (MCF-B-65) with the handle pointed posteriorly and approximately perpendicular to the central
      sulcus. The initial direction of the current induced in the brain will be posterior-anterior.
      The stimulation intensity will be 80 % of the active motor threshold (AMT), defined as the
      minimum single pulse intensity required to produce a motor evoked potential greater than 200
      uV on more than five out of ten trials from the contracted contralateral first interosseous
      muscle. This protocol leads to pronounced and prolonged suppression of cortical excitability
      that reaches a maximum about 5-10 min after the end of the stimulation.

      Sham rTMS will be performed using the same stimulator connected to the placebo butterfly coil
      MCF-P-B-65 which has no stimulating effect on the cortex but produces similar auditory and
      tactile sensations as the active coil. The site of stimulation and the number of stimuli will
      be identical to those used for the active magnetic rTMS.

      Repetitive TMS will be performed bilaterally. The order of stimulation of the two hemispheres
      will be randomized. The stimulation of the two hemispheres will be performed sequentially at
      an interval of one minute. The motor cortex of each side will be stimulated for five
      consecutive days every month for twelve consecutive months. In the patients with absent first
      dorsal interosseous motor evoked potentials after stimulation of one hemisphere, the
      repetitive stimulation will be performed at the same intensity used for the opposite
      hemisphere.

      Statistical analysis Statistical analysis will be performed using a two-factor (TIME and
      TREATMENT) repeated measures analysis of variance.
    
  