
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the Big Brothers Big Sisters of
      America (BBBSA) community-based mentoring (CBM) program for prevention of crime and
      delinquency/conduct problems, including risk and protective factors for these outcomes.
      Participants will be recruited from 16 BBBSA affiliates, which are located in different
      regions of the U.S. and were invited to serve as sites for the study using a random selection
      process. The study sample will consist of approximately 2,500 youth ages 10-16 whose parents
      seek services from one of the participating BBBSA affiliates during the study enrollment
      period and for whom consent/assent to participate in the research is obtained. Enrolled youth
      will be randomly assigned to participate in the CBM program (treatment group) or to a control
      group (no BBBSA programming during the youth's 4-year period of study participation). Youth
      will be assigned in a 3:1 ratio to the treatment and control groups. Youth and parents will
      complete survey measures both at study enrollment, prior to notification of assignment to
      control or treatment group, and 18 months later. Official records of police/court contact
      (e.g., arrests), with separate parent/guardian consent as provided at study enrollment, will
      be obtained both for the period preceding each youth's enrollment in the study and for a
      4-year period following enrollment.

      The study has 4 specific aims:

        1. To determine the effects of participation in the Big Brothers Big Sisters CBM program on
           youth offending as measured by police/court records, i.e., person offense, property
           offense, drug law violation, public order offense, or status offense.

        2. To determine the effects of participation in the BBBS CBM program on the likelihood of
           youths' involvement in delinquent behavior/conduct problems as assessed by youth and
           parent reports.

        3. To determine the effects of BBBS CBM program participation on the likelihood of youths'
           involvement in substance use as assessed by self-reports of alcohol use to point of
           drunkenness, tobacco, or illicit drug use.

        4. To determine the effects of BBBS CBM program participation on both risk and protective
           factors for delinquent/criminal behavior, such as aggression, depressive symptoms,
           association with deviant peers, self-control, and school connectedness, as assessed by
           youth and/or parent reports, and to explore the role of these effects in mediating
           effects of program participation on offending, delinquent behavior, and substance use.
    
  