
    
      The dynamic use of LUS for monitoring feeding related aspiration can be effective in
      detecting meal-related pulmonary abnormalities in neurologically impaired infants and that
      LUS-management will improve medical/neurological/behavioural status, and reduce chronic
      pain/discomfort and stress for caregivers. LUS effectiveness is expected to reduce the need
      for x-Ray, invasive and more expensive techniques (VFSS and FEES). Results may be translated
      into clinical practice in the management of swallowing disorders in a very vulnerable
      population, by reducing invasiveness, possible x-Ray early exposition risks, costs, medical
      complications, and by assessing risk categories based on neuroimaging MRI markers, to
      rationalize prevention and intervention.

      Preliminary data. LUS examinations have been performed on 6 infants with neurological
      impairment (mean age 15 ± 8 months; Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) range
      2-5, median=4) and in 3 healthy infants (mean age 25 ± 3 months) before and right after a
      meal. A LUS score ranging from 0 to 18 was established, according to previous literature (0=
      normal pattern, 1= separated B-lines, 2= confluent B-lines or B-lines with pleural
      alterations, 3= consolidations; the score 0-3 was then calculated in all 6 thoracic scanning
      areas and summed up). In the 6 infants with neurological impairment, at paired sample t test,
      LUS score changed before and after meal (pre-meal 2.50±2.95 vs post-meal 5.17±3.25, p=0.01),
      with very large effect size (Cohen d=1.6). No change was detected in the control group.
      Changes in LUS score pre and post-meal correlated with GMFCS (p=0.03, r=0.64) and with
      adapted Eating and Drinking Ability Classification System (EDACS) scores (p=0.04, r=0.59), as
      more severe clinical pictures resulted in worse LUS scores. The LUS score pre- meal was worse
      in infants with neurological impairment compared to controls (2.50±2.95 vs 0.67±0.58,
      p=0.14). Results make LUS extremely promising as a tool to monitor pulmonary aeration changes
      in infants with neurological impairment. Feasibility of dorsal and ventral oromotor tract
      reconstruction has been tested in an infant with neurological impairment.

      Specific Aim 1:

        -  To establish the feasibility and effectiveness of LUS-guided management in the detection
           of aspiration related to swallowing disorders in children with cerebral palsy and other
           developmental disabilities, determining advantages of LUS-guided management over
           standard care on medical (respiratory illness and growth rate) LUS findings themselves
           and behavioural/neurological outcomes

        -  To compare diagnostic accuracy of LUS versus X-ray VFSS and invasive FEES

      Specific Aim 2:

      - To determine specific parameters to estimate aspiration entity by LUS (eg cut-off values
      for the diagnosis of clinically significant silent or overt aspiration, responsiveness of LUS
      monitoring to medical, postural or food consistencies adaptation) and their relationship with
      standardised clinical feeding evaluation and medical/behavioural/neurological measures in
      order to define risk groups for aspiration

      Specific Aim 3:

        -  To evaluate other applications/potentialities of LUS in children with cerebral palsy and
           other developmental disabilities.

        -  To uncover the impact of brain abnormalities detected by brain MRI on LUS findings, for
           establishing risk categories for unsafe swallowing disorders on early imaging markers,
           and potential clinical recommendations for early management.

      Experimental Design Aim 1:

      Double-blinded randomized parallel-designed controlled trial (Consort checklist), with block
      randomization (blocks of size 4), in one of 2 groups: 1) LUS-monitored management (LUS-m); 2)
      Standard care management (SC-m). Both groups will undergo an experimental 6-months follow-up.
      In the first 3 months, participants will be evaluated a minimum of 1 time per month,
      in-hospital, for a total of 3 evaluations (T1, T2 and T3), plus baseline (T0). At any time
      point, they will undergo at least one LUS-monitored (before and after) feeding trial
      (different consistencies might be tested in separate repeated trials according to clinical
      evaluation). A further LUS evaluation will be performed at a distance of 3 hours, before the
      next meal to check for resolution of after-meal abnormalities. Both the clinicians who will
      perform and score LUS, and the patients' family will be blinded to randomization. The child
      neurologist and the speech and language pathologist (SLP) will be informed of the result of
      LUS only in the LUS-m group and will include that result to impact on feeding care (postural,
      thickening fluids or with drugs available for GERD). LUS results in the SC-m group will be
      available only at the time of data analyses. All meals will be monitored by pulse-oximetry
      and video recording. A further 6-months LUS-monitored and clinical assessment (T4) will be
      delivered for collecting outcome measures in both treatment groups. At T0, T3 and T4 time
      points, infants will perform standardized medical/behavioural/neurological, chronic
      pain/discomfort assessments. At T0 and T4, a blood sample will be collected, to evaluate
      general and nutritional status, and a quantitative ultrasound (QUS) will be performed to
      evaluate bone density. A parent stress questionnaire (Parenting Stress Index (PSI)) will be
      delivered (T0, T3 and T4). Between T0 and T4, parents will be asked to fill a respiratory
      infection-diary for respiratory illness rate calculation. VFSS and FEES data will be
      collected, compared in frequency of execution between groups, and their results will be
      compared to LUS findings. Primary and secondary outcome measures will be collected at both T3
      (short-term) and T4 (long-term).

      Experimental Design Aim 2:

      Aim 2 is based on the same design as Aim 1. We will explore the frequency, severity and
      distribution of basal and feeding related LUS parameters and their relationship with clinical
      (feeding assessment/medical/behavioural/neurological/chronic pain) measures, interventions
      (postural, thickening fluids or with drugs available for GERD), inter- and intra- group at
      any time point.

      Other possible applications of LUS in the enrolled population will be collected (e.g.
      pneumonia detection and monitoring).

      Experimental Design Aim 3:

      Brain MRI is a clinical procedure in the diagnostic approach to children with neurological
      impairment. Brain abnormalities and corticobulbar tract integrity for lips, tongue, larynx
      motor and sensory control will be checked to uncover the neural circuits that may underlay
      swallowing problems leading to silent or overt aspiration and pulmonary risk estimated by
      LUS. Brain lesions topography and severity will be assessed by using a standardized MRI
      acquisition protocol according to the diagnostic procedure in use at Stella Maris Scientific
      Institute MRI Lab. Diffusion-weighted Imaging (DWI) will be used with the aim of revealing
      structural integrity and connectivity along white matter tracts involved in swallowing.

      Expected outcomes:

      the LUS-m group having better outcomes, at short- and long-term, including: having lower rate
      of pulmonary illness, better growth curve, reduction of execution rate of VFSS/FEES. Also,
      better results at blood sample and bone metabolism, lower pain indices, better scores at
      neurological/behavioural clinical measures, and less stressful interaction with caregivers.
    
  