
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Describe symptoms/concerns before, during, and after intraperitoneal (IP) chemotherapy
           and the impact of these symptoms/concerns on the quality of life (QOL) of patients with
           ovarian cancer undergoing IP chemotherapy. (Part I)

        -  Analyze care received and resource utilization of these patients, including length of
           hospitalization, ICU admission rates, clinic visits, phone calls, urgent care visits,
           and other heath system encounters. (Part I)

        -  Develop palliative care assessment measures and interventions that apply to IP
           chemotherapy. (Part II)

        -  Implement a palliative care intervention in a pilot of 6 patients. (Part II)

        -  Describe the impact of implementing palliative care interventions on resource
           utilization, improved QOL and symptoms, and number of chemotherapy courses completed.
           (Part II)

      OUTLINE: This is a two-part study.

        -  Part I (retrospective portion): Patients who have undergone intraperitoneal (IP)
           chemotherapy within the past 6-12 months undergo a retrospective interview and chart
           audit to identify their needs and experiences.

        -  Part I (prospective portion): Patients are followed monthly for up to 6 months during IP
           chemotherapy to provide information about usual care and to identify needs and
           palliative care concerns. Patients also complete a quality-of-life (QOL) questionnaire
           (COH QOL Ovarian tool) and undergo a prospective interview.

        -  Part II (intervention): Patients undergo comprehensive palliative care assessment, a
           patient teaching session prior to the initiation of IP chemotherapy, and a palliative
           care intervention during IP chemotherapy. Patients also complete a QOL questionnaire and
           undergo an interview. Patients are followed monthly for up to 6 months during IP
           chemotherapy.
    
  