
    
      Background: Antimicrobial resistance has decreased the eradication rates of common used
      triple therapy for Helicobacter pylori infection (less than 80%). Such treatment for patient
      previously with treatment failure, the retreatment eradication rate is less then 50%. Some
      studies showed the Helicobacter pylori form biofilm to prevent entry of antibiotics, and the
      N-acetylcystein is helpful to dissolve the biofilm.

      Objective: To determine the eradication rate of the common used triple therapy after adding
      N-acetylcystein for second line treatment for adults infected with Helicobacter pylori in
      Eastern Taiwan.

      Design: Randomized, open-label, prospective controlled trial.

      Patients: who are previously failed the primary treatment for eradication and still infected
      by Helicobacter pylori.

      Measurements: 13C-urea breath test, upper endoscopy, histologic evaluation, rapid urease
      test, bacterial culture, assessment of antibiotic resistance and CYP2C19 genotype of host.

      Intervention: patients with Helicobacter pylori eradication treatment failure are recruited
      and randomly assigned to receive one of the following therapeutic schemes: 1) study group:
      rabeprazole 20mg bid + amoxicillin 1g bid + clarithromycin 0.5g bid + N-acetylcystein 0.6g
      bid for 10 days; 2) control group: rabeprazole 20mg bid + amoxicillin 1g bid + clarithromycin
      0.5g bid + metronidazole 0.5g bid for 10 days. Repeat upper endoscopy for histologic
      evaluation, rapid urease test or 13C-urea breath test after 4 week of treatment to assess the
      treatment result. The influence on the hybrid therapies of antibiotic resistance of
      Helicobacter pylori and CYP2C19 genotype of host were determined.

      Expected results: The new second line treatment for eradication of Helicobacter pylori is
      effective, and to determine the relation of antibiotic resistance of Helicobacter pylori and
      CYP2C19 genotype of host to the treatment result.
    
  