
    
      This study is a retrospective cohort study. The investigators design to analyze the HLA
      high-resolution typing data of kidney transplant recipients from 2014 to the end of 2017 with
      HLA Matchmaker for eplets mismatching number, and analyze the incidence of dnDSA and AMR
      after kidney transplant recipients with different eplets mismatching number post transplant,
      and elucidate the important role of tissue configuration patterns based on HLA eplets
      matching in long-term graft survival.

      The study contents including the followings:

        1. Collecting the HLA high resolution typing data The high-resolution HLA typing data of
           the recipients were analyzed with the HLA Matchmaker software for Eplets mismatching
           numbers, and the experiment groups were conducted according to the results of Eplets
           mismatching numbers. Based on the normal distribution characteristics of the Eplets
           mismatching numbers and the references, the study is divided into the following four
           groups: group 1, with the Eplets mismatching numbers <5; 2. Group 2, with Eplets
           mismatching numbers 5-19; Group 3, with Eplets mismatching numbers 20-35; Group 4: with
           Eplets mismatching numbers greater than or equal to 36.

        2. Collecting Clinical follow-up data of patients after kidney transplantation. It mainly
           includes renal function, DSA level, and pathological diagnosis data of diseases and
           venereal diseases.

      1) sCr： 1 month, 6 months, 1 year, 2 years after surgery... 2) Preoperative PRA-: 1 month, 6
      months, 1 year, 2 years after surgery... 3) Preoperative PRA+:2 weeks after surgery, January,
      march, June, September, 1 year, 2 years...

      4) DSA was classified according to the type of antibody: DSA of HLA A site, DSA of HLA B
      site, DSA of HLA C site, DSA of HLA DR site, DSA of HLA DQ site; 5) According to DSA MFI
      value classification：MFI<3000, 3000≤MFI<6000, 6000≤MFI<10000,MFI≥10000; 6) AMR：Pathological
      biopsy data collection (according to Banff 2013 standard diagnosis) 3. Statistical analysis
      SPSS17.0 Chinese version was used for descriptive analysis of the data. The continuous
      variable is represented by the mean plus or minus the standard deviation. The chi-square test
      analyzed the relationship between the Eplets mismatching numbers and the generation of dnDSA,
      as well as the differences in the Eplets mismatching numbers between the DSA positive group
      and the DSA negative group, and the differences in Eplets mismatching numbers between the AMR
      group and the non-AMR group. Kaplan-meier survival curve was used to analyze the differences
      in long-term graft survival among groups with different Eplets mismatching numbers. P<0.05
      was considered statistically significant.
    
  