
    
      The regenerative properties of adipose stem cells (ASCs) existing in the mixed cell fraction
      obtained by enzymatic digestion of adipose tissue, termed adipose-derived stromal vascular
      fraction (ADSVF), were initially described in 2002. These cells have the characteristics of
      being multipotent and exerting local angiogenic, anti-inflammatory, antifibrotic,
      immunomodulatory, and regenerative effects after application. ASCs express their angiogenic
      properties most effectively in a hypoxic environment.

      For the above reasons, and because of its abundance in fat, easy acquisition, and almost
      immediate availability for use, ADSVF has positioned itself as an alternative for repair and
      regeneration of ischemic tissue.

      Application of decanted fat, centrifuged fat, and ADSVF, has consistently and significantly
      improved pain, Raynaund Phenomen, and healing of digital ulcers in the hands of patients with
      SS, and thus improved their quality of life. Other inconsistent benefits have also been
      reported, such as decreased digital circumference, improvement in digital mobility and
      strength, improvement in formation of new subungual capillaries, and improvement in function
      through evaluation of the Cochin scale.

      Based on the above findings, and because changes in the hands of patients with SS may arise
      through loss of adipocytes and defective stem cell function, we designed the present study
      with the aim of evaluating the safety, reproducibility, and clinical effects of application
      of fat micrografts enriched with ADSVF to the hands of patients affected with SS in a
      controlled clinical trial.

      The experimental and control groups each contained 10 patients diagnosed with SS according to
      the criteria of the American College of Rheumatology and the LeRoy-Medsger criteria.

      It was decided to carry out the treatment on the most affected hand of the patients, which
      was the right hand in the entire experimental group. ADSVF-enriched fat micrografts were
      applied to the experimental group. Evolution and medical therapy effects were observed in the
      control group.

      The fat was obtained by liposucction and the ADSVF was processed in laboratory.
    
  