
    
      Although oxidative stress is not the primary aetiology of SCA, oxidative damage could in part
      account for pathophysiological mechanisms leading to sickle vaso-occlusion, in which anti
      bande 3 antibodies might play a role. Bande 3 is a protein belonging to red blood cells.
      These anti bande 3 antibodies are producted when after oxidative damage, a hidden site of
      bande 3 is revealed. In preliminary data, the Cuban partner of this study showed a
      significative difference between their level in patients, during steady state and
      vaso-occlusive crises. Our clinical question is to determine if a decrease of these
      antibodies, could participate in the occurrence of the crises. Therapeutic strategies aimed
      to counteract oxidative abnormalities might alleviate this still nowadays unknown mechanisms
      disease progression.

      Band 3 protein which belongs to the anionic interchanger is the main erythrocyte membrane
      protein, present in about 1.2 x 106 copies per cell. Under certain conditions, band 3 protein
      modifications in the human erythrocyte membrane surface lead to band 3 aggregates. These
      modifications are mostly due to oxidative insults that gradually accumulate during red blood
      cell lifespan. Band 3 clusters on the SS RBCs produce two significant changes: first, these
      cells acquire an adhesive nature; second, band 3 aggregates are recognized by natural band 3
      antibodies. Several studies have shown that band 3 peptides are able to inhibit the adherence
      of SS RBCs to endothelial cells. This suggests possible participation of band 3 antibodies in
      the aethiology as well as in the prevention of VOC in SCA. Oxidant damage in RBCs may
      contribute to the circulatory disorders by affecting their flow properties i.e. their
      deformability, aggregability and adherence to endothelial cells. Therefore, in parallel of
      the study of the evaluation of the role of anti bande 3 antibodies in VOC occurrence and
      severity, the investigators will explore the involvement of oxidative stress on the
      rheological properties of SSRBCs (deformability and aggregability),
    
  