
    
      The aim of this study is to compare rehabilitation with the wearing of a sling, to
      rehabilitation without any immobilization after Latarjet procedure for treatment of anterior
      shoulder instability. Ultimately, the goal would be to offer to patients a simplified
      rehabilitation management, with a faster recovery, less pain and a quicker return to
      activities of daily living, work and sport.

      As primary outcome, investigators will evaluate if the Rowe score18 is superior without
      postoperative immobilization (without a sling during the first 3 weeks) for the first 6
      months after surgery. The non-inferiority of the shoulder mobilization without a sling over
      mobilization with a sling for rehabilitation after Latarjet procedure for treatment of
      anterior shoulder instability.

      Secondary outcomes include radiological criteria (X-rays and computed tomography (CT) at 6
      months for bony union), return to sport, work absenteeism, other complication rate
      (especially redislocation), and the undermentioned subjective and clinical scores before
      surgery and at 1.5, 3, and 6 months postoperative.

      All patients will be assessed with commonly used subjective scores in the form of
      self-administered questionnaires. The Visual Analog Scale (VAS) is a widely used single-item
      test where a patient rates pain intensity between 0 and 10. This scale is useful for patient
      preoperative and postoperative monitoring and has also been correlated with patient pain,
      anxiety and apprehension20,21. Patient satisfaction (are patients satisfied, yes/no) will be
      assessed as well. Subjective Shoulder Value (SSV) is a single-question test where a patient
      is asked to rate his overall shoulder function as a percentage of normal shoulder. It is a
      quick and easily administered score that has also been validated for various shoulder
      disabilities, such as instability.

      The following clinical scores will be analyzed as well Rowe and Walch-Duplay scores for
      instability is a three-item test with four choices each, measuring shoulder function,
      stability, and motion. The final result is converted into a value between 0 and 100. These
      scores have been specifically developed for shoulder instability.

      Except for VAS, higher results mean higher function. ROM will be determined using a Vicon
      motion capture system (Vicon, Oxford Metrics, Oxford, UK) consisting of six cameras sampling
      at 120 Hz already available in our facility.
    
  