
    
      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to physician-selected chemotherapy (FOLFOX or FOLFIRI), prior adjuvant chemotherapy
      (yes vs no), and prior pelvic radiotherapy (yes vs no). Patients were randomized to 1 of 3
      treatment arms.

      Primary Objective:

        -  To determine if the addition of cetuximab to FOLFIRI or FOLFOX chemotherapy prolongs
           survival compared to FOLFIRI or FOLFOX with bevacizumab in patients with untreated,
           advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer who have K-ras wild type tumors.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To evaluate response, progression-free survival (PFS), time to treatment failure (TTF),
           and duration of response (DR) among patients with unresectable advanced metastatic colon
           cancer treated with bevacizumab or cetuximab in addition to chemotherapy with FOLFIRI or
           FOLFOX

        -  To evaluate toxicity and, in particular, 60-day mortality among patients with
           unresectable advanced metastatic colon cancer treated with bevacizumab or cetuximab in
           addition to chemotherapy with FOLFIRI or FOLFOX

        -  To describe patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer
           rendered "resectable" with chemotherapy

      There are premedication guidelines that were established for patients assigned to receive
      cetuximab. All patients must be premedicated with diphenhydramine hydrochloride 50 mg (or a
      similar agent) IV prior to the first dose of cetuximab in an effort to prevent an infusion or
      hypersensitivity reaction. Premedication is also recommended prior to subsequent doses, but
      at the investigator's discretion the dose of diphenhydramine (or a similar agent) may be
      reduced. Pretreatment with acetaminophen may also be used.

      There are bevacizumab administration instructions for patients for whom surgery is being
      contemplated or required. For patients for whom elective surgery is contemplated, bevacizumab
      is to be discontinued for at least 8 weeks prior to surgery. Bevacizumab may be resumed after
      at least 4 weeks following surgery. Patients who undergo complete resection of metastatic
      disease will discontinue protocol therapy and may receive further treatment at the treating
      physician's discretion. For patients for whom non-elective surgery is required, hold
      bevacizumab as long as possible prior to surgery and for at least 6 weeks following surgery.

      Patients received a minimum of two cycles of therapy. Patients were allowed to receive
      ancillary therapy per protocol. Treatment continued until disease progression, unacceptable
      toxicity, or surgery with curative intent as planned. After completion of study treatment,
      patients are followed up to 5 years.
    
  