
    
      Potential subjects (from both the prospective interventional and control groups) will be
      recruited in the pre-surgical clinic of Dr. David Bartlett once they are scheduled for major
      abdominal surgery. Patients will be asked for their interest in pursuing a research study
      that involves wearing a percutaneous, auricular field stimulator for five days as a
      supplementary method of post-operative pain control. Patients who agree to participate in the
      trial will sign an IRB approved Informed Consent Form.

      Once patient has signed the Informed Consent to participate in this pilot study, demographic
      information and medical history will be collected from each participant on the day of
      surgery. The NSS-2 BRIDGE device will be applied to the ear by Dr. Jacques Chelly or Research
      Coordinator Amy Monroe in the immediate post-operative setting (PACU), as Dr. Chelly and Amy
      Monroe have both completed the necessary training required by the company to apply the
      device. Rescue analgesia will be permitted as per the approved ERAS multi-modal anesthetic
      protocol, however, the patient will be made aware at the time of consent and throughout the
      trial that they can drop out of the study at any time if they do not like wearing the NSS- 2
      BRIDGE device.

      Randomization of both groups will occur by assigning the participant a subject ID number, and
      this ID number will correspond to a treatment allocation based on a pre-designed
      randomization schema. This treatment allocation (intervention/control) will be contained in a
      sealed, opaque, envelope with the subject ID number that is designated on envelope. The
      master randomization list will be created and held by an independent data monitor who will
      both create and hold the master randomization list.

      The patient will be assessed 12, 24, 48, 72, 96 and 120 hours post-operatively to collect
      total opioid consumption, incidence of adverse events, and level of comfort while wearing the
      NSS-2 BRIDGE device. Additional data that will be collected includes total post-operative
      narcotic consumption, PACU narcotic consumption, time to readiness for discharge from PACU,
      time to bowel movement, time to oral intake (liquid and regular diet), time to hospital
      discharge, intensive care unit (ICU) admission, readmission to the hospital, percentage of
      patients readmitted because of pain related issues, overall patient satisfaction, patient
      satisfaction relating to pain management When the patient is discharged from the hospital,
      they will be asked to complete a patient satisfaction survey. For patients discharged with
      the device attached, removal instructions and pre-paid return envelope will be given to
      patient to remove the device at 120 hours and send back to the hospital. The patient will be
      contacted 3 months post-operatively to again assess patient satisfaction with the pain
      management after surgery, and to assess functional recovery.

      Post-operative nausea and/or vomiting will be evaluated by nausea score (0-10). Frequency of
      emesis and rescue antiemetic requirement will be collected per the institution's standard of
      care and transcribed from the medical record by research staff.

      Standard opioid conversion table will be used to convert the oral and IV narcotic utilized by
      the patients to IV morphine equivalent doses (MED) for analysis purposes.

      Time to patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) initiation on the floor will also be measured, as
      well as total PCA hydromorphone consumption over the 120-hour postoperative period.

      Overall patient satisfaction and satisfaction of pain management during hospitalization will
      be measured by a numerical rating scale with 0- worst satisfaction and 10 being the best
      satisfaction. The patient satisfaction test will be administered by a member of the research
      team.

      Number of patients with unsatisfactory pain relief defined as average Numerical Rating Scale
      (NRS) more than 5 with or without requirement of IVPCA for pain relief during the first 120
      hours postoperative period will be compared between the two groups and form the primary
      outcome for the study.

      Secondary outcome measures will include total post-operative narcotic consumption, PACU
      narcotic consumption, time to readiness for discharge from PACU, time to bowel movement, time
      to oral intake (liquid and regular diet), time to hospital discharge, intensive care unit
      (ICU) admission, readmission to the hospital, percentage of patients readmitted because of
      pain related issues, overall patient satisfaction, patient satisfaction relating to pain
      management, and cost analyses. Overall patient satisfaction and satisfaction of pain
      management during hospitalization will be measured by a numerical rating scale with 0- worst
      satisfaction and 10 being the best satisfaction. This patient satisfaction score will
      administered by member of research team.
    
  