
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Assess the effect of moderate physical activity interventions in ameliorating quality of
           life (as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Colon questionnaire) in
           patients undergoing or who have previously received chemotherapy for stage II or III
           colorectal cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Assess the effect of different moderate physical activity interventions in ameliorating
           depression (as measured by the Beck Depression Inventory) and anxiety (as measured by
           the Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory) in these patients.

        -  Assess the effect of these interventions on attitudes related to physical activity (as
           measured by the American Council on Exercise History questionnaire) in these patients.

        -  Characterize serum levels and patterns of immune function (cytokines, neutrophils, T
           cells, B cells, natural killer [NK] cells, and immunoglobulin) in these patients.

        -  Correlate serum levels and patterns of immune function (cytokines, neutrophils, T cells,
           B cells, NK cells, and immunoglobulin) with the patients' physical activity levels.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients participate in individual walking sessions once a week for 8 weeks. The
           sessions include a fitness-related discussion, warm-up and stretch, 45 minutes of
           physical activity consisting of walking (progressing in intensity), and a cool-down
           period.

        -  Arm II: Patients participate in a group walking sessions once a week for 8 weeks. The
           sessions include a fitness-related discussion, warm-up and stretch, 45 minutes of
           physical activity consisting of walking (progressing in intensity as in arm I), and a
           cool-down period.

        -  Arm III: Patients participate in self-directed physical activity sessions (1½ hours)
           once a week for 8 weeks. The sessions include warm-up and stretch followed by 45 minutes
           of progressively intensified physical activity that integrates fundamentals of movement,
           dance, and exercise principles from established movement methods (i.e., yoga) and a
           relaxation session/cool-down period.

      All patients complete self-reported questionnaires (Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety
      Inventory, Beck Depression Inventory, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Colon, and
      American Council on Exercise History questionnaires). Patients also undergo blood collection
      at baseline, at 4 weeks, upon completion of study treatment, and at 4 months after completion
      of study treatment for correlative studies. Blood is examined by flow cytometry for immune
      function and cytokines.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 45 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  