
    
      This study is a prospective, single-center, non-randomized pilot clinical trial. Subjects
      enrolled will include:

        -  those naïve to Ultherapy™ for treatment of hyperhidrosis (Group A, n=31); dual-depth
           treatment at 4.5mm and 3.0mm;

        -  those who were non-responders to a prior Ultherapy™ treatment for hyperhidrosis (Group
           B, n=approx 5), dual-depth treatment at 4.5mm and 3.0mm;

        -  those naïve to Ultherapy™ for treatment of hyperhidrosis who will receive one
           double-density study treatment (Group C, n=4), dual-depth treatment at 4.5mm and 3.0mm;

        -  those naïve to Ultherapy™ for treatment of hyperhidrosis (Group D, n=10), single-depth
           treatment at 2.0mm at standard energy;

        -  those naïve to Ultherapy™ for treatment of hyperhidrosis (Group E, n=10), single-depth
           treatment at 2.0mm at adjusted energy.

        -  Protocol amended (Sept 2014): Subjects in Groups D and E will receive treatments at the
           same energy setting (0.30J) and two treatment densities: Group D, 60 lines/treatment
           square; Group E, 40 lines per treatment square.

      Ultrasound images will be captured of each axilla to assess dermal thickness and depth of
      sweat glands. A gravimetric measurement of sweat production and starch iodine test will be
      performed prior to treatment. Digital images of the starch iodine test will be obtained.
      Hyperhidrosis Disease Severity Scale (HDSS)scores will be obtained prior to each treatment.
      During treatment, the average Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) score will be obtained by axilla
      treated. Efficacy will be determined by a reduction in the number of sweat glands from
      baseline to 90-days post-treatment, as evidenced by histological analysis. Subject
      Gravimetric results, Starch iodine results, and HDSS scores at all follow-ups compared to
      baseline will also be analyzed as secondary outcomes.
    
  