
    
      Over the next two years, the investigators will be collecting data on two samples, henceforth
      identified as the Clinical Sample and Prevention Sample. The laboratory protocol (pre, post,
      and follow-up) is the same for each; however the screening and recruitment are not. In this
      section, only those procedures and methods of the lab visit that are common to both are
      described. Next the video game intervention procedures are described. Participant and
      recruitment details are in subsequent sections.

      Each participant will visit the Adolescent Dynamics Lab three times (pre, post, and
      follow-up) with only minor differences where noted. Parents will accompany children to the
      lab and, following the completion of consent forms (pre only), complete a set of
      questionnaires via computer:

      Child report:

        -  Demographics

        -  Spence Child Anxiety Scale (SCAS)

        -  Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ)- emotional symptoms

        -  Top Problems questionnaire (TP)

        -  Coping Questionnaire

        -  Self-Efficacy Questionnaire (SEQ-C)

      Parent report:

        -  Demographics (including what interventions for child's mental health have been tried)

        -  SCAS (report on child)

        -  Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire - emotional symptoms (report on child)

        -  Depression, Anxiety and Stress Scale-21 (DASS21, report on self)

      Questionnaires at Post are the same as Pre and Follow-up except for addition of Video game
      evaluation (child report).

      Once questionnaires are completed, the child participant will have sensors for
      psychophysiological recording attached by a female experimenter. First, two sensors for
      recording electrodermal response (aka galvanic skin response or skin conductance) will be
      attached to the tips of the second and third finger of the non-dominant hand. Children's
      fingers will be wiped clean before applying a dab of conducting gel on the two fingers and
      affixing the sensors with Velcro straps firmly but not uncomfortably. Next, two sticker
      electrodes for measuring electrocardiogram signals (e.g., heart rate) are applied in a
      Lead-II configuration: one affixed just below the right collarbone and the other on the side
      of the torso near the lower left rib. These circular stickers (about the size of a Loonie)
      have a metal nub to which wires are affixed via clips. Finally, a respiration belt is wrapped
      around the torso below the breast or pectoral muscle outside of the clothing. The belt is
      elastic and registers the expansion and contraction due to respiration. All three measurement
      devices are attached to a Biopac TEL-100 battery pack attached to the back of the
      participant's chair. This device is then attached to a computer in the adjacent room via the
      Biopac MP-150 amplifier. Physiological signals are recorded using AcqKnowledge 4.2 software
      from Biopac. The child and parent will be able to observe the signals as they will be
      recorded via a monitor in the observation room.

      Once the sensors and physiological recording has been set up, the parent will be asked to
      leave the room and wait in a room nearby until the child has completed the tasks. The
      sequence of tasks is:

        1. Baseline Physiology (3 tasks): (a) equipment baseline: watch a neutral film to allow the
           measurements to settle(2 minutes), (b) paced breathing to get resting respiratory sinus
           arrhythmia (RSA; a measure of parasympathetic activity) while participants breathe in
           and out in synch with a bar that goes up and down at 9 cycles per minute displayed on a
           monitor (2 minutes), and (c) pre-task baseline for calculating reactivity to social and
           cognitive stress (2 minutes)

        2. Attention bias task: dot probe task. (5 minutes)

        3. Social Stress Task: spontaneous speech on any topic of the child's choosing (3 minutes).

        4. Quick self-report of feelings (< 1 minute)

        5. Recovery 1: participant sits alone in the observation room quietly to assess return to
           baseline levels of arousal (3 minutes).

        6. Cognitive Stress Task: counting backwards by 7's from 2148. Incorrect answers will
           require the participant to start over from the beginning (2 minutes)

        7. Recovery 2: participant sits alone in the observation room quietly to assess return to
           baseline levels of arousal (3 minutes).

      Finally, the parent will be brought back into the room as the sensors are removed. Debriefing
      will occur only after the final follow-up lab visit. Anticipated time to complete lab visit
      is approximately one hour.

      MINDLIGHT GAME PLAY Participants in the treatment condition will play 5 total hours of
      MindLight, one hour at each sitting, over the course of 2-3 weeks. Game play will occur
      either in schools or at the participant's home. For the Prevention Sample, MindLight will be
      played in participating middle and high schools in the Limestone District School Board.
      Participants in the Clinical Sample who attend these schools will also play the game at the
      school. However, for children recruited through the Hotel Dieu Mood and Anxiety clinic (see
      recruitment details) who do not attend one of the participating schools will play MindLight
      at home. In all cases, a research assistant will be present to set up the game and monitor
      any equipment difficulties.

      To play the game, children will wear a lightweight MindWave headset that has a single
      electrode that must touch the forehead (see attached images). There is a clip that attaches
      comfortably to the earlobe as well. The electroencephalogram (EEG) signals in the alpha,
      beta, and gamma frequencies are used to extract two continuous signal streams that are
      measures of focused attention and arousal. These signals are used in the game to control the
      character's "mind light," a magical hat he wears that has a light on the end of a signal
      antenna, by focusing a beam of light toward specific targets to solve puzzles within the game
      and expanding the range of light inversely proportional to the degree of arousal. Thus,
      children control key aspects of the game with their mind.

      Control participants in the Prevention Sample will play Max and the Magic Marker, a
      commercially available game with similar features to MindLight but without the key mechanisms
      targeting anxiety reduction (attention bias modification and relaxation). The amount of game
      play time and location will be the same as those in the intervention group.

      ONLINE COGNITIVE BEHAVIOURAL THERAPY Control participants in the Clinical Sample will receive
      an online version of cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) based on the skills taught in Mind
      over Mood by D. Greenberger and C. Padesky. The program provides general information on each
      topic, an overview on helpful skills, and homework sheets by email that directly corresponds
      with how a live, 8-week group therapy session would be conducted. Participants will also
      receive feedback on homework on a specific day every week from a therapist at Hotel Dieu.

      Description of participants CLINICAL SAMPLE Children 8-16 years old who have made an
      appointment at the Mood and Anxiety Clinic at Hotel Dieu specifically for problems with
      anxiety. Only those with autism or significant developmental delays will be excluded. The
      investigators will recruit 100 children, with half randomly assigned to the MindLight
      intervention group.

      PREVENTION SAMPLE Children 10-16 years old attending participating schools in the Limestone
      District School Board who have been identified as having elevated anxiety symptoms via a
      self-report measure of anxiety. Only those with autism or significant developmental delays
      will be excluded. The investigators will recruit 100 children, with half randomly assigned to
      the MindLight intervention group.

      Recruitment details CLINICAL SAMPLE Participants will be recruited following initial
      assessment at the Hotel Dieu Mood and Anxiety Clinic. The typical wait period between this
      initial diagnostic assessment and the start of either group or one-on-one therapy is 3-6
      months. Our intervention will occur during this wait period. During the initial assessment at
      the clinic, children aged 8-16 will be invited to participate in the study. They will be
      provided a brief explanation of the study and will indicate to the clinician whether they
      give permission to be contacted by the recruitment coordinator who will provide all of the
      details of the study. The participant will be made aware that they are under no obligation to
      participate in the study by agreeing to be contacted. Those who assent to participate will be
      invited to the Adolescent Dynamics Lab to begin participation.

      PREVENTION SAMPLE Children in grades 6-10 who attend one of the participating schools will
      complete one questionnaire during class time, the Spence Children's Anxiety Scale (SCAS).
      Children who score 1 standard deviation above the mean for (a) the total score or (b) two of
      the subscales (not including the obsessive-compulsive scale) will be considered at risk for
      developing an anxiety disorder. These children will be invited to participate in the study by
      visiting the Adolescent Dynamics Lab. Consent for the study will be obtained from the parent
      prior to the SCAS screening.
    
  