
    
      Scleredema adultorum of Buschke is a scleroderma-like skin disorder characterized by
      thickened skin with edema in patients' neck, shoulders and back. Graff described three types
      of scleredema. The first type occurs usually in children after an infection, the second type
      often associated with haematological malignancies and the third type usually develops in
      patients with long lasting uncontrolled diabetes mellitus. These patients with diabetes are
      often obese and have vascular complications. Based on two large cohorts, the prevalence of
      scleredema among patients with diabetes mellitus was 2.5-14.0% .

      The aims of this study is to screen consecutive patients with diabetes mellitus for the
      presence of scleredema skin disorder and to investigate and compare the clinical-laboratory
      data of patients with and without scleredema. Both the vascular complications in case history
      and the parameters of lipid and carbohydrate metabolism will be focused on. All findings will
      also be compared to another cohort of scleredema-diabetes patients who already treated in our
      tertiary clinical centre of the University of Pécs in Hungary.

      Participants and methods:

      About 150 consecutive patients with diabetes mellitus are planned to be investigated.
      Scleredema skin disorder will be screened by palpation of skin on the nape of the neck, the
      whole trunk and the shoulders by at least two physicians. Newly recognized patients will be
      asked to give their consent for undergoing skin biopsy.

      Planned clinical examinations and biochemical data collection are as follows:

      Besides taking case history, patients will have a complete physical examination, and they
      will be asked to respond some standardized questions about their diabetes-related earlier
      vascular and neurological complications, as well as about their skin status.

      Repeated blood pressure, measuring weight and their height for defining BMI, for the
      diagnosis of polyneuropathy neurological physical examination, electroneuronography and
      calibrated tuning-fork test will be done. Retinopathy will be considered based on
      ophthalmological examination.

      Laboratory investigations are planned including blood count, routine chemistry, glycated
      haemoglobin (HbA1c), parameters of lipid metabolism as well as thyroid stimulating hormone
      (TSH) test, unless the patient already had results for these particular lab tests less than
      three months before. Significant nephropathy will be recorded based on values lower than 60
      ml/min/1.73m2 of estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) or the presence of
      microalbuminuria (>300 mg/die). Calculating of Hepatic steatosis index (HSI) and Framingham
      steatosis index (FrSI) for define the presence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)
      are also planned.

      Statistical analysis of the results will be performed: The distribution of variables planned
      to be evaluated based on Kolmogorov-Smirnov's test. Comparisons of the values of clinical
      data between groups will be performed by using a Kruskal-Wallis test for non-parametric data
      or a one-way ANOVA test for normally distributed continuous variables; Bonferonni's post hoc
      tests will be used in all cases. Chi-square test or Fisher's test will be used for
      categorical variables. Clinical-laboratory parameters associated with developing scleredema
      skin disorder are planned to defined by binary logistic regression with stepwise selection.
      Statistical analyses will be performed with IBM SPSS Statistics v 24.0 software package
      (IBM's Corporate, New York, USA).
    
  