
    
      Study aim:

        1. Determination and comparison of the effect of 75mg (25mg TDS) hydralazine vs. placebo in
           patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

        2. Development of an electronic Case Report Form (CRF) and push notification system to
           remind patients (and/or caregivers) of drug intake to improve drug intake adherence and
           reduce follow-up losses.

        3. Evaluation of the prognostic accuracy of olfactory tests to predict the changes in
           cognition and performance of patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

      Design:

      This is a phase III, triple-blind, parallel double-armed randomized clinical trial with an
      allocation ratio of 1-1 to the intervention and placebo arms. This trial will be conducted on
      424 randomly selected patients using random permuted blocks.

      Settings and conduct:

      All patients who are identified as potentially eligible by the supporting neurologists and
      psychiatrists will be referred to Adineh Clinic to evaluate their cognitive function, assess
      for inclusion and exclusion criteria and obtain informed consent. The two arms of the study
      are hydralazine 75mg (25mg three times per day) or hydralazine placebo. A follow-up
      evaluation will continue for one year after drug administration. The participants, outcome
      assessors, researchers, and data analyzers will be blinded to the study arms.

      Participants/Inclusion and exclusion criteria:

      patients over the age of 49 and over who are diagnosed with mild to moderate AD will be
      included in this study; dementia patients with etiologies other than AD (i.e. vascular
      dementia) will not be included.

      Intervention groups:

      The two arms of the study are Hydralazine 75mg (25mg three times per day) or Hydralazine
      placebo.

      Main outcome variables:

      Various cognitive and function tests for patients and caregivers, olfactory tests,
      biochemistry as well as drug side effects will be assessed regularly over the period of
      follow-up.
    
  