
    
      Digital scans will be done at first, 5th, 6th, 8th, and 10th visit to get the possibility to
      determine and compare volume changing and stability at augmented or not augmented implant
      sites during follow up visits.

      According to standard procedure, patients will receive an antibiotic regime (Augmentin 1g,
      2x1, GlaxoSmithKline, Vienna, Austria; in case of penicillin-allergy: DalacinC 300mg, 3x1,
      Pfizer, Vienna, Austria) starting one day prior surgery till 3 days after surgery. Before
      implant surgery patients are advised to rinse with a local antiseptic chlorhexidine gluconate
      solution (Chlorhexamed forte 2mg/ml, GlaxoSmithKline, Vienna, Austria). Articain is used for
      local anesthesia (Ultracain D-S forte with epinephrine 1:100.000, Sanofi Aventis, Vienna,
      Austria). These drugs are not object of the investigation. After flap elevation the
      lingual-buccal height discrepancy and bone width is measured using a periodontal probe. The
      implant surgery is done following the standard surgical protocol of implant placement of the
      Department of Dental medicine and Oral Health Graz using a pilot drill guide. After implant
      insertion the marginal bone level will be measured using a periodontal probe. Implant
      shoulder attends as a reference.

      After implant insertion (Astra Tech Implant EV C or Astra Tech Implant Profile EV C, Dentsply
      Implants Manufacturing GmbH, Hanau, Germany), GBR (Astra Tech Implant EV C) and a healing
      period of approximately 3 months for both groups, the implants will be uncovered following
      the standard protocol of the Department of Dental medicine and Oral Health Graz, and titanium
      gingiva formers will be placed (non-investigational devices). After implant recovery the
      marginal bone level will be measured again using a periodontal probe. Implant shoulder
      attends as a reference.

      All patients will receive CE-certified gingiva formers, which are used in the Department of
      Dental Medicine and Oral Health Graz and which are approved in Austria. 1 week after reentry
      the sutures will be removed and the digital impression (PrimeScan) for the CAD/CAM (Computer
      Aided Design /Computer Aided Manufacturing) manufactured single implant crowns using
      customized individual abutments (Atlantis, Mölndal, Sweden) will be done.

      Radiographic examinations (single-tooth x-ray) will be done at implant recovery (3 months
      after implant placement, visit 6), visit 10 and visit 11.

      A complete periodontal status (PD=probing depth, BOP= Bleeding on probing, PI= Plaque index)
      should be evaluated at the first visit (before implant placement). These parameters (PD, BOP,
      PI) as well as Papilla Index should be performed 8, 12, and 15 months after implant placement
      at implant and reference tooth site. In addition, PD and Papilla Index will be performed 4
      months after implant placement (at time of integration of the implant crown). At the first
      visit, complete periodontal status will be evaluated to prove if the participant fulfills the
      inclusion criteria. During the following visits only reference teeth (neighboring tooth or
      teeth to the implant) and the implant site will be determined.

      The soft tissue maintenance will be detected using the Papilla Index by Jemt (Jemt T, 1997)
      which assesses the size of interproximal gingival papillae adjacent to single implant
      restorations. Using this, one can determine the papilla remodeling between a dental implant
      and each neighboring tooth.

      Intraoral photographs will be taken at every study visit (except suture removal), evaluating
      the esthetic outcome.

      Oral Health Impact Profile (OHIP-G 14) will be done at the first visit and 12 months after
      implant placement. The Oral Health Impact Profile as a self-rating patient-centered
      instrument designed to assess the oral health-related quality of life within the last month.
      Especially, the following dimensions are captured by the OHIP-G 14: functional Limitation
      (e.g., "pronouncing any words because of problems with your teeth, mouth, dentures, or jaw?")
      and physical Pain (e.g., "Have you had painful aching in your mouth"). 14 questions are
      raised, which are answered using a rating scale from 0 (never) to 4 (very often).

      A questionnaire evaluating patient satisfaction will be performed one week after implant
      surgery and 12 months after implant placement.

      Visual analog scale (VAS) for subjective measurement of pain will be performed immediately
      and 1 week after implant placement using a combined VAS and numeric rating scale (NRS) The
      scale ranges from 0 (smiling face), which means no pain, to 10 (sad face), which means most
      pain imaginable).

      GCP Statement: This study will be conducted in compliance with the principles of the
      Declaration of Helsinki, the ICH-GCP guidelines and in accordance with the relevant
      provisions of Austrian Medical Devices Act (MPG), the European Directive on implantable
      medical devices (90/385/EEC), the Styrian Hospitals Act (KALG), the Federal Law on hospitals
      (KAKuG), the EN-ISO standards 14155-1 and -2, EN ISO 14971, 10993 and all other ENISO
      eligible relevant legislations.
    
  