
    
      The liver is unique among the abdominal organs for the capacity to regenerate
      post-operatively. However, a minimum functional liver remnant (FLR) is required for patients
      to survive the initial perioperative period. At present, the assessment of the FLR is based
      on volume alone, in the context of clinical judgment and surrogate markers of liver function
      based on blood tests. Recently, Perspectum Diagnostics have developed and validated
      LiverMultiScan, an MRI-based technology that can non-invasively quantify fibroinflammatory
      disease in addition to steatosis and iron content. In this project, we plan to use
      LiverMultiScan as an additional direct measurement of liver health prior to resectional
      surgery or transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), so that liver volume and function can be
      combined. For example, surgery with a predicted FLR of 21% might be survivable if the liver
      tissue was in extremely good health, whereas surgery with a predicted FLR of 40% might be
      lethal if the liver tissue was in poor health. Occasionally, portal vein embolization (PVE)
      is performed to promote hypertrophy of the FLR. Furthermore, non-resectional intervention,
      for example TACE for primary liver cancers, is well-tolerated by patients with healthy
      livers, but can lead to serious liver decompensation and liver failure if TACE is delivered
      to a liver in poor health. Currently, the available imaging modalities are limited in their
      ability to assess liver health in liver resection or TACE candidates. Liver fat content
      (steatosis) can be assessed with CT, or more accurately with MRI. However, fibroinflammatory
      disease, which has been shown to correlate with post-resection morbidity, typically requires
      an invasive biopsy to diagnose accurately.

      This research project will support the definition, development and technical validation of
      Hepatica, which aims to build on the MRI technology underlying LiverMultiScan and develop the
      additional functionality required to meet this clinical need.
    
  