
    
      Emotional distress and burnout are common among health care workers, particularly among
      nurses. These burdens have been worsened due to the COVID-19 pandemic's imposition of
      substantial physical and psychological stressors as well as persistent worry about personal
      health. There are few effective therapies for healthcare workers' symptoms of distress, fewer
      still that can be easily scaled, and most require face-to-face contact which is discouraged
      during a pandemic.

      Mindfulness is a type of mind-body therapy that promotes a practice of non-judgmental
      awareness that can alleviate distress by uncoupling emotional reactions and habitual behavior
      from unpleasant symptoms, thoughts, and emotions. LIFT is a mobile mindfulness app which can
      assess levels of emotional distress via survey, and subsequently offer mindfulness content.

      To address the unmet needs of frontline nurses, we propose the LIFT-Healthcare Worker pilot
      randomized control trial (RCT). We will explore the feasibility and impact of the LIFT mobile
      app in relieving symptoms of emotional distress among nurses directly caring for COVID-19
      patients in the Duke University Health System.

      We aim to enroll up to 200 participants. After signing consent, participants will be
      randomized via the LIFT app in a 2:1 (intervention:control) fashion into two arms:

        1. Arm 1: Intervention group (access to LIFT mindfulness app)

        2. Arm 2: Control waitlist group (delayed access to LIFT app)

      AIM 1, which is to determine the feasibility of using the LIFT app among nurses directly
      caring for COVID-19 patients, will be assessed via the app which tracks user fidelity and
      adherence, and the use of an interactive dashboard for administrative users (i.e., study
      team) to track individual participant use. An open ended narrative question at 1 month will
      also help provide guidance for improving usability in future studies, as will directed
      telephone interviews with participants with high and low app.

      AIM 2, which is to assess evidence of clinical impact of LIFT compared to control among
      nurses directly caring for COVID-19 patients at 1 month, will be assessed by comparing
      changes in the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9), General Anxiety Disorder -7 (GAD-7)
      questionnaire, the Maslach Burnout Index (MBI), and Perceived Stress Scale 4 (PSS-4) over the
      study duration (1 month) between intervention and usual care groups.
    
  