
    
      Medical therapies (e.g. prednisolone, azathioprine and N-acetylcysteine) have not shown any
      benefit in patients with IPF and may cause harm. Therefore the focus of management has
      shifted towards a more holistic approach-management of the symptoms and how patients cope
      with these, in a chronic progressive terminal disease. Anxiety is recognised to contribute to
      patients' perceptions of symptoms and quality of life. CBT is being increasingly used in
      other chronic respiratory diseases, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
      where there is some evidence that it reduces anxiety and breathlessness. Currently there is
      no evidence regarding its use in IPF. If CBT is shown to reduce anxiety and help patients
      cope with symptoms of cough and breathlessness then it can be integrated into the care of all
      IPF patients to improve quality of life.

      All patients attending our specialist IPF clinic will be asked to complete a hospital anxiety
      and depression questionnaire (HADS). All those with anxiety (HADS-A of equal to or greater
      than 8) will be eligible for entry. Study information will be provided to these patients and
      they will then be contacted between 24 and 48 hours later by telephone to confirm they wish
      to enter the study. If they wish to participate a hospital visit will be arranged to complete
      informed consent, gather baseline information and be randomised. If allocated to the CBT
      intervention group they will then receive a maximum of 6 (minimum of 2) sessions of CBT on an
      individual basis. Patients allocated to the placebo group will receive written information on
      anxiety management. All patients will attend four more clinic visits at three, six, nine and
      twelve months after randomisation. At each clinic visit they will complete five
      questionnaires (totalling 60 questions) and undergo lung function and six minute walk test.
      They will be consented to wear a cough monitor for a 24 hour period at both baseline and 3
      month visits. The cough monitor records the number of times a patient coughs and how long
      they cough for during a 24 hour period. A small microphone is attached to the clothing and
      another small microphone to the chest wall which is connected to a small recording device.
      The device is carried around the waist. The patient will then return the cough monitor the
      following day. The monitor records not only coughing sounds but also other sounds around the
      microphone. However, computer software is used to remove parts of the recording where there
      is no sound, such as when reading or sleeping. It is also designed to remove distant noises,
      such as another person's conversation or noise from a television but this depends on how loud
      or close the noise is to the microphone.

      The anonymised recordings will be analysed by a trained researcher at Manchester University
      who counts the number of coughs. The recordings are kept confidential and are stored
      anonymously at the University of Manchester for a period of 15 years.
    
  