
    
      Background The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) was signed into law by
      President Obama on March 23, 2010. Two of the most contentious clauses under the PPACA were
      penalizing all persons who lacked insurance after January 1, 2014 and expansion of Medicaid
      insurance to all adults with incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level. The
      constitutionality of the act came under scrutiny and led to the "National Federation of
      Independent Businesses vs Sebelius" case wherein the Supreme Court upheld most of the
      provisions of the PPACA but decided to give states the option of not expanding Medicaid and
      at same time retain their Federal funding for the program. This Supreme Court decision
      resulted in Medicaid expansion becoming optional for states. As of January 1, 2014 24 states
      and the District of Columbia elected to expand Medicaid coverage as per the PPACA
      requirements. This variation in Medicaid expansion provided natural experiments to
      investigate the impact of expansion decisions.

      Inpatient care accounts for the largest share of national health care expenditures in the
      United States. There are several provisions in the PPACA which encourage coordination of care
      between providers through use of patient centered medical homes and base provider
      reimbursements on patient outcomes as opposed to volume of care delivered. Through such
      reforms the PPACA aimed at reducing wasteful use of resources such as preventable
      hospitalizations. Previous research has shown that inpatient use, specifically preventable
      hospitalizations can be sensitive to coverage gains and can serve as an indicator of access
      to primary care. Thus, assessing how insurance expansion under the PPACA has impacted overall
      inpatient utilization and rate of preventable hospitalizations may provide insight on how
      successful PPACA has been in replacing high cost wasteful services with lower cost primary
      care services. Wherry et al, using data from National Health Interview Survey, determined a
      positive association between the PPACA Medicaid expansion and rate of overnight
      hospitalizations, whereas Sommers et al, using data from a survey fielded in Arkansas,
      Kentucky and Texas found no significant association between overnight hospitalizations and
      Medicaid Expansion. They did not detect any differences in probability of overnight
      hospitalization and method of expansion (Arkansas vs Kentucky). However, their study was
      limited by a small sample size and based on results of a survey. Additionally, due to lack of
      administrative data they were unable to assess outcomes which might be more sensitive to
      increased access to primary care such as preventable hospitalizations. To the best of our
      knowledge only one study conducted thus far, assessed the impact of Medicaid expansion under
      PPACA on overall inpatient utilization and rates of preventable hospitalization. However,
      their study was limited to California, additionally different counties had different levels
      of expansions, with some expanding coverage up to 133% FPL, some up to 200% FPL and some were
      below 100% FPL. None of the studies thus far have determined the impact of different methods
      of Medicaid expansion under the PPACA on rates of all-cause and preventable hospitalizations
      using administrative data. One of the goals of the PPACA was to curb health care costs by
      reducing the volume of care delivered at ED. Certain measures incorporated in the PPACA such
      as increasing the number of insured persons and hence increasing access to care outside the
      ED and integration of health care delivery may contribute to reducing ED utilization. Two
      studies assessing the impact of Medicaid expansion on ED use also analyzed rates of
      ambulatory care sensitive conditions (ACSC), emergent but primary care treatable conditions
      and non-emergent ED visits. However, one study was limited to only the state of Maryland
      lacking a comparison state which did not expand Medicaid and the other was limited to only a
      single for-profit investor owned chain of hospitals in 6 states which expanded Medicaid and
      14 which didn't. Furthermore, none of the studies have assessed how different methods of
      Medicaid expansion under the PPACA impact rates of overall and non-emergent ED use.
      Racial/ethnic disparities in various facets of health care such as insurance coverage and
      overall access to health care is well documented in literature. Combined with the coverage
      provisions, additional reforms made by the PPACA such as, elevating the National Center on
      Minority Health and Health Disparities at the National Institutes of Health from a Center to
      a full Institute, might lead to narrowing of these disparities. The studies that have
      assessed the impact of Medicaid expansion under PPACA on disparities in inpatient use or ED
      use have relied primarily on self-reported data which is subject to cognitive, non-response,
      recall and other biases. Furthermore, granular measures of inpatient or ED use such as
      preventable hospitalizations and preventable ED visits cannot be accurately obtained from
      self-reported data. None of the studies thus far have determined the impact of Medicaid
      expansion or different methods expansions under PPACA on disparities in types of inpatient or
      emergency department utilization.

      Persons with substance use disorders (SUD) have significantly higher health-care costs,
      higher rates of suicide attempts and disabilities compared to the general population thus
      posing a burden to society overall. Despite this, in 2012, nearly 90% of the persons aged 12
      and older who required treatment for SUDs did not receive adequate treatment. The lack of
      insurance or insurance not covering SUD treatment services leading to the patient's inability
      to pay for them are some of the most commonly cited barriers to treatment. The coverage
      expansions under the PPACA have led to nearly 1.6 million Americans suffering from SUDs in
      Medicaid expansion states gaining health insurance coverage. Further, under the PPACA, SUD
      treatment is one of the ten essential health benefits that all plans must offer beginning in
      2014. The PPACA also requires all plans to adhere to the federal Mental Health Parity and
      Addiction Equity Act of 2008 (MHPAEA). Under this act all plans which offer mental health and
      SUD treatment benefits to their beneficiaries must make the benefits no more restrictive than
      medical benefits. The PPACA mandates all plans to cover screening, brief intervention and
      referral to treatment (SBIRT) for SUDs. Along with mandating SBIRT the PPACA also encourages
      Accountable Care Organizations and Patient Centered Medical Homes which might increase
      coordinated care for patients suffering from SUDs. The efforts for increasing care
      coordination and incorporating SBIRT for SUD in primary might translate to increase in number
      of health care referrals for SUD treatment which has historically, predominantly been through
      law enforcement agencies. Only one study has examined the impact of 2014 coverage expansions
      on the eligible adult population (18-64 year olds). The authors used the National Survey on
      Drug Use and Health data and found a significant increase in mental health treatment
      utilization without any significant changes in treatment of SUDs. However, they did not draw
      comparisons between states that expanded Medicaid vs states that did not. The study also did
      not examine changes in sources of payment for the SUD treatment following Medicaid expansion.

      Arkansas, Kentucky and Florida responses. Arkansas was the first state to secure an approval
      for its "Private Option" demonstration project to implement the Medicaid expansion under the
      PPACA. Arkansas adopted a premium assistance strategy, which involved using federal funds to
      provide individual commercial health insurance for all the newly Medicaid eligible persons
      earning up to 138% of the FPL by placing them into one of the federally qualified health
      plans. On May 9, 2013 Governor Beshear declared that Kentucky would go ahead with Medicaid
      expansion as proposed under the PPACA. Kentucky decided to carry out the Medicaid expansion
      by placing the newly eligible persons in this pre-existing managed Medicaid program. Despite
      the state's vehement opposition to the PPACA, Governor Rick Scott expressed support for a
      "limited Medicaid expansion" through a federally funded and privately administered managed
      care plan. However, Florida opted against the Medicaid expansion. This resulted in almost
      764,000 individuals not having any affordable coverage options by virtue of not being
      eligible for Medicaid coverage or Marketplace subsidies.

      Comparing inpatient and emergency room utilization between these three states will highlight
      the impact Medicaid expansion and different approaches to Medicaid expansion might have on
      health service utilization. Further, using national level data, comparing the change in rate
      of SUD treatment admissions after Medicaid expansion in states that expanded Medicaid vs
      states that did not will determine the impact of Medicaid expansion on SUD treatment
      utilization.

      Objectives and Specific Aims

        1. To determine the impact of Medicaid expansion and type of Medicaid expansion (purchase
           commercial insurance vs traditional Medicaid expansion) on all cause inpatient
           utilization and preventable hospitalizations and if effect of Medicaid expansion on
           inpatient utilization differs by race/ethnicity.

             1. Using a differences in differences approach we will compare the rate of all-cause
                hospitalizations and preventable hospitalizations for adults aged 19-64 between
                2013 and 2014 in the two states that expanded Medicaid vs Florida. A sub-group
                analysis comparing Arkansas and Kentucky will reveal if different approaches to
                expansion influenced inpatient utilization.

             2. Using a differences in differences in differences approach we will determine
                whether the impact of Medicaid expansion on inpatient utilization for adults aged
                19-64 differed by racial/ethnic groups (Hispanics, Non-Hispanic Whites and
                Non-Hispanic Blacks) between the three states.

        2. To determine the impact of Medicaid expansion and type of Medicaid expansion on ED
           utilization and non-emergent ED use and if the effect of Medicaid expansion on ED
           utilization differs by race/ethnicity.

             1. Using a differences in differences approach we will compare the rate of ED visits
                and non-emergent ED visits for adults aged 19-64 between 2013 and 2014 in the two
                states that expanded Medicaid vs Florida. A sub-group analysis comparing Arkansas
                and Kentucky will reveal if different approaches to expansion influenced ED
                utilization.

             2. Using a differences in differences in differences approach we will determine
                whether the impact of Medicaid expansion on emergency department utilization, for
                adults aged 19-64, differed by racial/ethnic sub-groups (Hispanics, Non-Hispanic
                Whites and Non-Hispanic Blacks) between the three states.

        3. To determine the impact of Medicaid expansion on the rate of SUD treatment admissions in
           facilities receiving some public support.

             1. Using a differences in differences in differences approach we will compare the rate
                of SUD treatment admissions from 2010-2014 for persons aged 18-54 vs those aged
                12-17 in the states that expanded Medicaid in 2014 vs states that did not expand
                Medicaid in 2014.

             2. Using a differences in differences in differences approach we will compare the
                changes in sources of payment for the SUD treatment admissions from 2010-2014 for
                persons aged 18-54 vs those aged 12-17 in the states that expanded Medicaid in 2014
                vs states that did not expand Medicaid in 2014.

             3. Using a differences in differences in differences approach we will compare the rate
                of health care referral for the SUD treatment admissions from 2010-2014 for persons
                aged 18-54 vs those aged 12-17 in the states that expanded Medicaid in 2014 vs
                states that did not expand Medicaid in 2014.

      Methods Impact of Private Option, Traditional Medicaid Expansion and Opting Against Medicaid
      Expansion on Inpatient Utilization: A Three State Comparison The investigators will use a
      longitudinal cross-sectional quasi-experimental difference in difference study design to
      assess the impact of Medicaid expansion and method of expansion on our inpatient utilization
      measures. We will determine the change in rates of all-cause and preventable hospitalization
      from 2013 - 2014 and contrast the change between states based on expansion/method of
      expansion status. The investigators will use a longitudinal cross-sectional
      quasi-experimental difference in difference in difference study design to assess the impact
      of Medicaid expansion and method of expansion on racial/ethnic disparities on our inpatient
      utilization measures. The investigators will determine the change in rates of all-cause and
      preventable hospitalization from 2013 - 2014 for each race/ethnicity and contrast the change
      between states based on expansion/method of expansion status.

      Data CDC - Wonder Bridged-Race Population Estimates The national center for health statistics
      (NCHS) combines 31 race categories used in the Census to four race categories: Asian or
      Pacific Islander, Black or African American, American Indian or Alaska Native, White and
      provides age, gender and ethnicity (Hispanic/Non-Hispanic) specific population counts for
      each county of the United States. These files are available for public use on CDC Wonder
      website. We will use these files to obtain the total population counts that will serve as
      denominators for our utilization metrics for each county of Arkansas, Florida and Kentucky
      for 2013 and 2014.

      HCUP SID For our inpatient utilization measures, the investigators will acquire the
      Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project (HCUP) State Inpatient Database (SID) from Arkansas,
      Kentucky and Florida respectively. The SIDs capture the particular state's hospital inpatient
      discharge records for the given year and contain them in a uniform format to allow
      inter-state comparisons. The unit of analysis in the dataset is a hospital discharge. In
      addition to information each hospitalization such as length of stay, charges, admit and
      discharge dates, the SIDs also contain clinical information such as the diagnosis recorded
      and procedures performed during each hospitalization and demographics of the hospitalized
      patient such as birth date, zip code of residence, gender, race, ethnicity, payer type etc.

      Analysis The investigators will depict the rates of outcomes for each state be quarter and
      determine if there is any change in trends between 2013 and 2014 or if there is an immediate
      change between 2013 and 2014 by using interrupted time series analysis. The investigators
      will calculate the crude rates of all-cause and preventable hospitalization for each state
      for each year. Using the US 2014 population as the reference population we will carry out
      direct standardization to compute the age and sex adjusted rates of all-cause and preventable
      hospitalizations for each state for each year. The investigators will also carry out direct
      standardization for race/ethnicity subgroups. Next, we will perform multivariate regression
      analysis to estimate the excess change in inpatient utilization due to Medicaid expansion.
      The investigators will use a Poisson distribution for our outcome variables. The population
      at risk will be the total population count of each the cohort as obtained from NCHS data.
      Standard errors will be clustered at the emergency management region level to account for
      nesting of each cohort within a emergency management region. The model will include emergency
      management region level fixed effects, to account for time invariant emergency management
      region level factors, dummies for age-group, gender race/ethnicity, and year. The
      investigators will create indicators for period (2013 and 2014) and expansion status
      (expanded Medicaid or not). The investigators will interact period indicator with expansion
      status indicator to determine the excess change in the outcome measures for states which
      expanded Medicaid (AR and KY) vs state that did not expand Medicaid in 2014 (FL). The same
      model specification will be used to determine the impact of method of Medicaid expansion on
      rates of all-cause and preventable hospitalizations. For this analysis, the investigators
      will compare the 2013 and 2014 data from Arkansas and Kentucky. To assess if the impact of
      Medicaid expansion on our outcome measures differed by racial/ethnic groups in the three
      states we will use a multivariate difference in difference in difference model. The data will
      be restricted to Non-Hispanic White, Hispanic and Non-Hispanic Black cohorts. In addition to
      the terms in the prior models, we will include interactions between race/ethnicity and state
      indicators to control for baseline disparities in the outcome in the states and interactions
      between race/ethnicity and time to control for longitudinal trends in disparities overall.
      The indicators for Non-Hispanic Blacks and Hispanics will be interacted with period
      indicators and state indicators. The coefficients of these interactions will provide us with
      the excess change in the outcome measures between Hispanic vs Non-Hispanic Whites and
      Non-Hispanic Blacks vs Non-Hispanic Whites in states which expanded Medicaid (AR and KY) vs
      state that did not expand Medicaid in 2014 (Referent = FL).

      Sensitivity Analysis The investigators will use a negative binomial distribution for our
      outcome measures in place of a Poisson distribution. In the second sensitivity analysis, for
      our measure of all-cause hospitalizations, the investigators will exclude all maternal
      discharges. In a third sensitivity analysis, the investigators will include only
      hospitalizations for adults aged 27-64 to exclude all young adults who might have experienced
      coverage gains prior to 2014 due to the "young-adult mandate". In a fourth sensitivity
      analysis, the investigators will include only those hospitalizations that took place in
      community hospitals. In a fifth sensitivity analysis, the investigators will collapse the
      racial/ethnic groups and define each cohort based on year, state, emergency management
      region, age-group and sex. The investigators will do this in order to incorporate those
      admissions in the count of the outcome measures where the patient's race/ethnicity is
      missing. Sixth, instead of grouping the data annually the investigators will group it by
      quarter and perform a segmented regression analysis. Lastly, the investigators will calculate
      all the outcome variables as rates per 10,000 persons and use weighted ordinary least squares
      regression analysis to determine if our interpretations change.

      Impact of Private Option, Traditional Medicaid Expansion and Opting Against Medicaid
      Expansion on Emergency Department Utilization: A Three State Comparison The investigators
      will use a longitudinal cross-sectional quasi-experimental difference in difference study
      design to assess the impact of Medicaid expansion and method of expansion on the inpatient
      utilization measures. The investigators will determine the change in rates of overall and
      types of ED visits from 2013 - 2014 and contrast the change between states based on
      expansion/method of expansion status. The investigators will use a longitudinal
      cross-sectional quasi-experimental difference in difference in difference study design to
      assess the impact of Medicaid expansion and method of expansion on racial/ethnic disparities
      on our ED utilization measures. The investigators will determine the change in rates of
      overall and types of ED visits from 2013 - 2014 for each race/ethnicity and contrast the
      change between states based on expansion/method of expansion status.

      Data CDC - Wonder Bridged-Race Population Estimates HCUP SEDD For our outcome measures the
      investigators will acquire the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project (HCUP) State Emergency
      Department Database (SEDD) for Arkansas, Kentucky and Florida respectively. The SEDDs capture
      all the ED visits for the particular year which take place in EDs that are affiliated with
      hospitals and that do not result in hospitalizations. In addition to information on each ED
      visit such as charges and admit dates, the SEDDs also contain clinical information such as
      the diagnosis recorded and procedures performed during each visit and demographics of the
      patient such as birth date, zip code of residence, gender, race, ethnicity, payer type etc.

      Outcome Measures

        1. ED visit.

        2. Type of ED visit:

             1. Preventable/Avoidable.

             2. Emergent. Analytic data structure Similar to previous aim, only difference would be
                in terms of the outcomes. Analysis Similar to previous aim, only difference would
                be in terms of the outcomes. Sensitivity Analysis The investigators will use a
                negative binomial distribution for our outcome measures in place of a Poisson
                distribution. In a second sensitivity analysis, we will include ED visits for
                adults aged 27-64 to exclude all young adults who might have experienced coverage
                gains prior to 2014 due to the "young-adult mandate". In a third sensitivity
                analysis the investigators will change our definition of preventable visits and
                emergent visits. The investigators will define a preventable visit as any visit
                whose probability of being preventable is ≥ 0.5 and any visit whose probability of
                being emergent is ≥ 0.5 will be defined as such. In a fourth sensitivity analysis
                the investigators will include only those ED visits that took place in community
                hospitals. In a fifth sensitivity analysis we will collapse the racial/ethnic
                groups and define each cohort based on year, state, emergency management region,
                age-group and sex. The investigators will do this in order to incorporate those ED
                visits in the count of the outcome measures where the patient's race/ethnicity is
                missing. Sixth, instead of grouping the data annually we will group it by quarter
                and perform a interrupted time series analysis. Seventh, the probability of ED
                visit being preventable will be defined as sum of probability of ED visit being
                non-emergent and emergent but primary care treatable and the probability of ED
                visit being emergent will be defined as sum of probability of ED visit being
                emergent and ED care needed. Lastly, the investigators will calculate all the
                outcome variables as rates per 10,000 persons and use weighted ordinary least
                squares regression analysis to determine if our interpretations change.

      Early Impact of Medicaid Expansion on Public Sector Substance Abuse Treatment: Evidence from
      the Affordable Care Act We will use a longitudinal cross-sectional quasi-experimental
      difference in difference in difference study design. We will determine the changes in rates
      of admissions to SUD treatment facilities, changes in the sources of payment and changes in
      the rate of health care referrals from 2010 - 2014 for persons aged 18-54 vs 12-17 and
      compare the changes between them based on states' Medicaid expansion status.

      Data Treatment Episode Data Set - Admissions (TEDS-A) TEDS-A is a nationwide administrative
      database of admissions to specialty SUD treatment facilities. It consists of facilities that
      receive some public source of funding for providing SUD treatment. Some of the states collect
      data only on admissions that are publically funded whereas others also collect privately
      funded admissions from facilities that receive some public funding. TEDS-A includes data on
      the demographics of the patient including age-group, gender, race/ethnicity, state of
      residence, substances abused, type of facility, payment source for the admission for a
      sub-group of states and source of referral to the treatment. It covers nearly 80% of SUD
      treatment admissions in the US.

      Current Population Survey (CPS) The CPS reports monthly information on population
      demographics including age, race/ethnicity, gender, state of residence etc. We will use this
      data to get information on total population counts for our cohorts developed on the basis of
      age-group (12-14, 15-17, 18-29, 30-39, 40-54), gender, race/ethnicity (Non-Hispanic White,
      Hispanic, Non-Hispanic Blacks, Others), state and year and state-level covariates. The
      investigators will exclude New Hampshire and Michigan from our data to avoid ambiguity since
      these states expanded later in 2014. To assess impact of Medicaid expansion on changes in
      payment source for SUD admissions the investigators will include only those states which
      provide primary payer information in the TEDS files for at least 85% of the admissions in
      each of the years.

      Outcome Measures

        1. Treatment admissions.

        2. Source of payment

             1. Treatment admissions privately funded.

             2. Treatment admissions funded by Medicaid.

             3. Treatment admissions self-funded.

             4. Treatment admissions that are free/ or funded by other government sources.

        3. Treatment admissions through a health care source of referral Analytic Data Structure We
           will sum all the outcome measures from the TEDS-A data by state, year, age, gender, and
           race/ethnicity. The investigators will ink the CPS data and the aggregate level TEDS
           file files. The investigators will gather the covariate information from the CPS data at
           the state-year level which will give us our final analytic dataset to assess the impact
           of Medicaid expansion on SUD treatment in publically funded facilities.

      Analysis The investigators will compare the demographics of the admissions and covariates
      between states that expanded Medicaid vs states that did not expand Medicaid for each year of
      the study period. The investigators will conduct t-tests/chi-square to determine significant
      differences for continuous and categorical variables respectively. The investigators will sum
      up all the outcome measures for each state and plot them year wise on separate graphs to
      visually examine the trends. The investigators will perform multivariate regression analysis
      to estimate the excess change in our outcome measures attributable to Medicaid expansion. The
      investigators will use a Poisson distribution for outcome variables. The population at-risk
      will be the population count of each cohort. The model will include state level fixed
      effects, to account for time invariant state level factors, and dummies for age-group,
      gender, period indicator (pre-expansion vs post-expansion), race/ethnicity, state-year level
      covariates (marital status, educational attainment, and proportion unemployed), and time
      varying state-policies (eg. legalizing medical marijuana). The investigators will create
      indicators for period before and after Medicaid expansion (2014 and 2010-2013) and expansion
      status of state (expanded Medicaid or not) and an indicator for treatment group (12-17 vs
      18-54). The investigators will interact period indicator with expansion status indicator to
      control for overall trend in outcome in states that expanded vs states that did not expand.
      The investigators will interact the treatment indicator with period indicator to control for
      overall trend in outcome among treatment group (18-54 year olds) vs non-treatment group
      (12-17 year olds). The investigators will also control for baseline differences in the
      outcome among treatment group (18-54 year olds) vs non-treatment group (12-17 year olds) in
      states that expanded vs states that did not expand by interacting expansion status with
      treatment group indicator. The model will include a difference in difference in difference
      indicator to assess the effect of Medicaid Expansion on the outcome measure among treatment
      group (18-54 year olds) vs non-treatment group (12-17 year olds). The difference in
      difference in difference indicator will be specified by interacting the expansion, treatment
      and period indicators.

      Sensitivity Analysis The investigators will conduct a number of sensitivity analyses to test
      the robustness of our model and study subject selection criteria. First, The investigators
      will use a negative binomial distribution for the outcome counts instead of Poisson
      distribution. Second, The investigators will exclude persons aged 18-29 to eliminate the
      population that had an increase in access to insurance in 2010 due to the "young adult
      mandate". The age-group that was impacted by the mandate was 18-26. However, due to the
      availability of age-groups in the TEDS-A data (18-20, 21-25 and 26-29) The investigators
      decided to include the entire 18-29 age-group. Third, consistent with previous literature The
      investigators will exclude admissions only for detoxification since these are considered to
      be forerunners for treatments rather than treatment itself. Fourth, The investigators will
      determine the impact of Medicaid expansion only on rate of first time admission. Finally, The
      investigators will conduct a weighted least squares regression for each of our outcome
      measures. Here the weights will be the population counts for each cohort. The outcomes will
      be as follows: a. rate of treatment admissions, privately funded admissions, Medicaid funded
      admissions, self-funded admissions, admissions payed for by charity or other government
      organizations, admissions through health care referrals per 10,000 persons.

      Limitations Proposed studies on the impact of Medicaid expansion on inpatient and ED
      utilization have several limitations. The investigators analyze data from only three states,
      hence our findings might not be generalizable to other states of the US. Although Florida is
      a southern state, it is significantly different in terms of demographic composition from
      Arkansas and Kentucky. However, since the rate of uninsured in the three states was similar
      prior to Medicaid expansion we believe that it would serve as a reasonable control.
      Additionally, The investigators do not have access to data from other southern states which
      did not expand Medicaid in 2014 and which might be better controls such as Texas, Tennessee,
      Mississippi, Louisiana or Georgia. The investigators have access to only one year of
      post-reform data hence The investigators might not be able to capture the full impact of the
      health care reform. Since The investigators have only one year of pre-reform data we might
      not be able to fully account for differences in trends of the outcomes pre-reform in our
      three states. Our third study is subject to limitations as well. TEDS-A data does not include
      all the substance abuse treatment centers. Thus, The investigators may potentially miss some
      of the admissions. Our findings might be biased by showing higher rates of admissions in
      states have greater public funding by virtue of them contributing more data. Further since
      the funding may fluctuate annually, The investigators cannot ascertain whether the changes in
      treatment rates are a function of the fluctuations in reporting or due to Medicaid expansion.
      The investigators mitigate this limitation to some extent by including the 12-17 age group as
      a control group which will not be impacted by the Medicaid expansion but if there are changes
      in reporting rates for states The investigators expect them to have equal effect on 12-17
      years olds as on 18-54 year olds. Not all states provide information on source of funding,
      thus limiting the generalizability of our findings about the changes in source of payment.
      However, previous research has shown no differences in states that provide data on sources of
      funding vs states that do not.
    
  