
    
      Study Aim. This study will explore the feasibility and effectiveness of a yoga program for
      patients with IBS. Objective. Examine the feasibility and effectiveness of an 8-week
      web-based yoga program compared to traditional face-to-face delivery. Hypothesis. Yoga
      delivered electronically will have the same effectiveness in reducing IBS symptoms as a
      face-to-face program after 8 weeks and may be more feasible for patients with IBS due to
      scheduling and cost restrictions.

      Background

      IBS is a highly prevalent disorder affecting 12% of Canadians. One in five individuals with
      IBS has one or more psychiatric disorder, and 50% have at least one comorbid somatic symptom.
      Frequently used therapies are targeted toward symptom reduction with modest benefits, whereas
      treatments with greater therapeutic effect may be associated with side effects. This leaves
      many patients dissatisfied with their symptom management, resulting in half of patients using
      alternative therapies. The underlying cause of IBS is likely multifactorial and the interplay
      of the brain-gut axis in the pathophysiology of IBS has been well established. An altered
      stress response, arising through either psychological and/or physiological mechanisms is
      hypothesized to be involved in the impairment of the signalling between the brain and the
      gut. This demonstrates a connection between gut function, stress, and psychological
      processes. Therefore, therapies that focus on mind-body interactions and stress reduction,
      may be useful adjunctive treatments for IBS.

      Yoga is a traditional "mind-body-breath" discipline that includes yogic postures, structured
      breathing, and meditation. Several potential mechanisms for the effectiveness of yoga that
      have applicability to IBS have been proposed, including reducing the upregulated sympathetic
      activity and increasing the parasympathetic response. The investigator's recent review of the
      literature has identified four randomized controlled trials that examined traditional yoga
      practice as therapy for adult IBS patients. All trials found yoga as more effective compared
      to pharmacological treatment, and equally effective as dietary interventions or
      moderate-intensity walking. Both physical (IBS symptom severity, gastric motility, autonomic
      and somatic symptom scores, physical functioning) and mental (depression, anxiety,
      GI-specific anxiety, and QOL) improvements were seen. The current literature supports that
      yoga is effective, safe and it may target multiple mechanisms involved in the treatment of
      IBS symptoms as previously described. Although yoga is effective in managing IBS symptoms,
      further research is needed to determine the feasibility and effectiveness of yoga as a
      therapeutic option in clinical practice for patients with IBS, while also examining delivery
      strategies (face-to-face vs. online) to more optimally understand how to sequence therapeutic
      interventions and whether this improves initiation and adherence to the intervention.

      Research Methods

      Study Design. Non-inferiority trial.

      Recruitment. Potential participants will be identified through several avenues, including:

        1. Gastroenterologists will screen IBS patients using the study eligibility criteria and
           following the patient's verbal consent, will share the patient's contact information
           with the study coordinator. Patients have previously given verbal permission at the
           clinic to their gastroenterologist to be asked to participate in research studies.

        2. Self-referral through poster advertising in the GI clinics at Foothills and South Health
           Campus. In addition, the study will be advertised on the Faculty of Medicine TVs on the
           Foothills campus.

        3. IMAGINE (Inflammation, Microbiome and Alimentation Gastro-intestinal and
           Neuropsychiatric Effects) cohort study at the University of Calgary: The IMAGINE study
           will send an initial email to all its IBS patients who have consented to be contacted
           for future studies. This email will explain the current study and connect interested
           participants with the study coordinator.

        4. Self-referral through the Primary Care Networks (PCNs) in Calgary. Primary care
           physicians and/or dieticians (depending on the PCN clinic) will inform their IBS
           patients of the study and provide the patient with a brochure.

        5. Through the use of a privately owned Facebook group called 'Low FODMAP Canadians', a
           group managed by two Canadian dieticians Lauren Renlund, MPH, RD and Audrey Inouye, RD.
           This group has over 2.1K members who have IBS.

        6. Participants who indicated interest in this study in a previous survey (REB19-1456) and
           have given their consent to be contacted.

      Screening. Consented participants will complete mental health evaluations using the
      Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7 (GAD-7) and Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9).
      Individuals who score 15 points or higher on the GAD-7 or 20 points or higher on the PHQ-9
      will not be eligible to participate (severe anxiety and severe depression, respectively).

      Intervention. Participants will be assigned randomly using the REDCap randomization module to
      either a yoga intervention delivered (a) face-to-face or (b) a web-based yoga program. Each
      group will receive the same yoga intervention described below, including yoga Namaskar, Nadi
      Shuddi (alternate nostril breathing), mantra meditation, and breath watching. The
      intervention was developed in keeping with the ancient principles of Hatha Yoga and delivered
      by a trained yoga instructor from the Isha Yoga Institute of Inner Sciences. Upon completion,
      the participants in the face-to-face group will be offered the web-based yoga program.

        -  Yoga Namaskar activates the lumbar region of the spine and strengthens the core muscles.
           This set of practices involves a series of 7 steps including stretching, squatting and
           structured breathing sequences which will take 10 minutes to complete.

        -  Nadi Shuddhi or alternate nostril breathing helps to bring balance between activity and
           emotion. Participants will sit in a cross-legged posture with the spine comfortably
           erect, eyes closed with the left hand laced in the middle of the lap, palm facing
           upwards, and the ring and index finger will be used to block one nostril while inhaling
           and exhaling through the other. This practice takes a minimum of 5 minutes to complete.

        -  Mantra Meditation. In the yogic culture, the entire existence is seen as a web of sounds
           or vibrations, for which the root sounds are "Aa, Oo, and Mm". These three sounds are
           referred to as universal sounds. This mantra, Aum, facilitates energy flow, and through
           vibratory mechanisms, has been demonstrated to create peace and harmony. This will be
           practiced for 3 minutes.

        -  Breath Watching. The science of breath watching in the yogic literature, employs the
           following principle: a certain thought, emotion or change in the physical body might
           change the breath flow. Similarly, the converse of principle is true, in that breathing
           in a structured manner can be used as a tool to bring positive changes to the
           practioners' mind, body and emotions. The practioners will assume a specific
           cross-legged physical posture, and practice breath watching as guided by the yoga
           instructor for 3-5-minutes.

      Group 1: Face-to-face programming. The face-to-face intervention will be delivered in a class
      setting by a certified yoga instructor in private studio spaces of public libraries across
      all four quadrants of the city (Calgary, Alberta). Each class with start with Yoga Namaskar,
      and then follow with Nadi Shuddhi, mantra chanting, and finish with breath watching. Yoga
      classes will be held once per week for 8 weeks, with the first session lasting approximately
      90 minutes and subsequent sessions up to 60 minutes. The total allocated time for the
      introductory session will include the class set-up, introductions, overview of practices,
      teaching of practices, practice corrections/enhancements, modifications, and practice
      expectations. Participants will be asked to practice the four yoga components daily at home.
      Each follow-up class will include review from the previous week, questions and answers,
      individual corrections and/or modifications. For individual corrections, the yoga instructor
      will ask the participant to do the practices and receive corrections, if needed.

      Group 2. Web-based programming. This program will be delivered through a video hosted on the
      University of Calgary study website. The video will start with Yoga Namaskar, and then follow
      with Nadi Shuddhi, mantra chanting and finish with breath watching. A brief description of
      the video content will be provided to inform the participant of its content and length.
      Additional website content will include study information, study schedule, and contact
      information. Detailed video instructions will be provided to participants by email.

      The study coordinator will orient each participant to the study, guide group 1 participants
      through expectations of the class, guide group 2 participants through the website, answer any
      study-related questions for the duration of the study. A study schedule will be provided to
      participants at the start of the study. The yoga instructor will follow-up with participants
      in both groups on a weekly basis to increase adherence and act as a point of contact to
      answer any questions related to the yoga program.

      Practice Modifications. Participants in group 1 will receive modifications from the yoga
      instructor for common challenges encountered by yoga practitioners to support optimal
      practices. Modifications will be provided in person following each practice session. Group 2
      participants will be advised to contact the yoga instructor for any modifications.

      Sample size. 20 participants per group (mean difference of at least 83 points on the
      IBS-Symptom Severity Scale; ⍺=0.05, β=0.80, SD=103.8, ∆=83)33. Assuming a 20% attrition rate,
      we will aim to recruit 24 individuals per group.

      Data Analysis. Descriptive analysis will summarize participant characteristics and
      feasibility outcomes. Independent sample t-tests will examine baseline differences between
      groups and chi-squared tests will examine proportion differences. Repeated measures ANOVA
      will examine the main effect of treatment condition and interactions of group assignment by
      time on effectiveness outcome measures. An alpha of 0.05 will be set a priori and used as a
      threshold for determining statistical significance. Analysis will be conducted using SPSS
      version 24.0.

      For microbiome sequencing data quality control of raw FASTQ files will be performed, prior to
      ML analysis, to obtain high-quality non-host (HQNH) reads. Reads of sufficient quality will
      be mapped using MetaPhlAn2 and HUMAnN2 to obtain high-resolution taxonomic and functional
      abundance profiles that include read counts. Unsupervised learning strategy based on robust
      PCA will be used to explore the major variability in the data and to detect outliers. We will
      also perform KEGG annotations and functional diversity profiling and will use web-based tools
      to assign metagenomic results into different functional groups.
    
  