
    
      WYZ is a modular, adaptive, and personalized intervention delivered via a mobile phone. It is
      grounded in the Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills (IMB) model which has been valuable
      for understanding and guiding the development of interventions for complex health behaviors.
      WYZ was created in collaboration with 18-29 year-old YLWH using a Human-Centered Design (HCD)
      approach that emphasizes understanding the perspective of the users of the technology. WYZ is
      intended to improve engagement in HIV care by 1) enhancing medication adherence
      self-efficacy, 2) increasing awareness and use of community resources, 3) reducing barriers
      to communication between youth and their healthcare team, and 4) providing a secure platform
      for the formation of a supportive closed online community of YLWH.

      The investigators will complete development of WYZ (1.0), field test the initial release with
      a cohort of 10 potential users over a period of three months to identify and address
      technical challenges, and develop a fully functioning version (WYZ 2.0) that can be used in a
      pilot investigation. The investigators will then conduct a six-month single-arm pilot study
      to examine WYZ feasibility and acceptability among (N = 76) YLWH (18-29 years old) who live
      and/or receive care in the San Francisco Bay Area. The objectives of this forthcoming phase
      are to refine the design so as to improve satisfaction and engagement with the intervention
      among YLWH and their healthcare providers.

      The main outcomes of the pilot trial include feasibility and acceptability as indicated by
      meeting or exceeding proposed benchmarks. Feasibility will be assessed via user metrics by
      examining the participant's interactions with WYZ via a mobile analytics service called
      Flurry and backend (Salesforce) reporting tools. Acceptability will be examined during
      regular phone check-ins, a system usability scale (SUS), a satisfaction survey, and an exit
      qualitative interview.

      In addition to feasibility measures, the investigators will calculate an engagement index
      (EI) for each participant. The EI has been detailed and used successfully in other mHealth
      interventions. The EI includes the following sub-indices: (1) click depth (number of pages a
      user views per session), (2) loyalty (measures how frequently users access the application
      during the study period), (3) recency (the time difference between each session the user
      accessed the application), (4) interaction (number of push notifications opened from those
      sent through the application), and (5) feedback (subjective measure of participants'
      satisfaction with the application).

      Based on the data from participants in this pilot study, the investigators will develop a
      refined version of WYZ (3.0), which will be used in a future investigation to examine the
      efficacy of the intervention with a much larger sample.
    
  