
    
      This is a multicentric study involving a large number of patients that could not be collected
      in a single Unit.

      The aim of the project is to collect a large number of patients that will allow to assess the
      suitability of different measures assessing upper limb function. As DMD is a relatively rare
      condition, such goal can only be reached in a multicentric setting. All the participating
      centres (Rome Gemelli, Messina, Rome Bambin Gesù, Pavia, Genoa, Naples, Turin, Bologna,
      Padua, Milan, Bosisio Parini, Pisa) have a good record of cooperation in similar projects
      having already been involved in the validation of the North Star in DMD and of the
      Hammersmith Functional motor Scale for SMA.

      The projects will be developed through different steps, related to different specific aims:

        1. Interobserver reliability/quality and quantity of training One of the aims of the study
           is to assess reliability of the selected measures in a multicentric setting and the
           quantity of training required to be sure of the reliability among observers after the
           training sessions. Following our experience in the training of the North Star Ambulatory
           Assessment (NSAA) in the same network, the investigators have become aware that a single
           training session may not be sufficient to be sure that interobserver reliability will be
           maintained after the training sessions (Mazzone et al, 2009).

        2. Natural history data collection The PUL will be applied to the whole cohort with
           repeated assessments at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months . This will allow to monitor possible
           changes over time and the rate of changes in patients with different level of ability
           and age. This will also help to evaluate the responsiveness to change and the level of
           sensitivity of the measure over an interval that would be useful for a study of a
           putative agent that could improve muscle power.

        3. Correlation with other measures Another aim of the study is to relate possible changes
           in upper limb function with other measures of care and function such as the EK scale,
           that provides information on aspects of function, such as transfer or self feeding that
           are important in everyday life. Correlation with respiratory function will also be
           performed.

        4. improving statistical properties of the scales. There has been increasing evidence in
           the last few years that Rasch analysis may help to improvethe statistical properties.
           The data collected will offer the opportunity to perform these new psychometric
           techniques.
    
  