
    
      Patients will receive a patient information sheet in the post with their Eye Clinic
      appointment letter. To be clear, the points listed below would form the standard of care for
      a dry eye patient attending the clinic, apart from the additional infrared photographic image
      taken for the study (point 6).

      In the Consultation room, the study will be explained to participants by one of the
      investigators. If they agree to participate, a consent form will be signed by the participant
      and an investigator. They will be questioned regarding the absence or presence of ocular
      symptoms using a previously validated and accepted scoring scale (Ocular Surface Disease
      Index - OSDI). This questionnaire will allow patients to score their degree of dry eye
      symptoms.

      Participants will then undergo:

        1. Schirmers tear test of production.

        2. Clinical slit lamp examination to look for abnormalities of the upper and lower lid
           margins.

        3. Fluorescein staining of the ocular surface (divided into 3 zones comprising nasal
           conjunctival, corneal, and temporal conjunctival areas).

        4. Observation of tear film break-up time (TBUT).

        5. Digital pressure was applied to the upper tarsus, and the degree of ease with which
           meibomian secretion (meibum) is induced, evaluated semi-quantitatively. Eversion of
           upper and lower eyelids in the clinic is part of the standard ocular examination.

        6. In the photography department, the upper and lower eyelids will then be everted and
           non-contact infrared photographs taken. Partial or complete loss of Meibomian glands
           will be scored according to the meiboscore for each eyelid. After the image is taken,
           patient experience will be gathered on a five-point Lickert scale score sheet.

      Outcome measures To examine for a correlation between morphologic changes in meibomian glands
      visible on infrared photography and both clinical examination findings and questionnaire
      scores regarding eyelid and tear film function in the population.

      To assess patient experience and acceptability of the intervention.

      4.0 Selection and withdrawal of Subjects 4.1 Inclusion criteria

      Patients attending the CPU will be offered the opportunity to take part if they comply with
      the following:

        -  Over 18 years of age

        -  Able to give their informed consent

      4.2 Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patients under the age of 18 years of age

        -  Poor understanding of language

        -  Ocular allergies

        -  History of contact lens wear

        -  History of eye or eyelid surgery

        -  Systemic or ocular diseases that may interfere with tear film production or function.

        -  Use of systemic medication with tetracycline derivatives, antihistamines, isotretinoin,
           or nutritional supplements for MGD.

        -  Use of topical ciclosporin-A or steroids beginning within the last month.

        -  Refusal for patient's own GP to be informed of participation.

      5.0 Treatment of subjects Participants will undergo the standard of care in the
      Corneo-Plastic Unit, but will also be examined and photographed by the infrared technique.

      6.0 Assessment of Efficacy Through the assessment described above, a statistical analysis
      between OSDI score, ocular surface and Meibomian gland score will be possible. We will
      analyse the findings to see if there is any relationship between the patient symptoms and
      level of Meibomian gland dysfunction.

      7.0 Assessment of Safety Any side effects reported by the patient and/or observed by the
      clinician will be recorded. Data regarding patient experience of the test will also be
      collected.
    
  