
    
      The goal of our present study is to compare the most established and studied CBT protocol for
      GAD, namely Borkovec's treatment package (BTP) with two other forms of CBT: Rational Emotive
      Behavior Therapy (REBT; Ellis, 1977) and Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT; Hayes et
      al., 2012). These two forms of therapy were chosen for both conceptual and practical reasons.

      At a conceptual level, we wanted to compare forms of CBT with distinct approaches to
      dysfunctional thoughts. A fundamental postulate of the cognitive model of psychopathology is
      that the modification of dysfunctional thoughts (i.e., cognitive change) is central to
      treating psychological disorders, as "all therapies work by altering dysfunctional
      cognitions, either directly or indirectly". Both classical Beck's cognitive therapy (CT;
      Beck, 1976), which is an integrated part in Borkovec's GAD treatment package (CT/BTP), and
      REBT focus on changing dysfunctional thoughts, but they differ fundamentally in their
      approach to achieving this change. More specifically, Beck's CT focuses primarily on
      modifying mental representations of relevant circumstances in the forms of dysfunctional
      descriptions and inferences (i.e., "cold" cognitions: "I will fail."). REBT on the other hand
      focuses mainly on "hot" cognitions in the form of evaluations/appraisals (i.e., rational and
      irrational beliefs), which refer to the ways in which "cold" cognitions/ representations are
      processed in terms of their relevance for personal well-being (i.e., "I must not fail and it
      is awful if I fail."). In contrast to both CT and REBT, ACT does not directly attempt to
      modify the content of the thoughts at all, but aims to change the individual's relationship
      to dysfunctional beliefs (i.e., the significance of having these beliefs), a process through
      which cognitions are thought to become "neutralized" (i.e., defused) and the anxiety/distress
      related to them is reduced or accepted.

      At a practical level, we wanted to investigate how different forms of CBT (i.e., REBT and
      ACT/ABBT) would measure up to the established package based on Borkovec's treatment protocol
      (CT/BTP).

      According to REBT, core irrational beliefs (e.g., "I must not fail and it is awful if I
      fail."), in interaction to various activating events (e.g., a test situation), generate
      automatic thoughts in the form of descriptions/inferences (e.g., "I will fail here.") that
      are then further processed by automatic thoughts in the form of specific irrational beliefs
      derived from the core irrational beliefs (e.g., "I must not fail here and it is awful if I
      fail here.") that than further generate anxiety symptoms. In its general form, REBT is
      focused on changing both core beliefs and automatic thoughts, but in its specific form, used
      here, REBT is focused on changing the core irrational beliefs seen as the fundamental
      etiopathogenetic mechanisms of GAD.
    
  