
    
      Nasopharyngeal cancer is the commonest cancer of the head and neck in Saudi Arabia and
      constitutes nearly a half (44%) of all head and neck cancers diagnosed annually according to
      the National Cancer Registry Data. Majority of our patients present with locally advance
      disease which adversely affect their treatment outcome. The treatment of this disease has
      evolved over the last several years and several Phase III trials have now shown that combined
      chemotherapy and radiation are significantly superior to treatment with radiation therapy
      alone. However, results for treatment of the Stage III and IV disease remains less than
      satisfactory with a 5-year survival of 60-70 %. Recent data in other head and neck cancer
      sites including nasopharyngeal cancer indicates that the use of chemotherapy in combination
      with radiation may improve the outcome of therapy primarily by a reduction in the rate of
      distant metastasis. Induction chemotherapy alone has, however, failed to show an improvement
      in survival compared to radiation therapy alone. The administration of induction chemotherapy
      followed by concurrent chemo-radiation appears the most promising approach. Our experience at
      KFSH&RC with induction chemotherapy followed by chemo-radiation in Stage IV cancers, still
      reveals that approximately 25- 30% of patients will develop local relapse in the
      nasopharyngeal site; and 35- 40 % of patients are likely to develop distant metastasis. The
      most promising recent schedule of induction chemotherapy has been the use of Docetaxel and
      Cisplatin followed by concurrent Cisplatin and radiation. A recent Phase II study
      demonstrated that the three-year progression-free survival and overall survivals was improved
      with the use of this induction regimen. A variety of treatment strategies are currently being
      investigated in hope of achieving improved local control and enhanced survival of patients.
      These include addition of new chemotherapy drugs, other targeted agents such as Bevacizumab,
      Cetuximab, etc and radiation fractionation. The rationale for using neoadjuvant chemotherapy
      is that a reduction in the overall tumor burden will permit more effective local therapy and
      reduce the rates of distant metastases. Neoadjuvant cisplatin / docetaxel are active agents
      for locally advanced nasopharyngeal cancer. The addition of docetaxel to platinum containing
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy in other locally advanced head and neck squamous-cell carcinoma have
      also been shown to improve survival.
    
  