
    
      This study aims to advance understanding of implementation of core features of coaching in
      ECE classrooms, and how features may vary by key contextual factors and implementation
      drivers. This study will focus on coaching used for delivering professional development
      services to ECE teachers and FCC providers to improve knowledge and practice in center-based
      classrooms and FCC homes serving preschool-age children. At the classroom/teacher level, the
      approach to coaching can vary by dosage, content, activities (e.g., assessment, observation,
      goal-setting, modeling, reflection), materials (e.g., video, written plans, resource
      documents) and other features. However, there is no consensus as to which of these features
      are core to the practice of coaching. Additionally, little is known about how these features
      of coaching are implemented, combined, and tailored to the needs of teachers or how
      contextual factors or implementation drivers may mediate or moderate the effects of coaching.
      Ultimately, SCOPE findings will improve coaching practice in the ECE field and determine
      which coaching features are ripe for more rigorous evaluation.

      Descriptive Study: The investigators will carry out a descriptive study in a sample of seven
      states. Sampled states will have one or more classroom-based coaching models offered to
      centers and FCC homes that are serving preschool-age children and that receive Head Start
      grants or serve children who receive CCDF subsidies. All of the data that will be collected
      are listed below.

        1. State coaching informant interviews: To obtain information about coaching approaches and
           about the available administrative data on coaching, including the range of coaching
           providers and approaches occurring in states and what ECE settings may be receiving
           classroom coaching. As part of this process, we will also seek existing administrative
           data on coaching processes and participants.

        2. ECE setting eligibility screening: To obtain information on the characteristics of the
           ECE setting, the coaching taking place in that setting, and characteristics of
           participants in coaching; and to determine if a setting is eligible for survey data
           collection and if personnel are willing to participate in the study

        3. Surveys for the descriptive study:

             -  A center director survey - To collect information on the center context, supports
                for and challenges to coaching and professional development, and structural and
                process features of coaching

             -  A coach survey - To collect information on coach characteristics, supports for and
                challenges to coaching, and process and structural features of coaching

             -  A teacher/FCC provider survey- To collect information on teacher and FCC provider
                characteristics, supports for coaching, structural and process features of
                coaching, coaching outputs (such as attitudes and beliefs), and the FCC context

      Case Studies: The investigators will also conduct case studies in twelve ECE settings
      (centers and FCC homes) selected from the seven states; some of the settings may have
      participated in the descriptive study and others may not have. Site visit data collection for
      the case studies will consist of the following activities:

        1. Semi-structured interviews with center directors, teachers/FCC providers, coaches, and
           coach supervisors. To collect information on how decisions are made about coaching and
           what features are included; supports for coaching; organizational context and climate
           for coaching (e.g., organizational culture, philosophies, staffing and turnover,
           languages and cultures of families served); individual experiences as part of the
           coaching process; barriers/supports for coaching

        2. Teacher/FCC provider survey: The teachers and FCC providers in the case studies will be
           asked to complete the descriptive study teacher/FCC provider survey.

        3. Collection of coaching logs (whenever available): To provide information on the
           frequency of interactions between teachers/FCC providers and coaches, the focus of these
           interactions, and the coaching strategies employed. The coaching logs are preexisting
           materials used by some coaches when they provide coaching to teachers.

        4. Coaching session observations: To provide information on the process features of
           coaching (coaching activities and relationship-building activities); structural features
           (target of coaching and content); and outputs (teacher/FCC provider engagement, actual
           dosage, and perceptions of the coach-teacher/FCC provider relationship)
    
  