
    
      Background: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common dementia and the major cause for
      senile dementia. With the increase of life expectancy, AD has become a global problem.
      However, to date, drug therapies only have modest benefits for patients with AD. Recently,
      researchers have begun to focus on early intervention of AD at its preclinical stages.
      Individuals with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI), often the prodromal stage of AD,
      report mild short-term memory difficulties but preserved independence in activities of daily
      living. The aMCI stage is important to slow or even prevent the development of AD. Some
      previous studies have suggested cognitive training is a potential non-pharmacological
      intervention for aMCI, however, the results were inconsistent. Thus, investigators will
      conduct this multi-center randomized controlled trial to explore whether and how cognitive
      training improves cognitive function in patients with aMCI.

      Objectives: The first aim of this multi-center single-blinded, randomized controlled trial is
      to assess whether internet-based cognitive training improves cognitive abilities in patients
      with aMCI. Furthermore, the second objective is to evaluate the effect of cognitive training
      on neural plasticity, including brain activation and white matter integrity, which are
      assessed by functional and structural MRI.

      Patients and Methods: The study will include 260 patients diagnosed with aMCI from eight
      centers around China. The patients will be randomized to either a cognitive training group or
      an active-control group. The intervention is 12-week internet-based cognitive training
      performed for 40 minutes per day, 4 days a week. Within each task, high accuracy (80%) is
      required to upgrade to the next difficulty level. The active- control group will receive five
      processing speed and attention tasks, whose duration also total to 40 min each training day.
      However, these tasks are set to a fixed, primary difficulty level across the study.

      Neuropsychological assessments and structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      will be performed at the baseline, end of intervention, and 6 months after randomization to
      measure long-term resilience of the effect.

      Relevance: Early intervention of aMCI has the potential to delay or even prevent the
      development of dementia. Some previous studies have suggested cognitive training is a
      potential non-pharmacological intervention for aMCI, however, the results were inconsistent.
      Thus, the proposed study is to determine the efficacy of cognitive training in patients with
      aMCI. Secondly, using functional and structural MRI, this study is to reveal the potential
      mechanisms underlying cognitive training.
    
  