
    
      Women who have radiation therapy for gynecological cancer may experience a number of symptoms
      including fatigue, pain, nausea, pelvic symptoms (urgent and frequent urination and bowel
      movements, vaginal discharge, vaginal itching, skin irritation), anxiety and depression. We
      know that individualized education programs have helped people with other types of cancer to
      better manage their symptoms, and we would like to find out whether such interventions are
      helpful to women with gynecological cancers.

      This study will compare two types of education: 1) the symptom education program currently in
      place (usual care), and 2) an individualized symptom education program (ISEP). This study is
      being conducted because we do not know if one type of education in patients who receive
      radiation for gynecological cancers is better than the other. Both types of education are are
      described below.

      Usual care: Usual symptom education during radiation treatment consists of receiving verbal
      and written education from a radiation oncologist, nurse and radiation therapist, and other
      members of the interdisciplinary team. The radiation therapist will see the patient everyday
      during her radiation treatment and her doctor and nurse will see her on a weekly basis. The
      patient will also see other members of the team, such as a dietitian and social worker as
      required.

      Individualized symptom education: Individualized symptom education will include usual symptom
      education and also an education program that focuses on symptom management. The patient will
      meet with an advanced practice nurse on a weekly basis for six sessions of about 30 minutes
      each. The advanced practice nurse will ask about the symptoms the paient is experiencing and
      those that are most bothersome to her. She will be given information about specific
      strategies to manage those symptoms, including written education materials. These strategies
      will be based on published best practice guidelines.

      Data on symptom experience will be collected at 3 points: at baseline, after completion of
      the education program (end of external beam treatment), and at 3 months following completion
      of the education program (3 months following completion of external radiation treatment).
    
  