
    
      Background: Over 190,000 men and women will be diagnosed in 2018 with invasive
      gastrointestinal (GI) cancers (e.g, colorectal and gastric cancer) for which oxaliplatin is a
      standard chemotherapy treatment. However, 85-95% of these patients develop
      oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy (OIPN). Currently, OIPN is the primary
      dose-limiting factor of oxaliplatin-based regimens, because persistent OIPN can impair
      physical function and quality of life (QOL) years after treatment completion. There are no
      effective treatments for OIPN. Four randomized controlled trials and two quasi-experiments
      have reported positive effects of at least 10 minutes/day of moderate-intensity aerobic
      exercise, 2-5 days/week over at least 6-8 weeks on chemotherapy-induced peripheral
      neuropathy. Exercise-enhanced circulation could re-distribute neurotoxic drugs away from
      vulnerable neurons, reduce oxidative stress, and help to prevent OIPN. However, all the prior
      trials had critical study limitations and all but two studies evaluated OIPN as a secondary
      outcome. Thus, this prospective, randomized, controlled, pilot experiment will evaluate the
      efficacy of an aerobic walking intervention for OIPN in GI cancer patients who are already
      prescribed oxaliplatin (85 mg/m2 every other week for at least six cycles) by their
      oncologists. The "MI-Walk intervention"- an 8-week motivational enhancement therapy (MET)-
      and home-based aerobic walking intervention-will be tested in this study.

      Specific aims: The specific aims and hypotheses are to:

      Aim 1: Evaluate the effect of the MI-Walk Intervention on OIPN severity at 8 weeks (T6)
      compared to physical activity (PA) education alone.

      Hypothesis: Participants who receive the MI-Walk intervention will exhibit less severe OIPN
      at T6 than participants who receive PA education alone.

      Aim 2: Explore the effect of the MI-Walk intervention on total oxaliplatin received, and QOL
      at T6 compared to PA education alone.

      Hypothesis: Participants who receive the MI-Walk intervention will receive higher total doses
      of oxaliplatin and report higher QOL at T6 than participants who receive PA education alone.

      Aim 3: Evaluate the feasibility of the MI-Walk intervention. Research Questions: Among
      patients receiving oxaliplatin, 1) how acceptable is the intervention? 2) what percent of
      patients will enroll in, complete, and adhere to the walking intervention? 3) what
      participant characteristics are associated with study compliance, adherence, completion, and
      acceptability? 4) What, if any, adverse events will result from the MI-Walk intervention?

      Study design: Sixty GI cancer patients will be recruited at multiple cancer clinics within
      the week before their second oxaliplatin cycle. All participants will receive a PA education
      pamphlet. Half (n=30) will receive the MI-Walk Intervention. These patients will receive a
      tailored progressive walking plan, supplemental cancer treatment & exercise education,
      patient testimony, HR-enabled pedometer and PA-tracking app, exercise diary, and
      semi-scripted brief MET (motivational interviewing, SMAART goals, and if-then statements)
      from research staff before practicing the intervention at home for 8 weeks. Additional brief
      MET sessions at 2 (T3) and 4 weeks (T4), progress summaries at T3, T4, and T6, a private
      email group, weekly group walking events, and peer accountability phone calls/email will be
      used to engage and support participants. To level attention, both groups will receive regular
      phone assessments of intervention-related adverse events at 1 week (T2), T3, T4, and 6 weeks
      (T5). Outcomes will be measured at (T1) and 8 weeks after (T6) intervention initiation. The
      outcome measures include the 0-10 NRS of OIPN symptom severity (primary outcome measure); and
      EORTC QLQ-CIPN20 self-report survey, cumulative oxaliplatin dose, and EORTC QLQ-C30. The
      study will also record feasibility, adherence, acceptability, and intervention fidelity data.
      Multiple linear regression will be used to evaluate the inter-group differences in the T1 to
      T6 change in mean NRS scores (OIPNΔ), controlling for T6 total oxaliplatin received
      (OXALIT6), and the interaction between the intervention and OXALIT6. Mediation analysis will
      be used to explore the secondary outcomes.

      Future Directions: This study will be among the first to provide efficacy and feasibility
      data for an 8-week home-based aerobic walking intervention to reduce OIPN - a common
      chemotherapy side effect, for which there are no good treatments. This pilot study will
      inform the design of larger phase III trials to evaluate the efficacy of aerobic walking for
      OIPN, and potential mediators (e.g., vascular biomarkers) in this relationship.
    
  