
    
      The investigators will interview subjects and controls to ensure that they meet inclusion
      criteria and do not meet exclusion criteria. After obtaining informed consent, subjects and
      controls will complete a questionnaire survey with the interviewer regarding their history of
      headaches, smell sensitivity, osmophobia and current medication use. Subjects will also
      answer questions about attack frequency, location of headache, duration of disease, use of
      medication for pain, and disability.

      After completing the questionnaire survey, migraineurs and controls will take the University
      of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (UPSIT) in the office. During this visit we will
      demonstrate and give instructions on how to perform UPSIT at home.

      After the first visit, migraineurs will self-administer the UPSIT during a migraine attack
      day at home. They will be required to mail or drop off the second test at the Jefferson
      Headache Center.

      Age and sex matched controls will take the first UPSIT in the office. They will take second
      UPSIT 2 weeks later at home and call the Headache Center to notify the staff that they have
      completed the second UPSIT. They will be asked to mail or drop off the test at the Jefferson
      Headache Center.

      The UPSIT is a standardized, validated test for olfaction. There are a total of 40 odorants,
      with four booklets each containing ten odorants. The stimuli are embedded in "scratch and
      sniff" microcapsules at the bottom of each page. Subjects must choose one answer among four
      possible answers for each odorant - a forced choice test. The validity and reliability of the
      UPSIT, as well as the basis for using these particular odorants, has been demonstrated in
      multiple studies. The tests kits will be supplied by Dr. Richard Doty at University of
      Pennsylvania.

      The investigators will use analysis of variance (ANOVA) to determine variance in UPSIT scores
      between subjects and controls. We will also use ANOVA to examine differences based on subject
      characteristics, including attack frequency, duration of illness, osmophobia during attacks,
      and if odors trigger headaches. The investigators will also use Chi-square and the Wilcoxon
      rank sum test to determine categorical outcomes such as gender and statistical significance
      between groups.

      To achieve a 90% power that the study will detect a statistically significant difference
      between the mean UPSIT scores at a two-sided 5 percent significance level, our sample size
      for both subjects and controls is 50. This is based on the assumption that the standard
      deviation of the response variable is 3 units. The investigator's assumptions about effect
      size are based on previous studies using the UPSIT to detect differences in subjects and
      controls in other neurologic disorders, such as schizophrenia.
    
  