
    
      Tobacco use is widely recognized as the most preventable cause of cancer in the United
      States. Furthermore, tobacco use is responsible for 30% of all cancer-related deaths in the
      United States. Although practice guidelines recommend that clinicians address tobacco use
      during all outpatient clinic visits, the realities of the clinic setting make this difficult
      for overworked and overstretched clinical personnel. A computer-based intervention may
      enhance patient care by decreasing this burden and priming patients and families for a
      discussion about smoking cessation with their physician. Previous research has demonstrated
      the feasibility of developing and implementing an interactive computer-based program to
      facilitate smoking cessation in the outpatient clinic setting. The program can be
      self-administered, presents minimal burden to existing staff, and meets the Public Health
      Service practice guidelines. Furthermore, this intervention was found to be effective at
      increasing readiness to change in parental smoking behavior. The overall objective of this
      proposal is to further develop the program and test this interactive computer-based program
      to facilitate motivation and readiness to cease tobacco use and engage in parental smoking
      cessation services. The current computer program focuses on the assessment of the
      participant's smoking behavior and the delivery of personalized feedback regarding their
      smoking behavior. Modifications to the new program will include the removal of the carbon
      monoxide testing, inclusion of all baseline and follow-up assessment into the computer-based
      program (creating a single, stand-alone package that further reduces staff burden), and the
      inclusion of a link directly to the Oklahoma Tobacco Settlement Endowment Trust "click to
      call" option (allowing patients to immediately self-refer for cessation support). Parents of
      children presenting to a general pediatric outpatient clinic, who self-report as current
      smokers, will be recruited for a randomized controlled trial to assess the effectiveness of
      the revised computer-based program. It is proposed that exposure to this brief intervention
      will result in increasing smokers' readiness to cease tobacco use and engage in smoking
      cessation services. The successful completion of the proposed project will result in the
      development of a smoking cessation intervention that can be easily and consistently
      delivered, in a host of different settings, with little burden to existing staff. The
      successful development of such an intervention directly relates to the OTRC Mission and Goals
      and specifically fits with two of the OTRC's primary research areas: prevention and cessation
      of tobacco use and tobacco-related health disparities in Oklahoma's diverse populations and
      reduction of secondhand smoke exposure.
    
  