
    
      Some narcotic drugs and psychotropic drugs associated with a risk of misuse or identified
      dependence and are, moreover, the object of a reinforced surveillance. This is the case of
      EMONO (Equimolar Oxygen and Nitrogen Protoxide Mix), which is part of the ANSM (French
      National Agency for Medicines and Health Products Safety) list of drugs with enhanced
      surveillance. EMONO is a gas composed equally of oxygen and nitrous oxide (also called
      laughing gas). He has had a marketing authorization in France since 2001. Until 2009, it was
      reserved for hospital use. Since 2009, a modification of its MA has enabled the release of
      the hospital reserve, EMONO can now be used in city medicine and dental surgery. The ANSM has
      made its provision outside health facilities conditional on the implementation of a common
      national RMP, accompanied by a national monitoring of pharmacovigilance and addictovigilance.
      The latter is under the responsibility of CEIP-A of Nantes.

      The use of EMONO in pediatric dental care is a particular mode of use in a pediatric
      population in which the administration of EMONO is often the first administration of a
      psychoactive substance known for its positive effects (euphoria). Health professionals daily
      observe children, who after care under EMONO, have a strong appetite for EMONO and claim for
      any intervention. It would be necessary to understand why, and to estimate the number of
      children involved. Do children feel positive effects during these actions, which could lead
      to a wish to prolong the contact with the gas, in search of an effect other than therapeutic?
      The main objective of this project is to evaluate the effects sought and the effects felt by
      children when EMONO is used in pediatric dental care. The investigators will try to
      characterize the children who have submitted a request to extend contact with EMONO. The
      maintenance of a framework for the safe use of this drug whose place in dental care is
      fundamental and the benefit ratio is very favorable is essential.
    
  