
    
      Background:

        -  Recurrent glioma patients have very limited treatment options. A significant percentage
           of gliomas have increased activity of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway, mostly due to loss of
           PTEN.

        -  AZD8055 is a first in-class inhibitor of the kinase activity of mTOR, specifically
           inhibiting both mTORC1 and mTORC2 complexes. Preclinical data generated in the
           Neuro-Oncology Branch Laboratory of Dr. Howard Fine demonstrated that AZD8055 has
           significant anti-glioma activity in vivo and in vitro.

      Objectives:

        -  To establish the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of continuous once daily AZD8055 in
           patients with recurrent malignant gliomas not on enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drugs
           (EIAED).

        -  To generate pharmacokinetic data on continuous once daily AZD8055 dosing.

      Eligibility:

      -Patients with histologically proven glioma are eligible for this study. Patients should have
      failed prior standard treatment with radiotherapy.

      Design:

        -  This study will accrue up to 24 evaluable patients (non-surgical arm). Cohorts of 3 or 6
           patients will receive continuous AZD8055 once daily orally for 42 days. The MTD will be
           based on the tolerability observed during the first 6 weeks of treatment only. Up to
           three patients may be enrolled simultaneously at each dose level. The dose of AZD8055
           can be progressively escalated if only 0/3 or 1/6 patients experience a dose limiting
           toxicity at the prior dose level.

        -  A subset of patients in whom tumor re-resection is considered standard of care will
           receive 1-week treatment with AZD8055 and then undergo resection. Patients will be
           treated at the highest dose level shown to be safe at the time of enrollment. Once
           patients recover from surgery, they will restart treatment with AZD8055 and stay on
           treatment as long as there is no tumor progression or protocol-mandated removal
           criteria. Management of toxicity will be the same as non-surgical patients receiving
           their second and subsequent cycles of therapy as delineated in the protocol. Up to 12
           patients will enter the surgical arm of this trial.

        -  The accrual ceiling will be open to 42 patients to factor in replacing those who come
           off

      treatment prior to cycle 1.

      -At the end of Cycle 1, patients in both treatment arms (surgical and non-surgical) may
      choose to continue to receive AZD8055 until disease progression or until they experience
      unmanageable drug related toxicity, as long as they are continuing to derive clinical benefit
      and do not fulfill any of the criteria for removal from protocol therapy.
    
  