
    
      Acquire intraoperative MMS measurements in vivo. After assessing this approach on excised
      tissues, MMS measurements will be aquired directly on the patient from the NMSC excision
      site. MMS data will be acquired on patients being treated for NMSC at the Austin Dermatologic
      Surgery Center, the surgical site for the dermatology practice of Seton/University of Texas
      Physicians group. Similar to the measurements on freshly excised tissues, MMS data will be
      acquired in a grid pattern on the excision site. The site will be blotted with gauze to
      remove residual blood prior to the measurement, and continuously blotted as needed until all
      measurements have been taken. The handheld probe of the MMS enables assessment of both the
      wound periphery and deeper layers of tissue to determine if any tumor is remaining. For this
      initial pilot study, we plan to take measurements on 10 patients (5 BCC, 5 SCC), along with
      corresponding normal tissue measurements.

      Retrospective analysis of MMS sensitivity and specificity. The MMS technique is an
      information rich modality providing both morphological and functional parameters of the
      interrogated tissue that could be correlated to known tumor pathology. However, this
      extracted information will require development of sophisticated spectral analysis models
      which would be beyond the scope of the current study. Therefore, for the purpose of this
      study, standard statistical techniques will be used to determine the classification power of
      MMS for tumor margin detection. While this approach does not fully elucidate the underlying
      pathology responsible for the classification, these types of models have been shown to
      perform at or better than those based on a morphological approach. This approach has been
      previously employed to classify skin cancer with high diagnostic accuracy. The final outcome
      of this study will result in the sensitivity and specificity of MMS compared to
      histopathology during Mohs surgery. These results will allow for the estimation of the
      potential benefit of an intraoperative margin assessment technique. This type of
      retrospective study will provide a proof of concept that would warrant further development
      and prospective studies of the MMS approach.
    
  