
    
      The investigators propose to conduct a 90-day pilot study to establish the effects and value
      of MOSES in the management of diabetes. The pilot study will provide initial data to answer
      the following research questions: (1) What are the effects of MOSES technology on older
      adults' diabetes self-care? (2) What type of social engagement intervention is more effective
      for what aspects of diabetes care? (3) What personality characteristics predict older adults'
      diabetes self-care?; (4) What personality characteristics moderate the effectiveness of
      mobile device (esp. tablet-based) social engagement interventions on older adults' diabetic
      care? (5) What model can be developed from our data to predict probability of effective
      response to interventions tailored to individual patients, e.g. by message type for clinical,
      usage and personality attributes?

      Subjects Older adults are the target population for this study. Adult volunteers age 60 and
      above with an HbA1C of >7.9% and having the capacity to provide informed consent will be
      eligible to participate. Participants will be randomized to usual care or to an intervention
      group (described below). Once enrolled in the study and randomized to either the intervention
      or the control group, the Research Certified Diabetes Educator (CDE) will review all
      participants' clinical data and assist with providing feedback messages to the participants
      regarding their self-care progress. The Research CDE will alert physicians to any clinical
      data that would warrant a change in clinical management (e.g. hyper or hypoglycemia).

      Manipulations

      There are four manipulations in the experiment: (1) patient recording i.e. using the tablet
      and app to track and review progress (this increases mindfulness, engagement, activation, and
      informedness, thereby leading to healthier behaviors than the control condition), (2) patient
      recording with physician involvement via Health-feed communication messages (in addition to
      the benefits listed above, this provides expert feedback from a trusted source on actions,
      helps with goal setting, provides motivational reinforcement of positive behavior and
      sanction against negative, etc.), (3) patient recording with peer interaction i.e. using
      Health-feed messages, Community Views and Health Tournaments (in addition to the benefits
      listed for (1), peer effects have been observed in a variety of different settings such as
      educational attainment). People tend to emulate the behavior of peers, setting in motion a
      cycle of group conformism. People may also be motivated by a desire to compete in a peer
      setting, and (4) patient recording with peer interaction AND physician involvement. This
      final group will permit analysis of the interaction effects of the two forms of social
      engagement. Thus, the experiment will be done with the following groups:

        -  Group A: the control group, usual care, (n=40)

        -  Group B: individual patients using app w/o provider support (n=12)

        -  Group C: individual patients using app w/ provider support (n=12)

        -  Group D: peer patient teams using app w/o provider support (n=12; 4 teams)

        -  Group E: peer patient teams using app with provider support (n=12; 4 teams)

      Groups will be assigned to achieve age, gender and HbA1C matching at baseline. For groups
      with provider engagement (E), the provider (endocrinologist/CDE) will provide initial advice
      to the subjects, as well as continuous monitoring. The study will require a dedicated
      diabetes educator, who will spend 2 hours a day to keep in touch with the subjects, including
      reviewing the activity logs, sending reminder and motivational messages, as well as
      moderating the discussions in the peer engagement group. The CDE will triage the text
      messages from subjects and trigger the physician engagement when necessary. The study CDE
      will review participant data routinely and will maintain communication with the study team on
      a timely basis.

      During the experiments, adverse events will be closely monitored by the physician and CDE, as
      well as through subject self-reports. The MOSES app has a built-in function to highlight
      potential adverse effects in the activity list and physician to-do list. The investigators
      will also conduct a weekly review of subject activity log.
    
  