
    
      Advanced glycation end products (AGEs) levels are elevated in diabetic patients and in
      patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and may contribute to the excessive cardiovascular
      disease in this population, by promoting oxidant stress and chronic vascular inflammation. It
      has recently been recognized that AGEs in the body originate not only endogenously, but also
      from the ingestion of preformed AGEs in the diet. We have shown that reduction of dietary AGE
      intake leads to significant reductions of circulating AGEs and insulin levels as well as
      levels of markers of oxidative stress and inflammation in both diabetic and CKD patients.
      Thus, the increased inflammation and oxidative stress (Infl/OS) in stable diabetes mellitus
      (DM) are largely due to advanced glycation end products (AGEs) from food, and restricting
      AGEs-intake reduces these risk factors in DM. High circulating AGEs and TNFR1/2 have been
      shown to be associated with progression in diabetic nephropathy. Ideally, a compound that
      binds food AGEs within the lumen of the intestine should have the same effect as dietary
      restriction of AGEs and could become an important therapeutic tool in the clinical care of
      these patients. We found that Sevelamer binds AGEs in vitro in a pH dependent manner. This
      led us to hypothesize that sevelamer carbonate, but not calcium carbonate, would sequester
      AGEs in the gut and reduce Infl/OS, including circulating AGEs and TNFα, in T2DM with Stage
      2-4 CKD. This hypothesis was tested in a Pilot Study (GCO-08-0976) we designed as a
      proof-of-concept trial to determine if a larger and longer trial is indicated. We conducted a
      randomized, open-label, intention-to-treat, two-month crossover study to compare stable
      diabetic patients with stage 2-4 CKD treated with either Sevelamer carbonate or calcium
      carbonate for 2 months, a 1 week wash-out, and then the opposite drug for 2 months. There
      were no changes in medications and food intake. We found that urinary phosphate excretion was
      decreased by both Sevelamer carbonate and calcium carbonate. Serum AGEs, lipids, HbA1c,
      FGF23, and 8-isoprostanes were reduced by Sevelamer carbonate compared to calcium carbonate.
      In addition, PMNC levels of AGER1, SIRT1 and TNFα were also decreased by Sevelamer carbonate,
      compared to calcium carbonate. We concluded that Sevelamer carbonate reduces HbA1c, FGF23,
      lipids, and TNFα via reduced inflammation and OS in stage 2-4 diabetic CKD. These changes
      were not seen with calcium carbonate. Since we found that sevelamer carbonate bound AGE-BSA
      (but not BSA) at pH 7.0, but not at pH 1.0 in vitro, we proposed that the mechanism action is
      sequestration of dietary AGEs and GI elimination. Based on these data, we concluded that a
      larger and longer trial is indicated to confirm these results.

      The current study proposes to confirm that Sevelamer Carbonate, an agent known to prevent the
      gastrointestinal absorption of phosphates, is also able to block the absorption of AGEs and
      improve certain aspects of diabetes and chronic renal disease in a larger group of patients
      who will be followed for a longer period of time.
    
  