
    
      Despite the improvement in diagnosis and management, renal cell carcinoma (RCC) remains one
      of the most burdensome urological cancers, being the sixth most common malignancy in men and
      the 10th in women, accounting, respectively, for 5% and 3% of all cancers. Moreover, the
      incidence of RCC is increasing, especially in Western countries, accounting for nearly 60000
      new cases per year in the United States. A considerable proportion of patients present with
      metastatic disease at diagnosis, and there are more than 140000 RCC-dependent deaths per year
      worldwide according to the World Health Organization.

      Sunitinib and pazopanib are oral multi-targeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs)
      that have dramatically improved the survival of patients with metastatic RCC, and are
      commonly used as first-line option for this condition.

      However, long-term use of these drugs is prevented by the development of toxicity. Diarrhea
      is one of the most common side effects of TKIs, occurring in nearly 50% of patients. It
      decreases the quality of life of these patients, and often requires dose reduction and drug
      discontinuation, potentially decreasing the efficacy of TKIs.

      To date there are no standardized strategies for TKIs-related diarrhea, and current
      recommendations are supported by few evidence or real-life experience. Recommended treatment
      options include anti-motility agents, which are not targeted to act on the pathogenic
      pathways of diarrhea.

      Increasing evidence suggests that gut microbiota could influence the development of
      TKIs-induced diarrhea. Overall, chemotherapy is known to drive, through the development of
      mucositis, deep compositional and functional alterations of gut microbiota. Mucositis occurs
      commonly after treatment with TKIs, and a specific dysbiotic profile has been found in
      patients with TKIs-induced diarrhea.

      In theory, the therapeutic modulation of gut microbiota could be an approach to alleviate
      TKI-induced diarrhea. Although probiotics have been suggested as a possible treatment option
      for this condition, few evidence supports this indication.

      Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) is the infusion of fecal microbiota from a healthy
      donor in the gut of a recipient with the aim of curing a specific disease. It has been
      increasingly recognized as a highly effective treatment against recurrent Clostridium
      difficile infection.

      FMT has been also examined as a potential approach for other disorders associated with a
      disruption of gut microbiota, including ulcerative colitis or metabolic syndrome.

      To date, the effects of FMT on chemotherapy-related diarrhea are unknown. The aim of this
      study is to investigate the efficacy of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), compared with
      sham FMT, in treating TKI-induced diarrhea in patients with metastatic RCC
    
  