
    
      Hazardous and harmful alcohol consumption is likely to cause damage to health, either
      physical or mental. The prevention of harmful alcohol consumption results in a reduction of
      alcohol related diseases, of emergency and hospital use, and of societal related problems,
      and it results in direct health care savings as well as in non-health care savings. General
      practice is an important setting to intervene with patients whose drinking is hazardous or
      harmful to their health. Despite the evidence for the efficacy and cost effectiveness of case
      finding and brief interventions in general practice, such interventions are rarely integrated
      into routine practice. Based on the literature it is recommended to develop a tailored
      multi-component implementation program to engage general practice in the prevention of
      patients with alcohol consumption.

      In our trial such a tailored multi-component intervention program is offered to the general
      practice team (GPT). The participants in our trial are the GPT, not the patients. The GPTs
      practising in Mid-West and Mid-South are invited to participate in the trial by an
      invitational letter, including an information leaflet. Participation is not obligatory, but
      based on own interest of the GPT. Next, GPTs who are willing to participate in the trial are
      random allocated to the intervention or control condition. Besides the effect outcome
      measures described in the 'Outcome measure" part there are process and costs measures
      described.

      Besides measurements at the GPT-level, we also conduct measurements at the patient level. All
      patients of 18 years or older visiting the GPT during a pre-defined 3-month period are asked
      to fill in the Alcohol Use Disorders identification Test (AUDIT). This measurement takes
      place before the intervention starts. Only those patients at risk are asked to fill in the
      AUDIT after the intervention ended. As described in the 'Outcome part', the AUDIT is used to
      describe the effects of the intervention program at the patient level. Patients receive
      individual feedback with personal advice depending on their AUDIT score. Patients are not
      informed about whether the GPT is allocated to the intervention program or control condition
      (usual care) (single blind).

      Comparison: GPTs participated in the multi-component intervention program (see Interventions;
      intervention group) are compared to GPTs who didn't participate in the multi-component
      intervention program (control group). The GPTs in the control group receive the NHG guideline
      and NHG patient information letters, which can be seen as usual care. In addition the receive
      feedback about the number of patients at risk because of their alcohol consumption, which can
      be seen as a minimal intervention.
    
  