
    
      Comparison of intra-Abdominal hypertension development after bogota bag or VAC abdominal
      closure Protocol

      Trial objective:

      To investigate and compare in a standardized manner the development of intra-abdominal
      hypertension (IAH) following VAC closure and "Bogota bag".

      Study design:

      This is a prospective comparison trial. Patients that will be included in the trial are those
      that will have operations in which their abdominal closure is temporary, i.e. patients
      sustaining trauma or septic abdomen.

      Patients will be grouped according to the method of temporarily abdominal closure (TAC)
      procedure:

        1. VAC closure

        2. "Bogota bag" (BB), a sterile intravenous bag silo closure. The two methods are currently
           accepted with no clear cut evidence to prefer one on another. At Soroka Medical Center
           the decision to choose either of the methods is at the surgeon's discretion.

      Intra-abdominal pressure will be measured in all patients by the urinary bladder pressure
      technique at 6 12 24 ant 48 hours post operation. The measurement is a routine procedure done
      as part of the monitoring processes of critically ill patients in the GICU. It will be
      carried out by a nurse who will be blinded as to the type of the abdominal closure.

      Patients will be evaluated for the development of acute and significant respiratory
      compromise, including an elevated inspiratory pressure of >35 mbar and a decreased partial
      oxygen pressure / fraction of inspired oxygen (PaO2/FIO2) of <150 torr, hypotension (<90 mmHg
      systolic pressure not due to hemorrhagic, septic, or neurogenic causes), renal dysfunction
      (urine output, <30 mL/hr), and a clinically determined rigid, tense abdomen, and increased
      abdominal circumference.

      The following data will be recorded. Hemodynamics (mean arterial pressure, heart rate),
      lactate, PaO2, partial carbonic dioxide pressure (PaCO2), tidal volume, peak airway pressure)
      and renal (urine output) functions will be registered at 24 and 48 hours following surgery).

      Data on the indication for operation, type of trauma, its severity and the operative
      procedures.

      Acute Physiologic and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II) and fluid balance at 24 and 48
      hours.

      Reoperations. Time in ICU and time to final abdominal closure.

      Study population:

      All patients with severe abdominal trauma or none traumatic acute abdomen, that at the end of
      operation the surgeon will decide to use temporary abdominal closure (TAC).

      Inclusion Criteria Adults male or female over 18 years old. The surgeon decides the need for
      TAC at the end of operation.

      Exclusion Criteria Patients that the surgeon estimates they will not survive 24 hours.

      End points:

      Development of IAH Development of abdominal compartment syndrome (ACS) Need for reoperation
      of decompressive laparotomy during first 48 hours. Time to final (on discharge from hospital)
      abdominal closure and the type of closure.

      Statistical methodology The calculated sample size based on power of 0.80, alpha 0.05, known
      incidence of 0.25 and estimated incidence of 0.10 is 42 patients.
    
  