
    
      This is a Phase II, single-arm, multi-centre study. Patients with metastatic colorectal
      cancer expressing wild type KRAS will be screened for this trial. KRAS mutation status will
      be assessed before inclusion and only WILD-TYPE-KRAS subjects will be included. Eligible
      subjects will be enrolled and treated with combination therapy consisting of Panitumumab and
      FOLFIRI as second line treatment.

      Eligible patients must not have progressed on or within 6 months after receiving first line
      chemotherapy based on fluoropyrimidines and oxaliplatin (prior adjuvant chemotherapy based on
      fluoropyrimidine is permitted). Only one previous chemotherapy regimen is permitted.
      Progression after 6 months receiving first line chemotherapy regimen, should be
      imaging-based.

      Tumor response assessment will be performed by the investigator per the modified Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (m-RECIST). Subjects will be evaluated for tumor response
      every 6 weeks ± 1 week the first 24 weeks and every 8 weeks thereafter (per the
      modified-RECIST criteria) until progression disease (PD) or withdrawal from the trial.
      Responding disease will be confirmed no less than 28 days after the criteria for response are
      first met. Subjects with symptoms suggestive of progression disease(PD) should be evaluated
      for tumor progression at the time the symptoms occur.

      All subjects who permanently discontinue the treatment for any reason, will undergo a safety
      follow-up assessment 30 days ± 7 days after the last treatment dose Subjects will be followed
      for disease status and subsequent cancer therapy. All subjects who discontinue all the
      treatment before disease progression (eg, due to unacceptable toxicities) are followed for
      progression free survival (PFS) (eg, radiographic tumor assessments) every 12 weeks ± 14 days
      until disease progression or the end of study (unless the reason for study discontinuation is
      fully withdrawn consent). After disease progression, all subjects are followed every 12 weeks
      ± 14 days from the safety follow-up visit until the end of study (approximately 52 weeks
      after the last subject is enrolled).
    
  