
    
      Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a common infectious agent which is well adapted to survival in the
      normal human host. Although CMV infection is usually asymptomatic, CMV disease develops when
      the host: virus balance is perturbed. This may occur when individuals become
      immunocompromised as a result of immunosuppressive drugs required to maintain an allograft.
      Currently there is no vaccine for the prevention of CMV infection. To reduce the impact of
      CMV infection, allograft transplant patients are either given prophylaxis with antiviral
      drugs or preemptive anti CMV therapy is given as soon as there is some indication of a
      productive infection from serial samples of blood. The primary objectives of this study are:
      to determine if recombinant soluble glycoprotein B cytomegalovirus vaccine is immunogenic
      when administered to patients awaiting transplantation of a kidney or liver; and to describe
      the safety profile of a 0-, 1-, and 6-month schedule of the CMV gB vaccine in patients
      awaiting transplantation. The secondary observational objectives of this study are: to
      determine if prior receipt of vaccine can reduce the incidence or quantity or cytomegalovirus
      DNA detection in the blood post transplant among patients who proceed to transplantation; to
      determine if prior receipt of vaccine does reduce the incidence or quantity of CMV DNA
      detected in the blood post transplant, to determine if the titer of neutralizing antibody
      induced after completing the course of immunization is a correlate of this immune protection;
      to describe the persistence of vaccine-induced neutralizing antibody, including the time when
      patients are given immunosuppressive drugs required for transplantation; to determine if
      prior receipt of vaccine does reduce the incidence or quantity of CMV DNA detected in the
      blood post transplant, to determine if the titer of neutralizing antibody present at the time
      of transplant is a correlate of this immune protection; and to explore the CD8 and CD4
      responses among patients who proceed to transplantation. This study is a phase II trial with
      a randomized, blind-observer, placebo-controlled design. Patients will receive 3 injections
      each of 20 micrograms of the CMV gB vaccine or 3 doses of placebo. Participants will include
      140 eligible patients (70 seronegative, 70 seropositive). Randomization will be stratified
      into 4 groups as follows; approximately 42 seronegative renal patients; approximately 42
      seropositive renal patients; approximately 28 seronegative liver patients; approximately 28
      seropositive liver patients. Serious adverse events (SAEs) will be followed until 1 month
      after the last vaccination and suspected unexpected serious adverse reactions (SUSARs) at any
      time during the follow-up period until 90 days post-transplant. The primary immunogenicity
      endpoints include: level of antibody by ELISA anti-gB at Days 0, 28, 56, 180, and 208 [ELISA
      Anti-gB (IgG) and CMV neutralizing antibody titers which will be assessed at each of the
      following timepoints: before and one month after the first vaccination; before and one month
      after the second vaccination; and before and one month after the third vaccination.]; and
      titer of neutralizing antibody at Days 0, 28, 56, 180, and 208. The primary safety endpoint
      will be the occurrence, severity, onset, and duration of injection site reactions or systemic
      reactions/events within 28 days following each injection and SUSARs at any time during the
      follow-up period until 90 days post-transplant. The observational endpoints measured in
      patients who proceed to transplant will include: increase of viral load (AUC/d) among those
      who become PCR positive during the 90 day follow-up post transplant; titer of neutralizing
      antibody detected at the time of transplant and at Days 0, 7, 35, 63, and 90 post transplant;
      and CD8 and CD4 responses at Days 0, 7, 35, 63, and 90 post transplant.
    
  