
    
      In the United States, upper endoscopy is frequently performed for a variety of symptoms
      including heartburn, bloating, nausea, burping, and epigastric pain/burning. The prevalence
      of these symptoms may provide as much as 25% of a gastroenterologist's office practice. In
      general, the diagnostic yield of an EGD is low. Without alarm symptoms, as many as 70% of
      procedures are negative for significant findings. One major indication is testing for H.
      pylori for which EGD may be unnecessary, because H. pylori detection can be accomplished by
      fecal antigen testing or breath testing as accurately as biopsy and less expensively.

      Investigators believe there is an opportunity to improve the risk stratification of patients
      that undergo endoscopy through the use of MCC. Our primary hypothesis is that MCC allows for
      visualization of the stomach of symptomatic patients referred from the emergency department,
      urgent care, and primary care settings with clinical symptoms appropriate for endoscopy. A
      prospective study is proposed to evaluate the feasibility, safety and accuracy of this novel
      diagnostic modality.

      Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) is one of the most common medical procedures and indications
      for epigastric pain, bloating, burning, heart-burn, excessive belching, nausea, vomiting,
      anemia, and weight loss. Access to EGD is limited by the cost, the need for an endoscopy
      specialist and the need for anesthesia. Lack of access to an EGD is a health disparity
      associated with increased gastric cancer mortality-to-incidence ratio. A novel approach to
      visualization of the upper GI tract is needed to increase access to care and improve
      diagnostic capabilities. Magnetically controlled capsule (MCC) is the first wireless
      ingestible capsule endoscope that is able to be directed by operator to visualize all
      anatomic areas of the stomach (NaviCam™, AnX Robotica). This study will be the first US study
      to examine the feasibility of using MCC in patients with relevant symptoms to the stomach.
      The goal is to ascertain if the diagnostic capabilities of the MCC compared to EGD are
      comparable for symptomatic patients who have clinical indications for an EGD.

      MCC offers potential advantages over traditional EGD including the ability to be performed 24
      hours a day without sedation and to be performed without an endoscopist. In addition, the MCC
      is less invasive, does not cause discomfort, and enables the patient to pursue normal daily
      activities after the procedure. Non-specialist physicians can administer the MCC and
      interpretation can be done in real-time or asynchronously by GI specialists. The MCC may
      impact decisions regarding the need for hospitalization, the need for additional diagnostic
      testing such as biopsy, the need for additional therapeutic interventions such as endoscopic
      hemostasis and polypectomy, and the need for further risk stratification of disease. The
      eventual work-flow may be similar to that of many current diagnostic tests such as radiologic
      examinations. This ability to transmit images could become especially important in rural
      communities or in communities that have limited access to a gastroenterologist or surgeon.
      Incorporation of the MCC into current practice could follow a trajectory similar to that of
      point-of-care ultrasonography, an imaging modality in which non-radiologist physicians have
      become increasingly skilled and for which indications continue to expand. The American
      Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy states that credentials for capsule endoscopy should be
      determined independently from other endoscopic procedures such as colonoscopy, sigmoidoscopy,
      or any other endoscopic procedure. The American Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy also
      emphasizes sound medical training, appropriate patient selection, correct interpretation, and
      continued medical management for these capsule endoscopists. Capsule endoscopy requires only
      image interpretation and does not require procedural skill training associated with other
      endoscopic procedures; therefore, ED physicians, urgent care physicians, primary care
      doctors, and mid-level practitioners can meet these criteria with basic training.

      Contraindications to the MCC are similar to contraindications for established capsule
      endoscopy (CE) which has been performed safely in a variety of clinical settings. The only
      absolute contraindication is intestinal obstruction. There is a low risk of non-natural
      excretion of capsules estimated at less than 1 in 100. In general, the CE procedure poses
      significantly less risk than traditional EGD, and multiple studies have shown that CE is well
      tolerated in patients with acute symptoms.

      The cost of the capsule is an important factor that may affect future use in the ED and
      clinics. The use of MCC in the ED, urgent care and primary care can potentially lead to more
      patients being safely managed in an outpatient setting. MCC may be especially cost-effective
      if it reduces hospital admissions, need for anesthesia, missed work days or overall EGDs.
      Future technological developments in the MCC may allow for operator to collect biopsy samples
      and perform therapeutic functions.
    
  