
    
      The painful shoulder is responsible for approximately 16% of all musculoskeletal complaints,
      constituting one of the most frequent consultations in primary care only behind patients with
      low back and neck pain.

      It has been estimated that 20% of the general population will suffer shoulder pain throughout
      their lives with a prevalence that can reach up to 50%. It is more prevalent in the elderly
      with 21% and up to 20% in diabetic patients.

      The "painful shoulder syndrome" is a frequent and disabling pathology, of diverse etiology
      and complex diagnosis, being more common in the female population, and especially from the
      fifth decade of life in an age range between 45-65 years, although it may manifest itself in
      other age groups. The prevalence increases with age, some professions and certain sports
      activities.

      Between 70% and 85% of consultations are due to rotator cuff pathology, the most frequent
      cause of shoulder pain being inflammation of the tendons that form it (supraspinatus,
      subscapularis, infraspinatus, teres minor and the long portion of the biceps). These are
      extra-articular muscles, so the clinical picture is called scapulohumeral periarthritis.

      Objectives:

      Main objective To evaluate the degree of decrease in pain assessment scales (VAS) and
      decrease in disability scale (SPADI).

      Secondary objectives I. Measure the time during which the patient improves pain. II. Evaluate
      the improvement in the Constant Murley range of motion scale. III. Analyze the recovery in
      the functionality of the shoulder and performing basic activities of daily living (DASH
      scale).

      IV. Analyze the decrease in the need for analgesic medication (NSAIDs and opiates).

      V. Assess the appearance of complications related to the performance of pulsed radiofrequency
      guided with ultrasound.

      Study design The patients were evaluated following the usual protocol of the Pain Unit in
      which all demographic data, age, sex, reason for consultation, personal history, history of
      pain, exploration and proposed treatment as well as the complementary tests performed were
      collected. With the clinical judgment of painful shoulder syndrome, if it met at least one
      inclusion criterion (table), the patient was exposed to the therapeutic possibilities and the
      possibility of entering the study.

      Subsequently, in a period of no more than 30 days, the interventionist technique is performed
      in the Pain Unit technique room. Finally, a clinical follow-up is carried out in consultation
      with the Pain Unit at month, three months, six months and nine months from the date of
      completion of the technique.
    
  