
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the benefit of thalidomide, prednisone, and cyclophosphamide in alleviating
           disease-associated anemia, thrombocytopenia, and/or splenomegaly in patients with
           myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia (MMM).

        -  Determine the benefit of this regimen in palliating four hypercatabolic constitutional
           symptoms (i.e., weight loss, fatigue, drenching night sweats, and unexplained fevers) in
           these patients.

        -  Determine the toxicity profile of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the effect of this regimen on leukocyte count.

        -  Determine the effect of this regimen on bone marrow histology, including microvessel
           density and reticulin fibrosis.

        -  Determine the effect of this regimen on intramedullary and urinary markers of
           angiogenesis.

        -  Determine the effect of this regimen on circulating myeloid progenitor cells by
           quantifying CD34+ cells.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive oral thalidomide, oral prednisone, and oral cyclophosphamide (TPC)
      once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 3 courses. After 3 courses (3
      months) of treatment, patients who respond to TPC therapy may receive oral thalidomide alone
      once daily for up to 3 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo bone marrow aspirate and biopsy prior to study entry, 6 months after
      starting therapy, and then every 6 months for up to 3 years. Samples are analyzed by
      microvessel density/angiogenesis studies (i.e., CD34 immunohistochemical and vascular
      endothelium-specific staining) to determine the effect of therapy on markers of bone marrow
      angiogenesis.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 6 months for up to 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 22 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  