
    
      Anxiety is a form of psychic and/or physical discomfort caused by the feeling of the
      imminence of a danger. It is a normal reaction of adaptation and defense face to a situation
      lived as hostile. It is a frequent perioperative manifestation. Patients who need an
      intervention are indeed 20% more anxious than the general population. The occurrence of this
      anxiety can have consequences for perioperative medical care influencing morbidity and
      mortality.

      Pharmacological premedication initially prescribed in the 19th century to limit the adverse
      effects of general anesthesia is currently used to fight perioperative anxiety. However, its
      effects are now considered as controversial.

      and non-drug techniques have been studied. They have the advantage of being inexpensive and
      causing little or no adverse effects.

      Therapeutic communication can be defined as a relational technique that seeks to separate the
      patient from the surrounding reality to provide analgesia or anxiolysis through the
      suggestion of positive images with a chosen verbal and nonverbal approach.

      The knowledge of communication techniques resulting from hypnosis by the healthcare team
      could therefore optimize patient medical care in terms of analgesia and the management of
      perioperative anxiety. Therapeutic communication training in the operating room is short and
      accessible to all members of the team regardless of their rank. This is a training provided
      internally by a certified practitioner in therapeutic hypnosis, aiming to give to the
      professionals knowledge to optimize the patient support. At the hospital (Groupement des
      Hôpitaux de l'Institut Catholique de Lille), several stretcher bearers have been trained in
      therapeutic communication and are already applying it routinely.

      No study has yet investigated the impact of the use of therapeutic communication in the
      operating room to control the level of anxiety of patients.

      This study is prospective, monocentric, comparative, double blind. Two groups of patients
      will be compared: In the first group patients will be accompanied to the operating room by a
      stretcher-bearer trained in therapeutic communication, in the second group patients will be
      accompanied by a stretcher bearer without this specific training.
    
  