
    
      Background:

        -  Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) and surveillance are treatment options for prostate
           cancer patients with biochemical progression after localized therapy with either
           definitive radiation or surgery (biochemically recurrent prostate cancer). A primary
           goal in these patients is to prevent morbidity from their cancer that results from
           disease progression and metastatic disease on conventional imaging.

        -  Radium-223 has demonstrated the ability to improve survival in men with symptomatic
           metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) with a manageable toxicity
           profile, particularly in patients who have not yet received docetaxel.

        -  Radiation, even at low doses can impact immune recognition and immune cell killing of
           cancer cells. Recent findings by the LTIB suggest that radium-223 potentiated T-cell
           killing of prostate cancer cells.

        -  Radium-223 may present an alternative option for patients with BRPC that is not
           associated with substantial toxicity (as seen with ADT) and may have a lasting effect
           due to its potential effect on the immune system and/or the bone microenvironment.

        -  Emerging PET imaging studies will likely find evidence of "micrometastatic" disease,
           often in the bones, in biochemically recurrent prostate cancer patients, although these
           patients will have no standard of care that can be supported by prospective data.

        -  Radium-223 has demonstrated the ability to improve survival in men with symptomatic
           prostate cancer, but it remains unknown what the impact is in patients with
           "micrometastatic" or PET positive prostate cancer in their bones

        -  Preclinical data has suggested that radium-223 can impact the immune system.

        -  In addition, changes in PSA kinetics, changes on PET scan findings, and safety and
           tolerability of radium-223 in this population will also be evaluated.

      Objective:

      - To determine statistically significant changes in immune cell populations compared to
      baseline in patients with biochemically recurrent or 18F NaF PET scan positive prostate
      cancer treated with radium-223

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate

        -  Patients with negative CT Scan and Tc-99m Bone Scan

        -  Patients with positive findings NaF PET imaging.

        -  Patients with a rise in PSA >= 0.8 ng/mL for patients following radical prostatectomy or
           for patients following definitive radiation therapy: a rise in PSA of >= 2 ng/mL above
           the nadir

        -  Patients with a PSA doubling time of 5-15 months

        -  ECOG 0-1

      Design:

        -  Single arm study

        -  Patients will receive 6 injections of radium-223 with monthly assessments of PSA and
           periodic immune response. NaF PET scans will be completed at screening then at 4 and 7
           months after the start of radium-223.

        -  After completion of treatment patient will be followed every 6 (+/- 2 weeks).
    
  