
    
      Rationale: Patient expectations of spectacle independence at all distances following cataract
      surgery have substantially increased in recent years.Though most of the contemporary
      presbyopia-correcting premium intraocular lenses (IOLs) provide adequate functional vision
      and patient satisfaction, each has advantages and disadvantages. Multifocal and trifocal IOLs
      provide good functional vision, but they are limited by reduced contrast, visual disturbances
      and, with discrete non-continuous range of vision. More recently, extended range of vision
      IOLs that are designed to improve vision from far to intermediate or near distances have been
      introduced to the market.

      The design and mechanism of action of the AcuFocus, Inc., IC-8 IOL is based on the
      well-established concept of small aperture (small hole) optics. In cameras, depth of focus is
      controlled by reducing the aperture through which light enters; the smaller the aperture, the
      greater the depth of focus. This concept also applies to the human eye. If an opaque disc
      with a small aperture in the center is placed in front of the eye, the peripheral rays will
      be obscured while the central rays pass unaffected. Since peripheral rays enter the eye at
      larger angle, they create a larger blur circle at the retinal image plane. Eliminating these
      peripheral rays reduces the size of the blur-circle, improving image resolution.

      The IC-8 IOL (AcuFocus, Inc.) is a small aperture IOL that reduces defocus by decreasing the
      size of the blur circle to achieve extended depth of focus. The relation between reducing
      pinhole size and improving visual acuity in patients with refractive ametropia has been well
      established. This principle is currently being used successfully via the KAMRA inlay
      (AcuFocus Inc.), which was FDA-approved for presbyopia correction in April 2015. The small
      aperture IOL is thought to provide good uncorrected intermediate and near vision with fewer
      visual symptoms and potentially a greater tolerance to residual astigmatism as a result of
      its extended depth of focus.

      Objective: To determine the safety and effectiveness of the IC-8 IOL implanted in one eye and
      a monofocal IOL implanted in the fellow eye, in accordance with the indication.

      Study Design: Prospective, multi-center, open-label, parallel-group, non-randomized,
      examiner-masked,one-year clinical study. Study Population: 475 patients with bilateral
      cataracts who require cataract surgery.
    
  