
    
      Eligible participants will be identified from patients with inflammatory rheumatic diseases
      attending major secondary care rheumatology services in the United Kingdom. Potential
      participants will be identified using local databases/clinic lists and will then be mailed a
      pre-study invite, which will include questions about fatigue. Potentially eligible
      participants will be invited to attend a baseline assessment.

      Once it has been confirmed at the baseline assessement that they are eligible to take part in
      the study, the consented participant will be allocated to one of three treatment groups.
      During the course of the trial, the participant will be invited to visit the study centre
      three more times for assessments.

      At each of the four assessment visits (baseline, and approximately 2, 7 and 13 months after)
      they will be asked:

        1. To complete questionnaires which collect information about various outcomes which we
           think will improve in response to the therapies under evaluation as well as factors
           which will help us understand how the treatments may work, and factors which may help
           identify those patients better suited to one therapy over another

        2. To provide a blood sample for research

        3. To take part in an aerobic fitness test

        4. To wear an activity monitor for the next 7 days which will be fitted at each visit

        5. To answer three short questions about engagement with intervention delivered by
           telephone from trial office at the time of session 4 and 8 (CBA and PEP intervention
           only). Similarly, the allocated therapists will be asked to give their view of the
           participants' engagement with the intervention.

      All participants will be asked to keep a diary on any other treatments they are using in
      addition to the treatments they may receive during the study and how costly these other
      treatments are. The diary period will last for the first 6 months and then for 2 weeks after
      the third visit and 2 weeks before the last visit.

      After they finished the study, the investigators may approach a subgroup of participants who
      received either the talking therapy or the personalised exercise programme again and ask for
      an interview to enable more detailed feedback on if they found the intervention helpful and
      how it has changed their daily life.
    
  