
    
      The LATTE study aims to collect further follow-up information on a maximum of 2200 UK
      eligible patients, who were randomised to the monotherapy arms (anastrozole or tamoxifen) in
      the ATAC trial. The LATTE study also aims to collect follow-up information on as many
      eligible patients as possible in international sites in the EU, US and Australia/New Zealand
      who were randomised to the monotherapy arms (anastrozole or tamoxifen) in the ATAC trial. The
      study's primary objective is to provide additional efficacy and safety data on time to
      recurrence of breast cancer and death after recurrence. The secondary objectives include time
      to distant recurrence, cancer-specific survival, new breast primaries, other cancers,
      ischaemic cardiac and cerebrovascular events and hip (and other) fractures. Participants will
      be followed-up annually until at least 15 years median follow-up.

      In 2010, results from 10-year follow-up from ATAC demonstrated that there is long-term
      superiority of anastrozole over tamoxifen as initial adjuvant therapy for post-menopausal
      women with hormone-sensitive early breast cancer. This paper demonstrated that there were
      significantly lower rates of local and distant recurrence, as well as reduced contralateral
      breast cancer in patients treated with anastrozole. However, in 2016 a recent preliminary
      analysis of the LATTE study demonstrated that the benefits of anastrozole do not continue
      long-term after 10 years in terms of reduced recurrence rates. The results also suggested
      that there was a larger reduction of new contralateral tumours with tamoxifen. However, the
      preliminary analysis was limited in that there was limited data with possible under reporting
      of vital events inked to the safety and efficacy endpoints; this therefore may diminish the
      effect of anastrozole. Queen Mary University of London (QMUL) therefore require extended
      cohort events, obtainable from HES, cancer registration and mortality data in order to
      conclude the long-term safety of either intervention. QMUL will then be able to integrate the
      pseudonymised LATTE data with the ATAC data sets in order to perform an analysis of the
      overall 20-year follow-up period.
    
  