
    
      Patients enrolled in the study will undergo peritumoral injection of near-infrared dye
      indocyanine green around the lung lesion or within the adjacent segmental bronchus at the
      time of surgery. ICG injection will be carried out via navigational bronchoscopy, CT-guided
      or trans-thoracic ICG injection (dependent on lesion location) and ICG imaging of the
      sentinel lymph nodes will be undertaken using an NIR-enabled camera.

        -  This study is designed primarily to determine the safety and feasibility of
           intra-operative localization of thoracic lesions following ICG injection, and second, to
           include an assessment of the predictive value of sentinel lymph nodes relative to the
           disease status of the greater lymphadenectomy specimen as well as disease recurrence
           rates.

        -  We are using a dose approximately 100 times lower than previously approved for injection
           in the blood. After a few minutes, the surgeon will look at these lymph nodes with
           near-infrared fluorescence and then remove any fluorescent and non-fluorescent lymph
           nodes near the tumor, as is standard for lung surgery.

        -  The "filtered" near-infrared light causes the indocyanine green dye to fluoresce so that
           the surgeon can identify the lymph nodes most likely to contain tumor cells. If the
           lymph node is not found in the group of nodes usually removed, we will use the
           near-infrared light to look near the tumor for the sentinel lymph nodes and guide the
           surgeon so that the sentinel nodes can be removed and studied. The surgeon will then
           continue with the operation and remove the tumor. The lymph nodes are processed for
           special analysis tailored to finding metastasis in sentinel lymph nodes.

        -  As is standard of care, patients will be monitored for evidence of recurrence by their
           surgeon. Recurrences will be recorded.
    
  