
    
      The Action Contre la Faim (ACF) nutrition project in Kanem started in 2008, and now is set up
      in 35 health facilities divided across 2 health districts: Mao and Mondo. The management of
      severe acute malnutrition is done in both OTP (Outpatient Therapeutic Programme) and in TFC
      (Therapeutic Feeding Center). Between the treatment of SAM in OTPs and TFCs, and the number
      of curative consultations, the total number of beneficiaries is expected to be 45,065 in 2014
      (without double counting).

      Clear evidence exists that some Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) interventions can
      successfully prevent diarrhea. For instance, interventions aiming at improving water quality
      at household level or at promoting hand washing with soap do reduce significantly diarrhea
      incidence. Estimations showed that WASH interventions have a small but measurable benefit on
      length growth, but not on weight or weight/height. Yet, to our knowledge, no impact of WASH
      interventions has been assessed, neither during nutritional rehabilitation where children are
      particularly vulnerable to infections, nor after discharge where immune recovery is still
      incomplete.

      In the context of nutritional rehabilitation of SAM (Severe Acute Malnutrition), the
      investigators hypothesize that improving water quality and hygiene-related care practices at
      household level would decrease incidence of WASH-related infections, such as diarrhea,
      nematode and environmental enteropathy. As such, it would improve weight gain, decrease
      relapses after successful discharge, and overall, could decrease over time the incidence of
      acute malnutrition in the community.

      The proposed WASH intervention will be added to already existing nutritional activities and
      it will include: i/ Household water treatment and hygiene kit (water container, water
      disinfection consumables, soap, cup, hygiene promotion leaflet) provided at beginning of SAM
      treatment; ii/ sessions of Hygiene promotion provided weekly at health center level iii/
      Household visits and hygiene sessions made during the treatment; // group discussion on
      hygiene and care practices made with mother at community level after successful discharge.
    
  