
    
      Rationale: Prehabilitation has shown promising results in orthopedic, cardiothoracic and
      abdominal surgery. However, there is still a lack of data supporting cost-effectiveness of
      prehabilitation in colon cancer surgery in older patients. Therefore the Dutch guidelines
      still restrict prehabilitation for research settings.

      Objective: This study will answer the question what the practice variation is (in terms of
      efficiency) in primary colon surgery on patients of 75 years and above related to the
      application of different modalities of prehabilitation across the Netherlands. Besides, it
      will show what service factors (including prehabilitation) determine the technical efficiency
      of primary colon surgery for these patients of 75 years and above.

      Study design: This study is a multicenter observational study based on questionnaires and
      existing data sources, aimed at including 24 different hospitals, of which structural,
      process and outcome data related to prehabilitation and colon cancer surgery will be
      registered.

      Study population: Patients aged 75 years and above, 10 per participating hospital, who
      underwent colon cancer surgery in one of the participating hospitals, where prehabilitation
      is or is not applied. All patients will be followed with questionnaires focusing on process
      and outcome measures for the hospital period and three months after discharge.

      Intervention: Whether or not the intervention (prehabilitation) is judged as part of daily
      practice in a participating hospital is based on a predefined definition of oncological
      surgical prehabilitation. The care as given in a participating hospital is according to the
      local guideline and will not be changed for this study. According to our definition
      prehabilitation consists at least of a minimum of 2 weeks exercise therapy and a review of
      the patients nutritional status at least 2 weeks before surgery.

      Usual care: Guideline based colon cancer surgery, without prehabilitation. Main study
      endpoints: Technical efficiency and service factors that determine this technical efficiency
      of primary colon cancer surgery. The results will be presented anonymously both for patients
      and hospitals (so there will not be carried out benchmark analyses per center).

      Statistical analysis: Data Envelopment Analysis will be carried out. Factors that might
      explain variability in technical efficiency will be regressed on bias corrected DEA scores
      (via truncated regression). Ethical considerations: There will be no change in standard
      procedures in everyday care. The burden for participants is minimal.
    
  