
    
      VersaWrap Tendon Protector is intended to manage and protect tendon injuries where there is
      no significant loss of tendon tissue. It functions by separating the healing tendon from
      surrounding tissues to facilitate tendon gliding and tendon healing. VersaWrap can be placed
      on, over, or around flexor tendons and remains in place until healing is complete and then is
      bioresorbed. VersaWrap is FDA cleared for the use in procedures where there is no significant
      loss of tendon tissue and is currently one of the standard of care treatments used for this
      injury at UF Health.

      VersaWrap Tendon Protector includes a bioresorbable hydrogel sheet and a wetting solution.
      The sheet is transparent, flexible, ultrathin, non-sided, and can be cut to the desired size.
      It is made of polysaccharides alginate and hyaluronic acid.

      Tendon adhesions are a major problem following repair, particularly for zone 2 flexor tendon
      (Z2FT) lacerations. The purpose of this study is to prospectively analyze outcomes between
      patients with Z2FT injuries following repair, randomized to two groups. The first group will
      be the negative control, with no tendon wrap. The second group will have a VersaWrap Tendon
      Protector applied over the site of the tendon repair. Outcomes will be evaluated during
      standard of care post-operative clinic visits at 2 (+/-10 days) weeks, 6 weeks (+/-2 weeks)
      and 3 months (+/- 1 month) following surgery. Data will be collected from standard of care
      measurements that include the following outcome measures that will be performed at each
      follow up visit: range of motion of the affected finger at different joints; total active
      motion (TAM) of the finger; Strickland modification of TAM (only including proximal
      interphalangeal (PIP); and distal interphalangeal (DIP) joints), as well as, DASH score and
      Michigan Hand Outcomes questionnaire. A measurement of grip strength will be obtained at the
      3 month follow up visit. This is an important study as adhesions are a particularly serious
      problem following repair of Z2FT injuries, which can result in persistent finger stiffness
      and decreased range of motion reducing the quality of life.
    
  