
    
      According to HAS, stroke is the leading cause of disability acquired in France. If 90% of
      patients recover walking, it is often limited with a steady speed around 0.7m/s. This
      limitation of walking activity is partly related to a decrease in strength associated with
      more or less significant spasticity. In stroke, this decrease in strength is the result of
      central impairment. Rehabilitation therefore involves gestural repetition. Mentiplay's review
      (Mentiplay et al., 2015) showing the predominance of ankle muscle strength in walking
      activity, we propose a protocol based on repetitive mobilization of this joint during
      subacute phase to promote awakening control, to limit the loss of muscle strength and thus
      potentiate the recovery of a more efficient walking. The strength of this study would be to
      verify the effectiveness of such a program in a large number of patients (5 centers
      involved). Its originality is to measure the impact of this program on social participation.

      The patients will be recruited in 5 centers during their hospitalization, in sub-acute phase.
      Two groups will be formed: a control group in conventional rehabilitation; an experimental
      group that will perform 5x/week 300 movements of plantarflexion, dorsiflexion on isokinetic
      dynamometer (in passive mode, with the intention of producing the greatest possible force).
      This protocol will take place over 6 weeks.

      Follow-up visits will take place at the end of the 6th week (which corresponds to the end of
      the ankle rehabilitation protocol), 6 months and one year after the beginning of the
      protocol.

      These visits will include a clinical examination, a GaitRite carpet walking test, an
      isokinetic evaluation of the ankle dorsiflexor muscles strength and a SIPSO self-administered
      questionnaire (social participation) at 6 months and one year.
    
  