
    
      Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a life changing neurologic diagnosis that affects multiple body
      systems. Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are almost a universal complication of SCI with
      bladder dysfunction, and a significant cause of morbidity in those with SCI. Recurrent UTIs
      requires multiple courses of antibiotic therapy, increasing the incidence of
      multidrug-resistant bacteria. While curative antibiotic therapy is transiently effective,
      recurrences are frequent and bladder colonization is inevitable after SCI because of an
      impaired ability to empty the bladder. Meta-analysis of SCI and UTI have shown there is no
      evidence to support the use of prophylactic antibiotics. Although the exact mechanism of
      action is not fully understood, nearly all UTIs are caused by bacteria from the bowel.
      Therefore, addressing the impaired bowel function in SCI patients would not only improve this
      debilitating condition but also reduce UTI's and the need for antibiotic therapy.

      Since prebiotics are metabolised by bacteria in the colon and their by-products promote
      intestinal peristalsis and can relieve constipation, they could represent an effective option
      to treat bowel dysfunction in SCI patients. The study's aim is to improve bowel motility in
      SCI patients with neurogenic bowel impairments by using 2'-O-fucosyllactose and
      lacto-N-neotetraose, novel human milk oligosaccharide (HMO) sugars that have already been
      shown to very specifically modulate intestinal bacteria. In the bowel, the HMO would induce
      an increase in bifidobacteria, which would further produce short chain fatty acids such that
      stimulate bowel motility and other beneficially regarded bacteria.

      The Principal Investigator/Sponsor will test this potential in a pilot clinical study with a
      HMO mix that has shown to promote bifidobacteria (Ellison 2016). These HMO compounds are
      structurally different from the less pure, plant-or bovine dairy-based prebiotics that are
      currently used in other human applications, and are safe, well tolerated, food grade
      substances. They have been shown to soften the stools in healthy adults and reduce
      constipation; therefore, it is expected they will positively impact the quality of life of
      neurogenic bowel and bladder patients by improving bowel motility, and also reducing the
      associated co-morbidity of recurrent urinary tract infections. The study will collect data on
      a sample of up to 60 patients with SCI and neurogenic bowel dysfunction scores of >13.

      The Principal Investigator/Sponsor will assess the HMO's effects on the quality of life,
      intestinal bacterial composition, bowel motility, and associated co-morbidities such as
      urinary tract infections (UTIs). In the longer term this is expected to reduce UTI occurrence
      due to reduced pathogen loading; as a consequence, reduce antibiotic use and levels of drug
      resistant bacteria.If the study If successful, the results outlining its significance could
      be forwarded to the senior management team at the recruiting hospital to be considered as a
      potential management tool in the care of patients with SCI.

      This study will assess faecal and urine samples at four time points for microbiome and other
      analyses at baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks (approximately 2 months) and 12 weeks (approximately 3
      months) from the date of starting the study product. Prior to commencing their treatment, and
      at weeks 8 and 12, the research coordinator (blinded to the randomisation) will assess
      patients using various bowel, bladder and quality of life questionnaires during clinic
      visits, at home or by telephone interview.

      The type, level, and completeness of injury will be documented, and the type of bowel and
      bladder dysfunction (upper or lower motor neuron) will be classified and, if necessary,
      updated at each in-person visit. Each participant will be provided with instructions and
      study schedule.

      Protocol compliance will be tested through product count and interviews at each follow-up
      visit. Side effects will be assessed using standardized case report forms at each visit.
      Study visits may be in person or over the phone. Participants will be encouraged to report
      any events they may experience directly to the coordinator.

      Participants who withdraw consent to continue treatments, will be encouraged to undergo the
      planned assessments. Withdrawal at the request of investigators or medical personnel may
      include, but are not limited to:

        1. Symptoms are deemed to be potentially related to the study product

        2. New diagnosis of exclusion criteria;

        3. Unacceptable side effects;

        4. Death

      Estimated time to complete recruitment: Averaging 53 weeks, approximately 12 months
    
  