
    
      The peri-implant crevicular fluid (PICF) contains several inflammatory mediators; the level
      of these mediators can provide information on the inflammatory state of the tissue, including
      the activation of mechanisms of bone destruction. In this context, soluble receptor activator
      of nuclear factor кB ligand (sRANKL) and osteoprotegerin (OPG) have been suggested as
      molecular determinants of bone resorption. However, currently, there are only limited studies
      on the molecular responses of healthy peri-implant tissues following placement of implants on
      function. The null hypothesis of the present study was that there are no significant
      differences in the levels of sRANKL and OPG in PICF or in the respective levels of six
      bacterial species or total bacteria levels in submucosal biofilm samples taken from TIF- and
      TIS-type implants. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to determine the levels of
      sRANKL and OPG as well as their relative ratio in PICF surrounding the two different types of
      implant-abutment connections on short implants after a 12-month monitoring period.
      Additionally, their association with clinical findings and microbiological markers in plaque
      samples were assessed in the present study.Thirty short implants were randomly placed in
      posterior maxillary edentulous sites using a split-mouth design in 15 periodontally healthy
      subjects. Tapered interference fit (TIF) and taper integrated screwed-in (TIS) types of
      implant-abutment connections were selected for investigation. PICF and submucosal biofilm
      samples were collected one month after surgery and repeated 12 months after prosthetic
      loading. Clinical parameters, including probing depth, dichotomous presence of bleeding on
      probing, and plaque index, were recorded and digital periapical radiographs were taken at
      each time point. sRANKL and OPG levels in PICF were analyzed using an enzyme-linked
      immunosorbent assay. Total bacterial levels, as well as levels of Fusobacterium nucleatum,
      Porphyromonas gingivalis, Treponema denticola, Tannerella forsythia, Prevotella intermedia,
      and Streptococcus oralis, were analyzed in corresponding submucosal biofilm samples using
      quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction.
    
  