
    
      During surgery for prostate cancer, precise resection of the tumor-containing prostate gland
      and preservation of the neurovascular bundle (NVB) are critical in preventing tumor
      recurrence and potency preservation following surgery. However, due to the periprostatic
      connective tissues and bleeding, it is difficult to visualize NVB during surgery, even with
      surgical loupes or laparoscopic magnification.

      Ultrasound (US) is commonly used in imaging the prostate during diagnostic and therapeutic
      procedures such as diagnostic biopsy. US image in addition to the classic laparoscopic
      imaging can potentially provide decreased surgical margins and improve the dissection of the
      NVB during laparoscopic radical prostatectomy (LRP) according to the study by the Cleveland
      Clinic group. In their study, an assistant manipulated the TRUS probe under the direction of
      the surgeon and held it in place as requested. At critical points of the surgery, the surgeon
      visualized the NVB on the Doppler-capable ultrasound monitor. The images, however, were
      difficult to interpret because the surgeon was not in direct control of the TRUS probe. In
      addition, it was challenging for surgeon to communicate with the assistant to obtain steady
      and useful image. Moreover, their study was performed exclusively in LRP without the daVinci®
      robot (Intuitive Surgical, Inc.), more commonly performed surgical approach for radical
      prostatectomy.

      To overcome these obstacles in the study by Ukimura and al., we propose to use a mechanical
      support arm for holding and manipulating the TRUS probe during the daVinci® robot-assisted
      laparoscopic radical prostatectomy (robotic LRP)..

      This application is for a feasibility study involving six patients. We will obtain TRUS
      images of the prostate and NVB during a robotic LRP procedure. These images will be acquired
      in the first part of the operation and performed with minimal interference to the operation.
      We will record and analyze the TRUS images to investigate the feasibility of using mechanical
      support arm for the TRUS probe. The proposed study is a proof of concept for a following
      protocol.
    
  