
    
      Elderly patients with poor cardiopulmonary reserve tend to suffer higher risk and develop
      more complications following major surgery [1]. Quite a few researches have shown the
      benefits of goal-directed therapy(GDT) using fluid loading or inotropic agents or both to
      improve outcome during major surgery [2-7]. The maintenance of adequate tissue perfusion and
      global oxygen delivery (DO2I) is essential to maintain adequate tissue perfusion and
      oxygenation in relation to increased metabolic demand during high risk surgery. However,
      there is concern that inotropic therapy for a supernormal oxygen delivery may lead to an
      increased incidence of myocardial ischemia [8]. Even though the meta-analysis has stated that
      DO2I optimization could possibly reduce the incidence of cardiac complication than stroke
      volume optimization strategy [9],there are very few evidence available in the literature
      regarding the effect on myocardial ischemia in surgical patients, especially in non-cardiac
      surgical patients. This study is undertaken to test the hypothesis that an intraoperative
      DO2I optimization result in a decreased myocardial ischemia in the elderly high-risk surgical
      patients. The investigators will conduct a prospective, randomized, controlled,
      double-blinded trial in seventy patients who scheduled for proximal femur surgery under
      General anesthesia following nerve block. Both the patients will be allocated to one of two
      equal groups to receive either intraoperative fluid regimen guided by SV strategy or DO2I
      strategy. In the control(SV) group, the patients will receive an intravenous infusion of 250
      ml Ringer's lactate solution in 5 min as a fluid challenge for stroke volume maximization. In
      the experimental(DO2I) group, fluid and dobutamine will be given to reach a stroke volume
      maximization and supernormal oxygen delivery. The primary outcome is preoperative and 24h
      postoperative serum concentration of troponin T. Secondary outcomes include the incidence of
      tachycardia, arrhythmia, myocardial infarction, pneumonedema and acute heart failure, blood
      pressure, pulmonary infection, fluid volume, blood transfusion volume, renal function, PONV,
      Length of postoperative hospital stay and mortality. Data will be collected and recorded by
      the clinical teams who are blind to study arm allocation.
    
  