
    
      The Objective of this study is to introduce a practically feasible multifaceted intervention
      in the preadmission clinic to help reduce smoking in preoperative surgical patients. We aim
      to study the effectiveness of such a program in promoting positive change in smoking behavior
      among patients before surgery. The forced abstinence enforced on patients during hospital
      stay for their surgery can also be used to help smokers remain tobacco free long term.

      The intervention program for this study will be primarily based on the smoking cessation
      guidelines endorsed by the Department of Family and Community Medicine, University of
      Toronto. The study research staffs (including the research coordinator) will be trained in
      accordance with these guidelines and the reading material provided will also be based on the
      same guidelines. The counseling skills of the coordinator will be reviewed every 3 months to
      ensure minimal variability. The coordinator will also be involved in regular meetings to
      address difficult situations and scenarios. They will also be provided checklists for all
      interventions to ensure that all components are covered uniformly for each patient. For each
      patient, the research staff who interviews the patient at the beginning will be the same
      during the whole treatment and follow-up period.

      Interventions in Preadmission:

      Demographic and personal chrematistics of the patients including age, sex, average number of
      cigarette smoked per day will be recorded. Patients will then receive a questionnaire based
      on Prochaska and DiClemente's Stages of Change Model to determine whether they were
      precontemplating, contemplating, preparing for or actively engaged in smoking cessation. In
      order to have the baseline smoking status, urinary cotinine and expired-air carbon monoxide
      (COE) will be measured in all patients at the preadmission clinic.

      All patients will receive two 15 minute face to face standard counseling sessions by the
      research coordinator. First counseling will be done in preadmission. Counseling will include
      provision of advice to quit smoking and obtaining information regarding smoking behavior and
      skill building supplemented with standard printed materials. The patients will be informed of
      benefits of even short term abstinence before surgery. The target quit date (TQD) for all
      patients will be set up as 24 hours before surgery as surgical patients are routinely
      required to be abstinent at the time of surgery. The patients will be instructed to initiate
      the medication (or placebo) exactly one week before TQD. The whole treatment period is 12
      weeks which includes 1- week titration as follows:

      Days 1 - 3: 0.5 mg once daily (1 table each day) Days 4 - 7: 0.5 mg twice daily (1 in the
      morning and 1 in the evening) Days 8 - 12 weeks 1.0 mg twice daily (1 in the morning and 1 in
      the evening)

      Patients in the varenicline group will be prescribed varenicline for 12 weeks. Patients in
      the placebo group will be prescribed placebo (lactose, identical to medication pills in
      appearance) for the same period of time.

      The patients at the preadmission clinic will receive two bottles of the medication (or
      placebo): One containing 17 X 0.5 mg tabs (i.e. 11 tabs plus 6 extra tablets for a 3-day
      window period) for the first week of titration; the other one containing 66 X 1.0 mg tabs (28
      days X 2 tablets = 56 tablets plus10 for a 5-day window period) for the next 4 weeks of
      treatment. We will call the patients one week before TQD to remind them to start the
      treatment. In case of delayed or cancelled surgeries, TQD will not change and the patient
      will continue the treatment according to the above mentioned schedule. The patients will be
      asked to return the first medication bottle with the remaining pills on the day of surgery.

      There have been rare post-marketing reports of serious neuropsychiatric symptoms with
      varenicline, including depressed mood, agitation, hostility, changes in behavior, suicidal
      ideation and suicide, as well as worsening of pre-existing psychiatric illness (previously
      diagnosed or not). It is not known whether these events are occurring at a rate and severity
      which is different from the background rate for smoking cessation in the general population,
      or in the psychiatric population (treated or untreated), or different from the rates for
      other drugs in the class of smoking cessation.

      All patients and/or their families will be alerted about the need to monitor for the
      medication side effects including any neuropsychiatric symptoms. Since the beginning of the
      treatment and during each in-hospital visit or follow up phone calls, patients will be asked
      about changes in their behavior or thoughts. Patients will be instructed to stop taking the
      medication (or placebo) and contact their healthcare provider and the research coordinator
      immediately if they have or if their families observe depressed mood, agitation, hostility or
      changes in behavior, that are not typical for the patient, or if the patient has suicidal
      ideation or suicidal behavior. These patients will be unblinded, withdrawn from the study,
      and recorded as cases with serious adverse events (SAE). They will be followed up for at
      least 28 days after the stop of the treatments for monitoring any more complications.

      Intervention during hospital admission:

      On the day of surgery, the patients will take one pill of 1.0 mg medication (or matched
      placebo) before surgery. They will resume taking the medication as soon as possible after
      surgery according to the treatment schedule. At 24 hour after surgery or discharge time (for
      day-surgery patients), i.e. the postoperative visit, patients will receive the rest of
      medications for the whole treatment period, i.e. two bottles of the medication (or placebo)
      each one containing 66 X 1.0 mg tabs (28 days X 2 tablets = 56 tablets plus10 for a 5-day
      window) for the rest of treatment.

      Any interruption in the treatment which might happen due to patient surgical conditions (e.g.
      patients having abdominal surgeries, etc.) will be recorded for taking into account in the
      final sub-analysis. The second counseling session will be at discharge for day-surgery
      patients or at 24 hrs after other surgeries. Participants will be visited by the study
      coordinator in the hospital to review smoking status and to encourage future abstinence. The
      self-reported preoperative abstinence will then be verified by measurement of expired carbon
      monoxide (COE) and urinary cotinine in all patients. Patients will receive counseling with
      special emphasis on the skills associated with relapse prevention and remaining abstinent
      during second week as research suggests that abstinence during that time period is highly
      predictive of success (Kenford et al 1994) and promotes surgical healing (Warner et al 2004).
      Patients will also be informed of benefits of long-term cessation and will be encouraged to
      continue pharmacotherapy.

      Long-term follow up and telephone counseling after discharge:

      Participants in both groups will also be provided with telephone counseling. For the first 4
      weeks after starting treatment, the patients will receive weekly phone calls and then at the
      end of 8 weeks. The purpose of these calls will be to report smoking status and to help
      encourage continued and long-term abstinence. Patients then will be asked to come to the
      hospital for a visit at the end of their treatment period, i.e. 12 weeks after the treatment
      started. They will be compensated for the traveling and parking cost and required to bring
      the bottles including the remaining pills. In this visit, patients will be asked about their
      smoking status and their stage of change using Prochaska and DiClemente's model or no. of
      cigarette smoked/ day for those who have not quit smoking. In addition, the self-reported
      abstinence will then be verified by measurement of expired carbon monoxide (COE) and urinary
      cotinine in all patients. For the rest of follow-up period, i.e. until the end of week 52
      after treatment, patients will receive phone calls every 4 weeks to encourage continued and
      long-term abstinence. The smoking status, stage of change and no. of cigarette smoked/ day
      will also be reported at 24- and 52- week follow-up phone calls. To verify self-reports of
      abstinence, we will also mail the NicAlert urine cotinine strips (Accutest) at 24 and 52
      weeks after treatment to the patients along with instructions of how to do the test. Patients
      will be asked by telephone calls to do the test and to return the strips using prepaid return
      envelops including a small plastic pouch.

      Patients will be followed up for 52 weeks after starting the treatment. Participants in both
      groups will receive a follow up visit by the study coordinator or a research assistant during
      their hospital stay i.e., at discharge for day surgery patients or at 24 hrs after their
      surgery. Patients in both groups will receive weekly follow up calls during the first 4 weeks
      and then at the end of 8 week after starting the treatment. At the end of treatment period,
      i.e. 12 weeks patients will come be visited in the hospital. For the rest of follow-up
      period, i.e. until the end of week 52, patients will receive phone calls for every 4 weeks to
      help support abstinence and to report smoking status. Focus will be on the second week
      following start of abstinence as it has been shown that abstinence of smoking at 2 wks after
      a cessation attempt is highly predictive of success. The self reports of smoking status at
      24- and 52-week follow-up will be verified by measuring COE and urine cotinine.
    
  