
    
      Type of study and experimental plan:

      This is an interventional study designed to evaluate routine care. Number of Necessary
      Subjects Participants will be stratified by age to control the effect of age. The age groups
      to be analyzed are: 7-9 vs 10-12 vs. 13-18 versus 19-29 vs 30-40 and 41-50, each with at
      least 15 participants. total of 90 participants.

      • Study population The patients included in this study are followed in the general
      psychiatric department of the Rouffach hospital center for attention deficit disorder with or
      without hyperactivity (ADHD). The study focuses on ADHD patients aged 7 to 50 years,
      undergoing an oculomotor and cognitive examination before the initiation of psychostimulant
      therapy with methylphenidate (MPH) (baseline, V0); two weeks later (V1) following a single
      low dose administration of MPH (10 mg orally given at 8 AM) ; and at 6-month follow-up (V2)
      when patients are medicated with adequate dose of MPH.

      • Clinical assessments All subjects are evaluated directly by psychiatrists and
      neuropsychologists who are experts in the field of ADHD and are experienced in the use of
      standardized or semi-standardized clinical instruments. Clinical investigation allows
      extensive and standardized evaluation of patients.

        1. Categorical standardized assessment of ADHD symptoms Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
           (DSM-IV-TR) ADHD Criteria: Subtype: Combined, Inattentive, Hyperactive-Impulsive.

           • In children-adolescents: CONNERS Evaluation Scale for Teachers and Parents:
           Hetero-Questionnaire for Assessing Behavioral Disorders in ADHD.

           ADHD Questionnaire: self-assessment questionnaire for children and adolescents with
           attention difficulties, agitation and behavioral problems allowing the quantification of
           ADHD symptoms.

           ADHD Questionnaire: Hetero-evaluation questionnaire for children and adolescents with
           attention difficulties, agitation and behavioral problems allowing the quantification of
           ADHD symptoms. This questionnaire is completed by one of the parents.

           • In adults: Adult Self Reporting Scale (ASRS 1.1): self-assessment grid to assess
           current adult ADHD disorders.

           Diagnostic Interview for ADHD in adults (DIVA 2.0): semi-structured interview
           corresponding to the DSM-IV criteria, according to which the diagnosis of ADHD in adults
           requires the demonstration of symptoms of ADHD both in childhood and at age adult. This
           scale is composed of 3 parts that apply each to childhood and adulthood: inattention
           criteria, hyperactivity-impulsivity criteria, age of onset and impaired functioning due
           to symptoms.

           Wender Utah Rating Scale (WURS-25): a self-report scale that allows retrospective
           assessment of the presence of ADHD registry disorders in childhood.

           World Health Organization Disability Assessment Schedule (WHODAS 2.0): Self-Assessment
           Scale, to measure pathology-induced disability in daily living during the last 30 days.

        2. Standardized neurocognitive assessment

             -  Intellectual level The intellectual level of the patients is assessed using the
                Wechsler scales: Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence (WIPPSI) and
                Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC-IV) according to the age of the
                subject. The variety of tests proposed by the Wechsler Ladders allows to appreciate
                the level of cognitive development of the child and adolescents. Adults benefit
                from Adaptation French National Adult Reading Scale (fNART) which aims to estimate
                the intellectual pre-morbid level. It consists of a series of 40 words of the
                French language. The patient is asked to read each word aloud whether or not they
                know the word. It is therefore necessary to deduce the pronunciation of the word in
                question.

             -  Computerized neurocognitive tests o In children up to 10 years

           KITAP computerized battery: 6 tests of this battery have been selected and are
           administered in the following order:

             -  alert

             -  divided attention

             -  flexibility

             -  go no go

             -  distractibility

             -  sustained attention o In children from 11 years old/teenagers/adults

           Computer Battery TAP 2.2: 8 tests of this battery have been selected and are
           administered in the following order:

             -  phasic attention

             -  divided attention

             -  flexibility

             -  incompatibility

             -  go no go

             -  visual scan

             -  working memory

             -  sustained attention The total pass of these tests lasts approximately 45 minutes to
                which are added 5 minutes of explanation and test (s) for each task (5 x 8). Total
                duration of the TAP battery run: approximately 1h25.

                • Other neurocognitive tests

                o In children:

             -  Memory test

             -  15 words of Rey

             -  Memory test - figures

             -  Dam tests

        3. Standardized assessment of psychiatric comorbidities other than ADHD

           - In children-adolescents: Social Communication Questionnaire S.C.Q - Social
           Communication Questionnaire): A tool for identifying the manifestations of Autonomic
           Spectrum Disorders in three main functional areas: social relations, communication and
           restricted, stereotyped and repetitive behaviors. Hetero-quiz for parents or a person
           who knows the child well.

           C.A.S.T The Childhood Asperger Syndrome Test: hetero-questionnaire to assess the
           manifestations of Asperger syndrome.

           - In adults: Semi-structured psychiatric interview. Questionnaire Mood Disorder
           Questionnaire (MDQ): self-questionnaire "mood disorders" allowing screening for bipolar
           disorders

        4. Standardized evaluation of oculomotor behavior Visually guided horizontal and vertical
           saccade tests: A fixation point is shown in the center of the screen, after a time
           interval of 200 ms, the center point disappears and a new point appears on the right or
           left at 20 ° from the initial position. The eyes must move on the new target. Thirty
           horizontal and 30 vertical saccades are presented Voluntary horizontal saccadic tests:
           The parameters are identical to those exposed in visually guided saccadic tests except
           that the central point does not disappear when the second point appears on the right or
           on the left (top or bottom) at 20 ° from the central point. Thirty horizontal saccades
           are presented.

           Anti-saccadic tests: A fixation point is presented in the center of the screen, after an
           interval of 200ms, the central point disappears and a new point appears on the right or
           on the left (top or bottom) at 20 ° from the initial position. The eyes must be pointing
           away from the point. Thirty horizontal saccades are presented.

           All oculomotor tests last 1 minute. Horizontal and vertical chase tests: A target moves
           on the screen for about 50 seconds, the eyes must follow the target. The speed of the
           target varies from 5 ° Reading and Visual Search Tests: A text of 4 lines is presented
           on the computer screen. The participants must read it in a low voice, the movements of
           the eyes are recorded while they perform the task.

           In the visual search test, the same text is presented but all vowels are replaced by
           consonants. Participants must count in low voices the number of 'r' present in the text.

        5. Other parameters collected Sociodemographic data, personal and family psychiatric and
           somatic antecedents as well as previous and current treatments are collected.
    
  