
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Mild acute pancreatitis has a low mortality rate, but patients with severe acute pancreatitis
      (AP) are more likely to have complications and a much higher death rate. Severe pancreatic
      injury occurs in 20% of the patients, and 15% to 25% of these patients will not survive. The
      amplifying effects of inflammatory and oxidative impairment often lead to SAP-induced
      complications, which are often regarded as hallmarks of severe AP and herald a noted poor
      outcome. Since respiratory failure is the main cause of death in patients with severe AP,
      more work is needed for us to prevent and treat AP-associated lung dysfunction Despite recent
      substantial improvements in the multidisciplinary management of AP (with special emphasis on
      fluid therapy, intensive care management, prevention of infectious complications, nutritional
      support, biliary tract management or necrotizing pancreatitis management), the prognosis of
      severe AP remains poor in patients who develop acute respiratory failure requiring intubation
      and invasive respiratory support.

      Animal studies suggest that epidural analgesia (EA) may decrease the severity of AP. EA is
      associated with sympathetic nerve blockade, which redistributes splanchnic blood flow to
      non-perfused pancreatic regions, and it may improve the pancreatic hypoperfusion induced by
      AP. EA also decreases the severity of metabolic acidosis and tissue injury, thus preventing
      the progression from an edematous disease to a necrotizing AP.

      To date, EA has not been adequately tested in patients with severe AP as compared to
      conventional management, and with special emphasis on its putative beneficial ventilatory
      effects.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The purpose of this multicenter, prospective, randomized, controlled, trial is to test the
      effects of thoracic EA on pulmonary outcome in patients with severe AP.

      After inclusion, ICU patients with severe AP will be randomized into 2 groups: a "
      conventional group " in which available guidelines on analgesia are applied, and an " EA "
      group in which patients receive thoracic EA for at least 3 days. Beyond the analgesic
      strategy, recent consensual guidelines on the management of severe AP are applied.
    
  