
    
      The activity of "gaming" is increasing in popularity each year, with millions of young adults
      engaged in regular play. This has fueled the rise in nutrition and dietary supplementation
      strategies to aid gaming performance. Since caffeine has been widely used for purposes of
      improving athletic performance with both relatively low and high dosages, and more recently
      as a potential aid for "mind" games such as chess at a dosage of 400mg, this has been the
      nutrient of focus for many gamers. Other multi-component products are making their way to the
      market.

      Active gamers claim to ingest such products regularly throughout their gameplay, which can
      span from 4-12 hours per session for regular gamers. AMATEA™ is a patented dietary supplement
      consisting of a unique blend of caffeine and polyphenol antioxidants; standardized at 20%
      caffeine, 30% chlorogenic acids (similar to green coffee). The product is also Generally
      Recognized as Safe (GRAS) and USDA organic.

      While caffeine has been well-investigated for its performance boosting effects, chlorogenic
      acid has been reported to offer many potential health benefits. Specifically, it has been
      reported to improve select cognitive measures following regular intake, which may translate
      into more efficient performance with complex tasks-such as those involved with gaming.

      In-house evaluations and anecdotal findings related to AMATEA have noted sustained energy
      without the typical "crash" and/or "jitters" experienced by some with caffeine ingestion
      alone. While caffeine can prove beneficial to many, some users experience "crashing" 2-3
      hours post ingestion, while others feel too "wired" following use and may experience
      difficulty concentrating. AMATEA contains a relatively low concentration of caffeine per
      capsule (150mg) in an attempt to avoid such problems, while also containing chlorogenic acid.
      This may aid gamers who need to maintain fine motor skills and those who need to concentrate
      on complex activities for several hours continuously.

      The aim of the present study is to compare the effects of AMATEA and caffeine alone on
      various measures of cognitive performance, mood, and gaming performance in men and women who
      regularly engage in gaming activity. The investigators hypothesize that both AMATEA and
      caffeine will improve outcome measures more than placebo, with greater improvement noted for
      the AMATEA condition due to the addition of the chlorogenic acid.
    
  