
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To estimate the pathologic complete necrosis rate (the number of patients with >= 95%
      necrosis divided by the number of evaluable patients) following preoperative treatment with
      talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) in combination with radiation in patients with localized
      soft tissue sarcoma including a pre-planned interim safety analysis to assess post-surgical
      wound complications.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the toxicity of talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) in combination with radiation
      in localized soft tissue sarcomas, during neo-adjuvant treatment and post-surgical resection
      wound complications.

      II. To estimate the rate of radiologic response, prior to surgery, and extent of surgical
      resection.

      III. To estimate time to surgery, time to progression, time to recurrence, and death.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the clinical outcomes within three distinct histologic subtypes:
      liposarcoma (excluding myxoid liposarcoma), leiomyosarcoma and undifferentiated pleomorphic
      sarcoma.

      II. To characterize the percentage of tumor necrosis in treated tumors. III. To assess if the
      combination of preoperative talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) with radiation will increase the
      expression of PD-L1 in soft tissue sarcomas.

      IV. To assess the impact of preoperative talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) with radiation on
      the tumor infiltrating and circulating immune cells in patients with soft tissue sarcomas.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive talimogene laherparepvec intratumorally (IT) or via intralesional injection
      at weeks 1, 4, 6 and 8. Beginning 1 week after the start of talimogene laherparepvec,
      patients undergo radiation therapy on Monday-Friday of weeks 2-6.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 1 year, and then every year for up to 5 years.
    
  