
    
      Previously, Spinal Manipulative Therapy (SMT) was thought to mechanically affect the
      restoration of muscular and joint function, by normalising muscle tension and joint mobility.
      However, recent research has suggested that SMT may be influencing the incoming/ascending
      pain signals and/or the excitability of the central pain regulating mechanisms. People with
      chronic neck/shoulder pain have been found to have a disturbance of the Autonomic Nervous
      System (ANS). Little is known about the changes in the ANS and its relation to changes in
      pain in a series of treatments conducted in a clinical setting.

      This multicentre randomized controlled clinical trial will be carried out in multimodal
      primary care clinics where both physiotherapists and chiropractors are consulted for
      musculoskeletal issues are selected to minimize selection bias from the patient's pre-desired
      treatment modality.

      The subjects will be recruited among patients seeking care for persistent or recurrent Neck
      pain (NP), either self-selected or through referrals from general practitioners in the local
      areal. The aim is to study the effect of SMT and stretching exercises compared to stretching
      exercises alone, two well-known interventions for NP, during a two-week treatment regimen.

      The primary outcome is the activity of the autonomic nervous system (Heart Rate Variability
      (HRV), but also Conditioned Pain Modulation (CPM) will be measured. HRV and CPM will be
      measured at baseline, prior to the third treatment and after the fourth treatment.

      The subjective pain experience will be investigated by using two different instruments
      accessing pain intensity and the affective quality of pain, asked at the assessments during
      the two weeks of treatment and 2 months after the period of intervention ends.

      Highly structured data collection procedures should provide reliable data to answer these
      questions. The study utilizes normal clinical procedures, which should aid the
      transferability of the results.
    
  