
    
      While public health programs have demonstrated modest success in reducing the adolescent and
      young adult (AYA) risk for STI/HIV, significant health disparities remain. The risk of
      STI/HIV is not uniform among AYA. AYA residing in segregated urban communities with high STI
      prevalence and complicated sexual networks face even greater risk for disease and associated
      complications. Additional supports designed to increase engagement in care and reduce STI
      acquisition and transmissions are urgently needed to meet the sexual health and reproductive
      health goals for the nation. Overwhelmingly, AYA STI prevention interventions have targeted
      individuals and individual-level factors. While effective, these interventions do not
      adequately address other important influences affecting AYA risk for STI/HIV, such as partner
      or relationship influences on sexual decision-making and behavior. Partner notification and
      treatment is a key strategy for disease control and has previously been tested among adults
      for STI/HIV prevention work but has yet to be evaluated for AYA. Our prior research
      demonstrates that AYAs with complicated STIs are likely to notify their partners to seek
      treatment (88-92%); however, AYAs receiving brief behavioral interventions, relative to those
      receiving standard of care were 3 times more likely to be successful in arranging for their
      partner's treatment. Thus, partner interventions may hold promise for harnessing the power of
      relationship dynamics to enhance sexual decision-making, communication, and subsequent health
      behaviors. The investigators propose to pilot test an intervention designed to change sexual
      health outcomes by understanding partners and the learning environment related to sex
      [COUPLES] by simultaneously delivering two evidence-based STI/HIV prevention interventions
      Sister-to-Sister Teen and Focus on the Future. The simultaneous delivery of effective
      interventions will be augmented with a joint partner health education counseling session
      focused on enhancing communication and negotiation of safe sexual practices within the
      relationship. If successful, this pilot will support the development of a larger trial
      designed to evaluate the effectiveness of this approach in the busy primary care setting by
      providing evidence that AYA can and will safely engage their partners in a supportive primary
      care setting that integrates high quality treatment with evidence-based STI/HIV prevention
      interventions delivered by health educator teams.
    
  