
    
      Background: Singing is a multimodal activity that requires physical, cognitive and
      psychosocial performance, with benefits in various domains of health and well-being of older
      adults. In recent years, research has increasingly studied group singing as an important
      cost-effective intervention to promote active and healthy aging. However, the specific
      factors responsible for these benefits need further experimental support, as most studies do
      not allow for causal inferences. This study responds to the need for further randomized
      controlled trials (RCT), with follow-up measurement, on the benefits of group singing in
      older adults with diverse socioeconomic status. Also, while most studies often focus on
      specific outcome measures dimensions, in this study, the conjoint effects of physical,
      psychosocial, emotional and cognitive dimensions are analyzed, testing mediation and
      moderation effects of psychosocial and cognitive variables in the health and well-being of
      the participants. Methods: The team implements and measures the effects of a singing group
      program for older adults, with an RCT design, in a natural context, before and after the
      intervention and in a follow-up, four months after the intervention. Participants: 140
      retired older adults (> 60 years), users of a social care institution, were invited to
      participate in a singing group program and randomly allocated to an experimental intervention
      group (n = 70), and a control (n = 70) group enrolled in the regular activities proposed by
      the institution. The intervention consists of 34 bi-weekly group singing sessions, of
      two-hours each, for four months. Measures on social and emotional well-being, cognitive
      function, and health indicators (as blood pressure, glycemia, cholesterol, c-reactive
      protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, respiratory function, body balance, body activity,
      sleep quality, medication intake, and health services attendance) will be collected.
      Interviews on the motivation and perceived benefits of participation will also be collected.
      Discussion: Significant improvements are expected in the outcome measures in the experimental
      group after the intervention, in comparison with the control group and the pretest,
      validating the singing group program as a cost-effective intervention for healthy aging.
      Psychoemotional, psychosocial and cognitive variables are expected to be mediators of the
      effects of the program on the health and well-being of the participants.
    
  