
    
      Primary Objectives:

      The primary objectives of this study are feasibility and safety. The study will be deemed
      infeasible if greater than 10% of pts experience one of the following:

        -  Patient cannot be given treatment because anatomy is such that a dosimetrically
           satisfactory treatment plan cannot be devised.

           (95% of target volume covered by 95% of the dose)

        -  Patient is unable to tolerate 20% of treatments (for any reason unable to set patient up
           within acceptable limits of tolerance, patient unable to tolerate treatment position or
           immobilization for duration of treatment) using proton radiotherapy (up to 80% of
           treatments could be delivered using photons).

        -  Patient is unable to complete all of his/her treatments within 7 days of estimated date
           of treatment completion or requires a treatment break greater than 5 days. Toxicity will
           be deemed unacceptable if greater than 20% of patients experience acute toxicity, as
           defined in Section 7.12.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To assess acute side effects from irradiation using proton beam therapy in place of
           conventional photon beam therapy for the treatment of meningiomas.

        -  To assess quality of life outcomes, with a focus on the rate of severe fatigue at 6 and
           12 months from end of treatment.

        -  To assess late complications from irradiation using proton beam therapy in place of
           conventional photon beam therapy for the treatment of meningiomas.

        -  To compare the dose distribution to tumor and surrounding normal structures using DVHs
           (Dose Volume Histograms) generated from the proton plan used to treat the patient and
           the photon plan generated for comparison purposes.

        -  To determine 1-yr local control and progression-free and overall survival using proton
           radiotherapy.
    
  