
    
      The participants attended two half-hour Pilates exercise classes twice a week, for one month,
      to familiarize themselves with the exercises and to learn the 5 Pilates' principles. After
      the learning period, two experimental sessions were performed: a Mat Pilates session and a
      Reformer apparatus Pilates session. The order of each session was randomized and drawn
      beforehand. Each experimental session lasted about one and a half hours and the interval
      between the sessions was 48 hours. Participants were asked to not perform any exercise and to
      refrain from food or fluids except water eight hours prior to each experimental session.
      Prior to the start of the experimental sessions, participants received a standard breakfast
      of 321 kcal that was 76% (61 g) carbohydrate, 8% (6,7 g) protein, 16% (5,9) fat, provided by
      the study researchers. All sessions were conducted at the same time in the morning, and the
      room temperature (22°C) and humidity (40-50%) were controlled during the whole session.

      Prior to the start of experimental sessions, participants rested in a supine position for 15
      minutes. At the end of the 15 minutes, while still supine, measurements of BP and resting
      blood lactate were taken using standard laboratory procedures. Participants were then
      outfitted with a oxygen gas analyzer (Metalyzer 3b Cortex, Germany). Participants were
      connected by a mask, covering mouth and nose, to a digital gas flow analyzer. Standard
      calibration before every session was conducted according to the manufacturer's
      instructions.VO2 and HR were then simultaneously recorded for 5 minutes in a sitting
      position. At the end of the 5 minutes, the exercise session was started. VO2 and HR were
      monitored continuously throughout the session, while BP was assessed during rest intervals
      between exercises. At the end of the exercise session, BP and blood lactate were measured one
      time in a supine position in the post recovery time period. VO2 and HR were measured
      continuously for 5 minutes post session in a sitting position.
    
  