
    
      1. Introduction. Pentavalent antimonials are first line drugs for the treatment of
           leishmaniasis. WHO and Brazilian Ministry of Health recommend treating patients with
           mucosal (ML) or mucocutaneous leishmaniasis (MCL) with doses of 20mg/kg/day,
           intramuscularly or intravenously, for a period of three to four weeks. In the Reference
           Centre on Leishmaniasis - IPEC - FIOCRUZ, the dose of 5mg/kg/day IM has been effective
           and well tolerated in the treatment. ML is treated for 30 continuous or intermittent
           days, in series of 10 days interspersed with periods of 10 days without medication, up
           to 12 series of treatment (120 medication days), with a lower incidence of adverse
           effects and lower treatment dropout rates. The evolution of the lesions is usually
           similar to that observed with continuous treatment. In all cases patients should be
           monitored with clinical examination, electrocardiogram, blood count, liver function,
           renal and pancreatic tests. Some side effects can be observed, although they not
           necessarily lead to discontinuation of treatment: arthralgia, myalgia, anorexia,
           abdominal pain, rash, fever, headache, edema, and herpes zoster. Electrocardiographic
           abnormalities most frequent are heart rhythm and ventricular repolarization
           disturbances: flattening or inversion of T wave and corrected QT space widening.

        2. Background: Ideally, the most appropriate antimoniate therapeutic regimens should be
           established for each endemic area, based on their efficacy and toxicity, without
           ignoring the difficulties of administration and cost. The treatment of ML or MCL must
           achieve the healing of mucosal lesions and prevention of severe scarring of mucosal
           tissues and consequent disabilities. The recognition, recommendation and acceptance of
           new regimens should be preceded by demonstration of their superiority to currently
           recommended treatments. We aim to compare the effectiveness and safety among treatment
           schemes with meglumine antimoniate currently recommended in Brazil for the treatment of
           ATL and an alternative scheme with low doses of antimony.

        3. Objectives. 3.1. General Objective. To compare the effectiveness and safety of meglumine
           antimoniate at a dose of 20 mg/kg/day for 30 days or 5 mg continuous up to 120 days, in
           the treatment of patients with ML or MCL.

           3.2. Specific Objectives. 1. To compare the frequencies of epithelialization and
           reduction of mucosal infiltration (assessed on days 30, 120, 150 from the beginning of
           the treatment) between the two groups. 2. To compare the frequencies of good late
           therapeutic response (maintenance of epithelialization, with total regression of
           infiltration and no re-emergence of a skin lesion) between the two groups, up to two
           years. 3. To compare the frequency and severity of adverse clinical, laboratory and
           electrocardiogram effects between the two groups, controlling for age above or below 60
           years. 4. To compare the time in days until the epithelialization and reduction of
           infiltration of the lesions between the two groups, according to the nasal,
           oropharyngeal or laryngeal location.

        4. Subjects and methods.

      4. 1. Study design: Controlled clinical trial with standard and alternative treatment,
      randomized, double-blind, phase III.

      4.2. Description of interventions: Meglumine antimoniate (Aventis, São Paulo, Brazil) is
      stored and ministered under actual conditions employed by the health services in Brazil. A
      single lot of medication will be used in all patients. Each patient will be included in one
      of two treatment groups with meglumine antimoniate IM: 1) 20mg / kg / day for 30 continuous
      days. Patients with remaining active lesions in the day 120 from the beginning of the
      treatment will be re-treated with the same regimen. 2) 5mg / kg / day continuous until the
      epithelization and resolution of mucosal infiltration, respecting the limit of 120 days of
      treatment.

      There will be no cross-over between the groups for the purpose of this study. The data from
      those patients who require permanent discontinuation of a scheme will be assessed in the
      group that were randomized, ie, by intention to treat.

      4.3. Sampling plan. 4.3.1 Sample size. The comparison of the effectiveness between the two
      schemes will probably reveal superiority of the alternative scheme (continuous low dose) for
      the following outcomes: 1) frequency of good initial response (epithelialization and
      resolution of mucosal infiltration) on day 150. 2) frequency of good late response
      (maintenance of epithelialization and total regression of infiltration) up to 2 years.

      We considered the significance level of 5% and 80% power to calculate the sample sizes needed
      to compare the groups. Initially, a 76-total of patients will be required (38 patients in
      each group) to compare the standard group with the alternative group.

      4.4 Allocation strategy (randomization). Eligible individuals who agree to participate (by
      signing an informed consent) will be randomly assigned to one of the two treatment groups,
      according to order of arrival, until the completion of the groups.

      4.5. Eligibility Criteria (see item: Eligibility Criteria). 4.6. Outcomes. 4.6.1
      Effectiveness Outcome: Definition: 1. Initial therapeutic response - presence or not of
      complete epithelization of all lesions until day 150. 2. Late therapeutic response in mucosal
      leishmaniasis: maintenance of epithelialization and total regression of the infiltration up
      to 2 years.

      4.6.2 Safety Outcomes (adverse events): definition, intensity and relationship to study drug.
      Adverse events (AE) are considered as any events, adverse or unexpected, evidenced by the
      investigator or reported by the patients, beginning during the use of the drug or within 30
      days after stopping it. The investigation of AE will be made by spontaneous recall and
      questioned by a physician in a standardized form every 10 days during the medication and in
      day 30 after completion of treatment. All EA should be monitored until their disappearance.

      The classification of the severity of adverse events (clinical, laboratory and
      electrocardiographic) will take place according to "AIDS Table for Grading Severity of Adult
      Adverse Experiences, 1992". The causal relationship to study drug (= AE) will be evaluated by
      the investigator and classified as follows: a) Definite (Highly Likely); b) Probable; c)
      Possible; d) Remote (Probably not); e) Definitely not.

      4.7. Medications allowed. There will be no restrictions on the use of symptomatic medications
      and for other diseases except those listed in the exclusion criteria.

      4.8. Management of adverse effects. The AE will be noted in the appropriate form and shall
      contain: a description of the adverse effect, its intensity, relation with the investigated
      drug, start date, completion date, duration and conduct taken.

      4.9. Masking. We chose to perform the measurements of outcomes of interest (effectiveness)
      and adverse events (security) by a physician who is not aware of what is the regimen used by
      the patient. It is intended to minimize measurement biases of the different outcomes
      according to treatment regimen to which each patient belongs. The results of laboratory tests
      are provided by the clinical pathology laboratory without information about the treatment
      group. The manager of the database will preserve the secrecy of this information by coding
      the groups for analysis for the epidemiologist (s).

      4.10. Criteria for definitive discontinuation of study treatment: a) Interruption driven by
      clinical, laboratory or electrocardiographic AE Grade 4; b) Interruption exceeding 10 days
      attributed to clinical, laboratory or electrocardiographic adverse event Grade <3; c)
      Spontaneous cessation of the use of prescribed medication beyond five consecutive doses, due
      to fault of the administration (noncompliance).

      4.11. Criteria for study withdrawal: a) definitive interruption of treatment; b) pregnancy;
      c) introduction of immunosuppressive or potentially toxic drugs; d) intercurrent disease,
      unrelated to study drug, but with manifestations equivalent or superior to clinical grade 3
      AE; e) poor initial or late therapeutic response; f) patient abandonment to continue the
      study.

      4.12. Procedures for confidentiality break. The randomization codes used for allocation of
      numbering and allocation of patients may be revealed in cases of necessity of the study.

      4.13. Monitoring the study. The parameters (outcomes) of effectiveness and safety will be
      monitored according to the timetable for implementation. The principal investigator and
      coordinators will supervise the field work, controlling for quality deviation and this
      Protocol. Important items to be monitored: adhesion to the Protocol (follow-up losses will be
      minimized through active search), appropriate records of outcomes and adverse events;
      adequacy of stored products; quality of procedures for laboratory tests; minimization of
      missing data; periodic transmission of data for data entry. Written reports of field will be
      retained for consideration by the committees. Serious adverse events will be reported to the
      Ethical Committee and perhaps decision to interrupt the test will be made. External
      Committee: a committee of outside monitoring of the trial shall be constituted , consisting
      of three members, experts in the treatment of leishmaniasis and execution of clinical trials.
      The committee will carry out audits of documentation and activities relevant to the clinical
      trial, controlling for possible protocol breaks.

      4.14 Control of storage of medications. The ampoules required for complete treatment of the
      whole sample will be stored in IPEC Pharmacy. A trained professional team will include the
      patients, in day 1 consultation, following the randomization list.

      4.15. Data Analysis Plan. Data analysis will be carried out following the principle of
      intention to treat. The data from those patients who require permanent discontinuation of a
      scheme will be analyzed according to the group for what they had been allocated initially,
      not being re-assigned to another group to resumption of treatment (no cross-over between the
      groups for the purposes of this study). We will describe the simple frequencies of
      categorical variables and measures of central tendency and dispersion of continuous
      quantitative variables for each antimony scheme. The proportion of dichotomous outcome of
      presence or absence of good early and late therapeutic response with the alternative regimen
      will be compared to the standard one through chi-square test, and the days until the extent
      of epithelialization and reduction of infiltration of lesions by nasal, oropharyngeal or
      laryngeal location will be studied through survival time analysis between the two groups
      (log-rank statistic). If necessary, nonparametric tests will be used. Effectiveness and
      safety will be also evaluated through relative risk (RR), absolute risk reduction (ARR) and
      relative risk reduction (RRR).

      5. Ethical considerations. 6.1 Risks and benefits. The main potential benefit of this test is
      the possibility of subsidizing the use of lower doses of antimony, potentially less toxic and
      less costly. The risks consist of general adverse events, which will be thoroughly
      scrutinized and treated. This project was submitted to the Ethics in Research Committee
      (CEP/IPEC) and National Ethics in Research Council (CONEP). All patients sign an informed
      consent approved by CEP/IPEC. This project follows the recommendations of the National Health
      Council.

      5.2. Informed consent. In plain language and explaining the objectives, risks, benefits and
      identifying those responsible for research.

      6. Expected Results. We hope the different schemes are equivalent in effectiveness, and with
      diverse toxicities.

      7. Financial support. This project is supported in part with funds approved by MCT/CNPq /
      MS-SCTIE-DECIT 25/2006.
    
  