
    
      Primary Objective:

      The primary objective of this study was to assess the effect of rilonacept on the clinical
      signs and symptoms of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndrome (CAPS) when used for chronic
      therapy as evaluated by the subjects themselves over time using a validated patient-reported
      outcomes tool.

      Secondary Objective(s):

      The secondary objectives were as follows:

        -  To determine the safety and tolerability of rilonacept in subjects with CAPS

        -  To assess the effect of rilonacept on laboratory measures of inflammation such as acute
           phase reactants

      This was a multi-center, two-part, double-blind, placebo-controlled study (Parts A and B)
      designed to assess the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of weekly subcutaneous (SC) doses
      of 160 mg of rilonacept in adult subjects with active CAPS. These phases were followed by
      extended open-label phases. After written informed consent was obtained, subjects who met the
      protocol eligibility criteria were enrolled at one of 27 study sites in the United States.
      The study consisted of a 3-week screening period preceding Part A, a 6-week long
      double-blind, randomized phase of the study. All subjects were then treated with single-blind
      rilonacept for 9-weeks, followed by a subsequent 9-week, double-blind, withdrawal phase
      during which subjects were re-randomized to either rilonacept or placebo. Subjects then
      continued treatment in a 24-week open-label extension phase (OLE) and a further 112-week
      long-term open-label extension (LTOLE), during which all subjects received rilonacept and a
      6-week post-treatment follow-up period. Amendments 4 and 6 allowed eligible adult and
      pediatric subjects aged 7 and above to enroll directly into the open-label phases of the
      trial.

      For reporting purposes, the 24-week OLE and the 112-week LTOLE was considered one Open Label
      Extension (OLE) phase. This occurred after the 24-week double blind (Parts A and B ) phase.
      In other words, OLE Week 1 corresponded to the week 25 in the study.

      OLE Week 72 was the final timepoint where efficacy was measured. Safety continued after that
      timepoint until the end of the study.
    
  