
    
      Microbial and periodontal changes associated with conventional versus self ligating brackets.

      Protocol submitted in partial fulfillment for the requirements of Master Degree in
      Orthodontics

      Accumulation of biofilm on the tooth surfaces is associated with increased levels of oral
      streptococcus mutans and lactobacilli, which have been proved to be responsible for the onset
      of enamel demineralization and periodontal disease.

      It has been shown that fixed appliance provides large number of retentive areas for plaque
      accumulation and impedes oral hygiene.

      Three methods are currently used to connect the arch wire to the brackets, which are :
      ligation with stainless steel ligatures , using elastomeric ligatures, and the self-ligating
      brackets. , Each of these method has it's advantages and disadvantages, concerning the
      biofilm retention and the level of microorganisms. , Orthodontic treatment with conventional
      brackets my presents some periodontal changes caused by difficulty in oral hygiene
      maintenance, greater accumulation and qualitative alteration of plaque. Thus, in order to
      control oral hygiene and plaque level during fixed appliance therapy, manufacturers
      introduced self-ligating brackets (SLBs) which have been claimed to provide better oral
      hygiene and less plaque accumulation, because of fewer retentive sites for microbial
      colonization; without the need for stainless steel and elastomeric ligature. Clinically, the
      side effects of fixed orthodontic treatment, such as the qualitative bacterial shift, are
      manifested as plaque associated gingivitis, an increase in pocket probing depth (PPD), and
      bleeding on probing.

      Fewer studies have compared conventional and self-ligating brackets in relation to oral
      hygiene, microbial count and periodontal indices. Therefore, the present study will be
      conducted to evaluate and compare microbial and periodontal changes with conventional and
      self ligating brackets.

      The aim of this study will be to compare microbial and periodontal changes associated with
      conventional versus self ligating brackets.

      Subjects and method

      Study design:

      Randomized controlled clinical trial

      Study setting and population:

      The sample of this study will be consisted of forty five patients selected from Outpatient
      Clinic, Orthodontic Department, Faculty of Dental Medicine, Boys, Cairo, Al-Azhar University.

      Interventions:

      The patients will be divided randomly into three groups and will be treated separately as
      follows:

        -  Group I: will be treated using conventional stainless steel orthodontic brackets ligated
           with stainless steel ligature.

        -  Group II: will be treated using passive self-ligating stainless steel orthodontic
           brackets.

        -  Group III: will be treated by active self-ligating stainless steel orthodontic brackets.

      Records:

      For all patients the following records will be taken before and after treatment:

        1. Standardized Orthodontic study cast.

        2. Standardized intra oral and extra oral photographs.

        3. Standardized panoramic radiograph.

        4. Standardized lateral cephalometric radiograph.

      Observations:

      • Periodontal parameters: The following clinical parameters will be recorded at baseline
      before treatment and at monthly interval for 6 months after bonding;

        1. Pocket probing depth .

        2. Plaque index (Silness and Loe) .

        3. The presence or absence of bleeding on probing .

             -  Microbial parameters:

      Plaque sample will be taken at base line and at monthly interval for six months after
      bonding. The sample will be taken from the maxillary left canine, second premolar and the
      right central incisor and the mandibular right canine, second premolar and the left central
      incisor.

      Plaque sample will be send to laboratory for isolation of streptococcus mutans and
      lactobacilli. The isolated strains will be cultured and counted.

      Ethical consideration:

      All patients will clearly understand the purpose of the study and give their consent by
      signing an informed consent (attached copy of the consent form).

      Patient's instructions:

      Instructions form (a copy attached) will be signed by all patients and their parents before
      commencing the study.

      Data management and analysis:BN All the obtained results will be gathered and statistically
      analyzed using Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS, version 16, Inc., Chicago,
      Ill).
    
  