
    
      Introduction:

      Meropenem is a carbapenem antibacterial agent with a broad spectrum of activity against
      several pathogens. In common with other -lactams, the main pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic
      parameter that correlates with the therapeutic efficacy is the T>MIC, and administration by
      continuous infusion is the preferred route to maximize this parameter. However, in tropical
      countries the stability of meropenem is an important consideration when continuous infusion
      is to be used.

      Objective:

      The aim of this study was to demonstrate the T>MIC of meropenem when administered by a 3-h
      infusion compared with that when administered by bolus injection.

      Study design:

      The study was conducted with nine patients with ventilator-associated pneumonia. Each subject
      received meropenem in three regimens consecutively: (i) bolus injection of 1 g every 8 h for
      24 h; (ii) 3-h infusion of 1 g every 8 h for 24 h; and (iii) 3-h infusion of 2 g every 8 h
      for 24 h.

      Sample collections:

      Meropenem pharmacokinetic studies were carried out during administration of the third dose of
      each regimen (16 to 24 h after the start of each regimen). Blood samples (approximately 5 ml)
      were obtained by direct venipuncture at the following times: before (time zero) and 10 and 30
      min and 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 6, and 8 h after the third dose of each regimen.

      Meropenem assay:

      The concentrations of meropenem were determined by reverse-phase high-performance liquid
      chromatography. Cefepime (100 mcg/ml) was used as the internal standard, and the samples were
      extracted by the method of Ozkan et al.

      Clinical data and pathogens collection:

        1. Initial patient demographic data (age, sex, weight, diagnosis, APACHE II scores) will be
           collected upon enrollment in the study.

        2. The Gram negative bacilli isolated from sputum in 9 patients will be collected and the
           MIC of the meropenem for pathogens will be determined by E tests upon enrollment in the
           study.

      Duration of study:

      Patients will receive meropenem for 3 days

      Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analysis:

      Concentration of meropenem in plasma will be simulated in Monte Carlo technique (Computer
      model) to get PK/PD index (40%T>MIC) and reported to % PTA (Probability Target Attainment)
      and %CFR (Cumulative Faction Response) Sample Size: Nine patients with VAP will be enrolled
      in this study.
    
  