
    
      The study will be a prospective, randomized, double blinded, and placebo controlled clinical
      trial. The subject population will consist of patients ages 18 to 80 undergoing same day,
      lower extremity surgery involving the use of a tourniquet with a minimal surgical time of 60
      minutes. Subjects will be recruited on the day of surgery, after consultation with the
      primary surgeon as to the use of a tourniquet and the anticipated tourniquet time. Subjects
      will be approached while awaiting surgery either on E yellow or Same day Surgery in the
      Doctor's Office Complex. The study will be explained. The subject and family members will be
      given an opportunity to ask questions and if agreeable the subject will be asked to provide
      written consent. Standard American Society of Anesthesiologists monitors will be used
      including pulse oximetry, electrocardiogram, and non-invasive blood pressure monitoring. Both
      groups will have an infusion running.

      The experimental group (n= 40) will have a Dexmedetomidine infusion at 0.5 mcg/kg/hr without
      a loading dose. The control group (n= 40) will have an equivalent volume of 0.9% normal
      saline infusing.

      Induction will commence after the initiation of the infusion and will be identical for both
      groups: Midazolam 2mg IV, Fentanyl 1-2 micrograms/kg, Lidocaine 1mg/kg, and Propofol 1.5 to 2
      mg/kg. Following induction an appropriately sized Laryngeal Mask Airway (LMA) will be placed.
      A second intravenous line (preferably 18Gauge or larger) will be placed in the opposite upper
      extremity to collect blood samples. Prior to sampling a waste of 10milliLiters will be
      withdrawn and later returned to the patient. Anesthesia will be maintained with isoflurane at
      a Minimum Alveolar Concentration of 0.8 to 1.2. Mean arterial pressures that exceeds 130mmHg
      or >30% above baseline or heart rate(HR)s >110 bpm will first be treated with additional
      doses of Fentanyl every two minutes for a total dose of 5mcg/kg. If there is no response
      following the total dose of Fentanyl then within two minutes further treatment with Labetalol
      consisting of titrated doses starting at 5mg IV. Rescue doses of Hydralazine up to 20mg are
      allowed to treat hypertension not responsive to Fentanyl and Labetalol

      Measurements:

      The following measurements will be collected. Time 0 : In Operating Room holding area
      Baseline MAP, Heart Rate(HR) , and Respiratory Rate (RR) will be recorded A baseline Numeric
      Ration Scale Pain Score determined

      Time 1: Following Induction and prior and to tourniquet inflation MAP, HR, and RR will be
      recorded at five minute intervals throughout the surgical procedure

      Blood samples will be analyzed for markers of stress response at four intervals.

      Time 1 Following induction and prior to tourniquet inflation

      Blood samples will be collected:

        -  C reactive Protein

        -  Insulin

        -  Cortisol

        -  Glucose Time 2 60 minutes after tourniquet inflation

      Blood samples will be collected:

        -  C reactive Protein

        -  Insulin

        -  Cortisol

        -  Glucose

      Time 3 120 minutes after tourniquet inflation or prior to tourniquet release (whichever
      occurs first)

      Blood samples will be collected:

        -  C reactive Protein

        -  Insulin

        -  Cortisol

        -  Glucose

      Time 4 30 minutes after tourniquet release

      Blood samples will be collected:

        -  C reactive Protein

        -  Insulin

        -  Cortisol

        -  Glucose

      Blood (15ml) will be collected from an intravenous line placed after induction of anesthesia
      at four time points: (1) (pre-tourniquet placement), (2) 60 minutes following inflation of
      the tourniquet and (3 ) 120 minutes after tourniquet inflation, and (4)approximately 30
      minutes following tourniquet removal. These specimens will be placed into Vacutainer tubes
      with no anti-coagulant. They will be labeled with study name, subject's study ID number,
      sample number (1, 2, 3, 4), and date. Bloods from the first three time points will be kept
      refrigerated until the final sample is obtained Intra-operatively additional doses of
      Fentanyl and doses of Labetalol and Hydralazine will be recorded. The use of a nerve block
      will be documented as well.

      In the Post Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU), additional doses of pain medication,
      anti-hypertensive medications and medications administered for relief of post operative
      nausea and vomiting (PONV) will be recorded. Vital signs will be measured for 15 minute
      intervals until criteria for discharge is met. A post-operative numeric pain score will be
      determined when the subject is ready for PACU discharge. On post operative day one, a follow
      up phone call will be made to the subject. He or she will be questioned as to their pain
      score and the use of pain medication since discharge.
    
  