
    
      Cocaine use disorder (CUD) is a chronic relapsing brain disorder characterized by a
      problematic pattern of cocaine consumption leading to a clinically significant impairment. A
      core element of this disease is the increased vulnerability to relapse during the first weeks
      of abstinence. Commonly withdrawal symptoms as sleep disturbances, negative affect or
      craving, may contributes critically to relapses. Especially, sleep disruptions are frequently
      referred by CUD individuals during either use or abstinence. Moreover, polysomnographic (PSG)
      data demonstrate a worsening sleep during the first weeks of abstinence in chronic cocaine
      users, with diminishing rapid eye movement sleep (REM) time, reduction of total sleep time,
      increasing sleep latency, and chronically decreased slow-wave sleep (SWS) time. Such sleep
      anomalies appear to be durable and relate to the severity of withdrawal symptoms and clinical
      outcomes in the treatment of CUD. However, causality between sleep disturbances and CUD has
      not been clearly established yet. Interestingly, sleep deprivation and addictive substances
      have comparable neurobiological effects on several neurotransmitter pathways, particularly in
      the dopaminergic system. Therefore, the implementation of strategies to rewire the altered
      brain circuits might induce clinically significant improvements of addictive symptoms and the
      regulation of sleep patterns in CUD patients.

      Recently, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), an innovative and safe brain stimulation
      procedure, which induce neural electrical activity through the application of magnetic pulses
      over the scalp and with enduring effects on mood, has been applied as a promising therapeutic
      approach in addictive disorders. In fact, clinical pilot studies on CUD are giving
      preliminary support to the potential role of rTMS in decreasing cocaine craving and use. PSG
      studies in healthy volunteers have shown rTMS-induced changes in sleep architecture that are
      opposites to those found in CUD subjects, as a prolongation of REM latency or a marked
      increase in slow-wave sleep. The promising therapeutic effect of TMS on insomnia, restless
      legs syndrome and on sleep disturbances associated to epilepsy, depression and post-traumatic
      stress disorder has also been suggested. Further, rTMS application over DLPFC have revealed
      positives outcomes in patients with chronic primary insomnia, by reducing sleep latency,
      increasing the total sleep time and REM latency.

      These findings suggest that rTMS might impact brain circuitry, modulating relevant functions
      as sleep architecture and potentially affecting addictive related symptoms as craving or
      negative affect.

      The hypothesis of the present study is that rTMS treatment intervention might have a
      beneficial effect on sleep disturbances reported by CUD patients during the
      abstinence/withdrawal period. The investigators hypothesized also the positive outcome on
      accompanied cocaine withdrawal symptoms (as craving or mood) of rTMS.

      Hence, the aims of the present study are:

        1. to verify whether rTMS of the left DLPFC in CUD patients produces modifications on the
           subjective sleep quality patterns and drug use variables.

        2. to further strengthen the results of previous CUD-TMS research, the investigators will
           test whether rTMS of the left DLPFC in CUD patients is safe and reduces cocaine use.

      Procedures:

      Patients with CUD will be evaluated for sleep disturbances, craving, depression, anxiety and
      other clinical symptoms by completing the following scales: Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index
      (PSQI), Cocaine Craving Questionnaire (CCQ), Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II),
      Self-rating Anxiety Scale (SAS), Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) and
      Symptoms checklist 90 - Revised (SCL-90-R). Participants could be undergo a battery of
      cognitive tests such as Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), Stop Signal Task (SST), Iowa
      Gambling Task (IGT), Stroop task or Delay Discounting Task (DDT). The pattern of drug use
      will be also monitored by recording drug use variables. The measures will be assessed before
      the rTMS treatment (baseline), and after 5 (Day 5), 30 (Day 30), 60 (Day 60) and 90 (Day 90)
      days during the treatment.
    
  