
    
      Basket studies are a new sort of clinical studies to identify patients with the same kind of
      mutations and treat them with the same drug, irrespective of their specific cancer type. In
      basket studies, depending on the mutation types, patients are classified into "baskets".
      Targeted therapies that block that mutation are then identified and assigned to baskets where
      patients are treated accordingly.

      This protocol has two parts: part A (iPROFILER), which includes the common procedures for
      tumor molecular profiling and treatment recommendation, and part B (iBASKET), which
      corresponds to the therapeutic portion The purpose of part A (iPROFILER) of this study is to
      test participants' tumour tissue in order to identify whether their tumour has certain
      mutations in cancer-related genes. It is known that gene mutations of tumours contribute to
      their origin and growth and determine whether the tumour will respond to particular cancer
      drugs. This test will provide information about potential targeted therapies that
      specifically attack those gene mutations. The purpose of part B (iBASKET) of this study is to
      offer participants a personalised anti-cancer treatment based on the gene mutations that are
      found in their tumour. Participants taking part in this module 1 of part B (iBASKET), in
      genomically selected populations, will receive atezolizumab 1200mg intravenously every 3
      weeks, following the analysis of their tumour in part A (iPROFILER). Participants will be
      able to take atezolizumab for as long as their tumour doesn't grow and for as long as they
      don't have any side-effects which prevent them from continuing treatment.

      The study will have a 2-year recruitment period. The aim of the study is to determine which
      genomically selected populations respond effectively to the targeted treatment, atezolizumab.
      Approximately 1000 participants will be enrolled into part A (iPROFILER), with approximately
      100 participants being recruited into module 1 of part B (iBASKET)."
    
  