
    
      Rationale and Background:

      Neuroblastoma, is the most common extra-cranial solid tumour in children. Most patients with
      neuroblastoma are diagnosed under the age of 5 years and most present with metastatic disease
      and/or high-risk features. Despite the introduction of novel treatment strategies, including
      high-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT), the outcome
      of these patients remains poor.

      Dinutuximab beta is a chimeric monoclonal immunoglobulin G 1 (IgG1) antibody that is
      specifically directed against the carbohydrate moiety of disialoganglioside antigen (GD2),
      which is overexpressed on neuroblastoma cells. By binding to neuroblastoma cells, dinutuximab
      beta can induce both complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) and antibody dependent
      cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC).

      The efficacy of dinutuximab beta has been evaluated in a randomised controlled trial
      comparing the administration of dinutuximab beta with or without interleukin 2 (IL-2) in the
      first-line treatment of patients with high-risk neuroblastoma and in two singlearm studies in
      the relapsed/refractory setting. The efficacy and safety of dinutuximab beta will further be
      evaluated in this registry that will provide information on survival, pain severity and
      incidence of neurotoxicity, visual impairment, capillary leak syndrome, cardiovascular
      events, hypersensitivity reactions and long-term safety.

      Study Design:

      This is a non-interventional, multi-national, observational, prospective patient registry of
      patients with high-risk neuroblastoma being treated with the monoclonal antibody dinutuximab
      beta. The efficacy and safety of dinutuximab beta will further be evaluated in this registry
      that will provide information on survival, pain severity and incidence of neurotoxicity,
      visual impairment, capillary leak syndrome, cardiovascular events, hypersensitivity reactions
      and long-term safety.

      Research Questions and Objectives:

      Primary objectives:

        -  To assess pain severity and use of analgesics during the period of first dose of
           dinutuximab beta to end of last 35 day course of the 5th cycle of treatment

        -  To assess the incidence of neurotoxicity, visual impairment, capillary leak syndrome,
           cardiovascular events and hypersensitivity reactions

        -  To assess the long term safety profile

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Progression free survival (PFS) in patients treated with dinutuximab beta.

        -  Event Free Survival (EFS) in patients treated with dinutuximab beta

        -  Overall survival (OS) in patients treated with dinutuximab beta

      Population:

      Patients diagnosed with high-risk neuroblastoma who are starting treatment with dinutuximab
      beta in the standard clinical practice setting or participating in a clinical trial where
      dinutuximab beta is provided according to the indication as per the country/regional
      marketing authorisation, provide consent/assent and are willing to be followed up for up to
      10 years.

      Study Size:

      It is planned to enroll a sufficient number of patients (estimated at 125) such that 100
      patients will have completed all five treatment courses of dinutuximab beta. It is
      anticipated that this will result in 40-50 patients who are progression free at 10 years.

      Data Sources:

      Data will be collected from physicians using an electronic data capture (EDC) system. The
      electronic case report forms (eCRFs) will be designed to gather data from the medical records
      at baseline, during treatment and at normal clinical practice follow up visits.

      Data Analysis:

      The safety analysis set, containing all patients treated with at least one dose of
      dinutuximab beta will be considered for safety and efficacy analyses. All baseline, treatment
      period and follow up characteristics will be summarized using descriptive statistics.
      Endpoints addressing primary and secondary analysis will include 95% confidence intervals
      (CIs) including the Clopper Pearson method for binomial, log-log transform for survival. OS,
      PFS and EFS will be analysed using Kaplan-Meier methods.

      Variables:

      Baseline (prior to start of treatment): Demographics, clinical trial participation,
      neuroblastoma disease history, and presence or absence of neurotoxicity, visual impairment,
      and cardiovascular abnormality.

      Treatment period (up to end of last 35 day course of 5th cycle of treatment):

      Dosing regimen, total cumulative amount of dinutuximab beta per course, concomitant
      medications during course (IL-2, retinoic acid and/or antihistamines), daily analgesics
      (opioids, gabapentin/ pregabalin and/or non-opioid analgesics and other neuropathic pain
      treatments), daily pain assessment during infusion of dinutuximab beta, occurrence of
      neurotoxicity, visual impairment, capillary leak syndrome, cardiovascular events, and
      hypersensitivity reactions, adverse events (AEs)/serious adverse events (SAEs) treatment
      interruptions and discontinuations, progression of disease, date and cause of death, reason
      for study withdrawal (if applicable) Follow up (from end of last 35 day course of 5th cycle
      of treatment): Status of neurotoxicity, visual impairment, cardiovascular events, (resolved,
      not resolved), SAEs and adverse drug reaction (ADRs), progression of disease, date and cause
      of death, reason for study withdrawal (if applicable).
    
  