
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The prevalence of obesity in children, adolescents, and adults has increased significantly
      over the last two decades. Adolescents who are obese are at great risk for remaining obese
      into adulthood. Given the difficulty of treating adult obesity, intervening with adolescents
      before they reach adulthood is critical. Decreasing obesity during adolescence provides an
      opportunity to prevent the continuance of pediatric onset obesity into adulthood. There are
      well-established weight control interventions for children between 8 and 12 years of age.
      However, treatment findings with overweight adolescents are not as robust and are difficult
      to replicate. One potential limitation of existing weight control interventions for
      adolescents is the minimal attention given to the peer group as an active component of
      treatment.

      The study was in response to an initiative issued by the National Institute of Diabetes and
      Digestive and Kidney Diseases and entitled "Innovative Approaches to the Prevention of
      Obesity". The resulting grant was later reassigned to the National Heart, Lung, and Blood
      Institute.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A total of 119 adolescents between the ages of 13 and 16 years and between 20 and 80%
      overweight were randomized to one of three treatment conditions: (1) cognitive-behavioral
      treatment (CBT); (2) cognitive-behavioral treatment with the addition of peer-based skills
      training (CBT + PBST); or 3) standard care (SC). The cognitive-behavioral intervention
      consisted of 16 weekly sessions followed by four monthly maintenance sessions. Adolescents
      randomized to CBT + PBST received the cognitive-behavioral treatment as well as an intensive
      32 session peer-based intervention. The peer-based intervention combined problem-solving
      therapy with principles from Outward Bound to address self-reliance, social competence and
      physical self-worth. One way analyses of variance was conducted at the end of treatment and
      at 6-months after the end of treatment to compare the three groups on initial reduction in
      percent overweight and maintenance of decreases in percent overweight at follow-up. Analysis
      of variance was also used to compare the three groups on measures of social functioning,
      self-esteem, physical activity level, and physical self-worth.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  