
    
      Worldwide the number of patients requiring treatment for osteoarthritis is increasing.
      Especially the young population will increase within the group of patients for arthroplasty.
      Learmonth describes hip arthroplasty as the "operation of the century" because patients are
      highly satisfied with pain relief and function after the procedure. Knee arthroplasties have
      in recent years also shown promising results and have surpassed hip arthroplasty in frequency
      in western countries. However, patient satisfaction is not as high. Reported problems are
      insufficient function and persistent pain.On the other hand, knee arthroplasties are
      increasingly implanted in younger and more active patients who require high function and
      quality of life. Improvement of knee implants is an urgent issue in the field of orthopedic
      research.

      Small alterations in implant design can influence the survival of implants. The final design
      of the GMK Sphere has been introduced in 2012. New implants should be monitored and assessed
      in small controlled trials with high precision measuring methods.

      Knee Kinematics and implant designs

      A possible cause of lower function of replaced knees is the unnatural postoperative knee
      kinematics. Kinematics of replaced knees is closely related to their function. For example,
      replaced knees with excellent flexion angles have kinematic similarities to normal knees and
      malalignments of implants can cause postoperative pain.

      Compared to hip joints which are simple ball-and socket joints, the kinematics of knee joints
      is more complex. It is a combination of rolling and gliding motion of femoral condyles and
      rotation of tibia. Based on the kinematics of the normal knee joint, various attempts have
      been made on the design of knee implants to reconstruct normal kinematics after replacement
      surgery. All of these implants have satisfying survivorship, but unicondylar arthroplasty
      which retains both ligaments has clearly the best clinical result with survivorship at 15
      years 93%. When sacrificing the Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) and the Posterior Cruciate
      Ligament (PCL), one possibility to mimic the function of these ligaments is by different
      designs of the tibial insert.

      The tibial insert of the GMK Sphere has a medial ball in socket joint and allows lateral
      anterioposterior movement. This intends to resemble the physiologic movement of the knee
      joint and allow femoral rollback This new design has been developed by a group of dedicated
      researchers. This design intention is to resemble the function of the cruciate ligaments.

      Analytical Method

      RSA has been used in orthopedic research fields since 1970s. The original application of this
      method was for the evaluation of implant migration (i.e. fixation) and polyethylene wear of
      artificial joints using static X-ray pictures. Clinically relevant association between early
      migration of tibial implants detected by RSA and late revision for loosening has been
      reported. Also, attempts to measure in vivo polyethylene wear have been reported using RSA.

      Purpose of this study

      The aim of this study is to analyse the in vivo performance (e.g. stability) of a medially
      stabilized knee arthroplasty implant (GMK Sphere) using static RSA method over a period of 2
      years.

      Additionally, the investigators will analyse the wear in the ball and socket (medial) side of
      the tibiofemoral articulation.

      30 patients will go through stability and wear testing with static RSA.

      This study will contribute to the safety for patients with this new implant by providing
      basic knowledge of this knee arthroplasty and promoting further development of knee implant
      designs.
    
  