
    
      The serotonin transporter (SERT) modulates the activity of the central serotonergic system
      and SERT is also the primary target of the widely prescribed specific serotonin reuptake
      inhibitors. Until recently, suitable radioligands for in vivo imaging of SERT have not been
      available. However, a recently developed PET radioligand, [11C]DASB, appears suitable for
      quantifying SERT in humans. In the two protocols that have been approved by the CSRP for
      submission to the IRB, we planned to use [11C]DASB PET to study the pathophysiology of SERT
      in Parkinson's disease and OCD. This protocol was created to address criticisms raised by the
      NIH RDRC committee and the external scientific review.

        1. The NIH RDRC (Radioactive Drug Research Committee) review of this protocol asked that we
           obtain human biodistribution data to confirm the expected low levels of radiation
           exposure, based upon our prior studies in monkeys.

        2. To address one of the criticisms raised by the CSRP review, namely 1) to quantify SERT
           binding parameters with [11C]DASB in up to 10 normal subjects and 2) to determine the
           reliability and reproducibility of SERT binding parameter measurements by performing a
           second retest [11C]DASB PET study in the same subjects, because such data are not
           available for this radioligand. PET scanning will be performed with an intravenous
           injection of 20 mCi of [11C]DASB for 2 h, during which multiple arterial blood samples
           will also be obtained. The reproducibility of SERT binding parameters will be assessed
           by calculating the variability as well as the intraclass correlation coefficient between
           test/retest measurements. We expect that 1) we can accurately quantify SERT binding
           parameters using [11C]DASB PET imaging and 2) [11C]DASB PET measurements of SERT binding
           will be reliable and reproducible.
    
  