
    
      This clinical study will be held in the clinic of conservative dentistry department, Faculty
      of Dentistry, Cairo University. The operator in charge will be Mostafa Mahmoud El-Ghazali.
      Patients will be examined and selected according to inclusion and exclusion criteria, the
      purpose and method of the study will be explaned to the selected patients, written informed
      consent will be obtained from the patients for participation in the study. In the first
      visit, ADA caries risk assessment model will be done. Participants will be divided into two
      groups according to the tested mouthwashes.

      All patients will be instructed not to have breakfast and to refrain any oral hygiene
      measures on the day of sample collection to avoid the inﬂuence of food consumption and
      contamination on the composition of saliva. The patient will sit in an erect position on the
      dental chair and will be given paraffin block to chew. The stimulated saliva will be
      collected after 2 minutes of paraffin chewing in sterile containers held near the mouth. The
      containers will be properly labeled. The study will be carried over a period of one month,
      the saliva samples for each patient will be collected on the ﬁrst dental visit. These samples
      will be then sent to the laboratory for microbiological assessment. Patients will be provided
      with mouthwashes according to the tested groups and they will be instructed to use it 2 times
      per day for 1 minute each time and no eating or drinking permitted for a minimum of 30
      minutes post rinsing. Each patient will be given the same instructions with respect to oral
      hygiene measures. They will be advised to continue on same diet and will be instructed not to
      change their dietary habits. Patients will come after 2 weeks for salivary samples collection
      and samples will be sent to the laboratory for microbiological assessment. After treatment
      continuity for another 2 weeks, patients will come for the last visit to collect the salivary
      samples which will be sent to the laboratory for microbiological assessment.
    
  