
    
      Specific Aim 1. Longitudinal maternal (vaginal, oral, skin, gut), fetal (oral, skin, gut) and
      placental (basal plate and parenchyma) 16S-based metagenomic profiling with inferred
      metagenomics will reveal distinct microbial communities in association with preterm birth.
      Methods: We will enroll 526 at-risk gravidae to yield an approximated 135 preterm births with
      401 at-risk term controls. Starting in the first/early second trimester, we will sample
      multiple body sites (vagina, oral, stool, placenta) at multiple time points (antenatal
      through delivery), isolate microbial DNA, and perform 16S-based determination of
      niche-specific microbial communities found in association with preterm birth. With our
      case-cohort longitudinal design, we will be able to apply our well-developed supervised
      learning approaches to reveal which taxa contribute to risk of preterm birth, and at what
      body sites and gestational ages they are predictive of preterm birth.

      Specific Aim 2. Whole-genome shotgun (WGS) metagenomics from selected subjects and body sites
      will enable species identification, generation of microbial gene catalogues, and metabolic
      reconstructions to determine the structure, function and diversity of the preterm birth
      microbiome. Methods: To probe metabolic functionality and describe pathogen-related
      mechanisms, we will analyze changes in total gene content using shotgun metagenomics on a
      subset of samples. We will build on our functional computational pipelines to fully
      characterize targeted subjects' metagenomic signatures.

      Specific Aim 3. Integrated host genomics, metatranscriptomics and metabonomics data will
      reveal molecular mechanisms and networks underlying preterm birth in a limited subset of
      samples. Methods: We will interrogate and integrate our concomitantly acquired clinical
      metadata, microbial and host gene expression data (RNA-Seq metatranscriptomics), and
      metabonomics profiling with advanced computational and biostatistical approaches. We will be
      guided in our choice of subjects by our data from Aims 1 and 2.
    
  