
    
      Background

      Stent Study:

      A routine invasive strategy using percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has been shown to
      improve survival and freedom from recurrent myocardial infarction compared to a thrombolysis
      in patients with acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). In addition to standard
      medical treatment, PCI with the use of coronary artery stents not only eliminate the
      underlying stenotic lesion, but afford a mechanical mean of plaque stabilization, normalize
      coronary blood flow, reduce shear stress, and local intracoronary thrombosis.
      Notwithstanding, the implantation of coronary artery stents is associated with arterial
      injury initiating a vasculo-proliferative cascade and as a result provoke structural changes
      of the vessel wall. The implantation of bare-metal stents (BMS) during primary percutaneous
      coronary interventions (P-PCI) in STEMI patients resulted in restenosis in up to 20% of
      patients and has not been shown to reduce the rate of mortality and reinfarction. Randomised
      trials and meta-analyses showed that the use of drug-eluting stents (DES) compared with BMS
      in patients with STEMI significantly reduces the rate of target lesion revascularization
      (TLR) without negative impact on the rate of death and myocardial infarction up to one year.

      However, there remain important caveats surrounding the safety of DES in patients with STEMI
      and evidence of harm may only arise during longer term follow up. DES implantation into
      culprit lesions of patients with acute coronary syndromes has been identified as independent
      predictor of late stent thrombosis. DES as opposed to BMS implanted into a pro-thrombotic,
      inflammatory milieu of ruptured plaques in STEMI patients may lead to aneurysmal changes of
      the adjacent vessel wall. First generation DES implanted into STEMI lesions were found to be
      associated with substantial delay in healing compared to BMS. Moreover, DES implanted into
      STEMI lesions have been associated with a higher frequency of incompletely apposed struts and
      uncovered struts as assessed by OCT compared with DES implanted into stable lesions. These
      data suggest a significantly increased risk of late thrombotic complications related to DES.
      The phenomenon of aneurysmal change of the vessel wall may lead to incomplete stent
      apposition, which in turn may predispose to late complications such as stent thrombosis,
      recurrent myocardial infarction, and death. In conclusion, although coronary artery stents
      constitute a routine medical intervention to improve the acute and long-term result in STEMI
      patients, only very limited information exists as to the long-term clinical outcome and
      structural changes of the adjacent vessel wall.

      First generation DES with controlled release of sirolimus or paclitaxel from durable polymers
      have reduced angiographic and clinical measures of restenosis in patients with STEMI. Limus
      analogues are more effective as site-specific agents than paclitaxel to reduce neointimal
      growth and repeat revascularisation procedures. However, late stent thrombosis is more
      germane to first-generation drug-eluting stents than to bare-metal stents owing to delayed
      healing and re-endothelialization. Furthermore, hypersensitivity reactions from the polymers
      may further increase the risk of stent thrombosis. These effects may be particularly
      pronounced in ruptured plaques of STEMI patients due to the direct contact with the necrotic
      core.

      The biolimus-eluting stent to be studied in the present proposal has several features, which
      attenuate the above mentioned adverse effects. First, the polymer-drug combination is applied
      solely to the abluminal stent strut surface (rather than circumferential), thus maximizing
      the exposure to the vessel wall while minimizing release into the circulation. Second, the
      drug (biolimus A9) is released from a biodegradable polymer, which completely degrades into
      carbondioxide and water during a 6-9 months period, rendering the stent more closely to a
      BMS. Recently, the safety and efficacy of the biolimus-eluting stent using a biodegradable
      polymer was demonstrated in a large trial of 1,707 patients undergoing PCI. While the overall
      results showed non-inferiority for all safety and efficacy endpoints as compared with the
      sirolimus-eluting stent, the biolimus-eluting stent showed improved outcome in terms of MACE,
      stent thrombosis and TLR in the pre-specified subgroup of STEMI patients.

      While clinical data as described above show a favorable safety and efficacy profile, the
      promising results ot the subgroup analysis require confirmation in a dedicated randomized
      trial in the subset of patients with STEMI. The present study is therefore designed to
      compare the safety and efficacy of the biolimus-eluting Biomatrix stent with a bare-metal
      stent of otherwise identical design in a prospective, multi-center, randomized, controlled
      trial in patients with acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction. To address the issue of late
      acquired stent apposition and stent strut coverage, an imaging substudy using grayscale IVUS
      and OCT will be performed.

      Imaging Substudy:

      A) Stent Imaging Substudy The implantation of drug eluting stents into a pro-thrombotic,
      inflammatory milieu of ruptured plaque in STEMI patients may lead to aneurysmal changes of
      the adjacent vessel wall possibly leading to incomplete stent apposition, which in turn may
      constitute a risk factor for late complications with adverse outcome. Delayed and incomplete
      stent strut coverage and endothelialization is another vessel wall reaction and possibly
      related to adverse late outcome by increasing the risk of late stent thrombosis. OCT provides
      a valuable modality for the assessment of stent strut coverage with 10x higher resolution
      than IVUS. Recently, biolimus-eluting stents have been shown to result in more complete stent
      strut coverage after 9 months as compared to sirolimus-eluting stents in the OCT substudy of
      the LEADERS trial. To compare the biological behaviour of a newer generation DES with
      biodegradable polymer as compared to a bare-metal stent, an imaging substudy using IVUS and
      OCT for detailed analyses of the post-procedural and follow-up vessel wall behaviour will be
      performed.

      B)Plaque Imaging Substudy Although the short-term outcome of patients with ACS and STEMI has
      improved in recent years, clinical outcome at one year remains complicated by recurrent
      myocardial infarction and death in 10-15% of patients. Previous studies using angioscopy
      suggest delayed plaque healing, persistent thrombus, and recurrent plaque rupture as
      principal mechanisms for lesion progression and its clinical complications. However, these
      studies are limited by a small sample size, omission of follow-up imaging, lack of
      correlation with easily accessible serum markers, and unavailability of high resolution
      imaging technology such as OCT. Moreover, it is estimated that patients with ACS have more
      than one ruptured plaque in >40-80% of cases, which frequently are left untreated and
      therefore may contribute to long-term adverse clinical outcome.

      Frequency, distribution, composition (TCFA versus non TCFA), and time-related changes of
      plaques of the entire coronary tree in patients with STEMI have not been documented so far,
      mainly due to technical limitations of the OCT imaging method. New-generation OCT systems
      available for the present study will allow the systematic assessment of long coronary
      segments. The combination of IVUS-VH and OCT will substantially improve the accuracy for
      detection of plaques and especially of TCFA.

      Therefore, new insights regarding the frequency, distribution, composition and evolution of
      coronary artery plaques and their prognostic impact on patients clinical outcome can be
      expected from the present study. Since patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial
      infarction suffer from a recurrent ischemic event rate of 5-10% during the first year, these
      findings may have important therapeutic implications for the medical treatment of affected
      patients to further reduce the risk of recurrence and improve prognosis.

      Objective

      To establish superiority of the biolimus-eluting (Biomatrix) stent compared with an otherwise
      identical bare-metal stent (Gazelle) in terms of the composite endpoint of death,
      target-vessel related myocardial infarction at 1 year.

      Imaging Substudy To compare neointimal thickness and strut coverage between both stent types
      in lesions of STEMI patients at 13 months and assessment of frequency, distribution and time
      related changes of culprit versus non culprit lesions of patients with acute ST-segment
      elevation myocardial infarction.

      Methods

      Stent study

      This is a prospective, multi-center, randomized, assessor-blind, trial to be conducted at
      several swiss and european interventional cardiology sites. A total of 1100 patients will be
      randomized on a 1:1 basis to either the biolimus-eluting stent with biodegradable polymer or
      a bare-metal stent. The number of stents is not limited per patient, but it must be
      consistently implanted according to the assigned treatment allocation. All patients will be
      followed clinically for up to 5 years after stent implantation.

      Imaging substudy

      100 of 1100 randomized patients fulfilling the specific inclusion criteria (see above) will
      undergo IVUS-VH and OCT of the culprit lesions prior to and after stent implantation as well
      as during follow up. Moreover, IVUS-VH/OCT will be performed in all three major epicardial
      vessels at baseline and follow up. The imaging study will be performed at the University
      Hospital Bern, Geneva, Lausanne and Cardiocentro Lugano, all Switzerland.
    
  