
    
      This multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group clinical trial is designed to
      evaluate Mycograb® versus placebo as adjunctive therapy to antifungal induction therapy
      (amphotericin B plus 5-flucytosine) in subjects who have acute cryptococcal meningitis
      associated with AIDS. After pre-study screening and baseline assessments and meeting all
      inclusion criteria, on Day 1 subjects will be randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms:

      Amphotericin B (conventional at 0.7 mg/kg, i.v. once daily) plus 5-flucytosine (100 mg/kg
      orally daily, divided QID), with placebo.

      Amphotericin B (conventional at 0.7 mg/kg, i.v. once daily) plus 5-flucytosine (100 mg/kg
      orally daily, divided QID), with Mycograb®.

      Study medication will be administered via a central line or peripheral venous line twice
      daily for 7 consecutive days (Days 1-7). A lumbar puncture with CSF culture colony counts,
      India ink microscopy, and measurement of cryptococcal antigen (CrAg) will be performed at
      Baseline, Days 3, 7, and 14,. CSF will also be assayed for concentrations of Mycograb® on
      Days 3, 7, and 14. The primary efficacy parameter will be the proportion of subjects
      considered cured at day 14 (combined clinical AND mycological outcome).

      A complimentary clinical trial will be run in parallel with this study in South America and
      South Africa. The protocol used will be essentially as described here except that there will
      be an additional (3rd) treatment arm (Amphotericin B [conventional at 0.7 mg/kg, i.v. once
      daily}with Mycograb®)..

      An interim analysis will be performed after 30 patients (US and/or non-US) have completed Day
      14, for the following reasons:

      To evaluate the safety of Mycograb® by reviewing the adverse events classified by the
      investigator as possibly related to the study drug To adjust the proposed sample size if
      necessary. A Safety Monitoring Committee and an independent expert will assess the safety
      profile of Mycograb®.

      A total of 40 completed patients are planned for the US. It is estimated that enrollment will
      require 54 screened and 48 enrolled to achieve 40 completed patients. The total duration of
      the trial will be approximately 24 months. If the recruitment rate is low in the US, the
      number from the US may be reduced, having been replaced by patients outside the US where
      cryptococcosis is more prevalent.
    
  