
    
      KMUH plan a series of medical services to Solomon Islands with the expectation that the
      health and medical standard in Solomon Islands can be improved by medical interaction and the
      use of high-tech medical instruments. By collecting data from Solomon Islands, KMUH can
      better understand the health needs, the characteristics of diseases, and the basic health
      information of Solomon Islanders so that the strategies and the operation goals for further
      improvement will be more explicit for KMUH's medical teams.

      The medical service and study project can be divided into two parts: (1) health screening for
      the community and (2) clinical diagnosis and treatment for patients at NRH. The health
      screening includes a questionnaire, stool parasitic screening and blood laboratory tests. In
      the questionnaire, height, weight, waist line, health behavior and habit, and past history
      are investigated. In the laboratory tests, parasite screening, Malaria rapid check,
      Flavivirus including dengue virus and Japanese virus, the seroprevalence of Rickettsia, HIV
      test, Diabetes, gout, cardiovascular risk factors, and fungal infection are included. A total
      of 800 subjects will participate in this study. The collected samples are venous blood
      (20ml/per subject) and stool in order to conduct the related tests mentioned above.

      As for the collection of target patients, KMUH will cooperate with NRH in the Solomon islands
      to collect two kinds of blood samples: the blood samples of confirmed malarial cases and
      those of cases suspicious of Flaviviral, Rickettsial,and Leptospiral infections. The expected
      received cases are 600 each year. The blood samples of confirmed malarial cases will be used
      for pathogen identification and drug resistance analysis. The blood samples suspicious of
      Flaviviral(dengue virus, Japanese encephalitis virus), Alpha-viral(Chikungunya virus, Ross
      river virus), Rickettsial, and Leptospiral infections will be used for the following tests of
      either one, including ICT (immuno- chromatographic test) rapid test, ELISA, PCR (polymerase
      chain reaction) and the isolation and identification of pathogens. The venous blood samples
      (20ml/per subject) will be used to conduct related tests mentioned above. At the same time,
      the subjects will also have to fill out a related questionnaire which includes height,
      weight, waist line, heath behavior and habit, and past history, etc. For the confirmed
      malarial cases, the frequency of blood drawing will start from the diagnosed day, and the
      3rd, the 7th , the 14th, the 21st , and the28th days after treatment, with total six times
      sampling. The blood samples will be used to identify malaria pathogen types and conduct drug
      resistance analysis.
    
  