
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine whether the use of a standardized vaginal
      misoprostol regimen will result in a decreased primary cesarean delivery rate among women
      with a cervical dilation of 2 centimeters of less who require induction of labor at term,
      compared with the currently used oral misoprostol regimen. We also aim to evaluate oxytocin
      use, time to delivery, uterine activity, indication for cesarean delivery, intrapartum and
      postpartum infectious morbidities, excess blood loss at delivery, and adverse neonatal
      outcomes in the overall population as well as nulliparous women specifically.

      This will be a prospective, cluster-randomized clinical trial to compare the rate of vaginal
      delivery achieved when two standards of care are used across a large population of women with
      indication for labor induction at Parkland Hospital. Eligible participants will include
      nulliparous and multiparous women at 37 weeks gestation or greater, with a living, singleton
      fetus and no major fetal malformations, in cephalic presentation, with intact membranes, no
      prior uterine scar, who qualify for prostaglandin administration and who have a cervical
      dilation of 2 centimeters or less, measured at the level of the internal os. Patients with
      non-reassuring fetal status, active herpes outbreak, a prior uterine scar, or any
      contraindication to prostaglandins (including 4 or more painful contractions per 10 minutes
      prior to prostaglandin administration) will be excluded from participation in the study.

      Computer-generated cluster randomization will occur on a weekly basis for all study
      participants, to either the vaginal misoprostol regimen (study group) or to oral misoprostol
      regimen (control group).

      According to the randomization protocol each week, participants will be randomized to either
      the oral misoprostol standard of care (control group) or vaginal misoprostol standard of care
      (study group). The study group will receive vaginal misoprostol 25 mcg every 3 hours for a
      maximum of 5 doses in those who meet criteria for prostaglandin administration. The control
      group will receive oral misoprostol 100 micrograms given every 4 hours for a maximum of 2
      doses. Misoprostol will not be administered to patients who have progressed to active labor,
      defined as 4 centimeters cervical dilation. Intravenous oxytocin will be administered
      according to current PHHS protocol for both groups.

      No direct contact between the research team and patients will be required, as this is a
      systematic comparison of two standards of care.

      The primary outcome will be the rate of vaginal delivery.

      Secondary outcomes will include maternal and neonatal outcomes.

      Maternal outcomes will include time to delivery, time (hours) of oxytocin, need for oxytocin,
      indication for cesarean delivery, labor analgesia, clinical chorioamnionitis, tachysystole,
      hyperstimulation syndrome, excess estimated blood loss, transfusion at delivery,
      endometritis, surgical site infection, uterine rupture, and unplanned hysterectomy.

      Neonatal outcomes will include meconium-stained amniotic fluid, umbilical cord pH <7.0,
      5-minute Apgar <4, neonatal intubation or ventilation in the delivery room, neonatal sepsis,
      and neonatal intensive care (NICU) admission.
    
  