
    
      Between 40% to 60% of individuals with serious mental illness (SMI) are obese. Obesity and
      physical inactivity result in increased rates of chronic diseases, increased risk of death,
      and substantial health care costs. Treatment guidelines recommend that individuals with SMI
      who are overweight should be offered evidence-based weight loss interventions, including
      psychosocial interventions. The VA's weight management program, MOVE!, is attended by less
      than 5% of the overweight population and is not adapted to the cognitive needs and patient
      preferences for the population with SMI. Effective adapted weight management programs are not
      offered in VA because the programs are time-intensive and require the skills of trained
      providers who are often in short-supply. CoachToFit can address this gap in care. CoachToFit
      is a weight management program, adapted for the population with SMI, that includes a
      smartphone app delivering evidence-based weight management services with weekly telephonic
      support from a VA peer specialist who acts as a wellness coach. Peer specialists are
      individuals who draw upon lived experiences with SMI to provide services to others with SMI
      in clinical settings. CoachToFit was shown to have high rates of acceptability and usability
      and was efficacious for weight loss in a small sample. VA has an opportunity to address
      obesity in the population with serious mental illness, currently a substantial gap in care.

      Significance/Impact: This project addresses obesity in the population with SMI by evaluating
      a weight management program that is not only evidence-based, it is sustainable,
      transportable, appealing to patients, easy to use, and minimally burdensome to the healthcare
      system. This effort addresses two HSR&D priority areas: 1) Mental Health: Testing new models
      of care to improve access, cost, and/or outcomes, and 2) Health Care Informatics: Building
      the evidence base for ehealth/mhealth tools.

      Innovation: CoachToFit's use of mobile technology is an important innovation in VA service
      delivery and its user-centered design involving individuals with SMI was the first of its
      kind. CoachToFit is enhanced by data visualization in real-time via a web-based dashboard
      used by VA peer specialists and their supervisor. The investigators are aware of no other
      evidence-based mobile platforms to help people with SMI reduce their weight.
    
  