
    
      The study will involve a screening visit, a washout period for those taking RLS medications,
      a night of actigraphy, an overnight polysomnogram, an MRI scan, and an MRS scan. The
      polysomnography and MR scan visits will occur on consecutive days.

      Visit 1: Screening Visit

      The informed consent process for the study will be completed and a signed informed consent
      form will be obtained. All subjects with RLS will undergo a clinical interview in order to
      confirm or exclude an RLS diagnosis consistent with the International Restless Legs Syndrome
      Study Group criteria and to determine the presence of any psychiatric or medical disorders.
      The following study assessments will be completed:

        -  International Restless Legs Syndrome Scale (IRLS) (RLS subjects only)

        -  Clinical Global Impression-Severity (CGI) (RLS subjects only)

        -  Insomnia Severity Index (ISI)

        -  Beck Depression Inventory

        -  Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI)

        -  Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAM-A)

        -  Sleep Health Centers Questionnaire

        -  Metal implant questionnaire

      All women will have a urine pregnancy test and all subjects will have a urine sample for drug
      screening collected.

      Washout Period

      Subjects in the RLS group will be required to discontinue their RLS medications at least 48
      hours prior to the PSG.

      Actigraphy

      An actigraph will be used to record limb movements of both legs the night before the PSG. The
      actigraph will be worn from the subjects' bedtime until the subjects' final wake time
      Subjects will also record their bedtime and wake time on the Actigraphy Data Form. Data from
      the night of actigraphy will be used to monitor subjects' sleep.

      Visit 2: Polysomnography (PSG) The PSG will occur on the night prior to the MRS visit. The
      time of lights out during all PSG sessions will be determined for each subject based on self
      report of usual bedtime.

      Channels will include an electroencephalograph (EEG), an electro-oculogram (EOG), a submental
      electromyography (EMG), EMG of both anterior tibialis muscles (separate channels for each
      leg), oral/nasal airflow, pulse oximetry, and respiratory effort. The PSG will be analyzed
      for traditional sleep staging. Measures from the PSG will include Sleep Onset Latency (SOL),
      Wake After Sleep Onset (WASO), Sleep Efficiency (SE), N-REM and REM percentages, Periodic
      Limb Movement Index (PLMI) and PLMs associated with arousal per hour of sleep (PLMAI).

      Visit 3: MR scans

      Following visits 1 and 2, qualified subjects will undergo Magnetic Resonance brain scans the
      Brain Imaging Center of McLean Hospital in Belmont, MA. Prior to MR scanning, subjects will
      be questioned for a second time about the presence of metallic implants and fragments or any
      other contraindications to MR imaging. They will be asked about recent alcohol, drug (licit
      and illicit), and caffeine use. They will also be asked to provide a urine sample for drug
      screening. Women will take a urine pregnancy test. Also, since brain GABA levels can be
      affected by the menstrual cycle, women will be scheduled to have their MR scans during the
      first portion of their menstrual cycle. Subjects will also be asked to complete the following
      assessments before the MR scans:

        -  IRLS (modified)

        -  Medical Outcomes Study Sleep Scale (modified) (MOS)

        -  Profile of Mood States (POMS)

        -  Patient Global Impression-Severity (PGI-S)

        -  State Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI)

      Subjects will undergo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) at 4T. In addition, in
      accordance with the McLean Hospital Neuroimaging center guidelines, subjects will
      additionally have a MR screening scan at either 1.5T or 3T. All MR recordings will be
      obtained using parameters that are within FDA safety guidelines for exposure to static
      magnetic fields, radio-frequency energy deposition, magnetic field switching rates and
      acoustic noise levels. GABA and glutamate levels will be derived from MRS Scan at 4T.
      Subjects will be in each scanner for approximately one hour. At the conclusion of each scan,
      subjects will be queried regarding any adverse effects related to MR scans. The subject will
      have completed the study at the conclusion of the MR scans.

      During the MRS at 4T, patients will complete a modified Suggested Immobilization Test (SIT).
      During the SIT, the subjects will be asked by study staff to verbally rate the level of
      discomfort in their legs on a scale from 1 (no discomfort) to 10 (extreme discomfort).
      Subjects will be asked to make a rating in five minute intervals over one hour.

      In the case that MR scans on the 1.5T/3T and 4T MR scanners cannot be coordinated on the same
      visit day at the McLean Brain Imaging center due to scheduling conflicts, the subject will be
      offered the opportunity to return to McLean to have the remaining scan on a separate day.
      Subjects will still be offered $50 for completion of each scan. Also, in the case that the
      data collected during MR imaging is not usable (due to technical problems with the scanner,
      excessive noise in the measurement, etc.), the subject may be contacted and offered a repeat
      MRS scan on a separate date. Subjects will be compensated an additional $100 for completion
      of such a repeat MRS scan.

      The Primary Endpoints of this protocol are regional GABA and glutamate levels derived from 4T
      MRS.
    
  