
    
      Objectives. The primary aim of this pilot study is to assess the effects of short-term,
      high-dose corticosteroid administration on the 12-week evolution of multiple sclerosis
      lesions with centripetal enhancement pattern on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), in
      particular with respect to the development of a hypointense rim on 7-tesla phase images. In
      our prior work, the phase rim has been associated with persistent deleterious inflammation
      with poor repair and ongoing neurodegeneration within lesions.

      Study population. Up to 30 multiple sclerosis patients with asymptomatic contrast-enhancing
      lesions will be enrolled. Patients will be randomly assigned to either 3 days of
      corticosteroids (intravenous methylprednisolone a 1000 mg/day or oral prednisone at
      1250mg/day) or to no treatment.

      Design. Patients will undergo serial brain MRIs with gadolinium-based contrast agent on both
      3- and 7-tesla scanners over an approximate 25-week period. 3-tesla scans will be obtained at
      baseline and week 25. 7-tesla scans will be obtained at baseline and at weeks 13 and 25.
      Participants with one or more centripetal/rim-enhancing lesions at the baseline scan will be
      randomized and followed. Clinical evaluation and blood testing will be performed at baseline
      and weeks 13 and 25.

      Outcome measures. The primary outcome measure is the presence or absence, on the week-13
      7-tesla scan, of a hypointense phase rim in each of the lesions followed over time. Secondary
      outcome measures include the presence or absence of a hypointense phase rim at week 25, as
      well as the lesion volume and intralesional median R1 relaxation rate at weeks 13 and 25.
      From 3-tesla scans, we will measure the change in normalized intralesional proton
      density-weighted and T1-weighted signal, as well as the R1 relaxation rate, between baseline
      and week 25. We will also assess for the presence or absence of a hypointense phase at 3T.
      Additional exploratory outcome measures, including clinical and immunological assessments,
      will also be collected.
    
  