
    
      Obesity in young children remains a significant public health issue. Interventions targeting
      this age group are needed, but few have been successful. The most effective childhood obesity
      prevention interventions for young children thus far have involved significant parent
      engagement, suggesting that family-based interventions that take into account the needs of
      both parents and children are needed. But, 2 out of 3 adults are either overweight or obese,
      and the risk of obesity increases with at least one child under the age of 5 in the home. So
      not only is obesity among adults high, but maternal obesity is one of the strongest
      predictors of child obesity, meaning that intervening with overweight and obese mothers could
      be an effective way of preventing the development of obesity in their young children.

      Many family-based or parent-targeted interventions conducted thus far have broadly targeted
      dietary intake and physical activity, but only a handful have had success in changing child
      behavior. Interestingly, when evaluating the dietary determinants of childhood obesity,
      sugar-sweetened beverage (SSB) consumption is most consistently associated with obesity
      across studies, more so than overall caloric intake, fruit and vegetable consumption, and
      intake of added dietary fats. Consumption of SSBs makes up 5-18% of preschoolers' recommended
      daily energy intake, with an average of 176 calories a day consumed from drinks such as
      caloric carbonated beverages, fruit drinks, sport drinks, and 100% fruit juice. Few
      interventions have targeted a reduction in SSBs and fruit juice in children, but results from
      a study in children ages 4-12 found that replacing SSBs with noncaloric beverages can lead to
      a lower increase in BMI z-scores over time. Reducing SSB consumption in adults is equally as
      important as in children, because adults consume 21% of their calories from SSBs alone, and
      consumption of SSBs is associated with a higher risk of obesity, non-alcoholic fatty liver
      disease, diabetes, the metabolic syndrome, and cardiovascular disease. Several adult
      intervention studies have shown that replacing caloric beverages, including SSBs, with water
      or noncaloric beverages can lead to weight loss in the absence of other prescribed changes.

      While the research indicates that reducing SSB consumption in children and adults can lead to
      changes in weight, what is not yet known is if a mother-targeted behavioral intervention can
      successfully reduce intake of SSBs and fruit juice in preschool-aged children. Because
      mothers face many barriers to weight control behavior change, including time demands and lack
      of childcare, there is a need for interventions that are uniquely targeted to the needs of
      mothers and children, such that they minimize mothers' need to travel, prevent them from
      having to rearrange their schedules, and minimize the amount of time spent in participation
      in order to be successful at weight loss and changing their own and their child's behaviors.

      This intervention has been developed to focus on changing a small set of behaviors, primarily
      SSB consumption, in mothers and their children ages 3-5. Guided by Social Cognitive Theory,
      the intervention will target increases in self-efficacy, outcome expectations, limit setting,
      and self-monitoring, and decreases in perceived barriers to behavior change. In addition,
      mothers will be asked to make other small changes in her own behavior to promote modest
      weight losses. The evidence from traditional behavioral weight loss intervention research has
      been adapted to focus on making small diet and physical activity changes more suitable for
      mothers of young children and to be delivered primarily via a mobile-based website and text
      messaging to reduce time demands and increase adherence. Mother-child dyads (N=42) will be
      randomized to either the Smart Moms intervention group (n=21) or to a waitlist control group
      (n=21) that will receive a modified version of the intervention after the 6-month assessment.
    
  