
    
      Each subject will undergo the Lapiplasty® Procedure. The key surgical steps of the
      Lapiplasty® Procedure are releasing the 1st TMT joint, anatomical correction of the 3-plane
      deformity, bone preparation using the Lapiplasty® Cut Guide , provisional fixation and
      multiplanar permanent fixation with the BIPLANAR™ Plate.

      It is common for people who undergo a Lapidus Arthrodesis to be non-weight-bearing for 6-8
      weeks following the surgical procedure. This time allows the bones to properly fuse together.
      During this 6-8 week period, people can be limited in the typical day-to-day activities they
      participate in, such as walking, shopping and working.

      The Lapiplasty® System Implants may allow subjects to bear weight earlier than traditional
      procedures without negatively effecting healing/union of the joint. By allowing people to
      bear weight earlier than traditional methods, it is possible that people will have the
      opportunity to resume typical day-to-day activities faster than usual.

      This study will investigate the Lapiplasty® Procedure and the Lapiplasty® System Implants
      with early weight-bearing. The study preference is that subject will be placed in a walking
      CAM boot and allowed to start protected weight bearing no later than 3 weeks after surgery.
      Subject can begin protected bearing weight in a CAM boot as early as the day of surgery.
      Subject will return to weight-bearing in shoe (running or another athletic shoe) and full
      unrestricted activity as directed by the physician based on the clinical stability and
      subject ability to safely begin weight-bearing and unrestricted activities.

      Recommended Approach for Post-Operative Care and Weight-Bearing Instructions

        -  Subject may be either bandaged, put in splint/cast or put in CAM boot at the time of
           surgery. If subject is fitted with CAM boot at discharge, the patient should be provided
           instructions on how to begin protected weight-bearing.

        -  Subject is instructed to remain off the operative foot as much as possible for the first
           few days post-op. This is to limit bleeding and swelling and to allow soft tissues to
           recover.

        -  Subject may leave the surgery facility with crutches, walker, rolling knee scooter or
           wheelchair.

        -  At the first post-op visit (0-3 weeks), bandages are removed, and the subject can be
           allowed to shower. Subject may wear an athletic sock. No bandages or splints are needed.
           The subject should be reminded of post-op care of the foot/surgical site.

        -  At the first post-op visit (0-3 weeks), the subject is fitted with a CAM boot (if the
           subject was not fitted for a CAM boot at discharge). Subject should be provided with
           instructions on how to begin protected weight-bearing in the CAM boot and acceptable
           activities:

             -  Patient is instructed to put weight on foot as tolerated in the restrictive boot.

             -  Patient is instructed not to roll forward onto the big toe and should remain on
                flat foot.

             -  Patient is instructed to remove the CAM boot multiple times daily and perform range
                of motion exercises for ankle and foot.

        -  At the 6 week post-op visit, if the subject is clinically stable, subject can transition
           from the boot to a shoe (running or another athletic shoe). The transition from boot to
           shoe may occur over a period of days/weeks, depending on subject healing and tolerance.
           Subject is instructed that they can walk normally but are not to stand on toes, run,
           jump or do any other high impact activity

        -  At the 4 month post-op visit, subject is allowed to begin low impact exercise if they
           are clinically stable.
    
  