
    
      Background

      About 1 in 400 children born in the UK has cerebral palsy (CP). CP is caused by injury to the
      foetal or infant brain, and results in problems with walking, balance and coordination. One
      of the most common strategies for treating walking limitations in children with CP is the use
      of Ankle Foot Orthoses (AFOs), which aim to correct deformity and improve walking efficiency.

      Keeping children with CP mobile is important, not only because physical fitness contributes
      to quality of life, but also because lack of physical activity can result in a downwards
      spiral: low physical fitness can make activities of daily living more difficult, leading to
      further reduction in activity and fitness. One study showed that children with CP at age 10
      who walked and did not use a wheelchair had only a small chance (11%) of becoming
      non-ambulatory, vs. 34% of children using a wheelchair.

      AFOs can play an important part in keeping children with CP mobile, and reducing the need for
      a wheelchair. However, there is evidence that when they reach adolescence, some children are
      reluctant to wear their AFOs. One of the parents participating in a previous study said "...
      now we have a 13-year-old who just wants to be like other 13- year-old girls, and she doesn't
      want to wear AFOs ...". Studies show that children with CP often lose functional ability
      through adolescence and early adulthood, but it is not clear how that relates to their use or
      non-use of prescribed AFOs. There are also many factors which contribute to compliance with
      clinical recommendation and a scarcity of research into the psychological elements which can
      impact on this, though research indicates that perception and empowerment can increase the
      likelihood of a successful intervention application and compliance rates.

      In this application the investigators seek to explore both the objective, functional benefits
      of using AFOs and the subjective experience of children and their families. A combination of
      quantitative and qualitative approaches will be used to understand the factors affecting
      children's compliance.

      Purpose, aims or hypothesis

      The overall aim is to understand the factors affecting compliance in children with cerebral
      palsy using AFOs. The investigators propose to do this by combining quantitative measurement
      of functional benefit, with qualitative exploration of the patient's experience.

      To achieve this the investigators will:- Phase 1: Measure the functional effect of AFOs using
      3D movement analysis technology in four children (treated as case studies).

      Phase 2: Record patient compliance in the same group of children using sensors embedded in
      the AFOs Phase 3: Interview children and their families to explore the experience of using
      assistive devices.

      Experimental plan, methods, timetable:

      Children with cerebral palsy will be recruited from the routine clinics in ORLAU, at the RJAH
      Orthopaedic Hospital. The investigators will aim to recruit 4 children with cerebral palsy
      who have been prescribed bilateral moulded AFOs, two from primary school years 5/6 (1F, 1M)
      and two from secondary school years 7-9 (1F, 1M). The children will be GMFCS level 1 or 2 and
      be in main stream education.

      Phase 1: 3D movement analysis

      Children will be measured by means of 3D movement analysis (Vicon) at their supply
      appointment. Markers will be placed on the lower limbs and pelvis using the Plug-in-Gait
      model. Children will be measured walking in shoes with and without their AFOs. The gait
      analysis will provide detailed quantification of angles and moments at each joint, however
      the primary measures will be walking speed and the collated GPS which gives an overall score
      of the deviation from normal walking.

      A full clinical examination will also be performed, along with video film of their feet when
      walking barefoot to assess the extent of any foot deformity.

      Phase 2: Assessment of compliance

      Each AFO will be fitted with an Orthotimer (www.orthotimer.com) sensor before it is supplied.
      This data will be downloaded at the review appointment, when the interviews will also be
      conducted. The device stores data every 15 min for up to 100 days recording whether the
      orthosis is in use at a given time.

      Phase 3: Interviews

      Semi-structured interviews will take place with the children recruited for phase 1, asking
      questions which will allow them to discuss their experiences of living with CP and of using
      assistive devices, particularly within their school environment; participants in secondary
      school will be also be asked about their experience in primary school. Questions will be as
      open as possible to allow the child to give rich, detailed accounts of their day to day
      experiences and their perceptions of AFOs. The interviews should provide a broad
      understanding of individual experiences and perspectives of AFOs and reasons for compliance.
      All children and their families will be invited back to verify the themes from the interviews
      at a separate, non-clinical, visit. Themes from the school group sessions will be used to
      shape the questions.

      A mapping exercise, based on previous research will be used to enhance the discussion and
      visually identify locations where the children use their AFOs, their feelings triggered by a
      range of environments, and any issues they may have with the orthotic devices. These maps can
      then be used to facilitate further discussion about the children's experiences and analysed
      alongside the Orthotimer data to develop an in-depth view of the children's use and
      perception of their AFOs.
    
  