
    
      Perioperative fluid management during thoracic surgery is a significantly important, because
      it is quite difficult to prevent pulmonary edema due to the fluid overload and compromise
      perfusion of vital organ. So, it is essential to maintain optimal organ perfusion by
      appropriate fluid management during thoracic surgery. Stroke volume variation (SVV) is
      derived from pulse contour analysis and it is known that SVV ≥12~15% correlate with fluid
      responsiveness, defined as a significant increase in cardiac output with fluid loading, dung
      two-lung ventilation. It is a parameter derived from changes in stroke volume (SV) that is
      according to the heart-lung interaction during mechanical ventilation. positive pressure
      ventilation induces cyclic changes in left ventricular SV that are related mainly to the
      expiratory decrease in right ventricular filling and ejection. This is a reflected by
      variations in the SV. However both ventilator issues, such as tidal volume, PEEP, chest and
      lung condition, and the cardiovascular condition, such as heart rate, rhythm, ventricular
      function, cardiac afterload, arterial compliance may affect SVV. Recently some studies
      reported that SVV could predict fluid responsiveness in mechanically ventilated patients
      under various conditions. But it is still unclear whether SVV could predict fluid
      responsiveness during one lung ventilation with the chest open via a thoracotomy. During
      one-lung ventilation, the shunted blood flow through the non-ventilated-lung dose not
      contribute to the generation of SVV. And with the chest opening by thoracotomy, the pressure
      generated by ventilator would not be transmitted to the pulmonary vessels but rather to the
      atmosphere. So, the purpose of this study is to evaluate the ability of SVV as an indicator a
      fluid responsiveness particularly in patients undergoing one-lung ventilation with
      thoracotomy and to found the optimal threshold value of SVV for fluid management during
      thoracic surgery.
    
  