
    
      Objective: To determine whether intraoperative electrical stimulation enhances sensory
      recovery following mastectomy with immediate implant reconstruction

      Background: There is an increasing trend towards prophylactic mastectomy with immediate
      implant-based reconstruction for women with genetics predisposing to breast cancer (BRCA-1
      and -2). Novel techniques such as fat grafting and nipple creation/tattooing have
      contributing towards creating an aesthetically pleasing breast mound; however, the majority
      of women experience non-recoverable significant sensory loss secondary to damage and stretch
      of the intercostal nerves that provide sensation to the skin, areola, and nipple. Most women
      will recover minimal sensation around the perimeter of the breast, indicating a potential for
      sensory return; however, particularly the nipple usually remains numb. An insensate breast
      feels unnatural to the woman and predisposes her to injury and burns of the reconstruction,
      which can require additional surgery or cause significant scarring.

      Our laboratory has previously shown that electrical stimulation (ES) is safe and
      significantly improves postoperative outcomes in peripheral nerve injury in animal and human
      models. ES has been shown to improve return of median and ulnar nerve function following
      carpal and cubital tunnel release respectively, with improved motor outcomes. Sensory return
      following digital nerve laceration repair similarly is improved with immediate postoperative
      ES for one hour.

      Methods: Thirty patients that will be undergoing bilateral prophylactic skin-sparing
      mastectomy with immediate implant-based breast reconstruction will be identified from the
      practice of two plastic surgeons. Preoperatively, women will be undergo sensory testing to
      the 4 quadrants of both breasts and the nipples, including testing for tactile sensation,
      cool detection, 2-point discrimination, heat-pain detection threshold, and sharp-blunt
      discrimination. A custom-made survey to evaluate erogenous sensation will be completed by the
      patient, as well as the validated BREAST-Q.

      The day of surgery the patient will be randomized to right or left breast for stimulation.
      Following the mastectomy, the breast to be stimulated will be reconstructed with an implant
      first in the typical fashion. A percutaneous needle will be passed into the intercostal space
      alongside the 4th intercostal nerve, and a second needle will be inserted into the serratus
      anterior muscle . These needles will be attached to the anode and cathode respectively of our
      electrical stimulator, and the patient will receive 1 hour of intraoperative stimulation
      titrated to palpable contraction of the intercostal muscle. During this hour, the second
      breast will undergo reconstruction with no electrical stimulation. At the completion of the
      hour, the skin will be closed in the normal fashion. The laterality will be blinded to the
      patient as well as to the investigator who will perform all sensory testing.

      Postoperatively, the patient will be evaluated at 1 week, 6 months, 12 months, 18 months and
      24 months with the same sensory testing as described previously. Patients will serve as their
      own internal control, and the sensation of the right vs. left breast will be compared. At the
      completion of all 2-year evaluations, the study will be unblinded and the stimulated vs.
      non-stimulated breast outcomes will be compared.
    
  