
    
      Many viruses are latent for decades before being reactivated in the brain by stress, immune
      compromise, or other factors. After the initial oral infection, herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV1)
      becomes latent in the trigeminal ganglion and can later enter the brain via retrograde axonal
      transport, often targeting the temporal lobes.

      HSV1 can also enter the brain via olfactory neurons directly. HSV1 (oral herpes) and HSV2
      (genital herpes) are known to trigger amyloid aggregation and their DNA is commonly found in
      amyloid plaques. Anti-HSV drugs reduce Aβ and p-tau accumulation in brains of infected mice.
      HSV1 reactivation is associated with tau hyperphosphorylation in mice and may play a role in
      tau propagation across neurons. In humans, recurrent reactivation with newly produced HSV1
      particles, 'drop by drop,' may produce neuronal damage and eventually lead to
      neurodegeneration and Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology, partly due to effects on amyloid
      and tau. Clinical studies show cognitive impairment in HSV seropositive patients in different
      patient groups and in healthy adults, and antiviral treatments show robust efficacy against
      peripheral HSV infection. The study team will conduct the first-ever clinical trial to
      directly address the long-standing viral etiology hypothesis of AD which posits that viruses,
      particularly the very common HSV1 and HSV2, may be etiologic or contribute to the pathology
      of AD.This trial will intervene at an earlier stage (MCI).

      In AD biomarker positive patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment (eMCI and lMCI) who test
      positive for serum antibodies to HSV1 or HSV2, the generic antiviral drug valacyclovir will
      be compared at oral doses of 4 grams per day, to matching placebo in the treatment of 50
      patients (25 valacyclovir, 25 placebo) in a randomized, double-blind, 52-week Phase II proof
      of concept trial.

      Patients treated with valacyclovir are hypothesized to show smaller decline in cognition and
      functioning compared to placebo, and, using 18F-Florbetapir PET imaging, to show less amyloid
      accumulation than placebo over the 52-week trial.

      We will explore apolipoprotein E e4 genotype as a moderator, and changes in global clinical
      status, viral antibodies and proteomic assays, AD signature of MRI regional and whole brain
      cortical thinning, and plasma total tau, p-tau epitopes and neurofilament light (Nfl) protein
      markers for neurodegeneration as exploratory hypotheses.

      This innovative Phase II proof of concept trial clearly has exceptionally high reward
      potential for the treatment of MCI.
    
  