
    
      Rodent studies have indicated that modulation of glutamatergic transmission contributes to
      alcohol intoxication, reinforcement, tolerance, and dependence. Brain microdialysis studies
      have in general shown that acute alcohol suppresses glutamate release, while alcohol
      withdrawal leads to progressively increased extracellular levels.

      Here, we will use an acute, pharmacokinetically controlled alcohol challenge and magnetic
      resonance spectroscopy (MRS) to study the relationship between brain alcohol and glutamate
      concentrations, and correlate these with subjective feelings of alcohol effects, as measured
      by the Drug Effects Questionnaire (DEQ) in human subjects. Correlations between MRS data and
      other behavioral data from the Sensitivity to Punishment and Sensitivity to Reward
      Questionnaire (SPSRQ), Alcohol Sensitivity Questionnaire (ASQ), and the Alcohol Effects
      Questionnaire (AEFQ) will be investigated.

      Healthy participants aged 21-45, without gross impairment of judgment or complicated
      psychiatric or other morbidity, will receive a preliminary infusion to ensure no adverse
      effects from intravenous (IV) alcohol administration to a target BAC of 0.08g/dl. In a
      subsequent session, participants will be infused with alcohol to the same target level while
      being scanned in the MR scanner and reporting subjective feelings using the DEQ. Two groups
      of subjects will be recruited: heavy drinkers, classified as females who consume 15 plus
      drinks per week and males who consume 20 plus drinks per weekthose who consume between 20 and
      40 drinks per week, and light drinkers, classified as females who consume between 1 and 10
      drinks per week and males who consume between 1 and 14 drinks per week. those who consume
      between 1 and 14 drinks per week.

      Central glutamate levels will be quantified at 3T using pharmacologically validated MRS
      methodology recently published from our laboratory, and its relationship to central alcohol
      levels will be determined. Relationships will also be analyzed between DEQ scores and brain
      glutamate and alcohol levels. Finally, it will be examined whether drinking history (i.e.
      being a light versus heavy drinker) is a moderator of any of these relationships.
    
  