
    
      1. Purpose The risk of tourniquet-related injury increases with increasing tourniquet cuff
           pressure, therefore techniques intended to minimise tourniquet cuff pressures should be
           compared to current standard methods. A commercially available pneumatic tourniquet
           capable of measuring the pressure needed to occlude blood flow to a limb, known as limb
           occlusion pressure, combined with contoured tourniquet cuffs has been shown to
           significantly decrease necessary cuff pressures in adult patients. The magnitude of
           reduction in cuff pressure in a paediatric population has not yet been determined.
           Results of this study may decrease the standard tourniquet pressures used by paediatric
           orthopaedic surgeons, thereby reducing the risk of tourniquet-related injuries.

        2. Justification Many studies have shown that both tourniquet pressure and time should be
           minimised to reduce the risk of tourniquet related injuries and post operative
           complaints. As the purpose of the tourniquet is to maintain a bloodless surgical field,
           in theory the minimum cuff pressure required to occlude arterial flow (the 'Limb
           Occlusion Pressure' or LOP), plus a safety margin to allow for changing conditions
           during the procedure, should be used. In practice, most surgeons use a standard pressure
           based on experience, or based on an indirect measurement of systolic blood pressure.

           Previous studies have shown that basing the cuff pressure on the LOP measured on each
           patient immediately prior to limb exsanguination and cuff inflation can lead to lower
           cuff pressures being used on many adult patients. This technique directly measures the
           cuff pressure required to occlude flow, thereby accounting for the individual patient's
           limb and vessel characteristics as well as the type and fit of the cuff. Unfortunately,
           the standard method of measuring limb occlusion pressure (monitoring a distal artery
           with a Doppler ultrasound probe while slowly increasing cuff pressure) is awkward and
           time consuming. A tourniquet device that allows automatic measurement of LOP at the
           start of each surgical procedure is now commercially available. This device has been
           shown to significantly reduce cuff inflation pressures necessary to occlude blood flow
           in adults; however, the magnitude of reduction in cuff pressure has not previously been
           determined in a paediatric population.

           Previous studies also suggest that wider tourniquet cuffs that are contoured such that
           they match the taper of the limb when applied occlude blood flow at lower pressures in
           adults. It is of interest to determine if wider cuffs, and contour cuffs designed to
           better fit tapered limbs, in combination with LOP calculation, allow for significantly
           lower cuff pressures in practical use on paediatric patients.

        3. Objectives Quality of surgical field will be the primary outcome of this study.
           Secondary outcomes will include reduction in tourniquet cuff pressures and incidence of
           neurapraxias.

        4. Research Method The target population will include subjects scheduled to receive
           anterior cruciate reconstruction at BC Children's Hospital by Dr. Chris Reilly. Subjects
           will prospectively be randomized into two groups. In the control group, tourniquet
           inflation pressures consistent with the current standard of care at BC Children Hospital
           will be used. In the experimental group, tourniquet inflation pressures will be
           determined by an automated calculation of limb occlusion pressure plus a predetermined
           safety margin. This technique has previously been shown to be equivalent to the Doppler
           technique for determining tourniquet inflation pressures, which is the gold standard.
           This is a non-inferiority trial with a power set at 0.8 and an alpha of 0.05. The
           estimated sample size is 21 patients in each group.

        5. Method The study is a single blinded, randomised, prospective clinical comparison of two
           techniques used for determining tourniquet cuff pressure. The quality of surgical field
           will be compared in the experimental group (cuff pressure determined by LOP calculation)
           and the control group (standard cuff pressure of 300 mm Hg).

      At the start of the study, 21 sealed envelopes indicating 'LOP + paediatric cuff' and 21
      indicating 'standard pressure + standard cuff' will be prepared. The envelopes will be placed
      in blocks of 4 and 6 in order to minimise the predictive effect. After the grouping of the
      patient is determined, the person normally responsible for tourniquet cuff application will
      select an envelope and apply the indicated cuff at the indicated pressure.

      For the 'LOP + paediatric cuff' group, cuff selection and application will be based on a
      standardized guide used to determine the most appropriate size and shape of cuff for the
      given limb. See cuff application guidelines (attached). Once the indicated cuff has been
      applied, the photoplethysmographic LOP sensor will be clipped to a toe of the affected leg,
      systolic blood pressure (SBP) will be recorded, and the automated LOP routine activated. LOP
      and recommended tourniquet pressure (RTP = LOP + predetermined margin) will be displayed
      within 1 minute and recorded. The limb will then be exsanguinated following the surgeon's
      usual procedure and the cuff inflated to the RTP.

      For the 'standard pressure + standard cuff' group, cuff selection and application will be
      made based on the principal investigator's current practice. The limb will then be
      exsanguinated following the surgeon's usual procedure and the cuff inflated to a standard
      pressure, based on current practice and predetermined by the surgeon to be acceptable.

      At the surgeon's discretion, the cuff pressure may be increased or decreased at any time
      during the procedure, with SBP, time, and the reason for change recorded. Immediately
      following the end of the procedure, the surgeon (principal investigator) will rate the
      overall quality of the surgical field using a visual analogue scale. He will also be provided
      with an area to comment on visualization capabilities during specific aspects of the
      procedure or any difficulties that may have occurred. Tourniquet inflation time and variation
      in SBP taken from the anaesthetists chart will be recorded. Incidence of post operative
      neurapraxias will also be determined.

      Patient recruitment and enrolment will continue until enough subjects have been recruited to
      show statistical significance, which is currently estimated to be 21 subjects per group.
      Differences in the quality of the surgical field and tourniquet inflation pressures will be
      compared between the two groups, in addition to incidence of neurapraxias.
    
  