
    
      Previous work has investigated the link between decreased brain energetics (through
      mitochondrial dysfunction), though an investigation in-vivo has never been feasible due to
      technology constraints. Furthermore, recent work has suggested exercise may help reduce the
      effect of mitochondrial dysfunction. There is thus compelling evidence to investigate brain
      energetics/mitochondrial function in-vivo, in health, at different stages of disease and the
      relationship to exercise. While such measurements are intrinsically difficult, a useful
      measure is expected to be derived from the ratio between the cerebral metabolic rate of
      oxygen (CMRO2) and the cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRGlu), if they are measured
      simultaneously. The simultaneous aspect of the two measurements is extremely important as
      diurnal variations in CMRO2 can be as high as 20%, while those in CMRGlu as high as 38%.
      Fortunately, given recent advances in measurement technique and instrumentation development,
      such studies are now becoming possible: CMRO2 can be obtained using very advanced functional
      magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) techniques with respiratory manipulations, while CMRGlu can
      be estimated by positron emission tomography (PET) using the tracer 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose
      (FDG-PET). A lower-than-normal ratio between CMRO2 and CMRGlu coupled with a decrease in
      CMRGlu in any brain area is taken to be indicative of locally impaired brain energetics,
      related to altered mitochondrial function.

      The investigators hypothesize that (i) brain energetics, measured as the ratio CMRO2/CMRGlu
      is altered early in Parkinson's disease (PD) compared to age-matched healthy controls (HC)
      and continues to be altered as disease progresses; and (ii) exercise will positively affect
      alterations in brain energetics in PD subjects.

      The investigators will recruit up to 30 PD subjects who are not habitual exercisers and up to
      10 PD subjects who are habitual exercises. The 30 non-exercisers will undergo a supervised
      six month exercise intervention in groups, with PET/MRI scans before and after. The 10
      exercisers will only be scanned once (for observational comparisons with the non-exercisers
      at baseline) and will not undergo the exercise intervention. In a separate study, the
      investigators will recruit up to 30 HCs to compare to compare their brain energetics metrics
      with those of the PD subjects at baseline to test hypothesis (i). Of the 30 non-exercisers,
      half will be assigned to start the exercise intervention immediately after their baseline
      scan, and the other half will have a six month delayed start to the intervention. During the
      delay, subjects will perform passive exercise in groups, to control for social interaction
      and possible placebo effects. Longitudinal comparisons of the non-exercisers before and after
      the intervention will test hypothesis (ii).

      The objectives of this study are twofold: to (i) investigate a disease-initiating mechanism
      (abnormal mitochondrial function and impaired cellular bioenergetics), which could constitute
      a novel therapeutic target; and to (ii) study the effects of the intervention: while this
      will be a pilot study, involving limited exercise regimens, any knowledge gained about the
      impact of exercise on brain energetics will have a tremendous impact on the design of
      neuroprotective therapies and personalized treatment.
    
  