
    
      Extracts from European mistletoe (Viscum album L.) have been used as complementary cancer
      therapy since the 1920s. To date over 160 clinical studies on mistletoe in cancer therapy
      have been conducted with varying quality; the therapy is still controversial.

      Best evidence is found for increase of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and reduction
      of side effects of conventional therapies (chemotherapy, radiation) in breast cancer
      patients. Mistletoe treatment is described as safe and well tolerated. There are some
      clinical studies supporting the use of mistletoe extract in the management of late stage
      cancer.

      Statistically significant effects on overall survival (OS) and HRQoL in pancreatic cancer
      patients have recently been shown in a randomized open label trial in Serbia investigating
      the addition of mistletoe extract to best supportive care. The results are questioned because
      patients knew what kind of treatment they received.

      Mistletoe extracts are usually administered subcutaneously. They contain a multitude of
      substances with immune modulatory and cytotoxic or - in animal studies - antitumorigenic,
      anti-metastatic and antiangiogenic effects.

      This trial investigates whether there is a beneficial effect of mistletoe extracts on OS and
      HRQoL in pancreatic cancer patients receiving standard treatment (palliative chemotherapy or
      best supportive care).

      Inclusion has started at 4 study centers (2 more centers are waiting for participation). And
      participants are randomized 1:1 to mistletoe treatment (Iscador Qu®) given in increasing
      dosage from 0,01mg to 20 mg or placebo injections subcutaneously 3 times /week.
      Stratification will be performed for received oncological treatment (palliative chemotherapy
      or best supportive care). At 7 visits in 9 months, participants fill in the validated EORTC
      QLQ-C30 (QLO=quality of life questionnaire) and PAN-26 (PAN=pancreas) quality of life
      questionnaires. Body weight, use of cancer-related medicines, substitution of nutrition,
      adverse events need of supportive care and inpatient care are measured. To be able to assess
      more dimensions of quality of life than possible with questionnaires, a qualitative sub-study
      with interviews on about 30 participants in this trial is performed in month 3. A 2nd
      substudy has been added november 2016 to elucidate the systemic effects of mistletoe therapy
      and to explore potential prognostic and predictive biomarkers (anticipated n=100).
    
  