
    
      This trial will be an adaptation and continuation of a previously published trial,
      reproducing the original study size of 12 patients. Modifications from the previous trial
      include a modified oligodeoxynucleotide sequence and treatment at initial diagnosis, which
      would occur with concomitant standard therapy in an additional Phase 1 trial as a
      continuation if no rate-limiting toxicity is noted in the original Phase 1 arm. For practical
      purposes, a standard Phase 1 dose-escalation study is not possible with the current paradigm.
      Although we may have identified a distinct bioactive byproduct of IGF-1R/AS ODN-induced tumor
      cell apoptosis (exosomes), it is difficult to perform a dose escalation in a typical fashion.
      Also, antigen concentration can affect immune response in a biphasic manner: too little or
      too much can dampen an immune response, so even if the antigen or antigens were known, a
      typical pharmacologic dose escalation would not follow typical pharmacokinetics. For these
      reasons, we have designed a follow-on Phase 1 arm in which 32 patients will have therapy at
      initial surgery in 4 cohorts of 8 patients each. We will vary chamber number and implantation
      duration for each of the four cohorts in the additional Phase 1 arm. When we documented an
      increase in tumor infiltrating lymphocytes after treatment in our original trial, this
      observation provided preliminary supporting evidence that this therapeutic vaccine will
      elicit an adaptive immune response. We have designed the Phase 1 arm to further elucidate an
      immune response with a quantitative assessment of tumor specific T cells as well as
      circulating M2 macrophages before and after treatment. The design of the Phase 1 phase of the
      trial will allow a statistical analysis of both antigen dose (number of chambers) and time of
      exposure (chamber dwell time) as either variable may relate to any toxicity or treatment
      response.

      A summary of the treatment paradigm includes: Pre-operative plasma leukopheresis, then
      surgery with tissue harvest and implantation of up to 10 chambers in the rectus sheath with
      IGF-1R/AS ODN as previously reported within 24 hours of craniotomy plus one chamber
      containing only phosphate buffered saline. Twelve patients treated for recurrent disease will
      be assessed for safety of the treatment. If the safety profile is acceptable, the trial will
      be followed by accrual of 32 patients in an additional Phase 1 trial as a continuation over
      approximately 3 years prospectively from Thomas Jefferson University Hospital and the
      Jefferson Hospital for Neuroscience. All patients who meet the eligibility criteria and agree
      to participate in this study will be potential candidates for therapy.

      Pre-Operative Preparation - Patients will consent to a plasma leukopheresis at least 3 days
      prior to elective craniotomy. The PBMC will be stored for subsequent analysis of T cell
      responses, the presence of IL-10-producing M2 macrophages, and dendritic cell (DC)
      preparation. ELISPOT assays will be performed to measure T cell responses to autologous tumor
      cells and allogeneic tumor cells (U118 tumor lysate) utilizing cross-primed DC to assess both
      native anti-glioma immunity any acquired immunity after treatment. If U118 allogeneic glioma
      cells elicit a CTL response, this cell line may serve as an antigen source for future serial
      vaccination protocols.

      A pre-operative PET scan as a baseline against which we can compare post-treatment PET scans
      as indicated.

      Surgery and Tumor Cell Retrieval - Craniotomy and MRI-based image guided tumor resection will
      be performed on all study patients by an experienced neurosurgeon . All tested malignant
      gliomas obtained from craniotomies performed at Thomas Jefferson University have expressed
      the IGF-1R (M. Resnicoff, personal communication). During resection, viable tumor tissue will
      be confirmed by pathologic examination of frozen sections, and then sent to a BL-2 facility
      for disaggregation and plating in culture. Permanent section analysis will include an IGF-1R
      immunostain to determine the presence of IGF-1R. Once the cells are attached, cells will
      immediately be treated with IGF-1R/AS ODN. Tumor cells will be incubated with IGF-1R/AS ODN
      for a maximum of 6 hours and 106 cells will be then be loaded into each chamber and a target
      maximum of 10 chambers prepared. For all combination lot productions, two additional
      irradiated chambers and 300 ul of treated autologous tumor cells will be sent to microbiology
      for assessment of sterility according to FDA requirements. Greater than 5 and less than 10
      chambers will be scored as a minor protocol violation. Recovery of no viable cells will be
      grounds for disenrollment from the protocol. Prior to implantation, the chambers will be
      irradiated with 5 Gy of X-irradiation as previously described. An additional tumor sample
      will be flash-frozen for exploratory research objectives. At the time of craniotomy the
      surgeon will create an abdominal acceptor site for subsequent diffusion chamber implantation
      in the rectus sheath. This implantation site was chosen for the following reasons: (1) it
      yielded objective favorable biological responses in the prior human Phase 1 trial; (2) this
      site will easily accommodate multiple chamber implantations; (3) this site should elicit a
      strong host response due to the extent of the wound, the introduction of a foreign body and
      its contents, the vasculature of the rectus sheath and muscle, and the favorable inguinal
      node lymphatic drainage from this site; and (4) exposure of the rectus sheath and muscle is
      familiar to neurosurgeons all of whom commonly perform ventricular-peritoneal shunts.

      Biodiffusion Chamber Implantation/Explantation - Autologous tumor cell preparation,
      encapsulation in the biodiffusion chambers, irradiation, and chamber
      implantation/explantation are all procedures detailed in the Standard Operating Procedures
      Manual for IND #14379 (SOP 001). Briefly, at bedside in the intensive care unit the patient
      is sedated with intravenous Midazolam (Versed, 0.05 mg/kg repeated every 2 - 3 minutes to
      adequate sedation up to a maximum dose of 0.2mg/kg) and and Fentanyl (Sublimaze, 5mg which
      may be repeated every 5 minutes to a maximum dose of 20mg) and the wound infiltrated with up
      to 30 cc of 0.5% bupivicaine. With appropriate local anesthesia and sedation, the wound
      prepared at surgery is re-opened through the rectus sheath and up to 10 chambers are
      implanted between the rectus sheath and rectus muscle. The sheath is then re-approximated
      with 2-0 vicryl sutures and the skin re-approximated with 3-0 nylon sutures.The 24 hour
      period of implantation was chosen based on the favorable safety profile and promising
      biological responses noted in the previous human Phase 1 trial. Explantation involves the
      same process the following day with chamber explantation and a four layer wound closure.

      Follow-up MRI imaging schedule The MRI studies at days 28 and 56 are acknowledged as not
      being done as standard of care because they would not reflect meaningful clinical data if
      patients received only standard of care treatment. The first surveillance MRIs are usually
      obtained around 3 months after surgery or other interventions such as radiation or
      chemotherapy. After this experimental treatment, however, we anticipate radiographic
      responses much earlier as documented in the prior human trial. In the prior trial, partial or
      complete radiographic responses were documented anywhere from 2 to 27 weeks after treatment.
      We interpret these early responses to be a reflection of an immune-mediated biological
      response.

      Follow-up PET imaging schedule PET scans are scheduled at the discretion of the investigator
      to confirm disease progression.

      Retreatment of Subjects will be considered for an anticipated subgroup of subjects initially
      participating in this protocol who have demonstrated immunocompetent responses associated
      with objective clinical and radiographic improvements after induction vaccination.
      Specifically, if serial assessments of T cell numbers and associated inflammatory cytokines,
      interferon, the INF-responsive cytokines CXCL9, CXCL10, and interleukin 6 are significantly
      elevated and associated with clinical and radiographic improvement.

      Subjects entering the retreatment phase of the protocol will follow the same treatment plan
      with the exception of pre-operative plasma leukopheresis. Plasma leukopheresis previously
      collected will be utilized.
    
  