
    
      This collaborative research will utilize the Experience Group and Contextual Interview, two
      qualitative research methodologies, in order to understand and improve patients' and families
      with single-ventricle congenital heart disease (CHD) journey in care. There will be six main
      groups participating in the study: 1. Patients age 6 and older with a diagnosis of
      single-ventricle congenital heart disease; 2. Siblings (age 6 and older) of patients with
      single-ventricle CHD; 3. Parents or legal guardians of patients with single-ventricle CHD
      (regardless of patient age); 4. Pregnant parents who have a received a prenatal diagnosis of
      single-ventricle CHD; 5. Parents of deceased patients with single-ventricle CHD; 6. Adult
      partners of adult single-ventricle CHD patients.

      Participants will take part in an Experience Group. The Experience Group methodology is a
      form of qualitative research that brings together a group of 4-8 people who share similar
      medical circumstances for a conversation. This methodology has been successfully used by
      researchers from the Value Institute for Health and Care to gain insights in different
      patient populations. The groups will take place at Dell Medical School, The Dell Pediatric
      Research Institute (across the street from Dell Children's Medical Center), or other
      convenient public location as needed to allow for the least amount of travel for
      participants. Each group lasts 60-90 minutes and encourages participants to discuss their
      conditions and experiences outside the hospital/clinic, specifically. Focusing on the
      lifestyle aspect of the patient experience enables insight into both the successes and the
      challenges faced outside the health care system and in unobservable situations. Conversation
      is encouraged by the facilitator, who offers topics such as "what makes a good/bad day?",
      "what are your aspirations, what are your fears?", and "what are some of the obstacles and
      burdens you face on a regular basis?" Using a research approach that employs semi-structured,
      open-ended questions directed towards the group as a whole, the investigators hope to learn
      about the unarticulated, unmet needs of these patients, both physical and emotional, and
      ranging both within and outside of the clinic. Participants will not be asked to take part in
      more than one Experience Group session. Due to the current COVID-19 pandemic, Experience
      Group sessions will be held virtually via Zoom.

      Participants can elect to participate in a follow-up Contextual Interview following the
      Experience Groups. If the participants provide consent, they may be contacted for an
      interview. Not every patient that consents for participation will be asked to participate.
      Contextual Interviews will take place in participant's homes, or any other place of their
      choosing where they feel comfortable. Contextual Interviews will be performed by up to three
      personnel from the Design Institute for Health. The Design Institute has used this
      methodology extensively to identify needs and insights from patients to redesign care. Upon
      completion and approval of the optional model release part of the informed consent, audio
      recordings and photos may be taken. The Contextual Interviews do not follow a rigid question
      / answer scheme. Instead, their tone is conversational. Interview prompts will center around
      challenges the patients and families faced in their journey with CHD. Example questions may
      include, "When did you first receive the diagnosis?", "How do you feel about the care you
      were receiving?", "What, if anything, did the care team do to make you feel cared for?", "How
      did you feel about the location/environment?", and "What, if anything could have been
      different, improved or better for you?" Participants will not be asked to take part in more
      than one Contextual Interview session. Due to the current COVID-19 pandemic, Contextual
      Interviews will take place virtually via Zoom.

      Finally, some participants will have the opportunity to take part in virtual workshops to
      discuss the challenges uncovered in the Experience Groups and Contextual Interviews and
      ideate potential solutions to such challenges. Workshops are ideation meetings lasting from a
      few hours to a full day and would include stakeholders from all three collaborators and
      patient and family representatives, if appropriate. Participants in workshops will be asked
      to comment on research insights, participate in ideation sessions (brainstorms), sketch and
      write up ideas and evaluate different service design concepts.
    
  