
    
      This clinical trial will enroll patients with advanced or metastatic nonsquamous non-small
      cell lung carcinoma not having received treatment for metastatic disease. The five agents
      being used in this study are:

        -  A new, investigational, personalized cancer vaccine called "NEO-PV-01"

        -  Poly-ICLC (Hiltonol), an investigational adjuvant that is used to help stimulate the
           immune system

        -  A cancer drug called pembrolizumab (KEYTRUDA®)

        -  A chemotherapy called pemetrexed (ALIMPTA®)

        -  A chemotherapy called carboplatin

      Both NEO-PV-01 and pembrolizumab are considered immunotherapies and work using the immune
      system to fight cancer. NEO-PV-01 is a custom made vaccine for you that is based on the
      specific targets on your cancer. Poly-ICLC is an adjuvant that helps stimulate the immune
      system and make the vaccine, NEO-PV-01, more effective.

      Pembrolizumab helps T-cells, a certain type of immune cell, that recognize these targets to
      reach and attack your cancer. Pembrolizumab, which is approved in the USA and some other
      countries, is available by prescription to treat several different cancers, including the
      type of cancer that you have. Recently, the FDA also approved the combination of
      Pembrolizumab with chemotherapy for the treatment of your type of lung cancer. This
      combination works better than each of the drugs on their own.

      The purpose of this study is to find out if treatment with NEO-PV-01 in combination with
      pembrolizumab and chemotherapy is safe and useful for patients with lung cancer. The study
      also will assess if the NEO-PV-01 vaccine, when given together with pembrolizumab and
      chemotherapy, can improve your immune response compared with pembrolizumab and chemotherapy
      treatment alone. The side effects of NEO-PV-01, pembrolizumab, and chemotherapy will be
      monitored and additional research tests will be done to assess your immune response to your
      cancer.
    
  