
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, open-labeled, blinded end-point (so called PROBE) trial
      for 6 months. All patients presented to the clinics of participating sites with advanced CKD
      with eGFR 15 < eGFR < 60 ml/min/1.73m2 and symptomatic PAD will be screened for eligibility.
      The other healthy adults will be enrolled as control.

      Participants who fulfill the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be invited to participate in
      the current study. After the participants provides the written informed consents, detailed
      demographic data including genders, ages, body weights, body heights, smoking status (never,
      past, or active), the baseline creatinine (the nadir value in the past three months) and its
      corresponding eGFR and CKD stages, degrees of albuminuria (Urine albumin creatinine ratio,
      UACR), NYHA functional class, presence of atrial fibrillation, prior cardiovascular disease
      (CVD, including myocardial infarct, peripheral arterial occlusive diseases), presence of
      diabetes mellitus (DM), or hypertension. Detailed medication list will also be obtained, with
      the focus on angiotensin receptor blocker or angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors,
      statins, and beta-blockers.

      The etiology of kidney injury will be non-mutual-exclusively categorized as:

        1. Hypertensive kidney disease, participants who received any kind of anti-hypertensive
           drugs.

        2. Diabetic kidney disease, patients who received any kind of anti-diabetics drugs.

        3. Glomerulonephritis, patients who have proteinuria more than 0.5mg/dL and kidney biopsy
           approved Glomerulonephritis.

      Eligible 120 participants (group I) with eGFR 15 < eGFR < 60 ml/min/1.73m2 and symptomatic
      PAD will be randomized into ABC-treatment (A) or no-treatment (B)participants with a 1:1
      ratio. The other 60 eligible controls (eGFR > 60 ml/min/1.73m2 and no PAD, group II) will be
      also randomized into ABC-treatment (A) or no-treatment (B) with a 1:1 ratio. The participants
      will receive CharXenPlus 4g (with ABC 2g) thrice daily for 6 months in subgroups IA and IIA,
      while the participants in subgroups IB and IIB will not receive any ABC. The subgroups IA and
      IB will be further randomly subdivided into IAa, IAb, IBa, and IBb subsubgroups. All the
      participants will receive probiotics APL-MIX2 (CharXprob) 0.8 g once a day in the last 3
      months except those in subsubgroups IAb and IBb.

      After being processed, urine, stool, and plasma samples will be stored in -80°C for further
      examinations. The names and chart numbers participants will be masked to provide adequate
      privacy. The coding book connecting codes and individual participants will be filed
      separately in order to protect participants' privacy. participants will be asked if
      investigators can keep the encrypted samples refrigerated for 10 years for further
      investigations.
    
  