
    
      Intravenous prostaglandin E1 infusion is referred to as ductus dependent diseases, in
      systemic (aortic blood flow) circulation (eg critical aortic coarctation, intermittent arcus
      aorta, hypoplastic left heart, transposition of great artery), or lung blood flow through
      patent ductus arteriosus ( For example, pulmonary valve atresia, tricuspid valve atresia,
      hypoplastic right heart) is a life-saving drug used to ensure that the duct remains open
      until a full, partial or temporary surgical correction or intervention is made. In the
      antenatal period, the placenta is a good source of prostaglandins. However, with the
      disappearance of the placental circulation after birth, many mechanisms ensure that the
      patent ductus arteriosus closes first functional and then anatomically. Due to these
      mechanisms occurring in the early days of life, babies who have ductus-dependent congenital
      heart diseases show themselves with severe clinical signs and symptoms such as cyanosis and
      circulatory disorders in this early neonatal period, when ductus begins to close when
      diagnosis and treatment are not performed. Echocardiography should be performed by the
      pediatric cardiology specialist as soon as possible after delivery to babies diagnosed in the
      antenatal period, and if a ductus-dependent congenital heart disease diagnosis is confirmed,
      PGE1 infusion should be started immediately, and the patient should be consulted with a
      pediatric cardiovascular surgery specialist and a surgical intervention plan should be
      provided as soon as possible.Due to these mechanisms occurring in the early days of life,
      babies who have ductus-dependent congenital heart diseases show themselves with severe
      clinical signs and symptoms such as cyanosis and circulatory disorders in this early neonatal
      period, when ductus begins to close when diagnosis and treatment are not performed.
      Echocardiography should be performed by the pediatric cardiology specialist as soon as
      possible after delivery to babies diagnosed in the antenatal period, and if a
      ductus-dependent congenital heart disease diagnosis is confirmed, PGE1 infusion should be
      started immediately, and the patient should be consulted with a pediatric cardiovascular
      surgery specialist and a surgical intervention plan should be provided as soon as possible.
      Prostaglandin E1 infusion is given as a continuous intravenous infusion. PGE1 has some side
      effects. The most common side effects are apnea, hyperthermia, and vasodilatation on the
      skin, they occur around 10-14% and are usually dose-related side effects. In addition,
      bradycardia, hypotension, convulsion, tachycardia, diarrhea, sepsis, necrotizing
      enterocolitis, hypernatremia, hyponatremia, hypokalemia, respiratory depression, arrhythmia,
      congestive heart failure, gastric regurgitation, bleeding, anuria, hematuria and
      hypoglycaemia are more rare effects. The frequency and severity of these side effects usually
      depend on the dose of the drug and the time used. Many of these side effects disappear or
      decrease significantly when the medication is stopped or the dose is reduced. An important
      complication that can be seen with long-term use is cortical hyperostosis in long bones.
      Among the very rare side effects of the drug Prostaglandin E1 are hyperplasia of the gastric
      mucosa and the development of pyloric stenosis.Hypertrophic pyloric stenosis develops as a
      result of hypertrophy of circular pyloric muscles in the newborn period. Ultrasonography
      (USG) is the primary diagnosis and imaging method, because it does not contain radiation, it
      has replaced contrast studies. In ultrasonography, the thickness of the pyloric muscle from
      the mucosa to the serosa is more than 2-3 mm and the length of the pyloric canal is over 16
      mm. In the literature, there is no study on the effect of PGE1 increasing the pyloric wall
      thickness in newborns, there is a case report from our hospital in this regard. In this
      study, we aimed to evaluate the effects of the drug on pyloric wall thickness prospectively
      with weekly ultrasonography measurements in infants given PGE1 infusion due to congenital
      heart disease. Ultrasonography measurements will be made at the bedside (with the
      ultrasonography device of our unit) by an experienced pediatric radiologist in pediatric
      cases. No intervention in the treatment, medical decisions and follow-up of patients will be
      made. Neonatal babies who were born in Hacettepe University Faculty of Medicine Ihsan
      Dogramaci Children's Hospital Neonatal Intensive Care Unit and who were receiving
      prostaglandin E1 infusion due to PDA-dependent congenital heart disease will be included in
      the study. Infants who do not have consent to participate, babies with chromosomal disease
      and hereditary metabolic disease will not be included in the study. In addition, babies who
      have an exitus in the first week of life and whose ultrasonography measurements cannot be
      obtained, and babies whose prostaglandin E1 infusion is discontinued by taking the second
      ultrasonographic measurement in the first week of life will be excluded from the study.

      Study Design:

        -  Patients who have to receive Prostaglandin E1 treatment due to congenital heart disease
           followed in the neonatal department of our hospital will be included in the study after
           their consent and approval with their families without recording their identity
           information.

        -  Pyloric thicknesses will be measured by a pediatric radiologist once a week (at least
           twice) during the period when patients use PGE1.

        -  After reaching the sufficient number of cases (20 cases), increases in the pyloric wall
           thickness dimensions will be compared with statistical analysis. The number of cases was
           determined in accordance with the rate of hospitalization in our unit during the
           determined period (18 months). In this way, since the studies are in the form of a case
           report and the original article cannot be found in the literature, the observed power of
           the study will be calculated after the study is completed.
    
  