
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial, which tests the safety and effectiveness of
      an investigational combination of drugs to learn whether the combination of drugs works in
      treating a specific cancer. "Investigational" means that the combination of drugs is being
      studied. It also means that the FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not yet
      approved the combination of drugs for your type of cancer.

      Each of the individual drugs, lenalidomide , subcutaneous bortezomib, and dexamethasone, are
      approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The combination has not been
      approved yet for multiple myeloma or any other type of cancer. Subcutaneous bortezomib is
      currently approved by the U.S. FDA for the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory
      multiple myeloma. Lenalidomide is currently approved for use with dexamethasone for patients
      with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy and for the treatment of
      certain types of myelodysplastic syndrome (another form of cancer affecting the blood). Both
      Bortezomib and Lenalidomide kill tumor cells and help the body cells to fight cancer.
      Dexamethasone is commonly used, either alone, or in combination with other drugs, to treat
      multiple myeloma. Dexamethasone heps to reduce irritation and cell injury (inflammation).

      In this research study, the investigators are looking to explore the drug combination of
      lenalidomide, subcutaneous bortezomib and dexamethasone to see what side effects it may have
      and how well it works for treatment of newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. This 3 drug regimen
      showed promising results in previous studies, however administration of intravenous
      bortezomib caused high levels of nerve injury (a condition involving the nerves of the upper
      and lower extremities associated with numbness, tingling and burning). In this study, the
      investigators are testing the hypothesis that subcutaneous administration of bortezomib will
      result in less nerve toxicity. Therefore, the combination of lenalidomide, dexamethasone and
      subcutaneous bortezomib may be better tolerated and may allow for a longer duration of
      therapy.
    
  