
    
      Combined EUS, e-PFT and sEUS Testing:

      The endoscopic procedures for this study will be performed by a single endoscopist at each
      center. It is expected that the combined EUS, ePFT and sEUS will be completed in less than 75
      minutes. Patient sedation will be accomplished via standard conscious (Midazolam, Fentanyl
      and/or Meperidine) sedation or monitored (Propofol) sedation as per the study investigator
      and America Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE) and American Society of
      Anesthesiology (ASA) guidelines.

      A mechanical-radial EUS echoendoscope with color Doppler assessment capability will be passed
      via standard technique and the pancreas examined from the gastric and duodenal stations.
      Representative EUS images will be recorded on digital videotape/digital snapshot from the
      head, body and tail per the CRF. See Appendix B. These images will then become part of the
      patient's electronic medical record. The echoendoscope will be used to measure specific
      parenchymal (hyperechoic foci with shadowing, hyperechoic strands with shadowing, lobular
      contour, cysts, calculi) and ductal (main ductal diameter, irregularity, hyperechoic margins,
      stones and the presence of visible side branches) abnormalities. It is expected that this
      evaluation will be completed in approximately 10 minutes. Prior to secretin administration
      (baseline MPD diameters), the pancreatic duct diameter will be measured in the head, body,
      and tail using endosonographic calipers. The investigator will provide an initial assessment
      of the presence or absence of chronic pancreatitis prior to secretin administration.

      Next, the echoendoscope will be used to aspirate the gastric and duodenal lumens dry. The
      gastric and duodenal samples will then be discarded.

      Once the gastric and duodenal lumens have been aspirated dry, patients will be given a test
      dose of human secretin of 0.2 mcg (0.1mL) through an indwelling catheter in a peripheral vein
      to assess for a possible allergic response. Patients will be monitored at all times for
      evaluation of hemodynamic instability. If after one minute there is no evidence of an
      allergic reaction, the remaining full dose of secretin 0.2 mcg/kg IV will be given over one
      minute.

      Beginning at time 4 minutes after the completion of secretin intravenous infusion, the
      pancreatic duct diameter will be measured in the head, body, and tail using endosonographic
      calipers. Measurements of the pancreatic duct will occur sequentially at 4, 8, and 12 minutes
      following the conclusion of secretin administration. Representative images will also be
      obtained of each measurement at each time point. The echoendoscope will be used to measure
      specific parenchymal (hyperechoic foci with shadowing, hyperechoic strands with shadowing,
      lobular contour, cysts, calculi) and ductal abnormalities. The investigator will perform a
      follow-up assessment of chronic pancreatitis using additional data on post-secretin
      administration.

      The ePFT portion of the examination will then commence. The echoendoscope will be removed and
      a forward-viewing gastroscope placed into the stomach. Stomach contents will then be
      aspirated dry. The forward-viewing gastroscope will then be placed across the pylorus into
      the distal duodenum. Beginning time 15 minutes following the completion of the secretin
      infusion, duodenal samples (5-10 mL) will be collected through the suction channel of the
      echoendoscope. The samples will be collected in a standard endoscopic collection container
      and placed on ice. At time 30 and 45 minutes after the completion of secretin administation,
      samples will obtained in a similar fashion and placed in separate containers on ice. The
      procedure will then be completed and the patient brought to the same day recovery suite.

      At the conclusion of the procedure, the samples will be brought immediately to the hospital
      chemistry laboratory where they will be evaluated for bicarbonate concentration using the
      hospital autoanalyzer or frozen at -70 degrees Celsius if analysis is delayed. Using the
      autoanalyzer for this technique generally requires a three-fold dilution of the fluid
      contents. The highest bicarbonate concentration from the 3 samples will be considered the
      peak concentration. The diagnostic cut-off for pancreatic exocrine disease will be set at <
      80 mEq/L (80 mEq/L or greater indicates normal function).

      Patient participation in the study will be completed at the time of completion of their
      combined function testing. A telephone call will occur by the PI or designee to each patient
      within 3-7 days of study drug administration will serve as follow-up and complete the CRF.
    
  