
    
      Diabetes mellitus (DM) is associates with numerous complications. One of these is decreased
      peripheral circulation impaired sensation leading to the development of foot ulcers that lead
      to amputations of toes, feet and limbs. These complications not only have devastating effects
      on the individual in terms of loss of functionality but also impact the patient's ability to
      carry out and enjoy occupational, recreational and family functioning activities.
      Furthermore, foot ulcers and associated problems often lead to prolonged hospitalization and
      loss of productivity. All of these have personal as well as societal economical implications.

      Currently, the standard of care includes admissions to the hospital lasting up to six weeks
      for medical observations and treatment of food ulcers.

      The nursing responsibilities include daily or more frequent wound care as well as education
      counselling and skill building for diabetes self-management; therefore, an alternative to
      current practices must be considered. Such an alternative strategy has the potential benefit
      for the patient as well as the societal benefit of economic savings should such an outpatient
      nurse managed intervention be as or more effective as current practice. This type of service
      would allow the patients to remain in their home for care with probably a reduced risk for
      nosocomial infections.

      This pilot randomized clinical trial (RCT) aims to evaluate the feasibility of an additional
      patient education program to current management of foot care in patients with DM. We plan to
      determine whether foot ulcer care in hospital under medical and nursing management can be
      improved by early discharge of the Intervention group (IG) to the well established outpatient
      wound care combined with an additional new outpatient nurse managed counselling program.

      Expected results:

      This study aims to test an alternative to current standard of care for patients with foot
      ulcers. A RCT is the preferred method to establish efficacy for this alternative nurse
      managed intervention; and if found to be effective, the current study will also allow an
      evaluation of the cost effectiveness of this intervention and the potential economic
      reduction in cost to the health care system.

      Also, patients in the hospital are in danger of acquiring nosocomial infections, are subject
      to medical and nursing errors and are potentially accident prone; all of this together with a
      general preference for being able to live at home as compared to the hospital, together with
      the cost savings mentioned above could have a considerable impact on patient's quality of
      life, satisfaction with care, improvement in food ulcer and amputation outcomes.

      Significance:

      The potential implications are major in terms of quality of life, reduction in morbidity in
      disability days, and cost savings. It is anticipated that this intervention is at least as
      effective as hospital stay, and being surrounded by their own loved ones without the threats
      that a hospital setting presents. The findings will be important to consider whether clinical
      practice can be changed to benefit patients. If the study results show that the subjects in
      the IG have better skills in monitoring and treating their diabetic foot ulcerations and
      eventually avoid developing further complications the intervention can be applied to future
      patients.
    
  