
    
      Radioligand therapy (RLT) is a promising new therapeutic approach to treat metastatic
      prostate cancer. This tumor-specific treatment is directed against prostate-specific membrane
      antigen (PSMA), which is overexpressed in prostate cancer cells. In the last few years,
      several lutetium-177 (177Lu, β emitter) labeled PSMA ligands have been developed and are
      currently applied in nuclear medicine departments world-wide to treat metastatic castrate
      resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients.

      A large retrospective study reported an overall biochemical response rate of 45% following
      multiple 177Lu-PSMA RLT cycles in mCRPC patients, while 40% of patients already responded
      after a single cycle. RLT with PSMA ligand PSMA-617 was generally well tolerated and 12% of
      the patients suffered grade 3 to 4 hematological toxicity. In addition, mild and often
      transient xerostomia occurred in 8%. These results were confirmed in a smaller scale
      prospective study published recently.

      Although these results are very promising, it is noteworthy that all currently
      Lu-177-PSMA-617 RLT only has been evaluated in end stage prostate cancer patients to date. In
      theory, RLT could be more effective in low volume disease because of the very high tumor
      uptake of radioligands in small lesions. There are no published data so far evaluating the
      therapeutic effect of Lu-177-PSMA-617 RLT in an earlier stage of the disease. Because of the
      difference in tumor load between mCRPC patients and patients with low volume metastatic
      disease, dosimetry and toxicity in these patients need evaluation. Here a clinical trial to
      investigate the efficacy of Lu-177-PSMA-617 RLT in patients with low volume metastatic
      prostate cancer, prior to the hormone insensitive state is proposed.

      Objective: The aim of this study is to evaluate the dosimetry and toxicity of Lu-177-PSMA-617
      RLT, in patients with low volume, hormone sensitive metastatic prostate cancer under
      treatment condition. Ultimately, the goal of this study is to stabilize previously
      progressive disease in these patients and to improve the quality of life by postponing the
      need for androgen deprivation therapy (ADT).
    
  