
    
      This study entitled "Prospective Cohort Study of Accelerated Resolution Therapy (ART) for
      Treatment of Military Psychological Trauma" is a prospective cohort treatment intervention
      study (n=200) whereby U.S. service members and veterans with symptoms of PTSD will undergo
      2-5 sessions of ART delivered by Florida licensed mental health professionals trained in ART.
      Clinical assessments will be conducted pre-treatment, post-treatment (approximately 2 weeks
      after study entry), and at 6-month follow-up (self-report questionnaires). The study aligns
      with the USF College of Nursing POWER initiative by seeking to expand the science base of
      effective treatment of service members and veterans with impaired psychological status. The
      study rationale is to: (i) demonstrate that ART is a brief, effective, and safe treatment for
      military-related PTSD including military sexual trauma (MST) and among service members with
      PTSD refractory to previous psychotherapy; (ii) provide evidence of the sustainability of
      clinical response 6-months after treatment completion; (iii) provide evidence that ART is a
      cost effective treatment for PTSD compared to current therapies formally endorsed by the VA
      and DoD; and (iv) develop the infrastructure for expansion of the ART protocol and science
      base, including national and international treatment settings, expanded patient populations,
      expanded clinical services, and mechanistic studies of ART. The target population (n=200)
      will consist of U.S. service members and veterans who have symptoms indicative of a current
      diagnosis of PTSD. Oversampling will occur for participants with a history of MST (minimum
      n=60) and/or PTSD refractory to prior psychotherapy (minimum n=60). No age limit or duration
      of symptoms of PTSD will be imposed for study eligibility, and it is anticipated that most,
      if not all, of eligible and enrolled participants will have had prior deployments to
      conflicts dating back to the 1970s, including the Vietnam War, Persian Gulf War, and the more
      recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Demographic and medical history data will be collected
      along with details of prior military service including service branch, deployment location(s)
      and type of trauma(s). Participants will complete the 7-item Combat Exposure Scale and 3-item
      Brief Traumatic Brain Injury Screen. To evaluate treatment response, measures completed at
      entry, post-treatment, and 6 months will include: 17-item PCL-M (PTSD Checklist), 125-item
      Psychiatric Diagnostic Screening Questionnaire, 18-item Brief Symptom Inventory (BSI),
      34-item Clinical Outcomes in Routine Evaluation (CORE-OM) scale, Medical Outcome Study Short
      Form-36, 20-item Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D), 21-item
      State-Trait Inventory for Cognitive and Somatic Anxiety (STICSA), 22-item Trauma-Related
      Guilt Inventory (TRGI), and use of medications. The study will be conducted over a 24-month
      period.
    
  