
    
      The study is divided into 2 separate parts (ie, Part 1 and Part 2). Part 1 is a dose finding
      part (to find the optimal dose) of trabectedin for Chinese patients, and Part 2 is a
      multicenter, randomized (the study medication is assigned by chance), active-controlled (an
      active substance that is compared with the study medication to test whether the study
      medication has a real effect in clinical study), parallel-group (a study comparing the
      response in two or more groups of patients receiving different interventions), open-label
      (all people know the identity of the intervention) bridging part comparing the efficacy and
      safety of the optimal dose of trabectedin with dacarbazine in the same population as in Part
      1. The study (in both Part 1 and Part 2) will consist of a screening phase, a treatment phase
      and a follow-up phase. Part 1: Optimal dose (ie, maximum tolerated dose [MTD]) is determined
      from the following 3 dose levels: Dose level 1 (1.5 mg/m2), Dose level 2 (1.2 mg/m2), and
      Dose level 3 (1.0 mg/m2)of trabectedin. Cohorts of 6 patients will be treated at each dose
      level. To determine MTD, dose limiting toxicity (DLT; any pre-defined adverse event that
      occurs during the first cycle ie, Cycle 1) will be determined. In the first cohort of 6
      patients, (a) if DLT is less than or equal to 1 at a dose level, it is considered as MTD (b)
      if DLT is greater than 2, patients will be de-escalated to next dose level (c) if DLT is
      equal to 2, 3 more patients will be included at that dose level and if there will be no DLT
      in those 3 patients, that dose level is considered as MTD. Part 2: If the optimal dose found
      in Part 1 is 1.5 mg/m2, approximately 48 patients will be randomly assigned to either the
      trabectedin (approximately 32 patients) or dacarbazine (approximately 16 patients) treatment
      group in Part 2. If the optimal dose found in Part 1 is below 1.5 mg/m2, 123 patients will be
      randomly assigned to either the trabectedin (approximately 82 patients) or dacarbazine
      (approximately 41 patients) treatment group. Safety will be evaluated by assessing adverse
      events, clinical laboratory test, multiple gated acquisition scans, electrocardiograms, vital
      signs, and physical examination throughout the study up to 30 days after the end of
      treatment.
    
  