
    
      Sleep-related breathing disorders (SBAS), particularly obstructive sleep apnea syndrome
      (OSAS), are one of the most common causes of non-restorative sleep. Disturbances of sleep
      disorders include apneas and hypopneas associated with either or not pharyngeal obstruction
      and hypoventilation. Depending on the type of respiratory disorder present, they are
      associated with hypoxemia and may cause hypercapnia or acidosis The consequences of
      obstructive narrowing of the pharynx are far-reaching. Studies have shown that patients with
      OSAS have comorbidities such as neurological complaints, heart attacks, dementia,
      cardiovascular complaints, myocardial infarction, and a higher mortality rate.

      Sleep fragmentation caused by respiratory disorders during sleep and wakefulness reactions
      (arousals) can lead to daytime sleepiness and concentration disorders. In the longer term
      untreated arousals and apneas are associated with an increased risk for arterial
      hypertension, stroke, myocardial infarction, diabetes mellitus and libido loss.

      OSAS management includes positive pressure ventilation with continuous positive airway
      pressure (CPAP) masks, mandibular advancement of the mandible with mandibular advancement
      devices (MAD), weight loss, ear, nose and throat surgical procedures, bimaxillary or
      mandibular remodeling osteotomies, and neurostimulation procedures of the hypoglossal nerve.

      Several studies have shown that the use of MADs is inferior in reducing the severity of OSAS
      in comparison to CPAP therapy, but its efficacy is comparable and preferred by patients in
      mild to moderate OSAS.

      Due to the forward displacement of the lower jaw for several hours at night, similar symptoms
      as in temporomandibular dysfunction (TMD) patients may occur. The symptoms may be pain or
      stiffness on the masticatory muscles or temporomandibular joints.

      This study aims to identify possible side effects in the temporomandibular system that occur
      during the course of two years of nocturnal MAD delivery. Two different appliance systems are
      compared in terms of construction height (bite elevation) and protrusion mechanics: the H-MAD
      ™ with a hinge system according to Herbst and the SomnoDent Fusion ™ (called F-MAD) with
      sliding side wings.
    
  