
    
      This study is a noninferiority, randomized controlled trial of patients presenting to
      multiple centers.

      The primary outcome measure is the Olerud-Molander scores assess on 12 months after operation
      of an unstable ankle fracture. The Olerud-Molander scores were compared between the
      experimental group (early weightbearing) and the control group (non-weightbearing) on 12
      month follow-up examination.

      The Olerud-Molander score is a most widely used validated scale to assess ankle function
      after an ankle fracture. It is a self-administered patient questionnaire with a score of zero
      (totally impaired) to 100 (completely unimpaired) and is based on nine different items: pain,
      stiffness, swelling, stair climbing, running, jumping, squatting, supports and
      work/activities of daily living.

      The secondary objectives are to determine whether early weightbearing is superior to
      non-weightbearing with respect to time until return to normal daily life and time to full
      weightbearing.

      Other objectives are to determine safety by assessing number of participants with adverse
      effect such as hardware failure, reduction loss, non-union, or delayed union in each group.

      The sample size was determined using methods appropriate for noninferiority trials, assuming
      90% power and a significance level of 0.05. To find out whether the early weightbearing is
      not inferior to nonweightbearing after operation of an ankle fracture, 192 patients were
      required to have 90% power that the lower limit of an one-sided 95% confidence interval for
      the difference between two treatments will be above the noninferiority margin of -8, adding
      20% of assumed drop-out.

      Determination of the noninferiority margin was based on clinical significance. In a previous
      study between early weightbearing versus nonweightbearing after an ankle fracture surgery,
      Simanski et al. reported that both groups showed good results in the Olerud-Molander score
      (87 vs. 79 points; p=0.25). In both groups, the majority of patients reached their preinjury
      level of activity. The difference in the Olerud-Molander score between the two groups was 8
      points in favor of early weightbearing. Their study came from populations similar to our
      trial population and from interventions similar to those being studied in the current trial.
      We decided that the noninferiority margin at 8 points difference will be adequate to prove
      noninferiority of the experiment group (early weightbearing) over the control group
      (nonweightbearing).

      If a subject had discontinued prior to completion of 12 months, the last observation is
      carried forward for the intent-to-treat analysis. Subjects who crossed over to the other
      treatment arm, for an example, patients in non-weightbearing group who weightbear early, are
      analyzed according to their initial group allocation for the intent-to-treat analysis.
      Additionally, an as-treated (per-protocal) analysis was also conducted on patients who
      completed the 12 months follow-up with the protocol assigned.
    
  