
    
      General objective - Evaluate the effect of LLLT on the sensory-motor response in individuals
      having suffered a spinal cord injury.

      Specific objectives - Investigate the maintenance of the possible sensory-motor response
      through electromyographic analyses conducted before LLLT and as well as one, 15, 30, 45 and
      60 days after the intervention; evaluate functional independence and quality of life in
      individuals having suffered a spinal cord injury.

      Trial design - A randomized, controlled, clinical trial is proposed. displays the flowchart
      of the development of the study. The trial will be conducted in compliance with the norms
      governing research involving human subjects and will be submitted for the approval of the
      Institutional Review Board of University Nove de Julho, São Paulo, Brazil. All participants
      or their legal guardians will receive clarifications regarding the objectives and procedures
      of the study and those agreeing to participate will sign a statement of informed consent.

      Methods: Participants, interventions and outcomes

      Study setting - Physical Therapy Clinics of University Nove de Julho, São Paulo, Brazil
      Exclusion criteria: complete spinal cord injury, cognitive impairment.

      Interventions - The volunteers will be randomly allocated to a control group or treatment
      group. Evaluations will be conducted before and after the intervention using electromyography
      of the myotome corresponding to the injured spinal nerve root. The treatment group will
      receive LLLT following the protocol outlined below:

      LLLT protocol - Based on Byrnes et al. and Holanda et al., radiance will be administered to
      the injury site transcutaneously at a wavelength of 808 nm using a Twin Flex Evolution diode
      laser (MMO Equipamento Opto-Eletronicos, Brazil). Twelve sessions will be held (three per
      week over four weeks). The dose administered to the surface of the skin will be 983 J/cm2 per
      session, with a treatment area of 4.72 W/cm² and total radiant energy of 25 J.

      According to the literature, this dose is capable of enhancing functional recovery following
      an injury.

      Recruitment Individuals will be recruited from the physical therapy clinics of University
      Nove de Julho (São Paulo, Brazil) as well as spinal injury associations, if necessary.

      Methods: Assignment of interventions (for controlled trials)

      Sequence generation The individuals will be allocated to the different groups based on
      numbers randomly generated by a computer program.

      Allocation concealment mechanism Allocation will be concealed with the use of sealed opaque
      envelopes. Each envelope will be numbered on the outside and will contain the name of a
      participant on the inside. The envelopes will be randomly selected using a computer program,
      with the formation of the control group first, followed by the treatment group.

      Implementation The volunteers will be enrolled in the research project of MSc. Fernanda
      Cordeiro da Silva and the envelopes will be prepared by researcher Paulo Roberto da Costa
      Palácio. Dr. Sandra Kalil Bussadori will head the project and will run the computer program
      for the random allocation of the volunteers to the different groups.

      Blinding - There will be no blinding.

      Methods: Data collection, management and analysis The data will be tabulated and treated
      using the SPSS 20.0 program for WindowsTM. The data will be submitted to descriptive
      statistical analysis. The chi-square test and Fisher's exact test will be used to establish
      the associations of the categorical variables. The Student's t-test will be used for the
      comparison of mean electromyographic signals. Pearson's correlation coefficients will be
      calculated for the analysis of the correlation of the continuous variables. The level of
      significance will be 95% (p < 0.05).

      Ethics and dissemination

      Research ethics approval - The trial will be conducted in compliance with the norms governing
      research involving human subjects and will be submitted for the approval of the Institutional
      Review Board of University Nove de Julho, São Paulo, Brazil. All participants or their legal
      guardians will receive clarifications regarding the objectives and procedures of the study
      and those agreeing to participate will sign a statement of informed consent.

      Consent or assent - Researchers MSc. Fernanda Cordeiro da Silva and Paulo Roberto da Costa
      Palácio will present and explain the statement of informed consent to each volunteer. All
      participants will be informed with regard to the voluntary nature of participation and the
      possibility of withdrawing from the study at any time with no negative consequences.

      Confidentiality - All data collected from the volunteers during the evaluations and
      treatments will be stored a hard drive to ensure confidentiality.

      Declaration of interests - The authors declare no conflicts of interest. Access to data -
      Only the researchers directly involved in the study will have access to the data.

      Ancillary and post-trial care - At the end of the study, all volunteers allocated to the
      control group will receive LLLT with the same protocol administered to the treatment group to
      avoid any inequality regarding treatment among the individuals.

      Dissemination policy - The findings will be published in scientific journals and presented at
      conferences on the application of laser therapy and treatment for individuals with spinal
      injuries.
    
  