
    
      Smoking is the single biggest preventable cause of death in Ireland and costs the exchequer
      approximately €1-2 billion per annum. Currently, 19.2% of Irish people aged 15 and over
      smoke. Given the magnitude of human suffering and economic cost associated with smoking, the
      systematic empirical development of cost-effective smoking cessation interventions is a major
      public health need. Combining a group-based treatment for smoking cessation with a
      theoretically-consistent smartphone application has the advantage of augmenting therapeutic
      content delivered in the clinic with on-the-spot assistance in the individual's natural
      environment. In accordance, this study will evaluate the efficacy of a smartphone application
      in enhancing Acceptance and Commitment Therapy group treatment for smoking cessation. This
      study will also elucidate the processes through which the treatment promotes smoking
      cessation. Identifying such mediators of change can inform the enhancement of subsequent
      interventions, enabling them to retain efficacious elements and disregard redundant elements.
      Furthermore, this study will identify the participant characteristics associated with
      differential response to the treatment. Clarifying such treatment moderators can facilitate
      practitioners in selecting optimal treatments for individual service users.

      Participants will attend a baseline assessment on an individual basis prior to their smoking
      cessation attempt. During this session, participants will provide a breath sample and
      complete a series of self-report measures: Fagerström Test of Nicotine Dependence, Commitment
      to Quitting Scale, smoking-related variables (e.g., years smoking, previous quit attempts,
      etc.), Avoidance and Inflexibility Scale, Mental Health Continuum-Short Form, Valuing
      Questionnaire, Present Moment Awareness Subscale of the Philadelphia Mindfulness Scale, and
      the Cognitive Fusion Questionnaire. Participants will then be randomly allocated to the
      combined treatment, ACT group treatment or group based Behavioural Support Programme. A
      post-treatment assessment will be conducted to investigate changes in the variables measured
      at baseline. In addition, a six-month follow-up assessment will determine whether the effects
      of the treatments are sustained over an extended period of time.
    
  