
    
      Study population: Fifty patients of either sex admitted to Medical Intensive Care Unit and
      Intensive Care Unit of Anaesthesiology department of Maulana Azad Medical College and Lok
      Nayak Hospital, New Delhi( a 2000 bedded, tertiary care centre), fulfilling the criteria were
      enrolled and prospectively followed up until one week after discharge from intensive care
      unit or till death.

      Methodology: Ventilator associated pneumonia was diagnosed when new and persistent pulmonary
      infiltrates (not otherwise explained) appeared on chest radiograph after 48 hours of
      ventilation and any two of the following three criteria were fulfilled:

        1. Temperature of more than 38oC or less than 35oC.

        2. Leukocytosis ≥16,000 or leukopenia ≤ 3,000.

        3. Purulent endotracheal aspirate and/or positive endotracheal aspirate culture. Protocol
           of study: All patients were ventilated by orotracheal or tracheostomy tube, which was
           changed only if, blocked or displaced. Patients were ventilated in supine position with
           frequent changing to right lateral and left lateral positions and nasogastric tube was
           put in all patients. No prophylactic topical oropharyngeal antibiotic and selective gut
           decontamination was done in any of the patients. Base line complete blood count was done
           in all patients at time of intubation. Subsequent counts were done when pneumonia was
           suspected by onset of fever, new chest signs, worsening of ventilatory requirement and
           radiologically new infiltrates. Baseline chest X-ray and endotracheal aspirate culture
           was done at intubation and at 48 hours of ventilation and subsequently done at suspicion
           of pneumonia or any other pulmonary complications, 48 hours after pneumonia has been
           detected, routinely once a week if no pneumonia is detected. Nasogastric aspirate
           culture was done on 3rd and 7th day of intubation and every week thereafter. Gastric
           colonization was diagnosed if more than 103 colony-forming units/ml were found. Clinical
           examination for pneumonia and chest radiographs after one week of extubation were done
           on follow up.

      Method of collection of samples: Endotracheal aspirate was collected with mucus trap under
      all aseptic precautions. Nasogastric (NG) aspirate was collected from indwelling NG tubes.
      After removing the initial 5 ml, the next 10 ml of fluid in the tube was aspirated into a
      sterile syringe and immediately transported to the laboratory for processing.

      Culture method: A Semi quantitative culture of the endotracheal aspirate and nasogastric
      aspirate was done [6]. A Measured amount of aspirate was plated on blood agar and Mac-Conkey
      medium and a colony count was done after incubation. A sample of blood was collected in
      glucose broth and after overnight incubation, subcultures were done on blood agar and
      Mac-Conkey agar. Colony characteristics were observed and identification was done in
      accordance with standard recommendations. Susceptibility of the organisms isolated from
      endotracheal aspirate was done by disc diffusion technique employing the Stokes method.

      Grouping of patients: Patients enrolled into study were divided randomly into two groups on
      random basis. One group was given Ranitidine (H2 blocker) 50 mg I.V. every 8 hourly as stress
      ulcer prophylaxis while the other group recieved Sucralfate (surface active agent) 1g 6
      hourly via nasogastric tube. Occurrence of VAP in each group was recorded and compared.
      Gastric colonization in each group was monitored by semi-quantitative culture.

      Risk factors studied were age, sex, underlying disease, prior respiratory disease including
      Chronic obstructive airway disease (COPD), prior hospitalization, duration of intubation,
      numbers of intubations, prior antibiotic therapy etc. Other parameters noted were indication
      of mechanical ventilation and outcome of patients with VAP Statistical methods: Incidence,
      risk factors, outcome and antimicrobial susceptibility were calculated in absolute numbers
      and percentages. Comparison of effect of ranitidine vs. sucralfate on occurrence of VAP was
      done by chi square test and effect of ranitidine vs. sucralfate on gastric colonization was
      calculated in absolute numbers and percentages and compared. All statistics were calculated
      using SPSS software. P value <0.05 was considered significant.

      RISK FACTORS studied include age, sex, underlying disease, prior COPD, prior hospitalization,
      duration of intubation, no. of intubation. Longer duration of dependence on ventilator
      increased the risk for VAP significantly (p value 0.001). Similarly, reintubation also
      emerged as clear predisposing factor for VAP (See table 1).
    
  