
    
      Among Intensive Care Unit (ICU) survivors, subsequent cognitive and functional decline are
      the greatest threats to meaningful recovery. Six small cohorts indicate that an alarming 30%
      to 80% of the increasingly millions of ICU survivors develop an acquired long-term cognitive
      impairment (LTCI) functionally equivalent to mild/moderate dementia that may last years.
      Additionally, major deficits in health-related quality of life (HRQL), functional status, and
      an "ICU accelerated" frailty are common, especially in the elderly. A leading and potentially
      modifiable risk factor for these devastating outcomes may be ICU delirium, which is a
      predictor of higher mortality, higher cost, and poor cognitive function at discharge.
      Additionally, heavy and prolonged exposure to potent psychoactive medications routinely
      administered in high doses to ventilated patients may have lasting yet preventable cognitive
      and functional effects. In this proposal, Aims 1 and 3 will determine whether delirium is an
      independent risk factor for the incidence, severity, and/or duration of LTCI (Aim 1) and
      impaired HRQL (Aim 3) in ICU survivors. Likewise, Aims 2 and 4 will determine whether degree
      of exposure to sedative and analgesic medications in ICU patients is an independent risk
      factor for the incidence, severity, and/or duration of LTCI (Aim 2) and impaired HRQL (Aim
      4). The study will be a prospective cohort study enrolling 800 mechanically ventilated
      medical and surgical patients from 3 diverse medical centers over a 39 month period with
      comprehensive follow-up testing at 3 and 12 months after hospital discharge. This study will
      quantify whether delirium and sedative/analgesic exposure are indeed risk factors for LTCI
      and HRQL, controlling for other covariates such as age, medical versus surgical ICU
      admission, pre-existing cognitive impairment, sepsis, and apoE genotype. This will pave the
      way for the development of preventive and/or treatment strategies to reduce long-term
      cognitive impairment and improve the functional recovery of older and younger ICU patients
      for decades to come. Major threats to recovery for ICU survivors are acquired cognitive and
      functional decline that can last years, especially in older patients. To pave the way for
      future preventive and interventional strategies, the cohort will determine to what degree
      delirium and potent sedatives and analgesics are risk factors for long-term cognitive
      impairment and functional decline following critical illness.
    
  