
    
      This study addresses important questions regarding how to identify and treat patients in
      Psychiatry who present for services with alcohol or drug use that may exacerbate depression.
      The investigators propose a study of Brief Motivational Intervention (BMI) to reduce drug and
      alcohol use among patients with depression, and to enhance engagement with a Kaiser Chemical
      Dependency Recovery Program (CDRP) as needed. Patients with depression who use drugs or
      alcohol even at sub-diagnostic levels are at high risk for escalation of substance problems.
      BMI is an innovative, evidence-based approach that could decrease drug and alcohol use and
      improve outcomes. But it has not been tested among depression patients. This study sample
      will include 300 outpatients in treatment for depression in Kaiser Permanente Northern
      California Hayward/Fremont Psychiatry. Inclusion criteria are based on drug use (any illicit
      drug use and non-prescribed use of prescription drugs) and hazardous drinking (i.e., ≥ 3
      drinks in a day for women and ≥ 4 drinks in a day for men), and moderate to severe depression
      symptoms at intake. Three hundred patients will be randomized to receive one in-person BMI
      session and two telephone BMI sessions within 6 weeks of intake (intervention) or a brochure
      on risks of drug and alcohol use (control). The investigators anticipate that the
      intervention will be effective in reducing frequency of drug use and hazardous drinking at
      3-, 6-, and 12-month telephone follow-up interviews; improving mood and functional outcomes;
      increasing depression treatment retention (number of psychiatry visits, based on Healthcare
      Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS) standards); and facilitating patient
      initiation of chemical dependency program treatment if needed, and will be cost effective.
      For the improvement of patient care, it will also yield important information on integrating
      alcohol and drug intervention in Psychiatry and how best to help patients access specialty
      CDRP services when needed.
    
  