
    
      Women frequently experience lower-back or pelvic pain during pregnancy. This may lead to a
      need for physical therapies such as physiotherapy, osteopathy or massage in late pregnancy.
      Several case-control studies, and a recent individual patient data meta-analysis has
      demonstrated an association between going to sleep position and late stillbirth (a greater
      than 2-fold increased risk with going to sleep supine) and increased frequency of daytime
      naps. This is thought to be related to maternal haemodynamic changes when a mother lies
      supine in late pregnancy which decreases cardiac output and uterine blood flow. These changes
      are accompanied by alterations in fetal behaviour which are consistent with a reduction in
      oxygenation. This observation raises concerns that spending extended periods laid flat could
      be detrimental to baby's health. However, it is not known whether lying flat for extended
      periods for physical therapies could also alter a baby's heart rate or levels of oxygen. One
      small study of 33 women from Brazil which randomised the order of maternal positions found
      that there were no differences in a mother's heart rate, blood pressure, oxygen saturation or
      baby's heart rate between a supine, lateral and prone position (bent over a concave couch).
      However, there were observed changes in mother's breathing rate and systolic blood pressure
      when a mother laid on her front. Nevertheless, all the women reported feeling comfortable
      lying flat (on a bent surface). However, in this study women only spent 6 minutes in each
      position which is less than a woman would be expected to spend lying in a position for a
      session of physical therapy. Therefore, further work is required to determine whether
      spending extended periods laid prone is safe for mother and baby.

      The co-investigator (Karli Büchling) has developed a cushion to support mothers in a prone
      position (Anna cushion). This study will investigate whether adopting this position supported
      by the cushion is associated with changes in mother's heart rate, blood pressure, breathing
      rate and blood oxygen levels and fetal heart rate as assessed by the cardiotocograph. The
      investigators will also ask about mother's levels of comfort while she is laid flat. The
      findings of this study will give an indication whether supporting a mother to lie in a prone
      position for physical therapies is safe and comfortable.
    
  