
    
      BACKGROUND:

      An inadequate dietary intake of calcium has been postulated to be a factor in the development
      of essential hypertension, and has long been considered important in the development of
      osteoporosis among women. Furthermore, animal experiments and limited studies in humans
      suggest that an increase in the intake of calcium may also have a beneficial effect on blood
      cholesterol levels. Despite limitations in the research data supporting its benefits,
      increased calcium intake is being widely advocated to the public and calcium-enriched
      products are being increasingly purchased and consumed by Americans. The study measured the
      effects of a modest increase in calcium intake, such as that currently advocated to the
      general public.

      Previous work in the study measured the effects on blood pressures of variations in the
      dietary intake of sodium and linoleic acid in adolescents at the two New England boarding
      schools of Phillips Exeter Academy and Phillips Andover Academy. During the first year,
      dining room food at one school was prepared with 50 percent less sodium; total intake of
      sodium by students including dining hall food, outside food and snacks was reduced by
      approximately 35 percent. The other school served as the control. During the second year, the
      intervention took place at the second school. During the third and fourth years, sodium
      intake was kept at usual levels while changes were made in food preparation to double the
      polyunsaturated fatty acid intake from four percent to eight percent of dietary calories.
      Food diaries, duplicate food samples, and 24-hour urine collections by approximately 200
      students at each school were used to monitor dietary modification and student compliance.
      Weekly blood pressure measurements were performed on the 200 students at each school.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A number of food products were modified to increase the dietary intake of calcium by an
      average of 500 mg/day. Calcium-enriched foods were served alternately for one school year at
      each of two colleges. Similar products without added calcium were served during the alternate
      year. It was postulated that, at the end of the school year, students at the intervention
      school would have lower systolic blood pressure, lower blood cholesterol, and increased bone
      density than students at the control school.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  