
    
      Although the development of various classes of antidepressant drugs, represented by selective
      serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI), has considerably improved the prognosis and the
      tolerability in the treatment of depressive disorders, the currently available antidepressant
      therapy is still incomplete, because there are about 40% of depressed individuals who cannot
      obtain full response and a large proportion of the patients experience recurrent episodes.

      Recently the principal investigator has completed a clinical trial to test whether dense
      cranial electroacupuncture stimulation (DCEAS) could enhance the antidepressant efficacy in
      the early phase of SSRI treatment (fluoxetine, FLX) of major depressive disorder (MDD). It
      was found that DCEAS is clinically safe and effective in augmenting the antidepressant
      efficacy in early SSRI treatment. As we hypothesize that this normalizing effect is
      associated with the modulation of various nervous functions associated with the
      pathophysiology of MDD, we design this neuroimaging (PET) DCEAS study to delineate the
      related mechanisms.

      The objective of this study are:

      1) To compare clinical improvements on depressive symptoms between DCEAS and FLX monotherapy
      in MDD subjects; (2) To determine the effects of DCEAS treatment on glucose metabolic levels
      in related brain regions in comparison with healthy controls and FLX-treated patients, using
      PET scanning; and (3) To correlate between clinical improvements and changes in PET-measured
      activities of related brain regions in a pool of the subjects treated with DCEAS and FLX.

      In this 6-week, assessor-blind, randomized, controlled study of DCEAS as additional treatment
      with the antidepressant drug FLX, a total of 82 patients with major depressive disorder (MDD)
      will be recruited. The patients will be randomly assigned to FLX (10-30 mg/day) combined with
      sham (n =41) or FLX with active DCEAS (n =41) (18 sessions, 3 sessions a week). Changes in
      the severity of depressive symptoms over time are measured using depressive instruments.
      Clinical response and remission rates are also calculated. Two sessions of PET scan will be
      conducted at baseline and endpoint. The study will be conducted at HKU School of Chinese
      Medicine, Queen Mary Hospital, and Kowloon Hospital, Hong Kong.
    
  