
    
      Historically, spondyloarthritis is considered rare in these populations in the image of human
      Leukocyte Antigen B27 (HLA B27) which is observed only in 0.3% of individuals. Its presence
      determines the appearance of sacroiliitis - the cardinal sign of the disease - which is
      therefore rare. The recent contribution of MRI has changed investigators point of view and
      makes it possible to make the diagnosis in frequent situations but more atypical clinically.

      In practice:

        1. ASAS signs are not systematically found in the West Indies (sacroiliitis, uveitis,
           cervicitis, urethritis, inflammatory syndrome, HLAB27 ...)

        2. Apart from cases associated with Chronic Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), clinical
           panels are atypical and the ASAS criteria for little help

        3. MRI imaging is used to correct diagnosis. It is therefore necessary to describe these
           patients and to study the interest of the ASAS criteria in this population On the other
           hand, the validation of the ASAS criteria is part of the recommendations of treatment of
           the SPA (spondyloarthritis) by the French Society of Rheumatology in 2014. Clearly a
           patient who does not validate these criteria does not have access to anti- tumor
           necrosis factor (TNF) biotherapies, effective but Expensive. Thus, it is not known
           whether West Indian patients validate these criteria or not, but it is clear that
           despite the large number of local SPAs, few receive anti-TNF biotherapies.

      The investigators propose to describe a population of Caribbean spondyloarthritis through a
      cross-sectional observational study carried out with a sample of rheumatologist doctors in
      three sites (Martinique, Guadeloupe, French Guyana). The methodology of the cluster survey of
      physicians, with a systematic evaluation of the first patients seen in consultation
      (chronological selection) provides the best guarantee of representativeness.

      The interest of this work is to reproduce exactly the methodology of a previous work carried
      out in a Caucasian population, validated and published, and thus be able to compare the value
      of the ASAS criteria between the Caucasian and Caribbean populations.
    
  