
    
      Leukoaraiosis prevails in middle-aged and older adults with cardiovascular risks. People with
      more severe leukoaraiosis would have greater risks for stroke, dementia, and disability. Tai
      Chi and aerobic exercises both can reduce cardiovascular risks; however, it remains unknown
      whether these two types of exercises also could prevent leukoaraiosis and associated declines
      in physical and psychological functions. In particular, would Tai Chi, a form of mind-body
      exercise, be more effective than aerobic exercises on improving psychological health with
      specific underlying brain structural and functional mechanisms? Would aerobic exercise be
      more effective than Tai Chi on improving physical healthy with different underlying brain
      structural and functional mechanisms?

      Therefore, in this three-year project, investigators will target on sedentary middle-aged and
      older adults with cardiovascular risks, prescribe 24-week Tai Chi or aerobic exercises and
      examine:

        1. Whether both exercises are effective to reduce cardiovascular risks, prevent
           leukoaraiosis and associated declines in physical and psychological functions at Week 12
           and 24;

        2. Will Tai Chi exercises be more effective on improving psychological health (cognition,
           psychological well-being, and exercise self-efficacy) than aerobic exercises at Week 12
           and 24? If yes, are these effects mediated by specific brain structural and functional
           mechanisms?

        3. Will aerobic exercises be more effective on improving physical health (motor functions,
           physical fitness, and heart rate variability) than Tai Chi exercises at Week 12 and 24?
           If yes, are these effects mediated by other specific brain structural and functional
           mechanisms?

        4. After 12 and 24 weeks of Tai Chi and aerobic exercises, what are the relationships
           between reduction of cardiovascular risks and changes in brain structure and functions?

      An assessor-blind randomized controlled clinical trial will be used. Based on known effect
      size of Tai Chi exercises on cognitive function (please refer to CM03, pages 9-10), 120
      sedentary middle-aged and older adults with cardiovascular risks will be recruited and
      randomly assigned to the Tai Chi, Aerobic, or Control (usual care) group. The Tai Chi and
      Aerobic groups will receive three one-hour exercise sessions weekly for 24 weeks, supervised
      for the first 12 weeks and unsupervised for the next 12 weeks. The Control group will
      maintain the original life style. Clinical measures of cardiovascular risks and blood
      markers, brain structures and functional images, psychological (cognitive, psychological
      well-being and exercise self-efficacy) and physical (motor functions, physical fitness, and
      heart rate variability) functions will be collected at baseline, Week 12, and Week 24 to
      compare differences among the three groups across the three time points. Investigators will
      also investigate the interrelationships of changes in brain structural and functional
      organization with changes in other measures, in an effort to understand the neural mechanisms
      of exercise effects.

      Results of this study will not only provide scientific evidence basis for clinical
      decision-making of using exercise approaches to prevent the development of leukoaraiosis and
      its negative health impact in middle-aged and older adults with cardiovascular risks, but
      also reveal the underlying neural mechanisms.
    
  