
    
      Self-reported food hypersensitivity is common, particularly in women, with a reported
      prevalence of about 20% in the UK community. A wide range of gastrointestinal and systemic
      symptoms may be experienced related to consumption of the intolerant food(s). In addition,
      patients demonstrate considerably more generalized subjective health complaints in comparison
      with healthy controls. In this context, it has been reported that a consistent percentage of
      the general population consider themselves to be suffering from problems caused by wheat
      and/or gluten ingestion, even though they do not have celiac disease or wheat allergy. This
      clinical condition has been named non-celiac gluten sensitivity' (NCGS). In a previous paper
      the investigators suggested the term 'non-celiac wheat sensitivity' (NCWS), since it is not
      known what component of wheat causes the symptoms in NCGS patients, and the investigators
      also showed that these patients had a high frequency of coexistent multiple food
      hypersensitivity. The clinical picture of NCWS is characterized by combined gastrointestinal
      (bloating, abdominal pain, diarrhea and/or constipation, nausea, epigastric pain,
      gastroesophageal reflux, aphthous stomatitis) and extra-intestinal and/or systemic
      manifestations (headache, depression, anxiety, 'foggy mind,' tiredness, dermatitis or skin
      rash, fibromyalgia-like joint/muscle pain, leg or arm numbness, and anemia). To our
      knowledge, there are few studies which assessed the prevalence of self-reported wheat and/or
      gluten-related symptoms in the community and analyze diagnostic outcomes in those referred to
      secondary gastrointestinal care. In one of these, performed in UK, the authors shown that
      gluten-related symptoms are self-reported by 13% of the population, with 3.7% consuming a
      gluten-free diet, despite only 0.8% being aware that they have a formal diagnosis of celiac
      disease. In this study individuals self-reporting gluten-related symptoms were predominantly
      female, reported an association with IBS, and experienced both intestinal and extraintestinal
      symptoms on gluten ingestion. Of those patients presenting to the gastroenterology
      department, the majority do not have CD but NCWS. In another study, the investigators
      demonstrated, in a population of teenagers, a frequency of self-reported NCWS of about 12%;
      the frequency of GFD use was 2.9%, which was much higher than the percentage of known CD in
      the same population (1.26%). The aims of this study were 1) to determine the prevalence of
      self-perceived wheat and/or gluten-sensitivity in patients undergoing digestive endoscopy,
      irrespective to the motivations of the test, and 2) to evaluate the demographic and clinical
      differences between patients self-reporting wheat and/or gluten sensitivity and patients not
      reporting food hypersensitivity.
    
  