
    
      5 surgeons in 5 clinics will participate including a total of 125 prospective and 125
      retrospective cases. This means 25+25 cases per clinic or 5+5 cases treated by each surgeon.
      The anonymized images of the surgeon's last 5 patients (retrospective part) and the
      pseudonymized images of the next 5 patients meeting the eligibility criteria (prospective
      part) will be assessed. Patients are eligible if they are at least 18 years old, have an AO
      31-A1, A2 or A3 fracture and were treated with either a Proximal Femoral nail Antirotation
      (PFNA), a PFNA- II, a Dynamic Hip Screw (DHS) or a Titanium Trochanteric Fixation Nail System
      (TFN).

      Individually, the 5 surgeons per clinic review the 25 postimplant intraoperative lateral
      images filed for 5 retrospective cases using a set of predefined criteria.

      After this first assessment of retrospective cases, the group watches a video and a poster
      and has one hour of time to discuss it. The group reviews the 25 cases from the pre-education
      step again within a period of maximum 5 days. The data are analyzed at AO Clinical
      Investigation and Documentation (AOCID) and provided to the surgeons for data review meeting
      where they agree on areas for improvement and set target goals for the prospective series.
      For the whole period of the second assessment and the prospective series, the poster is
      placed in the area of the operating room.

      After patient information/consent, eligible patients are included into the prospective part
      of the study and treated with either an intramedullary nail or a DHS. During the surgery, the
      surgeons use the newly achieved knowledge to record images.

      In the next step, the 5 surgeons per clinic review individually 25 postimplant intraoperative
      lateral images of 5 prospective cases using the same set of predefined criteria. The data are
      analyzed at AOCID and review by the Imaging Working Group of AO Education.

      The data are not transferred between the clinics. The main outcomes will be assessed based on
      the "Questionnaire for the assessment of the lateral intraoperative view of the proximal
      femur".

      This questionnaire consists of seven questions, on image quality (Q1 and Q2; part A) and on
      quality of reduction and surgery (Q3 - Q7; part B). Q1 and Q2 allow only "yes/no" answers,
      with an option to comment on the answer "no". Q3 to Q5 are based on anatomical assessments
      and Q6 and Q7 ask for evaluation of the surgery. There is a "not assessable" answer option
      for all questions of part B.
    
  