
    
      EASI-TOC is a phase III multi-centre, prospective, randomized, open-label, blinded endpoint
      (PROBE) controlled trial (1:1 allocation).

      The trial will seek to determine if in patients undergoing acute intracranial thrombectomy
      for anterior circulation stroke with concurrent ipsilateral symptomatic high-grade (≥70%)
      atherosclerotic stenosis or occlusion of the extracranial ICA, endovascular ICA
      revascularization with stenting is superior to intracranial thrombectomy alone with regards
      to functional outcome at 90 days (measured using the Modified Rankin Scale).

      EASI-TOC will be conducted at 8 high-volume comprehensive stroke centres in Canada with
      planned expansion to 10-12 Canadian sites within 2 years.

      450 male and female adult (aged ≥ 18 years) patients will be enrolled.

      Patients will be randomized (1:1) to undergo acute ICA stenting during the thrombectomy
      procedure (either before or after intracranial thrombectomy, at the discretion of the
      treating physician) or to intracranial thrombectomy alone without ICA stenting. Deferred ICA
      intervention is allowed, if indicated. Randomization will be centralized and web-based.
      Stratification will be performed for use or not of IV alteplase.

      Patients will be treated acutely and followed up to one year.

      Our primary hypothesis assumes a greater proportion of patients with 90-day mRS 0-2 in the
      stenting group versus the no stenting group (55% versus 40%). Assuming a minimal clinically
      important difference of 15 % between groups experiencing no crossover, a total of 173
      patients per group would be sufficient to detect this difference, with a power of 80 % and a
      significance level of 5 %. Taking into account a cross-over rate of 10% (5% in either
      direction) and a loss to follow-up of 5 %, the total sample size will increase to 450
      patients.

      Primary analysis will be by Intention-to-treat. Pre-specified as-treated and sex-specific
      analyses will also be performed.

      Informed consent will be obtained from patients or their surrogate. Deferral of consent will
      be allowed if permitted by local ethics committees.
    
  