
    
      Comorbid Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) and Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) are common:

      Major depressive disorder is a highly prevalent disorder that is serious, and in some cases
      life-threatening, condition. The 12-month prevalence of major depressive disorder in the
      United States is 6.6% (Kessler et al., 2003). Coronary artery disease (CAD) is also a large
      and growing problem in the United States. According to the 2014 American Heart Association
      (AHA) report on heart disease and stroke statistics, an estimated 15.4 million Americans ≥20
      years of age have coronary artery disease. The total prevalence of coronary artery disease in
      this population is estimated to be 6.4%, with a prevalence of 7.9% in men and 5.1% in women.
      By the year 2030, the prevalence of coronary artery disease is projected to increase
      approximately 18% from 2013 estimates (Go et al., 2014). Thus, patients with major depressive
      disorder and comorbid CAD represent a large population of patients.

      Depression in patients with CAD is clinically important:

      Depression frequently accompanies coronary artery disease and has been linked more somatic
      symptoms, hospitalizations, increased financial burden, and poorer quality of life, as well
      as being a predictor of worse outcomes of cardiac disease. Reduction of cardiac risk factors
      is less likely to be successful in depressed patients. Depression may also interfere with
      medication adherence, as depressed patients are three times as likely to be noncompliant with
      their medication regimens. In addition, depression is associated with decreased rates of
      participation in cardiac rehabilitation, higher healthcare utilization and costs, and greatly
      reduced quality of life (Lichtman et al., 2009). Due to these effects of depression on
      coronary artery disease, there is increasing recognition that depression should be formally
      considered a risk factor for adverse medical outcomes in patients with acute coronary
      syndrome (Lichtman et al., 2014).

      Thus, there is a great, unmet clinical need to treat patients with major depressive disorder
      and coronary artery disease.

      In addition to the older tricyclic antidepressants, the newer serotonin-norepinephrine
      reuptake inhibitors are also associated with cardiovascular risks like hypertension,
      orthostatic hypotension, and perhaps QTc prolongation (Mago et al., 2014). Vortioxetine is a
      newly approved antidepressant thought to work by combining modulation of 5-HT receptor
      subtypes and inhibition of the serotonin transporter (Citrome, 2014). Early data suggests
      that this multimodal mechanism of action results in increased brain levels of serotonin,
      dopamine, and noradrenaline in the prefrontal cortex (Pehrson et al., 2013). Clinical trials
      of vortioxetine for major depressive disorder have not shown any cardiovascular adverse
      effects (Mago et al., 2014).

      Heart Rate Variability (HRV) Heart Rate Variability is a measure is based on the changes in
      the interval between consecutive heart beats and between consecutive instantaneous heart
      rates. It has become the conventionally accepted term to describe variations of both
      instantaneous heart rate and RR intervals. Long term reduced heart rate variability can lead
      to immune dysfunction and inflammation, cardiovascular disease and mortality (Newhouse,
      2014). Several studies in depressive patients have shown reduced heart rate variability that
      suggests an increased sympathetic activity and/or reduced vagal activity (Carney et al.,
      2009). Thus, treating depression effectively may reduce heart rate variability, which is a
      surrogate marker for better cardiovascular outcomes.

      The proposed study has been planned as a pilot, open-label study of the use, for the first
      time, of vortioxetine in patients with documented coronary disease. Therefore, the sample
      size is not based on a formal sample size calculation but on feasibility of a small study
      that, if positive, can lead to a future larger, adequately powered study. A sample size of 25
      patients is appropriate for the present purpose. The results of this proposed study would
      inform sample size calculation for a future, larger study.
    
  