
    
      A pathophysiological role for inflammation in schizophrenia has been one of the more enduring
      findings in the field. Recently, increased understanding of complex interactions between
      inflammation and the brain in other chronic diseases has better informed this relationship in
      schizophrenia. Several trials have found that treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
      drugs (NSAIDs), in adjunct to antipsychotics, was associated with significant improvement in
      psychopathology in schizophrenia. Cytokines are key regulators of inflammation that exert
      effects in the periphery and the brain. Serum cytokine levels predicted response in two
      studies, and another study found a trend for improved cognition with adjunctive NSAID
      treatment.1 These findings provide important empirical support for a pathophysiological role
      for inflammation in some patients with schizophrenia. Two important limitations of these
      trials are that: a) the agents investigated have relevant off-target (i.e., non-immune)
      effects, and b) evidence of inflammation in the peripheral blood was not an inclusion
      criterion, which may have decreased the signal-to-noise ratio.

      Schizophrenia is associated with impaired cognition, which persists despite current
      treatments, and is an important determinant of quality of life and overall function.
      Converging lines of evidence suggest that interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a promising therapeutic
      target for cognitive impairment in schizophrenia. IL-6 is a cytokine produced by peripheral
      blood leukocytes, and central nervous system (CNS) microglia and astrocytes. The IL-6 gene is
      a risk factor for schizophrenia and may impact on serum IL-6 levels. Blood and (cerebrospinal
      fluid) CSF IL-6 levels are altered in schizophrenia. IL-6 levels are associated with
      psychopathology3 and cognition in schizophrenia. In populations outside of schizophrenia,
      higher serum IL-6 levels are associated with poorer cognition. In first-episode and chronic
      schizophrenia, IL-6 levels are a significant predictor of smaller left hippocampal volume.

      Along with our other previous work, our preliminary studies provide strong evidence that IL-6
      is a novel therapeutic target for cognitive impairment in schizophrenia, and demonstrate the
      feasibility of the proposed trial. Briefly, in 64 patients with schizophrenia, we found
      higher blood IL-6 levels were a significant predictor of greater impairment on the Brief
      Assessment of Cognition in Schizophrenia (BACS) after controlling for multiple potential
      confounding factors.5 In an 8-week open-label trial in 6 subjects, tocilizumab (a humanized
      monoclonal antibody against the IL-6 receptor, approved by the US FDA in 2010 for the
      treatment of adults with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who have had
      an inadequate response to one or more tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-antagonist therapies,
      administered as an intravenous infusion every 4 weeks), given in adjunct to antipsychotics,
      was well tolerated and associated with significant improvement in BACS verbal fluency at 4
      weeks, BACS digit symbol coding at 2, 4, and 8 weeks, and BACS composite score at 4 and 8
      weeks.10

      In the first year following the submission, one clinical trial is planned. The investigators
      will conduct a 12-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to determine the
      safety, tolerability, and efficacy of tocilizumab as an adjunct to antipsychotic medications
      in 20 stable outpatients with schizophrenia.

      In our previous trial of Tocilizumab, no clinically significant adverse drug reactions
      occurred. The risks that have been found in people with rheumatoid arthritis are known, but
      there may be unknown risks when used in schizophrenia. Clinically significant adverse drug
      reactions include anaphylaxis (0.4%), infections (0.1-7.8%), intestinal perforation,
      neutropenia (7.0%), and cardiac failure. Known side effects of tocilizumab that are common
      include: increase in hepatic enzymes (AST, ALT), hypertension, headache, neutropenia,
      infusion-related reactions, upper respiratory tract infections, and nasopharyngitis.

      Subjects with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder will be accessed from outpatient
      psychiatry clinic at Augusta University or other satellite collaborative sites. The study has
      6 visits: screening, baseline, and weeks 2, 4, 8, and 12. Subjects will be randomized equally
      to either tocilizumab (n=10) or placebo (n=10), in adjunct to their current antipsychotic and
      other psychotropic medications. Tocilizumab will be obtained from the manufacturer,
      Genentech, through our hospital pharmacy as per our previous trial. Subjects in the
      tocilizumab group will receive a 4 mg/kg infusion at baseline, and weeks 4 and 8, as per the
      recommended starting dosing for rheumatoid arthritis. Subjects in the placebo group will
      receive an infusion of normal saline (with the same packaging and volume as the tocilizumab
      group) at baseline, and weeks 4 and 8. We will contact the subjects by phone on days 1 and 7
      after each infusion to assess for any infusion-related events. We will assess cognition and
      psychopathology at baseline, and at weeks 2, 4, 8, and 12. We will also measure a multiplex
      panel of blood cytokines (including IL-6) at baseline, and at weeks 2m 4, 8, and 12. Patients
      will be withdrawn if they meet any exclusion criterion at any time point.
    
  