
    
      Background:

      Caring for people with dementia (PWD) poses many challenges which may cause high levels of
      caregiver stress. Mindfulness-based intervention (MBI) is a newly adopted psychosocial
      intervention through an integration of the mind and body to reduce stress of the
      participants. A systematic review was conducted with five studies (four RCTs and one
      quasi-experimental study) to investigate the effect of MBI in stress reduction in the family
      caregivers of PWD. Of these, three trials involving 144 participants were eligible for the
      meta-analysis. The result showed that the stress levels dropped significantly after an 8-week
      MBI in the family caregivers of PWD with a moderate aggregated effect size of 0.57 (95% CI
      [0.23, 0.92], overall effect Z= 3.25 at p= 0.001). While MBI's immediate effect was found,
      the long term effect was unclear. Besides a limited number of clinical trials and several
      limitations (such as poor study design and small sample size) were also identified in this
      review. It signifies that more studies are still required to examine the effects of MBI for
      family caregivers of PWD. Since MBI is a new intervention for stress management among the
      family caregivers of PWD, a feasibility study was conducted between 2016 and 2017. It found
      that the family caregivers could master the mindfulness skill after the mindfulness sessions
      with a low attrition rate of 3.8%. A modified Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT)
      protocol was also validated in the study to fit the local need and address the limitations
      identified in previous studies.

      Objective:

      This study aims to investigate the effects of a modified MBCT for stress reduction in the
      family caregivers of PWD in Hong Kong.

      Methods:

      A prospective, single-blind, parallel-group randomized controlled trial (RCT) of 76 family
      caregivers of PWD will be recruited and randomized to either the MBCT or the control groups.
      The MBI groups will receive a seven-week, group-based MBCT training whereas the control group
      will receive social interactions and routine education on dementia care program of a
      frequency and timing similar to those of the MBI group. The primary outcomes (stress) and
      secondary outcomes (anxiety, depression, burden, quality of life, resilience) will be
      measured at immediate post-intervention (T1) and at 3 months follow up (T2) which will be
      compared with the baseline (T0). Mixed repeated measure MANOVA will be performed to assess
      the effects of time, group, and time-group interaction on all outcome measurements. Both
      per-protocol (PP) and intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis will be performed in order to find
      out more factors affecting the use and effectiveness of MBCT such as non-compliance and
      acceptability. To understand the therapeutic components and identify the strengths,
      limitations, and difficulties of the MBCT program, process evaluation will be conducted
      through focus group interviews with 15 participants from the MBI group. It is hypothesized
      that the MBCT group will have a significantly greater reduction of stress (primary outcome)
      and improvement in the secondary outcomes, namely anxiety, depression, burden, quality of
      life, and resilience at T1 and/or T2 than the control group.

      Significance and Value:

      Reducing the caregiving stress level can promote the well-being of the family caregivers to
      maintain their sustainability in terms of providing daily care for their family members with
      dementia for a longer period of time. Evidence shows a minimal and short term effects of
      other psychosocial interventions (such as respite care, mutual support group) for reducing
      caregivers' stress. On the other hand, the MBCT is found effective in stress reduction in
      other populations. This finding is also supported by a feasibility study of using the MBI in
      family caregivers of PWD. The results of this study may be able to provide us with evidence
      for using MBCT as a standard supportive intervention for the family caregivers of PWD.
    
  