
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess progression free survival (PFS) with transition to fulvestrant compared with
      continuing aromatase inhibitor (AI) therapy in patients with emergence of estrogen receptor 1
      (ESR1) mutations in plasma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) ESR1 mutant allele fraction
      (MAF) and kinetics with fulvestrant compared with AI.

      II. To assess the prevalence of ESR1 mutations in patients with secondary resistance to
      endocrine therapy.

      III. To correlate ctDNA with cancer antigens (CA) 15-3 tumor marker changes. IV. To assess
      overall survival (OS) with transition to fulvestrant compared with continuing AI therapy in
      patients with emergence of ESR1 mutations.

      V. To assess PFS and time to next treatment (TTNT) on next line of therapy after progression
      on fulvestrant versus (vs.) AI in combination with CDKI.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Characterize other co-existing actionable genomic alterations of interest in relation to
      ESR1 and clinical outcomes.

      II. To determine frequency of other actionable genomic alterations and frequency of
      enrollment on genotype-matched therapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive ribociclib orally (PO) once daily (QD), palbociclib PO QD on days
      1-21, and/or abemaciclib PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Patients also receive fulvestrant
      intramuscularly (IM) for 2 injections over 1-2 minutes each on days 1 and 15 of cycle 1 and
      day 2 of subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive ribociclib orally PO QD, palbociclib PO QD on days 1-21, and/or
      abemaciclib PO BID on days 1-28. Patients also receive letrozole PO QD or anastrozole PO QD
      on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.
    
  