
    
      Background:

      Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a rare, aggressive neuroendocrine cancer of the skin with a
      mortality of approximately 33%. Approximately one-third of patients present with metastatic
      disease, for which there is no effective treatment. Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCV), a DNA
      virus that expresses T antigen oncoproteins, was found to be clonally integrated into the
      genome of the majority of MCC tumors. MCC tumor progression is believed to be associated with
      the development of immune evasion, and multiple lines of evidence (higher incidence in
      immunocompromised populations, reports of spontaneous regression, responses to immune
      modulators, and improved prognosis associated with CD8+ intratumoral lymphocytes) suggest
      that immunotherapy may improve outcomes in patients with advanced MCC. Ipilimumab is a
      recombinant, human monoclonal antibody that binds to cytotoxic Tlymphocyte- associated
      antigen 4 and has shown efficacy in metastatic melanoma.

      Objectives:

      Primary:

      -Determine overall survival at 12 months.

      Secondary:

        -  Determine the best overall response rate, as assessed by modified RECIST immunerelated
           response criteria, at week 12.

        -  Determine median survival.

        -  Determine disease-specific survival (DSS) and progression-free survival (PFS).

        -  Evaluate the safety and tolerability of ipilimumab in patients with metastatic MCC.

        -  Assess biomarkers of immune activation and MCV-specific immune response.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients (age greater than or equal to 18 years) with metastatic MCC (AJCC stage 3b or
           4).

        -  Immunocompromised individuals and patients with autoimmune disease are excluded.

      Design:

        -  Patients will enroll at the NIH Clinical Center, Bethesda, MD (primary site) or at a
           study sub-sites Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY; University of
           Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI; or University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.

        -  Ipilimumab will be given at a dose of 10 mg/kg as a 90-minute intravenous infusion on
           day 1 of each 21-day cycle for 4 cycles. After 4 doses, patients may receive a
           maintenance dose every 12 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity, for
           up to an additional 4 doses.

        -  Imaging scans will be done at week 12, and every 12 weeks on study starting week 21.

        -  Patients will remain on-study for follow-up for 96 weeks after the last of the initial 4
           doses.

        -  Response and progression will be evaluated using modified RECIST immune-related response
           criteria.
    
  