
    
      Methods

        1. Blood chemistry test. Total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, triglycerides, AST, ALT, CPK,
           glucose, CRP, creatinine, glycosylated hemoglobin

        2. 2D and 3D transthoracic echocardiography (Vivid GE 95 Healthcare (USA). 3D speckle
           echocardiography (3DSTE) for a detailed study of the phase-by-phase movement and spatial
           interaction of all muscle layers of the left ventricle in different phases of the
           cardiac cycle to obtain quantitative values of the deformation of the left ventricle
           individual segments in the longitudinal, circumferential and radial directions.

           The analysis of standard indicators of echocardiography: biplane ejection fraction
           according to the Simpson method, 3D ejection fraction, EDV (end-diastolic volume), ESV
           (end-systolic volume) and their indices. The left ventricular myocardial mass index
           (LVMI).

           Using a tissue doppler, the parameters characterizing the diastolic function are
           recorded: the LA volume, the early diastolic velocity of the mitral valve fibrous ring,
           the ratio of the early diastolic transmitral flow E to the average early diastolic speed
           of the fibrous ring e´, and the maximum tricuspid regurgitation rate.

           Myocardial strain is analyzed using specialized software - EchoPac Software Only
           (General Electric Co., 2018). For three-dimensional strain analysis, the left ventricle
           is automatically divided into 17 segments using standard segmentation schemes. The
           software allows obtaining strain values in the endocardial, middle and epicardial layers
           of the myocardium. Over a period of time, indicators for each segment are automatically
           calculated:

           longitudinal strain/strain rate (LS,%/LSR, cm / s-1), circumferential strain/strain rate
           (CS,%/CSR, cm / s-1), radial strain/strain rate(RS,%/RSR, cm / s-1), area strain),
           rotation, rotation along the axis of the left ventricle (Torsion).

        3. Long-term ECG monitoring over 3 leads with an assessment of the parameters of myocardial
           electrical instability A long-term ECG recording (120 hours) in patients with myocardial
           infarction will be performed using the Astrocard ECG system (CJSC Meditek, Russia) with
           3-channel recorders. Long-term recordings will be analyzed separately for 3 time
           intervals: 24, 72 and 120 hours.

           Pauses of rhythm, rhythm disturbances - extrasystole, unstable tachycardia, AF paroxysm
           and atrial flutter, ventricular fibrillation, conduction disturbance will be recorded.

           Assessment of the ST segment dynamics will be carried out with detection of ischemia
           episodes, which will be detected when the ST segment is displaced ≥10 mV from the
           baseline 80 ms after the J point for at least 1 min - episodes of elevation and
           depression of the ST segment.

           According to the long-term ECG monitoring recordings, the following parameters will be
           analyzed (separately for 3 intervals - 24, 72 and 120 hours):

           circadian dynamics of heart rate; late ventricular potentials (LVP); variance and
           duration of the QT interval; heart rate variability (HRV); heart rate turbulence (TCP);
           chronotropic load (CL). Circadian dynamics of heart rate. The circadian dynamics of
           heart rate will be analyzed with an estimate of the minimum, average and maximum heart
           rate per day, during waking hours and night sleep. The circadian index (CI) will be
           defined as the ratio of the average heart rate in the daytime and the average heart rate
           in the night.

           LVP. The LVP will be evaluated in the standard averaging mode in the range of 40-100 Hz
           by the noise level not exceeding 0.9 μV. Records of the 24-h ECG in patients who have a
           decrease in intraventricular conduction, bundle branches blockade, will not be subjected
           to LVP analysis. An automatic analysis of late post-depolarization begins with a search
           for the QRS reference complex, which will be used later as a reference for averaging.
           Subsequently, the ECG signal will be processed programmatically by the time analysis
           method, at the end of which the following parameters will be evaluated: the width of the
           filtered QRS complex (QRSf), the duration of the low-amplitude potentials at the end of
           the QRS complex of the final part of the complex (HFLA), the rms value of the last 40 ms
           QRS (RMS ) Dispersion and QT interval duration. For a detailed study of the
           repolarization process in the analysis of records, close attention will be paid to the
           analysis of the duration, variability and variance of the QT interval.

           HRV. The following HRV time indicators will be considered:

             -  Mean NN (ms) - average value of all RR-intervals;

             -  SDNN (ms) - standard deviation of the average values of RR-intervals;

             -  SDNNi (ms) - average value of standard deviations RR for 5-minute recording
                periods;

             -  SDANN (ms) is the standard deviation of the mean values of the sinus intervals RR
                for 5 min;

             -  rMSSD (ms) is the square root of the sum of the differences of subsequent RR
                intervals;

             -  pNN50 (%) is the percentage of successive RR intervals differing by more than 50
                ms;

             -  HRVti - triangular index;

             -  TINN is the index of triangular interpolation of the histogram of RR-intervals.

           HRV frequency parameters:

             -  TotP (ms2) is the power of the total spectrum;

             -  ULfP (ms2) - spectrum power in the ultralow frequency range;

             -  VLfP (ms2) is the power of the spectrum within very low frequencies;

             -  LfP (ms2) - low-frequency range of frequencies; HfP (ms2) - high-frequency
                component of HRV; L / H - an indicator of the balance of the vagosympathetic
                balance. Evaluation of the above HRV parameters will be carried out per day, night
                and day hours.

           TCP is characterized by two independent parameters - the beginning of turbulence (TO)
           and the slope of turbulence (TS).

           Heart CL is assessed by the level and duration of exceeding the actual (observed in the
           patient during monitoring) heart rate values of the threshold heart rate calculated
           individually according to the proposed formulas with differentiation for periods of
           wakefulness and night sleep:

           THR-W (bpm) = HRmax (bpm) × 0.45, where THR-W is the threshold value of the heart rate
           during wakeful hours in beats per minute, heart rate max is the age-appropriate value of
           the maximum possible heart rate in beats per minute, 0.45 is the coefficient of the
           threshold level of heart rate; THR-S (bpm) = THR-W (bpm): 1.24, where THR-S (bpm) is the
           threshold value of the heart rate during the night's sleep.

        4. Ultrasound of the common carotid arteries with RF high frequency signal technology The
           study of local vascular stiffness by high-frequency RF signal technology using
           ultrasound of the common carotid arteries (CCA) will be carried out in B mode using
           MyLab 90 (Esaote, Italy).

           The RF signal technology includes two programs: RF-QIMT and RF-QAS. The following CCA
           indicators are analyzed: IMT - intima-media thickness, loc Psys - local systolic
           pressure in the carotid artery, loc Pdia - local diastolic pressure, P (T1) - pressure
           at the local point, stiffness indices β and α, DC is the coefficient of lateral
           distensibility, CC - coefficient of lateral compliance, Aix is the augmentation index,
           AP is the amplification pressure, PWV is the local pulse wave velocity in the carotid
           artery.

        5. Ultrasound of the brachiocephalic and femoral arteries The brachiocephalic and femoral
           arteries will be scanned using a Vivid GE 95 ultrasound scanner (Healthcare, USA) using
           a linear sensor in B-mode, spectral Doppler imaging and color Doppler imaging.

           Quantitative analysis of atherosclerotic plaque includes determining the extent and
           degree of narrowing of the lumen of the vessel (percentage of stenosis) by the
           cross-sectional area (Sa) of the vessel:

           Sa = (A1 - A2) × 100% / A1, where A1 is the true cross-sectional area of the vessel, A2
           is the passable cross-sectional area of the vessel.

        6. Applanation tonometry. SphygmoCor apparatus (AtCor Medical, Australia) uses pulsed wave
           to calculate the characteristics of central pressure in aorta.

           The applanation tonometry technique includes two programs: PWA and PWV. The first allows
           to record central aortic pressure indicators: systolic aortic pressure - SBPao,
           diastolic - DBPao, pulse - PPao, mean hemodynamic - MBPao based on registration of the
           radial artery PWV. Using the PWV program, sequential recording of PWV from the common
           carotid and femoral arteries simultaneously with the ECG channel analyzes the PWV in the
           aorta (cfPWV).

        7. Volume sphygmography. The measurements will be carried out with the VS-1000 device
           (Fukuda Denshi, Japan) while simultaneously recording plethysmograms on four limbs
           (using cuffs), ECG, phonocardiogram, and PWV on the carotid and femoral arteries.

           PWV is evaluated in different parts of the circulatory system (i.e., aorta (PWV),
           predominantly elastic arteries (R/L-PWV) and predominantly muscular arteries (B-PWV)).

           Cardio-Ankle Vascular Index (CAVI) is determined - an indicator that reflects the true
           stiffness of the vascular wall. CAVI is calculated by registering PWV at two points and
           measuring SBP and DBP. Additionally augmentation index and biological age will be
           calculated automatically.

        8. Flow-mediated dilation. Endothelial function is evaluated by ultrasonic determination of
           flow-mediated dilation (FMD) during the postocclusive reactive hyperemia test using the
           method described by D. Celenmajer et. al.

        9. Six-minute walk (6MW) test. The patient should not take cardiological drugs and should
           not smoke within at least 2 hours before the test. Before the 6MW test, the patient
           should have a 10-minute quiet rest in a sitting position. During this rest period, the
           following text should be read to the patient: "You will have to walk for 6 minutes,
           without using continuous running or alternate running and walking, with the aim to cover
           a maximum distance. You will walk back and forth along the corridor. You can slow down
           the pace, stop and have a rest in case of dyspnea or weakness. You can lean against the
           wall during rest. Then, you will have to resume the walk. Remember that your aim is to
           cover maximum distance in 6 minutes." At the 6-minute time point, the patient should be
           asked to stop and stand still until the covered distance has been measured.

       10. Computer Pulse Oximetry. During the 6-minute walk test, computer pulse oximetry is
           planned on a PulseOx 7500 instrument (SPO medical, Israel) to study saturation dynamics
           in comparison groups.

       11. Treatment compliance will be evaluated by standard methods (counting the remaining
           tablets). Morisky-Green Questionnaire

       12. Quality of Life Assessment. The following questionnaires are planned to be completed:
           Seattle Angina Questionnaire (SAQ), Minnesota Questionnaire, Clinical Assessment Scale
           for CHF (MQCAS) (modified by Mareev VY, 2000), analog-visual scale.

       13. Assessment of physical activity. It is planned to fill out a questionnaire for assessing
           the level of physical activity and a short international questionnaire for determining
           the physical activity of the International Questionnaire On Physical Activity - IPAQ

       14. Assessment of Anxiety Depression. An analysis of anxiety and depressive disorders in
           patients using the hospital scale of anxiety and depression (HADS) is planned
    
  