
    
      Detailed Description:

      The Pathway to Prevention Study is conducted in two parts:

        -  Screening

        -  Monitoring (annual and semi-annual depending on risk)

      In Screening , a simple blood test is done to screen for the presence of diabetes-related
      biochemical autoantibodies (GAD and mIAA). Additional autoantibodies ICA, IA-2A, and ZnT8A
      will also measured in individuals positive for mIAA. ICA, IA-2A, and ZnT8A will be measured
      in individuals positive for GAD. Participants can go to a TrialNet Clinical Center,
      Affiliate, or request a screening kit to have their blood drawn by a local physician or
      laboratory. Participants will be provided with their screening results within 4-6 weeks.

      If autoantibodies are present, participants will be invited to have additional testing to
      determine their average risk of developing diabetes over the next 5 years. Participants that
      are single autoantibody positive will be re-tested annually for the development of multiple
      autoantibodies. Multiple autoantibody positive participants will undergo an eligibility visit
      which will include an Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT), re-testing for biochemical and
      islet cell autoantibodies if needed, and measurement of HbA1c.

      Multiple autoantibody positive individuals with a normal glucose tolerance and an HbA1c <
      6.0% will be asked to come for follow-up on annual basis; multiple autoantibody positive
      individuals with an abnormal glucose tolerance or an HbA1c ≥ 6.0%will be asked to come for
      follow-up visits on semi-annual basis.

      Participants will be monitored for possible progression towards type 1 diabetes and may be
      offered the opportunity to enter into a prevention study such (e.g., Oral Insulin prevention
      study) or an early treatment study if they are diagnosed with type 1 diabetes while
      participating in the Natural History Study.
    
  