
    
      Pitted keratolysis is a skin infectious disease which can cause an unpleasant smell that can
      affect self-confidence and interpersonal relationships. The research problem was initiated
      through a community outreach program organized by the Department of Dermatology Siriraj
      Hospital, Thailand. From many years of experiences, our dermatologist teams observed that
      pitted keratolysis was a common disease among naval cadets who wore enclosed footwear for
      long hours, and it was more prevalent after a boot camp that spanned over months. This
      disease is chronic with no efficient standard treatment and limited information on the
      pathogenesis of the disease. Therefore, we propose to conduct a study on the pathogenesis of
      pitted keratolysis and malodorous feet through a longitudinal study of foot-skin microbiome
      and associated volatile metabolomic profiles of foot odor. With the unique population, with
      similar age range, daily activities, and diet, this study will allow to focus on the
      association of changes in microbiome in relation to pathogenesis of pitted keratolysis and
      malodorous feet, with fewer cofounding factors.

      The skin microbiome is a group of various microorganisms, such as bacteria, fungi, and
      viruses, residing on skin. Human skin microbiome can differ with respect to age, ethnicity,
      diet, climate and environment. Recently, there have been numerous studies highlighting the
      association of microbes with pathogenesis of various skin diseases, such as atopic
      dermatitis, acne vulgaris, and psoriasis (references?). In this project, we hypothesize that
      the alteration of skin microbiome as well as changes in metabolite profiles can be associated
      with the mechanism of the disease. The skin microbiome data generated in this study will be
      analyzed for microbial profiles using the QIIME2, a next-generation microbiome bioinformatics
      platform, and a graphic software package, "Statistical Analysis of Taxonomic and Functional
      Profiles" (STAMP). In parallel, we will apply a high throughput gas chromatography
      mass-spectrometry-based metabolomics to detect volatile metabolites present in foot odor in
      association with the observed foot-skin microbiome. This metabolite information will not only
      provide an additional aspect of pathogenesis of the disease but also might offer a new
      standard indicator of foot odor that can be further used in clinical practice. Finally, skin
      microbiome and metabolomic data will be analyzed using various methods of correlation
      analysis as well as integrative analysis to gain deeper understanding of the disease
      mechanism at the molecular levels.

      The outcomes of this project will provide insights into the pathogenesis of pitted
      keratolysis. The scientific knowledge gained from the study will be translated into a more
      effective treatment of the disease. The human microbiome of healthy population and the
      disease-specific microbiome data will lay the groundwork to develop a human microbiome
      database for Thai people. Additionally, the success of the project will allow the development
      of advanced instrumental methodology and an integrative analysis approach to analyze multi
      -omics data, which will be great assets in advancing multidisciplinary research.
    
  