
    
      Surgical site infections (SSI) are an important cause of morbidity following cesarean
      sections. The rate of surgical site infections following cesarean section in the United
      States is estimated between 3-15%, depending on the population studied, definitions of
      surgical site infection used, and length of time studied and is often underestimated.
      Morbidities include longer length of hospital stay, hospital readmission, wound opening and
      re-exploration, need for home health care, increased health care costs and loss of
      productivity. The risk of developing a SSI after a Cesarean section is increased with certain
      patient characteristics, such as obesity and duration of surgery and is decreased with the
      use prophylactic antibiotics prior to the skin incision.

      Obesity is a significant public health problem and the incidence continues to increase in the
      United States. It has been shown to be associated with increased risk of SSI after cesarean
      section in several studies. Olsen et al reviewed 1,605 patients who underwent cesarean
      section and found increased BMI at admission was an independent risk factor for SSI. In
      another study of 19,416 women in Israel who had cesarean deliveries, women who had a BMI ≥30
      kg/m2 had an increased risk for infection (odds ratio [OR} =2.2; 95% Confidence Interval
      [CI]. Leth, et al. also found obesity as a risk factor associated with wound infection. In
      this study of 2,492 consecutive women who had cesarean sections in Denmark, infection rates
      increased with increasing BMI, with women with a BMI kg/m2 30.0-34.9 having an infection rate
      of 19.1% and women with a BMI of 35.0-39.9 kg/m2 and of ≥40 kg/m2 both having infection rates
      of 31.1%. Hypotheses for the increased rate of wound infections in obese patients include
      decreased vascularity of adipose tissue, increase in wound area, and poorer penetration of
      prophylactic antibiotics to adipose tissue. Adequate surgical exposure and good visualization
      are paramount in abdominal surgery. Retraction of the pannus cephalad is often required for
      adequate visualization and access to the lower abdomen and thus the lower uterine segment.
      Several studies have been shown that pfannensteil or joel-cohen incisions are superior to
      vertical incisions due to increased risk of classical cesarean delivery in the case of the
      obese gravida. Limited studies have been completed to assess supra umbilical incisions.

      Other methods of pannus retraction are currently utilized in obstetrics surgery, mostly with
      surgical tape or Montgomery straps. However, there are currently no clinical trials comparing
      types of pannus retractors. Potential benefits from the Traxi retractor are decreased
      operating time, decreased need for additional operating room personnel, and increased ease of
      delivery of neonate. In addition, the Traxi is designed to stay on for 24 hours in order to
      elevate the pannus, this will decrease exposure to moisture and possibly other bacteria as
      the skin begins to heal.
    
  