
    
      The aim of this study is to characterize the entrainment of endogenous neural oscillatory
      activity using direct electrical stimulation (DES) of the brain and understand the effects on
      cognition.

      In this study, the investigators will apply rhythmic DES to patients who are undergoing
      routine DES for cortical mapping as a part of their epilepsy surgery evaluation with the aim
      of entraining cortical neural oscillations at specific frequencies relevant to cognitive
      processing and neuropsychiatric disease. The investigators hypothesize that rhythmic DES
      within a naturally occurring oscillatory frequency will cause entrainment at that frequency
      (e.g. 10Hz rhythmic DES will entrain a 10 Hz alpha oscillation). Also, the investigators
      posit that rhythmic DES at the theta (5Hz), alpha(10Hz), and gamma (50Hz) frequencies will
      cause enhancement of neural oscillations in the gamma band.

      The study follows a within-participant crossover design. Participants will perform one of the
      tasks described below and each task consists of multiple trials of varying difficulty.
      Stimulation will be applied concurrently through electrodes implanted for clinical
      determination of seizure focus. Equal number of stimulation and sham trials will be
      pseudo-randomly interleaved to get a balanced design (balanced across trial difficulty and
      trial type).

      The investigators will apply electrical stimulation in the form of pulse trains. The applied
      electrical stimulation intensity, duration and frequency follow the parameters used for
      clinical assessments of language and seizure focus and fall below the clinically approved
      limits.

      The investigators will measure participants performance on a simple working memory task
      during the above-described cortical electrical stimulation protocol. Alternately,
      participants can perform a face recognition task.
    
  