
    
      Patients holding a malignancy have a 7 to 28-fold higher risk for venous thromboembolism
      (VTE) than non-cancer patients(1). Since most cancer patients are currently treated in the
      outpatient setting, an acute episode of VTE has important implications on their care due to
      its effects on reduced life expectancy, high rates of VTE recurrence, therapeutic failures,
      delays in chemotherapy and the risk of bleeding during anticoagulation.

      The best treatment of an acute episode of VTE is its prevention (thromboprophylaxis).
      Although previous clinical trials have shown some benefit on the use of thromboprophylaxis in
      ambulatory cancer patients, these studies have been inconclusive to convincingly demonstrate
      that existing anticoagulants significantly reduce the rate of VTE in cancer patients.
      Possible explanations are related to the fact that these studies have included a large number
      of cancer patients whose risk for VTE has been low and in consequence, the benefit of
      anticoagulation has become diluted by the large proportion of low risk cancer patients.

      To increase the success of thromboprophylaxis in cancer outpatients, we propose, first, to
      include validated methods for predicting the risk of VTE at the time of cancer diagnosis(2,
      3). This strategy will facilitate to identify cancer patients at high-risk for VTE and then,
      optimize the risk-to benefit ratio with anticoagulation. Second, to assess safety and
      efficacy of new oral anticoagulants in cancer patients as they represent an attractive
      alternative for an extended use of thromboprophylaxis. As a choice, new oral agents can be
      administered in fixed doses, do not require laboratory monitoring, have minimal interaction
      with additional drugs and provide a pain free alternative in patients who require injections.

      Reference List

        1. Blood Coagul Fibrinolysis 2011. Blood Coagul Fibrinolysis 2011;22:86-91.

        2. Blood 2010. Blood 2010;116:5377-5382.

        3. Blood 2008. Blood 2008;111:4902-4907.
    
  