
    
      Previous randomized trials have shown the efficacy of a slow-release polymeric
      sirolimus-eluting stent (CYPHER, Cordis, Warren, NJ, USA), paclitaxel-eluting stent (TAXUS,
      Boston Scientific, Natick, MA, USA), and zotarolimus-eluting stent (Endeavor, Medtronic,
      Minneapolis, MN, USA) over bare metal stents in reducing neointimal hyperplasia, late luminal
      loss, and angiographic restenosis leading to decreased target lesion revascularization. The
      everolimus-eluting stent (XIENCE V, Abott Vascular, Santa Clara, CA, USA, PROMUS, Boston
      Scientific, Natick, MA, USA) is a newly developed drug eluting stent using the MULTILINK
      VISION® stent platform combined with the drug everolimus contained in a polymer coating.

      In the first-in-man SPIRIT First clinical trial, XIENCE V showed a significant benefit over
      the bare metal VISION stent. Compared with late loss of 0.85 ± 0.36mm in the VISION arm,
      XIENCE V reduced late loss by 88% (0.10 ± 0.23mm). Also the clinical safety of XIENCE V was
      confirmed with a 6-month MACE rate of 7.7%. In the SPIRIT II clinical trial, which compared
      the efficacy and safety of the XIENCE V stent versus the TAXUS PECSS stent, the primary
      endpoint was met showing a non-inferiority of the XIENCE V compared with the TAXUS regarding
      in-stent late loss at 180 days. Actually, XIENCE V was superior to TAXUS and reduced in-stent
      late loss by 72% from a mean of 0.36 mm to 0.11 mm. In addition, analysis of other key
      clinical endpoints showed a lower rate of ischemia driven MACE (2.7% vs. 6.5% for XIENCE V
      vs. TAXUS) and protocol-defined stent thrombosis (0.5% vs. 1.3% for XIENCE V vs. TAXUS). The
      lower rate of ischemia driven MACE at 180 days was sustained through 1 year and there were no
      new instances of late stent thrombosis in either group up to 1 year.

      The SPIRIT III RCT was a prospective, 2:1 randomized, active-controlled, single blinded,
      parallel, multi-center clinical evaluation of the XIENCE V Everolimus Eluting Coronary Stent
      System (XIENCE V EECSS) compared to TAXUS Paclitaxel Eluting Coronary Stent System (TAXUS
      PECSS) in the treatment of up to two de novo lesions. This pivotal clinical trial was
      designed to demonstrate the non-inferiority of the XIENCE V EECSS to the TAXUS PECSS.
      Patients were randomized 2:1 to XIENCE V or TAXUS and the primary endpoint was in-segment
      late loss at 240 days. The results showed a mean in-segment late loss of 0.14mm for XIENCE V
      and 0.28 mm for TAXUS (p<0.001 for non-inferiority, p=0.0037 for superiority). The secondary
      endpoint, which was ischemia-driven target vessel failure (TVF), was 7.6% for XIENCE V and
      9.7% for TAXUS, confirming the non-inferiority of XIENCE V. Furthermore, the rate of definite
      and probable stent thrombosis was 1.1% and 0.6% for XIENCE V and TAXUS, respectively.

      With a recent approval of new DES, zotarolimus-eluting stent (Endeavor, Medtronic,
      Minneapolis, MN), other comparison studies have been conducted to compare Endeavor
      zotarolimus-eluting stent with the sirolimus-eluting stent and paclitaxel-eluting stent.
      zotarolimus and sirolimus share some common structural and biological properties. In vitro
      data suggest that sirolimus and tetrazole containing rapamycin analogs have similar
      inhibitory effects in a mixed lymphocyte reaction assay. The ENDEAVOR clinical trials are
      currently in progress to evaluate a phosphoryl choline (PC)-coated zotarolimus-eluting
      stent(ZES) for the prevention of restenosis. The Endeavor zotarolimus-eluting stent utilizes
      a cobalt alloy balloon-expandable stent (Driver; Medtronic) with a geometry similar to the
      stainless steel stent used in this preliminary study (S7; Medtronic). The Endeavor ZES also
      employees a PC strut surface coating as the drug delivery reservoir with a dose of 10 g/mm of
      ABT-578. The Endeavor (ZES), however, differs from the stent used in this experimental study
      by the addition of a drug-free PC topcoat to serve as a diffusion barrier to retard drug
      release from the polymer reservoir. Angiographic analysis at 4 months in the 100-patient
      focal de novo lesion ENDEAVOR I feasibility study demonstrated a mean in-stent percent
      diameter stenosis of approximately 14% and a late lumen loss of 0.3 mm with a low frequency
      of target lesion revascularization (1%). The clinical outcomes from the ENDEAVOR II (1,500
      patients randomized to ABT-578 or bare metal stent) and the ENDEAVOR III (436 patients
      randomized 3:1 to ABT-578 or Cypher) trials as well as other ongoing studies showed efficacy
      of the PC-coated ABT-578-eluting stent. In ENDEAVOR III study, the Endeavor stent had larger
      late loss and higher binary restenosis in both the analysis segment and stented segment.

      Most of the previous data regarding the efficacy of the EES was derived from studies
      comparing EES with BMS or EES with PES. Although sirolimus eluting stents (SES) have been
      shown to be the most efficacious drug eluting stent regarding inhibition of neointima and
      late loss, there have been no previous head to head comparisons between EES and ZES. Both
      everolimus and sirolimus are macrocyclic lactones that target the mTOR (mammalian target of
      rapamycin) to reduce vascular smooth muscle proliferation after vessel injury and therefore
      in principle may show similar results after stenting in humans. Data pooled from the EES arm
      that received follow up angiography in the SPIRIT III trial and the SES arm in the SIRIUS
      trial show similar rates of binary restenosis and late loss. However, the stent and polymer
      platform is not the same between the EES and ZES and it is reported that the EES system has
      the thinnest stent + polymer thickness (88.6um) of all of the previously KFDA-approved DES.
      In addition, there are no data available on the efficacy of the EES and ZES in "real world"
      lesions other than the selected lesions studied in the previous trials, such as acute
      myocardial infarction.
    
  