
    
      Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers in women. Once advanced, it is usually not
      cured. Studies have shown that patients with advanced breast cancer have a median survival of
      2-3 years. For inoperable locally advanced breast cancer, systemic therapy is the first
      choice of treatment. Systemic treatments of hormone receptor-positive/human epidermal growth
      factor receptor 2-negative breast cancer mainly include endocrine monotherapy, multi-drug
      combination therapy and chemotherapy. The overall survival is similar between patients with
      hormone receptor-positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative breast cancer
      receiving chemotherapy and those receiving endocrine therapy. But quality of life and
      progression-free survival of patients receiving endocrine therapy are superior to those of
      receiving chemotherapy. Therefore, both the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) and
      the 2018 Chinese Expert Consensus on the Clinical Diagnosis and Treatment of Advanced Breast
      Carcinoma guidelines confirm that endocrine therapy is the preferred treatment for hormone
      receptor-positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative breast cancer.

      Palbociclib is a cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) 4/6 inhibitor that reduces the proliferation
      of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer cells by blocking cells from the G1 phase to the
      S phase. Pfizer's innovative drug palbociclib (trade name: Ibrance®) was approved by the
      China National Drug Administration on July 31, 2018 for the treatment of hormone
      receptor-positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative locally advanced breast
      cancer or metastatic breast cancer. In addition, aromatase inhibitors such as letrozole
      (trade name: Femara ®) can prolong the progression-free survival in the first-line therapy
      for advanced breast cancer to 10-13 months. Palbociclib combined with letrozole has been
      shown to exhibit stronger inhibitory effects on phosphorylation of retinoblastoma gene (Rt),
      downstream signaling and tumor growth than monotherapy. Since 2015, palbociclib combined with
      letrozole has been recommended by the NCCN guideline as one treatment option for advanced
      breast cancer. However, since palbociclib has been approved for market entry in China for
      only 1 year, little is reported in China regarding large-sample clinical trials regarding the
      efficacy, tolerability, and safety of palbociclib combined with an aromatase inhibitor in
      hormone receptor-positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative locally advanced
      breast cancer.
    
  