
    
      Although studies have suggested that plaque morphology and composition are important
      determinants of plaque stability, our understanding on plaque tissue components is mainly
      from histological studies until recent development in MRI technique. A low level of HDL is
      associated with higher risk of cardiovascular events and increased amount of lipid content in
      the carotid plaques. Treatment with LDL-lowering plus HDL-raising compared with LDL-lowering
      alone more effectively protects against atherosclerosis progression. It is widely believed
      that HDL or its apolipoproteins mediate the removal of excess free cholesterol from
      peripheral cells and the cholesterol is delivered via either LDL or HDL to the liver for
      excretion into the bile. However, it has not been tested and approved in human
      atherosclerotic condition in vivo. The NIH/Abbott-funded multi-center AIM-HIGH trial is
      designed to compare the clinical efficacy of LDL-lowering alone with statin versus
      LDL-lowering plus HDL-raising with statin plus nicotinic acid combination therapy in patients
      with established vascular disease and high triglycerides and low HDL.

      We propose to conduct a carotid MRI sub-study in 220 subjects enrolled in AIM-HIGH to
      investigate the important vascular biological mechanisms of HDL-raising therapy. Image
      collection will occur at 3 timepoints. The hypotheses and specific aims are:

        -  (1) To test the primary hypothesis that compared with LDL-lowering alone, intensive
           LDL-lowering plus HDL-raising therapy decreases the mean plaque lipid composition in
           carotid arteries assessed by MRI.

        -  (2) To test the hypothesis that compared with LDL-lowering alone, intensive LDL-lowering
           plus HDL-raising therapy decreases the plaque burden including volume and wall
           thickness.

        -  (3) To test the hypothesis that increased plaque lipid composition or vessel wall
           thickness by MRI is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular events.

        -  (4)To test a hypothesis that LDL-lowering plus HDL-raising, compared to LDL-lowering
           alone, will promote more rapid plaque lipid depletion. And determine the time-course of
           atherosclerotic plaque lipid depletion during lipid therapy.

        -  (5) To examine the association of clinical risk factors, lipids, lipoprotein
           heterogeneity, inflammatory markers and carotid plaque characteristics.

      This MRI sub-study offers a unique opportunity to investigate the effectiveness of
      LDL-lowering plus HDL-raising therapy on human atherosclerotic plaque in vivo, to examine the
      association of plaque characteristics both lipid composition and volume assessed by MRI and
      cardiovascular outcome, and to gain novel insights in our understanding of atherosclerotic
      plaque pathology and the mechanisms of intensive lipid management in preventing
      cardiovascular events.
    
  