
    
      Background: Falls are currently the leading cause of injurious death and non-fatal injuries
      for adults over the age of 65. Older Veterans may be at greater risk for falls due to their
      high burden of medical co-morbidity. The VA has made research into fall prevention a high
      priority. Falls are complex with numerous deficits including impaired balance, decreased
      postural control, muscle weakness, and an inability to successfully negotiate environmental
      hazards. Tai Chi is currently considered to be one of the most effective fall prevention
      exercise interventions, with an endorsement from the Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention (CDC) which widely influences health care policy. However, there are few studies
      comparing Tai Chi with another active intervention. Tai Chi may generally improve balance,
      decrease fall risk, and provides a general lower body strengthening. However, Tai Chi may not
      sufficiently improve gait and dynamic mobility and does little to target obstacle
      negotiation, one of the largest contributors to a fall. The majority of falls occur during
      walking, with slips and trips being the most common causes and targeted interventions focused
      on improving stepping and walking ability may be even more effective at improving balance and
      reducing falls.

      The Investigators plan to enroll 56 older (age > 65 years) community dwelling Veterans with a
      history of a fall in the last year who are at high risk for a recurrent fall. After baseline
      testing participants will be randomized to either MMBI or a Tai Chi intervention modeled
      after the Tai Chi Moving for Better Balance Program. All participants will participate in a
      group exercise class in their assigned intervention for 1 hour, 3 times per week for 24
      weeks. After the completion of 24 weeks of exercise group changes will be compared for 1)
      balance (4-square step test); 2) mobility and fall risk (functional gait assessment); 3) rate
      of falls; 4) lower extremity isometric strength testing (biodex); and 5) body composition.
      The investigators also plan for follow all participants for 6 months after completion of the
      intervention to examine differences in fall rates after the cessation of the program between
      the groups.

      Impact: This research directly benefits Veterans as it may lead to new and effective
      interventions that could reduce fall risk, injury-related hospitalization and death in older
      Veterans. MMBI is also readily exportable to the community and with minimal resources could
      be widely implemented at other VAs as part of standard of care, similar to Managing
      Overweight and/or Obesity for Veterans Everywhere! (MOVE!). Results from this SPIRE grant
      will be used to power a larger randomized clinical trial that will examine the effectiveness
      of the two interventions to reduce rate of falls and risk of falling in older Veterans at
      high risk for falls.
    
  