
    
      Extended abdominoperineal excision (EAPE) of the rectum is the potentially curative operation
      for rectal carcinomas too low for primary anastomosis, especially if the levator and
      sphincter musculature is infiltrated. This enlarged operation, when the levator musculature
      is excised en bloc with the rectum, creates a large defect. Primary closure is often not
      possible, and reconstruction with prosthetic material or a myocutaneous flap is necessary to
      avoid a perineal hernia. Implantation of a collagen sheet (biological mesh) has shown
      preliminary good results and on the other hand, the use of a gluteus myocutaneous flap is
      routine in many clinics. There is a lack of scientific evidence to prove which method is
      better for the reconstruction of the lesser pelvic floor.

      The current study aims to compare the two reconstruction techniques.

      Centres that treat locally advanced rectal cancers with the extended abdominoperineal
      excision of rectum (EAPE)[Holm et al 2007] can participate provided that:

        1. the operative technique is standardized according to the study protocol

        2. the centre/unit has resources for examinations of participants by a physiotherapist or a
           nurse

        3. the centre/unit has one investigator in charge of the study locally

        4. the centre/unit has an operative volume that enables at least 6 patients to be
           included/randomised during the anticipated three year study phase for inclusions

      Centres that do not operate the rectal cancers included in this study can participate by
      arranging the preoperative examination and physical tests as well as follow-up of patients
      that are referred to other centres for the operation. In these cases the operating centre
      cares for the randomisation, operation and start of postoperative rehabilitation while the
      study follow-up and final rehabilitation can be completed at the patients' primary referral
      hospital. The primary referral hospital needs a site investigator in charge of study patients
      just like centres that do the operations.

      Patients with primary or recurrent cancers of rectal origin can be included but individual
      patients can be included only once. Concomitant therapies are allowed and preoperative or
      postoperative radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy may be given or not according to local
      multidisciplinary team (MDT) decisions.
    
  