
    
      CAR is a prospective observational study, initiated by the Department of Vascular Surgery at
      University Medical Centre Utrecht (UMCU), The Netherlands. The study is descriptive in
      nature. The registry will be conducted according to the principles of the Declaration of
      Helsinki (64th WMA General Assembly, Fortaleza, Brazil, October 2013). The medical ethics
      committee of the UMCU has approved the study and all patients must give written informed
      consent before enrollment. Study enrolment is open to any patient diagnosed with an ECAA and
      ongoing.

      Enrollment criteria: Participation in the CAR is intended for all subjects diagnosed with an
      ECAA irrespective of chosen treatment. Aneurysms are defined as 150% dilatation of the normal
      vessel diameter, or any saccular aneurysm. To be included, aneurysms must be located in the
      CCA, the external carotid artery or in the extracranial part of the ICA.To be included in the
      registry, patients need to be 18 years old. There are no additional exclusion criteria.

      Intervention and follow-up:CAR does not interfere with the physician's treatment decision.
      Follow-up visits and imaging studies are scheduled as usual in their clinical practice, as
      this study does also not interfere with or influence the follow-up regimen.

      Study endpoints:The primary endpoint of the CAR is freedom from aneurysm related symptoms at
      30 days and at mid- and longterm follow-up. The secondary endpoint comprises treatment
      safety.

      Endpoint monitoring:An endpoint adjudication committee, consisting of clinical experts, is
      set up to harmonize and standardize endpoint assessment and to determine whether the
      endpoints meet described criteria. This committee will review important subjective endpoints
      reported by trial investigators. The members of this committee are blinded to the treatment
      regime.

      Data collection and monitoring: Data collected will be recorded through a web-based case
      report form (CRF). Data will be collected at baseline, at the moment of intervention, at the
      30-day (or first postoperative) visit and during the follow-up phase. Data will remain at the
      UMCU in a secure environment.

      This registry is a multicenter study. Statistical analysis: Statistical analyses will be
      performed using SPSS software.
    
  