
    
      Purpose: The purpose of this study is to allow for deep and broad phenotyping of persons with
      clinically-meaningful fatiguing symptoms, regardless of physiologic or pathologic condition.
      This protocol will enable the National Institute of Nursing Research (NINR) investigators to
      describe the clinical characteristics of persons reporting clinically-meaningful fatigue and
      collect clinical and scientific data for the purpose of making comprehensive phenotypic
      descriptions. These phenotypic descriptions will be used to explore the heterogeneity of
      fatiguing symptoms to clarify the nature of different fatigue phenotypes and their biologic
      correlates.

      The specific goals of this protocol are the following:

        -  To characterize and phenotype individuals with clinically-meaningful fatigue.

        -  To explore the heterogeneity of fatiguing conditions to define specific fatigue
           dimensions.

        -  To generate hypotheses of the possible mechanism of each fatigue dimension.

      Study Population: The study population will consist of up to 672 persons with or without
      clinically-meaningful fatigue. Approximately 20 will be enrolled in the technical development
      substudy to refine the neuroimaging techniques used in this study. This protocol is open to
      anyone of any ethnicity, gender, or nationality.

      Design: The protocol is designed as an exploratory multi-stage study. Upon receiving inquiry
      from a potential participant, a phone screening using an eligibility questionnaire and an
      in-person NIH outpatient screening visit will be conducted. If a treatable medical condition
      is identified during the screening that directly contributes to the fatigue experience, then
      the participant will not proceed in the study but will be asked to see their care provider
      for evaluation and/or management. Those who are under a known treatment (e.g., chemotherapy,
      antivirals) for a clinical condition or those without a clear clinical explanation for their
      fatigue will be invited to participate in Stage 1 of the study. Stage 1 is the fatigue
      assessment stage and includes completion of self-report questionnaires and performance tasks.
      Stage 2 will include additional clinical and scientific assessments to allow for deeper
      understanding of the fatigue phenotype. Before study termination, participants may be
      referred to appropriate NIH CC services for management recommendations. Participants who
      complete the study may be re-contacted about other available fatigue intervention studies.

      Multi-Stage Study Design

      Stage 1 - Fatigue Assessment

      Stage 2 - Fatigue Dimension Phenotyping Evaluation

      Outcome Measures: The study will use a wide variety of measurement tools for phenotyping
      purposes. These include: vital signs, medical history, physical exam, blood draw, medical
      record review, clinical interviews, patient reported outcome measurements, physical,
      cognitive, affective, and behavioral measurements, structural and functional imaging
      assessments, nutritional assessment, clinical and research laboratory measurements, and
      electrocardiogram.

      In summary, the NINR Patient-Centered Assessment of Symptoms and Outcomes (P-CASO) protocol
      will enable investigators to obtain detailed clinical descriptions and to collect phenotyping
      measurements from research participants who report clinically-meaningful fatigue.

      The study will allow NINR investigators to perform descriptive research on fatigue for
      hypothesis generation.
    
  