
    
      This study will compare the effects of a 3-month, individually prescribed progressive
      exercise training program on: 1) chronic low back pain (cLBP), depression and PTSD symptoms,
      and 2) neurobiological and related neuropsychological mechanisms by which our
      exercise-training paradigm may foster exercise maintenance. More specifically, the
      investigators hypothesize relationships between exercise-training associated augmentation of
      neuropeptide Y (NPY) system function and improved capacities for reward and
      self-regulation-neuropsychological capacities posited to underlie intrinsic motivation and
      self-efficacy, which in turn have been shown to predict exercise maintenance. This study will
      focus on Veterans with cLBP/PTSD. The study design includes a baseline, acute,
      cardiopulmonary exercise assessment (CPX) that will inform the exercise prescription for the
      12-week "progressive exercise" training program, comprised of three 30-45 minute in clinic
      exercise sessions per week (walking or running--depending on the ability/capacity of the
      participant). All exercise sessions will be supervised by an exercise physiologist in the
      Clinical Studies Unit (CSU) at VA Boston Healthcare System. Intermittent telephone calls by
      the researchers will provide additional motivational support and problem solving.
      Implementation of the prescribed exercise regimen will also be supported by the use of heart
      rate and actigraph monitors programmed for the participant to achieve their prescribed heart
      rate range (HRR). Also, a "midpoint" and "endpoint" CPX assessment will track changes in NPY
      system function and delineate their impact on pain, depression and PTSD symptoms, as well as
      the factors proposed to foster exercise maintenance. All three CPX tests will be performed in
      accordance with guidelines published by the American College of Cardiology. Among Veterans
      with cLBP/PTSD, the investigators hypothesize that the capacity to release NPY in response to
      vigorous exercise (i.e., acute CPX testing) will be associated with improvements in pain,
      depression and PTSD symptoms, as well as the putative factors that predict exercise
      maintenance. Data from this R21 will be used to demonstrate feasibility and inform the
      further development of individually prescribed, motivationally based exercise regimens that
      could be used as adjuncts to cognitive and other therapeutic PTSD, depression or chronic pain
      interventions to reduce cLBP, depression and PTSD, as well as the negative consequences of
      these disorders over the long-term.
    
  