
    
      The study aims at studying the involvement of MIF in adult AML.

      1. DESCRIPTION OF THE ELEMENT OR ELEMENTS UNDER INVESTIGATION 1.1. Measurement of MIF
      concentrations Plasma and BM supernatant from patients and controls (100 age-matched controls
      for blood and BM plasma, available at Tours Hospital, ClinicalTrials.gov #NCT02789839 ) will
      be analyzed by ELISA. BM supernatants will be obtained after a 2-step centrifugation
      procedure: 1 mL of fresh BM from AML patients or control BM will be centrifuged at 540 g for
      5 min to recover viable cells in the pellet (for cytometric and expression studies); the
      supernatant will be centrifuged at 1000 g/15 min/4°C to prepare the plasma. MIF
      concentrations in BM and blood plasma will be systematically compared. As MIF concentrations
      may be affected by different factors, including inflammation, leukocytosis, and monocytosis,
      blood cell counts and plasma C-reactive protein levels will be measured and taken into
      account in the interpretation of the data.

      1.2. Measurement of MIF, CD74, and CXCR4 expression Hematopoietic stem cells, progenitor
      cells and blasts from AML patients will be sorted according to the expression of CD34, CD38,
      CD90, CD45-RA, IL-3R antigens, taking into account the initial immunophenotype of the
      disease. Hematopoietic stem cells and progenitor cells from control BM samples will be sorted
      similarly. MIF, CD74 and CXCR4 RNA expression will be studied by quantitative RT-PCR in
      sorted cell subpopulations. The surface expression of CXCR4 and anti-CD74 as well as
      intracellular CD74 will be studied by multiparametric flow with cytometry.

      1.3. Analysis of MIF, CD74, CXCR4 expression, and MIF concentrations at time of complete
      remission.

      The analyses performed in a) and b) will be repeated in complete remission samples in 30 to
      50 selected patients. Patients will be selected according to their response to therapy
      (assessment of complete remission and normal blood counts), and to the genotype of their
      disease (15-25 patients with either TET2 or DNMT3A mutations at diagnosis vs 15-25 patients
      without these mutations). Samples will be collected after two chemotherapy courses at time of
      remission evaluation. Whenever possible, bone marrow controls of patients in long term
      remission (> 1 year post diagnosis) will be collected and studied. In the meantime, NGS,
      ddPCR, FISH or RT-PCR techniques will be used to assess the persistence or absence of the
      initial AML lesions.

      It is expected that complete material will be obtained for 80% of included patients making
      the objective of 240 patients achievable in less than three years. Cell purification may be
      an issue in the context of AML with aberrant immunophenotype: this will be taken into account
      by the use of appropriate FACS protocols. Regarding the focus on MIF pathway, it cannot rule
      out that other chemokines/cytokines, or others molecules may be involved in the communication
      of AML cells and their micro-environment. Thus, aliquots of BM and blood plasma will be
      cryopreserved to allow a refinement of our strategy (for example to perform cytokine arrays,
      ELISA, or MS analyses which are available at Saint-Antoine Hospital).

      1.4. Xenotransplantation model of primary AML in NSG mice Xenotransplantation models of
      primary AML cells has been developed in a cohort of 70 AMLs in which MIF expression will be
      analysed, the cytogenetic and molecular genotype, and correlate these parameters to different
      engrafting phenotypes.

      1.5. MIF inhibition in NSG mice transplanted with AML cells and in NSG mice transplanted with
      TET2-depleted or DNMT3A-depleted cord blood HSPCs The role of MIF on leukemia development in
      NSG mice xenotransplanted with primary cells will be accessed. In these experiments, primary
      AML patient cells from 6 patients with TET2 mutations of our cohort that engraft will be used
      to generate leukemia. When leukemic development will be seen in blood (between 8 to 10
      weeks), MIF expression will be measured in the serum of mice. Mice will be randomized into
      three groups with 7 mice per group: One group will be treated with a commercially available
      MIF inhibitor (ISO-1) and a second group with an anti MIF antibody and one group will be
      treated by the vehicle for three weeks (one injection a week). Mice will then be monitored to
      detect pre-leukemic engraftment and AML development using weekly blood sampling and
      anti-human CD45 staining.

      A model of xenotransplantation by cord blood CD34+ cells transduced with lentivectors
      expressing TET2 shRNAs have been developed. These engineered CD34 positive cells showed
      increased MIF expression and secretion and demonstrate enhanced multilineage NSG engraftment.
      Il will be tested whether inhibition of MIF using MIF inhibitor or anti MIF antibody leads to
      a correction of the enhanced multilineage NSG engraftment by TET2-depleted cells when
      compared to control cells. Similar experiments will be performed with a DNMT3A-depleted model
      using DNMT3A shRNAs that are currently available in the laboratory. In addition, the effects
      of MIF inhibition (inhibitor and antibody) and recombinant human MIF will be analyzed in NSG
      repopulation assays of unprocessed normal cord blood CD34+ cells.

      1.6. MIF inhibition in NSG mice transplanted with cells from patients in complete remission
      with persistent clonal hematopoiesis (DNMT3A / TET2 mutant) Complete remission samples from
      six patients with persistent clonal hematopoiesis in complete remission will be selected and
      treated as in a) to test whether MIF inhibition is also able to counteract NSG repopulation
      by residual pre-leukemic stem cells.

      It is expected that MIF inhibition will impair AML development in mice. However, stability
      and side effects of anti MIF antibody or inhibitors may be an issue in treated animals. In
      this case, shRNAs will be used to knock-down MIF in AML cells before injection to NSG mice.
      Another issue may be the need for co-injection of MSCs at time of xenotransplantation to
      increase the relevance of the model. If needed, normal MSCs and AML MSCs will be collected,
      prepared, and co-injected with AML cells.

      1.7. Full characterization of the up-regulation of MIF in TET2 depleted cells How TET2 might
      impact gene regulation remains still not completely understood. Recently, Cao X's team has
      shown that loss of Tet2 resulted in the upregulation of several inflammatory mediators. In
      this model, Tet2 recruited Hdac2 and repressed transcription of Il6 via histone
      deacetylation. It has been found that TET2 binds the proximal promoter of MIF gene which is
      enriched in CpG islands in Kasumi cells. Loss of TET2 results in MIF accumulation in several
      leukemic models through EGR1. i) MIF promoter methylation will be analyzed by sequencing
      after bisulfite treatment in normal CD34+ cells (20 samples) and cell populations from AMLs
      sorted as in c)(150 samples) ii) EGR1 mRNA expression will be analyzed by qRT-PCR in normal
      and AML pre-leukemic stem cells to see if there is a correlation with MIF expression as
      observed in other models iii) ChIP-PCR analyses focusing on MIF promoter will be performed
      for EGR1, H3K4me3, H3K27me3 and HDAC2 in control and AML patient samples. If EGR1 is not
      involved in this system, MIF promoter luciferase assay will be used to identify transcription
      factor sites that are essential for its up-regulation in AML samples and validate the targets
      by ChIP-PCR. All these technologies are available.

      1.8. bidirectional communication between MSCs and AML cells or normal HSPCs The impact of MIF
      overexpression in AML cells will be tested on the physiology of normal MSCs (differentiation,
      sustain of hematopoiesis, production of cytokines / chemokines, interactome). For this aim,
      normal primary MSCs from adult bone marrow (already available) will be isolated and expanded
      as described (Reinisch A et al, Blood 2015, 125:249-260). The Cells will be amplified up to
      passage 2 (P2). MSCs will be treated with different concentrations of recombinant MIF for 24
      and 48 hours and the proliferation, production of cytokines/ chemokines will be evaluated. As
      it has been reported that MIF stimulates glycolysis, the effects of MIF will also decipher
      will be also deciphered in the energetic metabolism of MSCs by measuring mitochondrial
      respiration and glycolysis of MSCs (Seahorse XF extracellular flux analyzer) and by
      determining their MIF-induced metabolic signature using high throughput multiplexed
      fingerprinting (Omnilog Biolog). To model the effects of MIF overexpression by AML cells,
      will perform co-culture experiments between human primary AML cells (5 samples) that express
      or not (shRNA) of MIF. After 24 and 48 hours, MSCs will be sorted and their proliferation,
      cell cycle and differentiation potential into osteoblasts, adipocytes and chondrocytes will
      be evaluated. Previous studies indicate that MIF-CXCR4 is a novel axis for MSC recruitment to
      tumors in vivo.

      Thus it will be studied whether recombinant MIF may recruit MSCs using in vitro transwell
      assays. Effect of MIF production by AML cells on MSCs recruitment will be tested using AML
      conditioned medium. AML cells engineered with MIF shRNA will be used in this context. As it
      cannot rule out that MSCs may also contribute to MIF production, mRNA expression will be
      tested by primary normal MSC cocultured with AML cells.

      It is expected that recombinant MIF will have an impact on either proliferation, cell cycle,
      differentiation potential or migration of MSCs. However, MIF produced in BM microenvironment
      could also modify the biology of other populations of the stem cell niche including
      osteoblasts, endothelial cells or macrophages. To investigate alternative cells on which MIF
      may have an impact, it will be test its effects on these populations. MSCs will be induced to
      differentiate into osteoblasts, adipocytes or chondrocytes. MIF will then be added to
      investigate proliferation, cell cycle and migration of populations of interest. Effect on
      osteoblasts and endothelial cells will be modelized using MG63 and Huvec cell lines,
      respectively.

      1.9. Study population 1.9.1. Participant recruitment 300 adult patients (>18) newly diagnosed
      with AML will be included in the study. 85 patients diagnosed since novembe 2015 at
      Saint-Antoine Hospital will be retrospectively included in the study. 215 patients newly
      diagnosed with AML at Saint-Antoine and Tours University hospitals will be prospectively
      included [>100 AML patients per year are referred to Saint-Antoine hospital (>70 patients per
      year) and Tours University Hospital for AML (>30 patients per year)].

      1.9.2. Participant follow-up

      Patient sample collection :

      Only standard care blood and bone marrow samples will be used in the study :

        -  Blood samples for biochemistry, blood cell counts, immunophenotyping, cytogenetics,
           molecular biology analyses, and tumor bank cryopreservation

        -  Bone marrow samples for immunophenotyping, cytogenetics, molecular biology analyses, and
           tumor bank cryopreservation

      Time points:

      Only standard care time point samples will be collected:

        -  Diagnosis time point (day 0, Dx sample)

        -  After the first course of chemotherapy (C1 time point)

        -  After the second course of chemotherapy (C2 time point)

        -  After the third course of chemotherapy (C3 time point)

        -  In case of relapse or refractoriness,

             -  at time of diagnosis of first relapse or refractoriness (RR1)

             -  at time of diagnosis of second relapse or refractoriness (RR2)

        -  Long term remission control samples at 1, 2, 3 years after diagnosis (LTR1, 2, 3)
    
  