
    
      NON-ENHANCED MAGNETIC RESONANCE ANGIOGRAPHY OF DIABETIC ISCHEMIC LOWER LIMBS

      BACKGROUND

      Diabetic foot ulcers often progresses after many years of diabetes where the patients system
      is so damaged that normal heeling of ulcers cannot happen. The patient seeks a doctor and he
      sends the patient to the ulcer clinic or an ulcer specialist. The physician at the clinic
      examines the foot, measuring its circulation and sensitivity. The measures are the blood
      pressure in comparison between foot and upper arm and oxygen level in the foot. The
      measurements have a direct connection to the blood circulation, but it doesn't visualize the
      blood circulation.

      Visualization of the circulation is often achieved with medical imaging methods such as x-ray
      and MR. The problem with the current use of these methods is the added use of contrast agent.
      This is especially a problem with the diabetics who have reduced kidney function, where to
      this method is poisonous to the kidneys. That is why the methods often are only used right
      before a scheduled amputation, so the surgeon can plan the amputation.

      Development of MR methods without the use of contrast agents have become so good that images
      of the blood veins can be used in treatment. This means that the MR images provide important
      information about the patient vessel wall stiffness and blood circulation without the use of
      the damaging substances. Hence the physician can perform the MR examination and in comparison
      with the test performed at the clinic he can make an improved and without risk diagnose.
      Using MR at a lot earlier stage in the treatment is expected to reduce the number of
      amputations. This is not only an economic advantage, but also an improvement of the patient
      quality of life.

      The use of MR technique will furthermore provide the physician with the possibility to create
      a 3D model of the foot, with segmentation of the different types of tissue in the foot. This
      makes a single MR scan provide the physician with important information of the physiology
      (how the foot works), the placement of the ulcer, shape, depth and tissue contribution.

      INVESTIGATOR, SPONSOR AND TRAIL SETTING

      Michael Vaeggemose is the investigator and will perform the conventional test at the
      Department of Endocrinology and Internal Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital, Nørreborgade
      44, 8000 Aarhus, Denmark. Furthermore Michael will perform the MR scans at the MR Centre,
      Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby, 8200 Aarhus N, Denmark.

      The blood test which is included in the project will be performed by a laboratory technician
      at the Department of Endocrinology and Internal Medicine. The test is used to determine blood
      glucose (the sugar level of the blood) and will be destroyed after the examination. There
      will not be established a biological bank in this project.

      Physician Niels Ejskjaer from the Department of Endocrinology and Internal Medicine is
      attached to project as responsible physician. Niels Ejskjaer will furthermore work as
      supervisor of the investigator and is the sponsor of this research project.

      OBJECTIVE

      The objective of the study is to investigate type 1 diabetics oxygen level, vessel wall
      stiffness, blood circulation, tissue contribution and blood pressure in the foot with the use
      of conventional measurements in their treatment and with the added use of MR methods.

      METHODS

      The study is an investigation of MR methods in the treatment of diabetic foot ulcers. The
      trial consists of 5 physiological examinations and a blood test. To make sure that all the
      test subjects (diabetics and healthy controls) receive the same treatment is the test
      performed by the same investigator, with an exception of the blood test which will be
      performed by the laboratory technician. The 4 test are known to the diabetic patients from
      earlier clinical trials performed in relation to the treatment of their ulcers, alas they
      will have to be performed again. Due to logistics the participants can experience more than
      one day of trail, since the MR clinical and the Department of Endocrinology and Internal
      Medicine is not placed in the same part of town.

      The blood test is used to determine the subjects' blood glucose (the level of sugar in the
      blood) and will after use be destroyed. Blood glucose level gives a well-defined measure of
      diabetes. Therefore it is an important measure in the comparison between the conventional
      test and the MR imaging. Do the blood glucose levels correlate with the findings of the 5
      tests then the results of the statistics are plausible and significant results are accepted.

      Tree of the test are made in regard to the pulse in the foot. The pulse is measured several
      places by placing the finger on one of the blood veins in the foot and then count the number
      of pulse ripples each minute. This is a very simple measurement but effective in estimating
      the condition of the circulation in the foot. The trails include a more advanced method to
      measure the pulse at the ankle, middle foot and in the toes compared with the pressure in the
      arm give an indication of reduced circulation in the specific areas. The measurements are
      performed with ultrasound and pressure sensitive sensors placed on the pulsating veins.

      The fourth examination measures the oxygen level in the foot. Diabetics with foot ulcers
      often have reduced oxygen level in the feet, which makes the heeling slow and troublesome.
      This makes the oxygen levels an important measure which is measured in a device connected to
      the patient with electrodes. The first 4 measurements are all conventional measurements used
      and performed in the clinic doing the normal treatment of their ulcers.

      The MR measurement is used to determine the anatomy and function of the foot. De different
      scan sequences makes it possible to visualize blood vessels, tissue contribution, oxygen
      levels and through data processing vessel wall stiffness. Several of the scan sequences are
      recorded in synchrony with the heart rhythm. The rhythm is recorded wireless with and ECG
      device after placing of 3 electrodes. The scan time can vary, due to the subjects different
      heart rates in practice this means that the MR scans takes from 30 min to 60 min.

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS

      Sensitivity and specificity of the MR methods will be evaluated I relationship to the
      conventional applied methods (pulse and oxygen level measurements) which will be performed at
      the Department of Endocrinology and Internal Medicine. From a McNemar's test with a
      significant level of 5% a power calculation were performed giving a needed sample size of 40
      type-1 diabetic patients and 10 healthy control subjects. To perform the statistical
      calculations assumptions of the sensitivity and specificity have been made. Due to the
      assumptions a pilot study will be performed with 5 diabetic patients showing if the MR method
      produces enough signal to make the need examination.

      VOLUNTEERS

      The trails consist of 10 healthy (don't use prescribed medicine) and 40 type-1 diabetic foot
      ulcer patients. Subjects from both groups are at least 18years old and have received oral and
      written information regarding the project and afterward given informed consent of
      participation in the project. Furthermore a requirement of the diabetic foot ulcers is that
      the ulcer must have a reduced oxygen level.

      Subjects will be excluded if they have metal in the body or are scheduled to have an
      amputation as part of their treatment.

      SIDE EFFECTS, RISK AND DISADVANTAGES

      Oxygen level and pulse examinations meet the requirements of patient safety and are used in a
      large number of examinations. There are no known risks in the used methods but should there
      be an unpleasantness or problems from regarding the participation the patient must contact
      the investigator at once.

      MR scans is also not connected to any known risks and the patients ears will be protected
      with soundproofing earplugs or headphones to avoid the discomfort in relation to the high
      sound the scanner makes during the scans. The patient will be placed outside the scanner,
      with the feet sticking into the scanner, removing the risk of making the patient feel
      claustrophobic.

      The blood test can be connected to slight discomfort and a small risk of developing
      accumulation of blood and infection at the needle injection site. If any sign of infection
      (rash, heating, tenderness, swelling) the subject must seek the investigator or the emergency
      room. Det combined blood loss in connection to the blood test will not exceed 250ml, which is
      a lot less than a blood donation includes.

      The blood test is analysed and destroyed after. A biobank will not be established in this
      project.

      ECONOMIC CONDITIONS

      Expenses in connection to the project are covered by the involved departments. The
      researchers have no economic conflict of interest in the project. Transport expenses in
      connection to oral information and examination is refunded in regard to the guidelines used
      at the departments. In regard to national guidelines the subjects will be paid compensation
      for their partition in the project.

      PUBLICATION OF RESULTS

      The results will be published in a recognized international paper regardless of the results
      are positive, negative or if the method is not good enough to determine a statistical
      significant difference.

      Do the subjects wish information about the project results they can inform the investigator
      and he will send the information to the interested subjects.

      NATIONAL ETHICAL COMMITTEE REVIEW

      The project is reported and approved by the Danish Data Protection Agency (nr. 2007-58-0010),
      Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics (nr. 2012-33818) and the department
      legislations.

      VOLUNTEER RECRUITMENT

      Diabetic subjects with foot ulcers will be asked of interest to participate in the study,
      when visiting the clinic in connection to their regular treatment at the clinic. Staff
      physician Niels Ejskjaer is treating a large part of the patients and will after their visit
      at the clinic ask the patients of participation, with stretch on that it's voluntary and it
      has not effect of their regular treatment. If a patient agree to participate he/she will
      receive information of the project and information of participation in research projects
      (Forsøgspersonernes rettigheder i et sundhedsvidenskabeligt forskningsprojekt) written by the
      Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics.

      Latest a week after receiving the information investigator Michael Vaeggemose will contact
      the subject and ask if he/she still wishes to participate and would like to hear more about
      the aspects of the project. Furthermore the patient will be invited to a personal
      conversation with the possibility to have a trusted friend in the room that can help the
      patient in the choice of participating in the project. The healthy control subjects will be
      recruited from posters calling for participants to contact the investigator on phone or mail.
      The posters will have information about the project but information on the phone and
      invitation to a personal conversation with a trusted friend will be offered, as it is to the
      diabetic patients. The conversations (diabetic and control) will be held undisturbed in one
      of the department rooms. At the conversations it will be stretched that participating is
      volunteer and as a volunteer you can chose to stop you participation at any point in the
      project, without it having any effect on their following treatment. During the conversation
      the patient is given the written consent document which must be signed before the trails can
      begin. The patient has a week to evaluate the project from this point and will then receive a
      call from the investigator regarding the final decision of participating in the project.
    
  