
    
      After screening and eligibility assessment, patients were randomized (in a 1:1 ratio) to
      receive either clofarabine or matching placebo, in addition to cytarabine. Randomization was
      stratified by remission status following the first induction regimen (CR1): no remission
      [i.e., CR1 = refractory] or remission <6 months vs remission ≥6 months. During randomization
      by interactive voice response system (IVRS), there were 10 participants misclassified to the
      CR1 <6 months stratum and 12 participants misclassified to CR1 ≥6 months stratum. The error
      did not affect the participants' treatment, only the stratification. Due to the
      misclassification, outcomes that used strata in their analysis were analyzed twice: once with
      the 'randomized stratification' which includes the misclassification and once with the
      'calculated stratification' in which participants appear in the 'correct' strata.

      Two clinical study reports were written for this study.

        1. Clinical study report dated 7 April 2011 includes the entire treatment period of all
           participants plus much of the follow-up. At that time, 33 participants in the
           Clofarabine+cytarabine group and 29 participants in the placebo+cytarabine group were
           still being follow-up post treatment. Results were reported on clinicaltrials.gov in
           August 2011. Outcomes that used strata reported the 'calculated strata' on
           clinicaltrials.gov.

        2. Clinical study report dated 9 July 2012 includes all patient treatment experience plus
           all long-term follow-up (a minimum of 2 years from the end of treatment or until the
           patient died). The study was completed at that time. Outcomes that used strata reported
           the 'randomized strata' on clinicaltrials.gov. AE records on clinicaltrials.gov reflect
           the final database.

      Outcomes that changed between the two clinical study reports due to the additional long-term
      follow-up data are reported twice on clinicaltrials.gov (once from each clinical study
      report) and the appropriate report date is included in the outcome description. Outcomes from
      the 9 July 2012 report represent more complete data.
    
  