
    
      The data for the sample size calculation was taken from Kanlayanaphotpron and Janwantanakul
      (2005), that also approached the cryotherapy application. The software used to calculate the
      sample was GPower 3.1.9.2. A 16 subjects sample were obtained to reach a power of 90%, needed
      to detect a difference on the average of the groups in repeated measures with an alpha of 5%.
      The subjects will be chosen through social media and informal invitations.

      The subjects will attend to the laboratory four times, the first day for orientation and
      measurements (body mass and skinfold), and the data collection will start on the second day.

      The room temperature will be set between 23 ° C and 25 ° C, and the humidity around 70%. The
      subject will be in supine position on the stretcher, relaxed and instructed not to touch the
      right thigh region for 20 minutes before the intervention to stabilize the body temperature.
      The thigh will be measured and the center marked to determine the place where the pack will
      settle and the temperature collected.

      The intervention will last 20 minutes, and the order of application will be according to the
      randomization. The subject will be asked to mark his pain level on the visual analogue scale
      every minute.

      The temperature of the right thigh will be measured by infrared thermography, before the
      intervention, right after the removal and every minute until the total time of the
      intervention.

      To summarize the data, it will be used descriptive statistics, the values of average,
      standard deviation and the collected measurements will be identified. Through Shapiro-Wilk
      test the distribution of data regarding normality will be verified. To compare the initial
      and the final test values the ANOVA and the post-hoc of Bonferroni will be used. In the case
      of data being out of the normal standards, a transformation will be used to reach the
      normality. If the data still don't reach the normality after the transformation, the
      non-parametric tests will be used (Mann-Whitney e Kruskal Walis). The confidence level
      adopted for all tests will be 95% (p <0.05).
    
  