
    
      The current application will study new cohorts of women and men with the following specific
      aims:

      Specific Aim 1: LV diastolic dysfunction is linked to CMD. Sub-Aim 1: LV diastolic
      dysfunction and CMD are linked via the mechanism of cardiomyocyte fat accumulation.

      Specific Aim 2: Comprehensive noninvasive Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging (CMRI) that
      includes LV diastolic function is linked with invasive measures of LV diastolic function and
      can optimize diagnosis of CMD.

      Sub-Aim 2: Coronary Magnetic Resonance Angiography (CMRA) can exclude obstructive CAD in CMD.

      Specific Aim 3: Add completely de-identified data sharing to prepare for future large
      precision medicine research and to advance precision medicine initiative.

      Exploratory Aim: Blood proteomic and metabolomics biomarkers of extracellular matrix
      remodeling and fibrosis combined with ischemia measures will predict HFpEF.

      In this prospective, cohort design study, investigators intend to enroll 220 new subjects
      including 120 symptomatic women undergoing invasive coronary angiography for suspected
      ischemia with no obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD) defined as ≥50% luminal diameter
      stenosis in ≥1 epicardial coronary artery and 100 women and men hospitalized for Heart
      Failure with preserved Ejection Fraction (HFpEF) defined by the European Society of
      Cardiology (ESC) criteria who have not yet undergone coronary angiography.

      New and existing samples and longer term follow-up will be analyzed in an exploratory fashion
      looking for potential HFpEF biomarkers for pilot data purposes.

      After baseline evaluation, the n=120 cohort will undergo noninvasive high resolution,
      comprehensive CMRI imaging, invasive angiography, coronary reactivity testing and rest-stress
      Millar pressure-volume measurement. Handgrip, mild leg exercise, and brief Valsalva Maneuver
      will be conducted during CMRI and Millar pressure-volume assessment to characterize cardiac
      response to stress. Lastly, these patients will also undergo MR Coronary Angiography, for
      validation purposes against gold-standard angiography.

      The cohort of 100 women and men with HFpEF admitted to the hospital who have not yet
      undergone coronary angiography will also undergo CMRI (with stress), including MR coronary
      angiography (CMRA) and noninvasive computed coronary tomographic angiography (CCTA)(CSMC
      only).

      This will provide understanding of a non-cath-lab based population regarding links between
      CMD, diastolic function and HFpEF, and will result in data to test the hypothesis that
      coronary MRA can exclude obstructive CAD and diagnose CMD without ionizing radiation.
      Proteomic and metabolomics biomarker assays in the (n=567) subjects with no obstructive CAD
      (Exploratory Aim) will be performed.
    
  