
    
      RATIONALE & OBJECTIVES

      In Canada, the Child Health Protection Act (Bill S-228) was introduced in September 2016 by
      Senator Greene Raine to amend the current Food and Drugs Act to prohibit food and beverage
      marketing directed at children under 13 years of age. Shortly after, to support Bill S-228,
      Health Canada committed to introducing marketing restrictions as part of its Healthy Eating
      Strategy. The proposed restrictions will apply to a broad range of marketing platforms,
      including product packaging, which has been shown to be a top source of children's exposure
      to food and beverage advertising. Research has also assessed child-appealing marketing within
      the packaged food environment in Canada; however, these studies are limited due to the
      significant heterogeneity in the criteria that has been used for identifying child-appealing
      marketing techniques, with most only recording a few broad techniques, thus hindering their
      ability to capture the full scope of this marketing practice. Furthermore, despite
      recommendations from the World Health Organization (WHO) to limit both the exposure and the
      power of child-appealing marketing, there has been no formal quantification of the power of
      child-appealing marketing on product packaging.

      In response to this gap, the child-appealing packaging (CAP) coding tool was developed to
      systematically assess the extent, nature and power of child-appealing marketing on product
      packaging. However, the CAP tool requires formal validation before being implemented in
      practice. This study will test the criterion and content validity of the CAP tool. Criterion
      validity is defined as the "extent to which the method is accurately based on an externally
      derived gold standard; examines whether method correlates in a predicted manner with
      variables with which, theoretically, it should correlate". Content validity is defined as the
      "extent to which the system covers the full range of meaning for the concept being measured".

      Upon the validation of the CAP tool, its application will enable a comprehensive and updated
      assessment of the current Canadian marketing environment and be crucial to our ability to
      continue to accurately track the presence of child-appealing marketing in Canada. Findings
      from the use of the CAP tool will help inform ongoing policy and regulatory development and
      provide baseline data from which to monitor the 5-year impact of Bill S-228 as part of the
      mandatory monitoring period which will be implemented with the legislation.

      Objectives: The objectives of this study are to use a product classification activity and
      focus groups of children and their parents to:

        1. Test the criterion validity of the CAP tool by comparing: a) How the CAP tool
           distinguishes between child-appealing and non-child-appealing products with how children
           and parents distinguish between these types of products and b) how the CAP tool scores
           the marketing power of a product's packaging with how children and parents rank their
           preference of products with child-appealing marketing with varying marketing power

        2. Test the content validity of the CAP tool by comparing the marketing techniques included
           in the tool with the aspects of packaging that children and parents identify as
           important for appealing to children and parents.

      Hypothesis: It is hypothesized that the CAP tool's distinction between child-appealing and
      non-child-appealing products, scoring of marketing power, and inclusion of marketing
      techniques will align with how children and parents respond to child-appealing products.

      Significance: This research will be conducted as part of a grant funded by the Joannah and
      Brian Lawson Centre for Child Nutrition entitled "Evaluating Food Environment Policies to
      Support Healthy Eating among Children" as well as a Project Grant funded by the Canadian
      Institutes of Health Research entitled "The IMPACT of food environment policies on the
      Canadian food supply, dietary intakes and health: evidence to inform policy action". The
      research team will share the results of this study with Health Canada to inform the
      monitoring of the impact of Bill S-228 on reducing the exposure and power of child-appealing
      marketing on product packaging. Results will be presented at scientific conferences and
      published in the peer-reviewed scientific literature. Results will also be shared with the
      participants through infographics or other lay materials provided to the participating
      Centres and available on our lab website (labbelab.utoronto.ca).

      METHODOLOGICAL OVERVIEW

      This mixed methods validation study will compare children and parent's assessments of
      child-appealing products with the CAP tool's assessments of child-appealing products. This
      validity testing will be conducted through a brief classification activity, followed by focus
      group discussions with children and parents. The sessions for children and parents will be
      conducted separately, but concurrently. Given that the primary goal of the CAP tool is to
      identify and score marketing on product packaging that may appeal to children, this study
      will use children to validate the CAP tool's ability to score products that appeal to them.
      Furthermore, since parents are the primary purchasers of the food that children consume, we
      aim to validate the CAP tool's ability to score products that may appeal to parents when they
      are purchasing for their children, as increased marketing to parents may be an unintended
      consequence of restricting child-appealing marketing.

      Child-appealing Packaging (CAP) coding tool: Drawing on a comprehensive list of marketing
      techniques derived from a review of the scientific literature, the CAP tool was developed to
      measure the extent, nature and power of child-appealing marketing on product packaging.
      Despite the knowledge that the number of marketing instances that occur on a package can
      increase the persuasiveness or intensity of the marketing message, and WHO recommendations to
      limit both the exposure and power of child-appealing marketing, there has been no formal
      quantification of marketing power as it relates to child-appealing food and beverage
      products. The CAP tool provides a novel method for assessing this construct.

      Design of sample products: In order to reduce any response bias based on brand-familiarity or
      preference, a set of 6 mock breakfast cereal packages were designed for use in this study.
      Cereals were chosen as the example product type given their frequent display of
      child-appealing marketing on packaging and because they are a food category that is commonly
      consumed by children. The cereals were designed to portray both child-appealing and non-child
      appealing marketing with a range of marketing power scores, as would be measured using the
      CAP tool.

      Validation Study Procedures: In order to test the validity of the CAP tool, an independent
      classification activity will be conducted, followed by separate focus group discussions among
      children and parents (conducted concurrently).

      Children Classification Activity: Children will be welcomed and explained the instructions
      and expectations all together as a group. Children will then be accompanied one by one to
      view the set of 6 cereals. A researcher will remind them of the instructions and ask them to
      decide 1) if each cereal is for children (YES or NO) and 2) to put the cereals in order of
      which they like the most to which they like the least (1-6). The researcher will record their
      answers on a response sheet.

      Children Focus Group Discussion: Immediately following the completion of the children's
      classification activity, children will be directed to another room where a focus group
      discussion will take place. Discussion will prompt children to explain their choices in the
      classification activity to gain valuable insight into the rationale behind how they
      classified the cereals in the activity. The moderator will also probe children for examples
      of aspects of packaging that they think are important for making children like it. A second
      researcher will record the focus group discussions (audio only) as well as take notes during
      the discussion to supplement the audio recordings.

      Parents Classification Activity: Following the completion of the children's classification
      activity, parents will be instructed to complete a similar classification activity. A second
      researcher will facilitate this portion of the study. Parents will be explained the
      instructions all together as a group and given a response form to fill out. One by one,
      parents will view the same set of 6 cereals and record 1) if they think each cereal is for
      children (YES or NO) and 2) their ranking of cereals (1-6) in order of which they would be
      most likely to purchase for their children to which they would be least likely to purchase
      for their children.

      Parents Focus Group Discussion: Immediately following the completion of the parent's
      classification activity, parents will be directed to another room where a focus group
      discussion will take place. Discussion will prompt parents to explain their choices in the
      classification activity to gain valuable insight into the rationale behind how they
      classified the cereals in the activity. The moderator will also probe parents for examples of
      aspects of packaging that they think are important for influencing parents to make purchases
      for their children. A second researcher will record the focus group discussions (audio only)
      as well as take notes during the discussion to supplement the audio-recordings.
    
  