
    
      More than 400 million people receive neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) annually, either in
      the operating theatre to optimize surgical conditions, or in the intensive care unit to
      facilitate mechanical ventilation in those with patient-ventilator asynchrony. NMBA have been
      associated with increased morbidity secondary to postoperative residual neuromuscular
      blockade. The incidence of residual blockade is about 20-60% of patients and depends on
      compound and dose of NMBA reversal agent used. Despite disagreements over guidelines and
      thresholds to define the optimal strategy to optimize surgical conditions, there is growing
      evidence that very high doses of NMBA and neostigmine put the patients at risk of respiratory
      complications and hospital readmission. The investigators have recently shown that dedicated
      quality improvement initiatives substantially improve the utilization of non-depolarizing
      muscle relaxants and their reversal agents.

      This is a retrospective, observational, multi-centric cohort study based on on-file hospital
      data from two institutions, Massachusetts General Hospital and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
      Center, Boston, Massachusetts. The investigators will compare the utilization of NMBA cross
      different groups of anesthesia providers (anesthesiologists, anesthesia residents, CRNAs) who
      provided anesthesia care in at least 100 cases in their institution. The investigators will
      control our provider-specific findings for patient-, procedure-, and hospital-specific
      differences in NMBA utilization.

      Primary objective is to determine the variability between individual anesthesia providers in
      the use of neuromuscular blocking drugs and reversal agents (neostigmine at Massachusetts
      General Hospital/MGH and neostigmine or sugammadex at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
      Center/BIDMC) across provider-types (attending physician, resident, nurse anesthetists
      (CRNA)), experience level (number of cases done in an institution), and hospitals (MGH,
      BIDMC).

      Potential mechanisms of the provider variability will then be examined, such as
      providers´age, gender, race, profession, employment status and time of the procedure (surgery
      conducted during daytime versus nighttime).

      Additionally, the investigators will examine if the provider variance in the use of NMBA,
      neostigmine, and sugammadex (based on mean dose across providers and individual mean dose
      given for standardized surgical procedures) is associated with respiratory complications and
      direct costs of care.
    
  