
    
      Background

        -  Traditional therapeutic approaches to pediatric cancer have focused on cytotoxic agents
           and, more recently, targeted inhibition of cellular signaling pathways through the use
           of small molecule kinase inhibitors. Despite these interventions, significant numbers of
           pediatric cancer patients develop recurrent and resistant disease. Targeting the tumor
           microenvironment is a promising but incompletely explored strategy for the treatment of
           pediatric cancer and non-cancer tumors.

        -  This trial will begin to explore the disruption of the interaction between neoplastic
           cells and the myeloid component of the tumor microenvironment as a treatment strategy
           for pediatric cancers and neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) related plexiform neurofibromas
           (PN) and malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor (MPNST).

        -  PLX3397 is an orally available small molecule inhibitor of class III protein tyrosine
           kinases including Kit, CSF1R (colony stimulating factor 1 receptor)/Fms (Feline
           McDonough Sarcoma), and oncogenic Flt3 (Fms like tyrosine kinase).

      Primary Objectives

        -  Phase I: Evaluate the safety and tolerability of PLX3397, and determine a recommended
           phase II dose of PLX3397 in pediatric patients with refractory solid tumors including
           NF1 MPNST and brain tumors or refractory leukemias, limited to acute myelogenous
           leukemia (AML) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).

        -  Phase II: Determine the anti-tumor activity of PLX3397 in patients with NF1 PN.
           Objective response rate (ORR) will be defined as the proportion of patients with a
           partial response (PN volume decrease greater than or equal to 20% determined by
           volumetric MRI analysis).

      Eligibility

        -  Tumor type:

             -  Phase I: Children (greater than or equal to 3 and lessthan or equal to 21 years of
                age) with recurrent or refractory solid tumors including primary neoplasms of the
                central nervous system and patients with NF1 and MPNST, or Children (greater than
                or equal to 3 and less than or equal to 21 years of age) with refractory leukemias
                (AML or ALL) (Phase 1).

             -  Phase II: Patients with NF1 and inoperable PN, that cause morbidity (greater than
                or equal to 3 and less than or equal to 35 years of age).

        -  Subjects must have adequate performance status, be able to swallow tablets, may not be
           pregnant or breastfeeding, and have adequate major organ function. Subjects with history
           of severe or uncontrolled intercurrent illness including, but not limited to, ongoing or
           active infection, symptomatic cardiovascular or pulmonary disease, or history of
           prolonged QT syndrome will be excluded.

      Design

        -  Phase I

             -  Using a rolling-six phase I design with 2-6 subjects per dose level and standard
                definitions of MTD (during cycle 1) and DLT.

             -  PLX3397 will be administered orally (200 mg capsules) once daily on a continuous
                basis for cycles of 28 days without a rest period between cycles. Patients must be
                able to swallow intact capsules. Dosing will be based on body surface area (BSA),
                and the total weekly dose will be rounded to within 10% of calculated dose using a
                dosing nomogram.

             -  At the MTD, the recommended phase II dose level will be expanded to up to 12
                patients with attempts made to enroll at least 3 patients with refractory solid
                tumors and 3 patients with refractory acute leukemia (ALL and AML) to gain more
                experience with the toxicities and pharmacokinetics of PLX3397 in these disease
                cohorts. Attempts will be made to enroll equal numbers of patients between the ages
                of 3 and 12 years and over 12 years of age to gain pharmacokinetic and safety data
                over a broad age range.

        -  Phase II

             -  A Simon 2-stage design will be used: 9 evaluable patients with NF1 and inoperable
                PN that cause morbidity will be enrolled on the initial stage, and if greater than
                or equal to 1/9 patients have a response (PN volume decrease greater than or equal
                to 20% compared to baseline), enrollment will be expanded to a total of 17
                evaluable patients.

             -  Impact of therapy on patient-reported outcomes will be evaluated in patients with
                PN. This study will assess both general health-related qualify of life (QOL) and
                pain (pain intensity and pain interference) as patient-reported outcomes (PROs).

             -  To complete both Phase I and Phase II portions, a maximum of (24 + 17= 41 plus up
                to 6 to replace inevaluable patients) 47 patients will be accrued in 2 to 2.5
                years.
    
  