
    
      Gait disorders are very common in stroke patients (about 80%) increasing the risk of falls in
      performing daily activities and also reducing the global quality of life. Gait disorders in
      these patients are characterized by asymmetry in postural and weight distribution during
      quiet standing, as well as, by reduced gait speed, that is considered one of the most
      important outcome measure of locomotor recovery.

      Restoring gait functions (speed, asymmetry and balance) after stroke is one of the major
      therapeutic goals in post-stroke rehabilitation and a plethora of recovering strategies have
      been proposed.

      In this study we tested the feasibility and efficacy of a novel body-weight support (BWS)
      gait training system with visual feedback, called Copernicus®. This computerized device
      provides highly comfortable, regular and repeatable locomotion in hemiplegic patients,
      training the ability to transfer weight loading alternately on both feet through visual
      real-time monitoring of gait parameters Copernicus®, a sensory system for the early start of
      the locomotion appears as an elliptical cylinder of about 1 meter high on which two
      completely slideing positions are prepared by means if a guide fixed along the oval surface
      of the device. Each post has a support on which the patient's healthy side of the subject is
      placed, above which a brace for the support of the body is attached and weared by the patient
      in the verticalization; Front of the patient is a tablet that provides visual feedback during
      the exercises. The patient wears shoes on a pair of soles with piezo-resistive sensors that
      record for each foot the pressure exerted on the three areas of the foot (outer, inner and
      heel). The recorded data is then processed and transmitted to the tablet within a virtual
      reinforcement environment. The patient will be able to know his performance and achieved
      results and perceive them within a real scenario. The sensing pads measure the support times
      for each side and the number of changes. The device is so structured as to allow the
      simultaneous treatment of two patients.
    
  