
    
      Early adolescence (pre-puberty) is associated with many physiological changes with the
      intersection of metabolic pathways and body composition at the core. Lifestyle behaviors
      provide substantial influence and the rise of sedentary behavior particularly among this
      population can exert profound disruption. Metabolic dysfunction associated with limited
      activity and thus limited strain on the muscles and bones is associated with poor
      musculoskeletal health. Metabolic disturbance within the system during critical periods of
      development such as pre-puberty confers long-term health consequences.

      Communication across systems is reliant upon various hormones which interact on the
      regulation of glucose homeostasis, bone metabolism, and muscle development. While it is
      well-established that bone and muscle growth are dependent upon fuel utilization, factors
      secreted by bone and muscle have been recently shown to play an interactive role in glucose
      homeostasis. Data derived primarily from animal models have demonstrated maintenance of
      physiological levels promote optimal growth and development, whereas these hormones appear to
      have adverse effects when levels are altered. While the data in animals is compelling,
      translation in humans has not been conducted.

      Speculatively, impaired glucose homeostasis, much attributable to decreased strain on the
      musculoskeletal system, promotes impairments in physiological roles of these hormones. As a
      result, disordered development may be of consequence, such that the bones grow bigger yet
      have impaired quality, and delivery of fuel to muscle is compromised. Obesity-induced
      perturbations in metabolism and tissue partitioning may be an added stress to the system,
      impairing muscle function, power, performance and overall quality. Strategies that optimize
      the protective effects of the musculoskeletal system may be encompassed by forced stress on
      the system via resistance training, known to influence synthesis and release of hormones
      involved in fuel delivery and utilization by muscle and bone. The strategy proposed will
      target optimization of musculoskeletal health, promoting synthesis and release of
      musculoskeletal-derived signals providing protection on metabolic health at a critical period
      of development.
    
  