
    
      Previous publications demonstrated that about 35% to 40% of patients hospitalized with Acute
      Coronary Syndromes (ACS) have some degree of renal dysfunction. On the other hand, chronic
      kidney disease (CKD) is not only associated to worse prognosis in ACS patients, but leads
      also to an increased risk of bleeding, which may importantly influence the risk-benefit ratio
      of antiplatelet therapy in this population. Even at early stages, CKD increases the risk of
      myocardial infarction and death among different spectra of ACS, and the risk increase is
      directly proportional to the degree of renal dysfunction. The responsible mechanisms for the
      increased rate of ischemic events in this population are not completely elucidated. However,
      accelerated atherosclerosis, oxidative stress, inflammation and increased platelet
      aggregation, as well as underutilization of therapies such as antithrombotic agents and
      invasive procedures, are some of the proposed mechanisms.

      Antiplatelet therapy is of paramount importance in the treatment of ACS, but its benefit in
      CKD patients is not well established. The fact that this population is often excluded or
      underrepresented in large clinical trials, makes the indication for its use be very often
      extrapolated from studies in patients with preserved renal function.

      In recent meta-analysis, Palmer et al. sought to summarize the benefits and risks of
      antiplatelet agents in patients with CKD, focusing on the occurrence of cardiovascular events
      (including mortality) and bleeding. The results led them to conclude that: 1) the evidence
      for the use of antiplatelet agents in patients with CKD and cardiovascular disease is of low
      quality, 2) in patients with ACS or scheduled for angioplasty already taking acetylsalicylic
      acid (ASA), the addition of clopidogrel or glycoprotein IIb / IIIa inhibitors have little or
      no impact in reducing the incidence of myocardial infarction, death or need for
      revascularization, and 3) there was a significant 40% increase in the incidence of major
      bleeding.

      In the PLATO trial - "Ticagrelor versus Clopidogrel in Patients with Acute Coronary
      Syndromes" - ticagrelor, a new reversible inhibitor of the P2Y12 receptor with faster onset
      of action and greater platelet inhibition power was compared to clopidogrel in over 18,000
      patients with high risk ACS. In this publication, patients receiving ticagrelor had a 16%
      risk reduction on the occurrence of primary composite endpoint (death from vascular causes,
      myocardial infarction or stroke) without significant increase in the incidence of major
      bleeding. In a secondary outcome analysis, it was found a significant reduction in mortality
      from vascular causes and mortality from any cause in patients treated with ticagrelor. Among
      the high-risk criteria used in the selection of patients for this study, a creatinine
      clearance <60 ml/min/1.73 m2 was included.

      In a following article, considering a pre-specified sub-analysis from the PLATO trial, the
      results of 3,237 patients who had this high-risk criterion were compared to those obtained
      for the population with normal renal function. The developed comparisons suggest that the
      benefit of ticagrelor may be even greater in patients with CKD: when considering the MDRD
      equation to estimate renal function, the hazard-ratio (HR) for the primary outcome of the
      study was 0.71 for patients with renal impairment (creatinine clearance <60 ml/min/1.73m2)
      and 0.90 for those without renal dysfunction (p = 0.03 for interaction). Furthermore, the HRs
      for mortality were, respectively, 0.79 and 0.91 for patients with and without renal
      dysfunction (P = 0.02 for interaction). Interestingly, no significant difference between
      groups relatively to major bleeding was observed, and the incidence of dyspnea was higher in
      the population without renal dysfunction.

      Two hypotheses were considered to explain these results. The first suggests that a greater
      and more consistent platelet inhibition achieved with ticagrelor would be more effective in
      reducing ischemic events in this population at increased thrombotic risk. The second
      hypothesis considers possible pleiotropic effects of ticagrelor besides the reversible
      inhibition of the P2Y12 receptor. Ticagrelor might be associated with an elevation in serum
      levels of adenosine through the inhibition of its reuptake by erythrocytes and by increased
      release of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) from the same erythrocytes, subsequently converted in
      adenosine by ecto-ATPases. An increase in the concentrations of circulating adenosine could
      improve myocardial perfusion through coronary vasodilation, and this effect would be more
      pronounced in patients with renal dysfunction.

      Thus, this project aims to validate (or not) these hypotheses, analyzing platelet aggregation
      and circulating adenosine levels in patients taking dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin
      and clopidogrel or ticagrelor.

      # Safety: as this protocol was designed for a short-term duration, we do not expect to have
      many adverse events (AE). An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant that does
      not necessarily have a causal relationship with the study intervention. An AE can therefore
      be any unfavorable or unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom or
      disease temporally associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure regardless of
      whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or procedure. AEs will be reported
      as soon as possible.

      Serious adverse events (SAE) are defined as any untoward medical occurrence that meets any
      one of the following criteria:

        1. Results in death or is life-threatening at the time of the event;

        2. Requires inpatient hospitalization, or prolongs a hospitalization;

        3. Results in a persistent or significant disability/incapacity;

        4. Is a congenital anomaly/birth defect (in a participants offspring); or

        5. Is medically judged to be an important event that jeopardized the subject and, for
           example, required significant measures to avoid one of the above outcomes.

      SAEs will be reported within 24 hours of its information received. The causality of SAEs
      (their relationship to all study treatment/procedures) will be assessed by the
      investigator(s) and the investigator is responsible for informing the local authorities and
      ethical committees, of any serious adverse events as per local requirements.
    
  