
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the effectiveness of adjuvant chemotherapy comprising standard cyclophosphamide,
           methotrexate, and fluorouracil (CMF) or doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (AC) vs oral
           capecitabine, in terms of disease-free and overall survival, in elderly women with
           operable adenocarcinoma of the breast.

        -  Compare the quality of life and physical functioning of patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the adherence of older patients to an oral chemotherapy regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age
      (65 to 69 vs 70 to 80 vs over 80), performance status (0-1 vs 2), and HER2 status (positive
      vs negative vs unknown). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients with insufficient left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) are assigned
           to group A. Patients with normal LVEF are assigned to group A or B based on
           physician/patient choice.

             -  Group A (CMF): Patients receive oral cyclophosphamide (CTX) daily on days 1-14 and
                methotrexate IV and fluorouracil IV on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 4
                weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Group B (AC): Patients receive doxorubicin IV and CTX IV on day 1. Treatment
                repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats
           every 3 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Beginning within 12 weeks after treatment in arm I or II, patients with estrogen or
      progesterone receptor-positive disease receive oral tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor daily
      for 5 years.

      Beginning 4-6 weeks after treatment in arm I or II, eligible patients who previously
      underwent breast conservation surgery undergo radiotherapy.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline; at 6 weeks (group B), 9 weeks (arm II), or 12 weeks
      (group A); and then at 1, 12, 18, and 24 months after study.

      Drug adherence is assessed at 9 weeks during study (arm II).

      Patients are followed at 1 month, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for 15 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 600-1,800 patients (300-900 per treatment arm) will be accrued
      for this study within 2-6 years.
    
  