
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a major health problem worldwide, and is
      currently the third leading cause of death in the United Sates. Patients with COPD mainly
      complain of shortness of breath with daily activities and exercise. A key mechanism of
      dyspnea is dynamic hyperinflation, or air trapping, which results from the severe airflow
      limitation that characterizes the disease. Inhaled bronchodilators and corticosteroids may
      help, but these therapies are expensive and may have side effects. Pulmonary rehabilitation
      is very effective at reducing dyspnea and improving exercise tolerance, but it is not widely
      available to patients. The investigators propose studying the effect of a simple breathing
      exercise known as pranayama, or yogic breathing. The central hypothesis is that the practice
      of pranayama will improve exercise tolerance in patients with COPD. The investigators believe
      that the mechanisms involved will include reduced dynamic hyperinflation as well as
      beneficial effects on lung mechanics, inflammation and oxidative stress. This hypothesis will
      be tested in a randomized, double blind, controlled trial of pranayama vs. usual care
      (education) in COPD patients. In Specific Aim 1, the investigators will determine the effect
      of pranayama on exercise tolerance as measured by 6 min walk distance; in Specific Aim 2, the
      investigators will determine the effect of pranayama on dynamic hyperinflation as measured by
      changes in inspiratory capacity before and after exercise; and in Specific Aim 3, The
      investigators will determine the effect of pranayama on oxidative stress systemic
      inflammation, shortness of breath, and quality of life. The study is designed to be
      applicable to a wide variety of clinical settings, since it will involve two diverse clinical
      sites (Burlington, VT and Houston, TX), require minimal direct intervention, and engage
      participants in self-learning and practice. The data from this study will provide fundamental
      new insights into the mechanisms of action of pranayama, and will be critical in designing a
      large, multicenter trial to test the effectiveness of pranayama in patients with COPD.
    
  