
    
      Protein-bound uremic retention solutes are increasingly recognized to play a role in the
      pathophysiology of the uremic syndrome. Numerous in vitro findings are indicative for their
      implication in the biochemical and physiological changes of uremia. Several of these
      protein-bound retention solutes originate from bacterial protein fermentation in the colon.
      p-cresyl sulfate, a fermentation metabolite of the amino acid tyrosine, is considered a
      prototype of this group of uremic solutes. The protein binding of this molecule was shown to
      be about 90% in end-stage renal disease patients. Several data have suggested that p-cresol
      plays a role in the immunodeficiency of uremia. Recently, a link between the molecule and
      endothelial dysfunction has been demonstrated. Also other members of the class of
      protein-bound solutes have been found to be associated with immune dysfunction, endothelial
      cell dysfunction and, closely related to the latter, oxidative stress.

      Free serum levels of p-cresol were shown to be greater in stage 5 chronic kidney disease
      (CKD) patients treated with hemodialysis (HD) hospitalized for infectious disease.
      Furthermore, a positive relationship was found between serum total p-cresol level and a
      uremic symptom score in patients treated with peritoneal dialysis (PD), whereas a correlation
      with small water-soluble solutes and the middle molecule β2-microglobulin was absent. A
      recent prospective observational study in stage 5 CKD patients treated with conventional HD
      (3 x 4 hours per week) indicated that the accumulation of p-cresol is a risk factor for
      overall mortality.

      Data on the serum concentrations of p-cresol in chronic kidney disease patients are lacking.
      The investigators hypothesise that the serum concentration of p-cresol is an independent
      predictor of progression to end stage renal disease and is an independent predictor for
      cardiovascular disease.
    
  