
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the response rate, in terms of clinical or radiologic response at 12 weeks
           after completion of study therapy, in patients with stage IB2-IVA cervical cancer
           treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy comprising dose-dense paclitaxel and carboplatin
           followed by radical chemoradiotherapy comprising concurrent cisplatin and radiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the response rate in patients treated with this neoadjuvant chemotherapy
           regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimen in these patients.

        -  Assess the progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Neoadjuvant chemotherapy: Patients receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy comprising
           paclitaxel IV over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats
           weekly for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Chemoradiotherapy: Beginning in week 7, or as soon as blood counts recover, patients
           receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats weekly for 4-6 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo
           concurrent radiotherapy comprising pelvic external beam radiotherapy once daily for 5½
           weeks (5 weeks for patients with positive para-aortic lymph nodes) and 2 applications of
           high-dose rate intracavitary brachytherapy or low- or medium-dose rate brachytherapy.
           Patients with parametrial or pelvic sidewall disease extension also undergo external
           boost radiotherapy for 3 days.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  