
    
      The endogenous circadian pacemaker (the natural biological rhythm of a 24-hour cycle) is a
      major determinant of the timing of sleep and sleep structure in humans. There are
      considerable data from animals and humans suggesting that the properties of the circadian
      pacemaker change with advancing age. It has been hypothesized that these changes may underlie
      the sleep disruption and reduction in daytime alertness observed in the elderly. Recent
      studies have confirmed the impact of endogenous circadian phase on REM sleep (Rapid Eye
      Movement--the period of sleep associated with dreaming) and have revealed that high sleep
      efficiency can only be maintained when there is a unique phase-relationship between the sleep
      episode and endogenous circadian phase. This phase-relationship is such that even a small
      change in the relative timing of the circadian pacemaker and the daily sleep episode can have
      a large impact on an individual's ability to consolidate sleep throughout the night,
      especially in older individuals.

      In this field-laboratory study, participants will first be monitored for 3 weeks while living
      at home on a self-selected sleep-wake schedule. They will then enter the laboratory for a
      13-day study. The laboratory study begins with 3 baseline days living on their habitual
      schedule, and participants will be allowed to leave the hospital each day, returning in the
      evening. After this 3-day baseline, the initial circadian phase will be estimated in a
      constant posture (CP protocol). This is followed by a 4-day light treatment, when the
      participant will be exposed to approximately a 2 hour light session each evening. As in the
      baseline, the participant will be allowed to leave the hospital during the daytime hours,
      returning in the early evening. Following the 4-day treatment, a second CP will be conducted.
      After the CP, a 3-day laboratory follow up will take place (similar to the baseline), and
      this will be followed by an ambulatory follow-up, where the participant will be monitored
      with an actigraphy monitor for 3 weeks while living at home (as in the ambulatory baseline).
      Sleep will be polysomnographically recorded (oxygen saturation, electrocardiography, air
      flow, respiratory effort, limb movement, eye and jaw muscle movement, and brain electrical
      activity) each night in the laboratory, blood samples will be collected during each CP so
      that the phase of the circadian rhythm of melatonin secretion can be assessed, and activity
      monitoring will continue from the ambulatory baseline through the ambulatory follow-up. Tests
      of performance and alertness will be conducted during the times the participant is awake in
      the laboratory.
    
  