
    
      We use a Bayesian Adaptive Design to examine efficacy of tANBL versus a non-tailored
      comparison program (CP). All participants will be offered individual telephone counseling,
      motivational text messaging, educational materials, and the choice of taking pharmacotherapy
      (must be obtained by participant). Participants in tANBL will receive the culturally tailored
      versions of all aspects of the program; participants in CP will receive non-tailored
      versions.

      Telephone All Nations Breath of Life (tANBL) Intervention Components

      Primary components of tANBL and their modifications from the original program are described
      below:

      Individual Sessions: The primary component of tANBL will be a series of individual support
      sessions, led by an AI facilitator. We will train community members in cessation support and
      counseling. All sessions begin with discussion of individual experiences. All facilitators
      can be given an extension on our toll-free line, which can be used from any computer. We will
      track calls, who participates, how long they last, and recordings (for supervision and
      training). Facilitators will, in part, use Motivational Interviewing (MI), which has been
      found effective among AI, enhances motivation for change, and is based on the assumption that
      many with addictions are not ready to change. The goal is to increase motivation through
      discrepancy between current behavior and goals/values. We developed culturally sensitive
      counseling scripts to explore positive and negative aspects of, participants' motivation and
      confidence for quitting smoking, the pros and cons, and plans for change. Participants are
      asked to identify their values and explore connections between smoking and their ability to
      live out their values. Participants who score lower on motivation and confidence at each
      session will be given more Motivational Interviewing.

      Text Messaging: Between phone calls, participants receive motivational culturally tailored
      text messaging, including messages about why smoking is detrimental to your health,
      respecting the sacred nature of tobacco, simple motivational messages to continue trying to
      quit or stay quit, etc., based on our educational curriculum. We have a database of
      motivational messages developed during the pilot of tANBL; we will develop and add more
      messages throughout program implementation to keep messaging relevant and fresh.

      Educational Curriculum: Our curriculum includes 11 brochures and combines the latest
      cessation methods with culturally specific elements, including substantial information about
      tobacco as a sacred plant for many, though not all, AI tribes, historical trauma, and
      medical/research mistrust issues, among other topics. Participants have stressed that
      cultural issues must be ingrained in the program, not given "lip service" with pictures of AI
      on otherwise "white" materials. Current materials were created by our team, community
      advisors, partner organizations, and previous ANBL participants, then sent to an AI graphic
      artist for layout. Educational materials for this project will be given to participants in
      paper form based on preferences of our pilot participants. Materials are available
      electronically if a participant wishes.

      Pharmacotherapy: Current treatment guidelines suggest pharmacotherapy be offered to all
      smokers trying to quit; participants have choice of pharmacotherapy, including varenicline,
      bupropion, nicotine replacement therapy (NRT, patches, gum, or lozenges), a combination, or
      none, as current best practices suggest. We considered providing pharmacotherapy as a part of
      the study, as we have done in some previous ANBL studies. However, after discussions with our
      community partners (particularly tribal partners), we learned that they would prefer a more
      real-world scenario where participants can choose to purchase nicotine replacement therapy or
      see their personal physician for a prescription. Previous ANBL participants have also told us
      that they would have been able to obtain pharmacotherapy without the study and that our
      provision of it was not a determining factor in them taking it. After those discussions, we
      decided to not provide free pharmacotherapy to our pilot tANBL participants. They were
      instead given the choice to purchase nicotine replacement therapy or obtain a prescription
      from their personal physicians. We still discussed all of the available options and allowed
      participants to ask questions of both facilitators and the study physician to allow for an
      informed decision. Based on feedback from our pilot participants, this was a good approach
      and we continue it for the efficacy test of tANBL. We will track use of the different types
      of pharmacotherapy and will examine how it affects quit rates. We will also ask participants
      who choose not to use any pharmacotherapy about reasons for their choice.

      Non-Tailored Comparison Program (CP) Intervention Components

      To best test our program, we use similar components to the intervention:

      Individual Telephone Sessions: CP arm participants will receive weekly phone calls from
      non-AI facilitators who will go over similar information using non-tailored materials from
      the American Cancer Society, through the web portal. Facilitators will not discuss
      traditional tobacco, historical trauma, or other AI specific topics. They will talk less
      about social support, as is more common in non-tailored programs.

      Text Messaging: CP arm participants will receive non-tailored text messaging.

      Educational Curriculum: Non-tailored educational brochures will be provided.

      Pharmacotherapy: All participants will be provided with education about pharmacotherapy.
    
  