
    
      All patients will be treated according to standard of care for their orthopedic injuries,
      including standard nutritional support in the preoperative period. Patients admitted to our
      academic Level I trauma center with spinal fractures and sarcoma requiring limb
      reconstruction will be approached for consent to participate in this study. Consented
      patients will be prospectively enrolled at the time of admission. We will obtain relevant
      patient medical history, standard preoperative labs, radiographic imaging, and nutritional
      assessment at the time of admission. Patients will be assessed for the presence of sarcopenia
      utilizing ultrasound measures of skeletal muscle as previously described.

      All patients will be evaluated by a clinical dietitian or dietetic assistant for nutritional
      assessment as part of the standard of care. In addition to screening for sarcopenia and
      malnutrition, we will assess the clinical benefit of oral nutritional supplementation with
      essential branched-chain amino acids in a population of trauma patients. Patients providing
      written informed consent will be enrolled in a prospective RCT to assess nutritional
      supplementation with conditionally essential branched-chain amino acids. Patients will be
      randomly assigned to receive standard nutritional support or standard nutrition plus oral
      supplementation with a commercially available nutritional supplement containing essential
      branched chain amino acids (Juven, Abbot Nutrition). Similar combinations of essential amino
      acids have previously demonstrated protective effects against skeletal muscle wasting and
      medical complications in immobilized critically ill patients. Patients will be prospectively
      followed for 12 months from the time of admission to assess clinical outcomes. Our primary
      outcome measures include skeletal muscle mass changes, wound healing complications,
    
  