
    
      Crohn's Disease is a very serious inflammatory gut disorder that often first presents in
      childhood. Once present, the underlying condition remains for life. It usually responds well
      to medical treatment which brings about a disease 'remission' but is inclined to become
      active again at intervals (relapses). When it is active, children are very unwell with
      reduced energy, loss of appetite and distressing abdominal symptoms (pain, diarrhea, etc.).
      Active disease can be treated in two very different ways - either with a 3-month course of
      steroids (tablets), or with a 6-week course of so called "liquid diet therapy (LDT)." With
      LDT, children receive all of their nutrition in liquid form. Both treatments have advantages
      and disadvantages. Both are quite effective, often controlling symptoms within days. Steroids
      may cause various side effects including thinning of bones (osteoporosis) with increased risk
      of fractures. LDT is somewhat challenging because normal (solid) foods are not allowed during
      the period of treatment. Both steroids and LDT are widely used - steroids predominately in
      the USA and LDT elsewhere. There is controversy as to which is best. This study aims to
      determine which should be preferred.

      In this clinical study, children presenting with Crohn's disease will be randomly assigned to
      either steroid treatment or LDT and followed up for a period of one year. During that time
      the assigned treatment will be used for any episodes of active disease. We will study a total
      of 80 children attending the Paediatric Gastroenterology Units in Birmingham, Bristol,
      Liverpool, Oxford, Sheffield and St. George's Hospital in London. Various outcomes will be
      compared in the two groups. We will examine the recovery rates (success in bringing about
      remission) and the frequency of subsequent relapses. We will compare growth and physical
      development, because active Crohn's disease and possibly steroids may have adverse effects on
      these processes. A special focus of the study will be on the effect of the disease and its
      treatment on bone health. Using special blood and urine tests and bone scans we will compare
      bone growth and density in the two groups. Finally, it is crucially important that we
      consider the impact of the disease and its treatment on the young person on the basis of
      their own individual perspective. To do this we will compare the 'quality of life' of
      children in the two treatment groups, using a questionnaire specially designed to measure
      this aspect in young people with Crohn's disease.

      This study will thus enable us to undertake a comprehensive comparison of the two major
      first-line treatments used in childhood Crohn's Disease. This is crucially important, and no
      such study has previously been undertaken
    
  