
    
      Sleep apnea (OSA) is a condition in which the air passage in the throat closes or partly
      closes during sleep and repeatedly interrupts breathing. The standard treatment of sleep
      apnea is continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) applied to the nose, but it is not
      suitable for all patients. Another treatment is to use an oral appliance in the mouth during
      sleep. The appliance covers the upper and lower teeth and acts to pull the lower jaw forward,
      opening the throat passage and allowing normal breathing.

      Oral appliance treatment does not treat sleep apnea effectively in all patients. In order to
      identify those patients for whom oral appliance therapy will work, Zephyr Sleep Technologies
      has invented a remotely controlled device that tests various positions of the lower jaw. This
      commercially available device, known as MATRx, is an FDA-cleared motorized dental positioner
      that can be used in an overnight sleep study performed in the hospital or clinic. Temporary
      dental-impression trays cover the upper and lower teeth. These are attached to a small motor
      that slowly and gently pulls the lower jaw forward under the control of a technician who
      determines when the best position is reached. Knowing the best position, and the likelihood
      of future success, allows the dentist to build an oral appliance with confidence.

      In order to eliminate the need for an overnight in-hospital sleep study, Zephyr Sleep
      Technologies has invented a new investigational device that allows clinicians to decide
      whether or not an individual is likely to benefit from oral appliance therapy, from the
      comfort of the individual's own home. An investigational device is one that is not cleared by
      the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Like the MATRx, the patient sleeps with a
      motorized positioner that moves the lower jaw. However, the new device (called MATRx plus) is
      automatically controlled by a computer, rather than a sleep technician, making it a feedback
      controlled mandibular positioner. Participation in this study will provide important data
      regarding the use of these device in their intended commercial setting, the dentist's office.

      Zephyr has previously carried out three research studies leading to the development of this
      feedback controlled mandibular positioner. The first study showed that the technician
      controlled positioner was able to accurately identify patients suitable for oral-appliance
      therapy, i.e., those with a good likelihood of success with a permanent device.

      This study also identified the amount of jaw protrusion (how far forward the lower jaw needs
      to be pulled) that will provide therapeutic relief of the patients' sleep apnea. This trial
      resulted in the placement of the device on the market, now sold in the United States as
      MATRx. The second two trials showed that the feedback controlled software used by the new
      positioner was very accurate and was able to identify successful candidates in a home
      setting.

      No serious or permanent problems or risks were identified in any of these research studies.
      Participants reported minor tooth and gum discomfort on the morning following the test and
      other minor issues including canker sores, excess saliva and being unable to sleep. Since
      other studies were designed to establish the safety and efficacy of the device, the purpose
      of the present research study is to collect additional data regarding the workflow of the
      device as it would occur during commercial use.

      The test will occur over a series of nights in the home or during a single night in the sleep
      laboratory. The test type will be decided by the care providers and this study will only
      document the rationale and will not influence the choice of test. Participants will be asked
      to provide feedback as to the preferred test, and will be told if they are candidates for
      oral appliance therapy based on the output of the test.
    
  