
    
      In gynecological surgery, surgical site infections are a common complication. Gynecological
      surgery and, more specifically, vaginal surgery leads to a high risk of infection not only
      due to its " clean-contaminated " nature related to the proximity of the vagina but also due
      to the use of a transvaginal mesh or suburetal sling. The germs most commonly found at the
      origin of a surgical site infection are germs forming part of the vaginal flora.

      Furthermore, in the field of pelvic organ prolapse surgery, certain specific complications
      such as mesh retraction and mesh exposure may be related to infection due to bacterial
      colonisation.

      The vaginal ecosystem contains a large quantity of bacteria, the commonest of which are
      lactobacilli. This ecosystem varies in women depending on their sexuality, hormonal
      impregnation, tobacco consumption or hygiene.It has been demonstrated that the microbiota can
      be divided into 7 classes depending on the predominant types of germ. It has also been shown
      that an imbalance in vaginal flora could be responsible for infections of the upper genital
      tract, obstetric complications or even the transmission of sexually transmissible diseases.

      Several studies have shown interactions between the microbiota and post surgical evolution. A
      recent study carried out at the Gynecology and Obstetrics department of Nîmes University
      Hospital (Veit Rubin et al, NAU 2019) also investigated the relationship between vaginal
      microbiota and the onset of postoperative complications in transvaginal mesh surgery. This
      retrospective study also found that patients with complications tended to have a greater
      diversity of microbiota. Furthermore, certain species of bacteria (Veillonella spp) seemed to
      be commoner in patients with complications. However, this was a low-powered retrospective
      study with few participants and the results therefore need to be confirmed.

      Our hypothesis is that the vaginal microbiota may be modified by a surgical act with a
      vaginal approach. There are very few studies on vaginal microbiota and so far no studies have
      evaluated the potential impact of a transvaginal surgery on vaginal microbiota.

      Our study may help to better understand the relationship between the vaginal microbiota and
      the postoperative evolution of patients.These possible modifications in vaginal microbiota
      might be predictive of the symptomatology of patients benefitting from transvaginal surgery
      and play a role in the the post-operative evolution of these patients.
    
  