
    
      The Fear of Cancer remains a significant problem for subjects enrolled surveillance programs.
      This emotional condition can influence the patients' wellbeing and their adherence to
      treatments. No results coming from the application of Cancer Worry Scale on high-risk of
      Pancreatic cancer individuals have been provided yet.

      The fear is an emotional reaction that can be the result of interpretation and cognitions of
      perceived internal cues and/or external cues. To objectify this emotion, a cancer worry
      scale, has been developed to investigate the fear in female breast cancer survivors. The
      proposed scale assesses the psychological distress caused by fear of cancer.

      The detection of high level of fear can prevent problematic behaviours, including anxious
      preoccupation, avoidance, and excessive checking, and moreover it can help patients to reduce
      difficulties in performing the individual's daily and social activities. The scale could use
      to evaluate the psychological burden produced by the enrolment in a surveillance program due
      to a certain predisposition to Pancreatic cancer. One step forward will be to manage those
      individuals with high-level of Fear of cancer, providing them a proper psychological support.

      At the General and Pancreatic Surgery Unit of the Pancreas Institute, some experimental
      self-made psychological support programs that investigate different psychologic distress
      through validated instruments, like anxiety, depression, perceived stress and global
      assessment or quality of life have been built up. It must be noted that the scale is not
      available specifically for Pancreatic cancer (originally it was created for breast cancer) ,
      and for the Italian language, thus it has never been applied in an italian
      surveillance/follow-up program dealing with Pancreatic cancer. Nowadays, there is only a
      well-structured paper assessing psychological factors associated with cancer worries in high
      risk participants in a pancreatic cancer surveillance program. Differently than what has been
      already reported by Konings et al, the cohorts of patients that will be considered are
      heterogeneous, reflecting more accurately the real-life scenario of the subjects to whom the
      scale is administered to. In addition, this may help to identify those individuals that may
      benefit from a psychological support, in order to prevent a withdrawal from the surveillance
      program.

      However, a cut-off has not been provided yet. With next step study we'll aim at determining a
      cut-off for the detection clinically relevant worry for cancer.
    
  