
    
      Of the estimated 11,000 cases of acute spinal cord injury (SCI) which occur each year in
      North America, 5% involve children. The injury is divided into the primary mechanical event
      which causes the injury, and the secondary events which follow. Outcome for SCI depends of
      the severity of the primary injury (complete vs. incomplete) and the spinal cord level of the
      injury. Current therapy is designed only to minimize the secondary events of SCI and other
      trauma-associated injuries. Because the current therapy does nothing to reverse the primary
      insult, significant advances in reducing the disability associated with SCI are unlikely.
      Recent basic science and animal studies suggest that stem cell treatment can foster
      functional improvement after SCI by helping repair the primary injury and reducing the
      secondary injury.

      Stem cells are "unspecialized" cells in the body that do not have a specific function yet
      (for example, they have not become "heart cells" or "brain cells" yet.) Stem cells are able
      to divide and develop into more mature, function-specific cells and take the place of those
      cells that die, are injured or can no longer function the way they are supposed to. Stem
      cells are being studied a lot because of this ability and there is the possibility that they
      may be used to take the place of cells that are no longer working in different parts of the
      body because of disease (as in cancer, diabetes, and heart disease). Stem cells can be found
      throughout the body, but they are most common in the bone marrow, the thick, spongy material
      inside the bones.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the safety of transplantation of the
      patient's own (autologous) Bone Marrow Progenitor Cells (BMPC) in children with SCI. The
      secondary objective is to determine if functional, physiological and anatomic outcome
      measures are improved after BMPC autologous transplantation in children with SCI.
    
  