
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Metatarsalgia is a vague term defining a symptom instead of a specific condition. The aim of
      surgical treatment of metatarsalgia is to decrease the pressure under metatarsal head,
      shortening and / or raising the metatarsal, thus removing the overload and preserving the
      joint integrity. It has been somewhat controversial, with more than 25 different lesser
      metatarsal osteotomies described to date. The Weil osteotomy is the most widely used surgical
      treatment in open distal metatarsal surgery, a popularity based upon the simple technique,
      stable fixation, excellent union rates and predictable results.

      According to the principles of traditional surgery, surgical manoeuvres requiring large
      incisions and aggressive techniques should be needed to effectively resolve the different
      pathological elements producing the deformity in order to eliminate this serious injury.
      These principles concerns surgeons like White, who described a modification of the distal
      metaphyseal osteotomy through a percutaneous approach without visualization and without
      internal fixation to obtain a metatarsal in optimal weight-bearing position. Percutaneous
      surgery of the foot, also known as minimal invasive surgery (MIS), allows interventions to be
      carried out through extremely small incisions without direct exposure of the surgical field
      under radiologic monitoring, thus causing minimal injury to adjacent tissues, and reducing
      the surgical trauma. Over the last few years, Foot Surgery has come to be recognised as a
      major Orthopaedic subspecialty, where the percutaneous surgery plays an important role. The
      Triple´s Weil osteotomy described by Maceira is the most widely used surgical treatment in
      open distal metatarsal surgery but nowadays, percutaneous osteotomy has proven to be a valid
      technique that yields results similar to open osteotomy for the treatment of metatarsalgia
      and other forefoot problems. It has been somewhat controversial the choice between the
      different operative treatments, being nowadays the triple´s Weil osteotomy (TWO) and the
      distal minimally invasive osteotomy (DMMO) the most popular, gaining both defenders and
      retractors surgeons in open and percutaneous surgery.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the clinical results between two different surgical
      treatments: triple´s Weil osteotomy (TWO) and distal minimal invasive osteotomy (DMMO).

      MATERIAL AND METHODS

      The investigators design an open randomized controlled clinical trial with patients operated
      in the same centre.

      The patients are randomized to TWO and DMMO groups. Number of osteotomies is based on the
      criteria of Leventen formula. In all patients the metatarsal osteotomy can be combined with
      different surgical procedures in presence of associated deformities: (i) SCARF osteotomy for
      hallux valgus (HV) deformity, (ii) flexor and extensor tenotomies with distal phalangeal
      percutaneous osteotomy for lesser toes deformities.
    
  