
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare relapse-free survival and larynx preservation in patients with resectable
           hypopharyngeal or laryngeal cancer treated with sequential vs alternating cisplatin and
           fluorouracil and radiotherapy.

        -  Compare the health-related quality of life in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the cost-effectiveness of these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by performance
      status, disease site, tumor stage, node stage, and center.

      Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms. Both groups may receive either
      conventional radiotherapy in single daily fractions, 5 days per week, for 7 weeks (option 1)
      or hyperfractionated radiotherapy in 2 daily fractions, 5 days per week, for 4-5 weeks
      (option 2), according to institutional policy.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive cisplatin and fluorouracil every 3 weeks. Patients with a
           complete or partial response on day 42 receive 2 additional courses of chemotherapy
           followed by 7 weeks of radiotherapy beginning on day 80. After radiotherapy, patients
           with a complete remission enter follow-up; those with a partial remission proceed to
           surgery. Patients with stable or progressive disease proceed immediately to surgery with
           or without postoperative radiotherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive cisplatin and fluorouracil every 3 weeks for 4 courses.
           Patients treated on radiotherapy option 1 are evaluated 2 months after completion of
           radiotherapy; those with a complete remission enter follow-up while all others proceed
           to surgery. Patients treated on option 2 are evaluated on day 42; those with a partial
           or complete response complete chemoradiotherapy and are then evaluated and treated like
           option 1 patients. Patients with stable or progressive disease on day 42 proceed to
           surgery with or without a third course of chemotherapy on week 7.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 3 years and at least every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 564 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  