
    
      Hyperlipidemia is the major risk factor for development of atherosclerosis which ultimately
      leads to cardiovascular disease (CVD), an important cause of mortality and morbidity
      worldwide. Atherosclerosis was previously considered as a lipid storage disease but now
      growing evidence indicates that increased oxidative stress, vascular inflammation and
      platelet activation play an important role in the initiation and progression of
      atherosclerosis. Among the hypolipidemic drugs, statins, 3-hydroxyl-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme
      A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, have proved to be very much effective. Therefore, statins
      are the most widely used hypolipidemic agents. Evidence shows that besides hypolipidemic
      action statins possess antioxidative, anti-inflammatory and antithrombogenic effects known as
      pleiotropic action which might play an important role in attenuating the atherosclerotic
      process. However, pleiotropic effect varies with different members of statins.

      The present prospective interventional study would be conducted in the Department of
      Pharmacology, Department of Cardiology and Internal Medicine, BSMMU from March 2016 to August
      2017. Total 90 cases will be selected according to inclusion and exclusion criteria. The
      cases will be subdivided into 2 groups: group A and B. Group A consisting of 45 patients who
      will receive rosuvastatin (5-10) mg orally once daily and Group B consisting of 45 patients
      who will receive atorvastatin (10-20) mg orally once daily for 08 weeks. Patient's blood
      sample will be collected to measure baseline lipid profile, malondialdehyde (MDA),
      erythrocytic glutathione (GSH), high sensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), prothrombin time
      (PT), platelet count. After obtaining baseline data patients will be assigned to the
      respective group. Parameters of baseline will again be evaluated after 08 weeks of
      therapeutic intervention. Regularity of drug intake will be ensured over telephone, pill
      count, and from the patient's compliance sheet. Patient's data will be recorded in a
      predetermined data sheet. Patients will be informed about study, its merits and demerits in
      easy language and then informed consent will be taken.Therefore, the present study has been
      designed to compare the antioxidative, anti-inflammatory and antithrombogenic effects of
      rosuvastatin and atorvastatin in hyperlipidemic patients to establish the superiority of a
      particular statin, so that it will provide a better therapeutic option in order to prevent
      CVD related mortality and morbidity.
    
  