
    
      Primary Goal: The goal of this research is investigating the heart rate changes in
      schizophrenic and bipolar patients under the medication of aripiprazole and quetiapine. As we
      known, clozapine, an antipsychotic, could cause fatal cardiac arrhythmia; in previous reports
      showed fatal rate about 0.7%, in spite of not very high, it reflects heart rate change
      decreasing. Therefore, many researches begin to focus on the relationship and heart rate
      change. Quetiapine, an atypical antipsychotic, FDA approved in 1997, Department of Health
      (DOH) in Taiwan also approved for schizophrenia for its effectiveness of negative disorders,
      low extrapyramidal syndrome, low side-effects of muscle catatonia and sluggishness. The
      side-effects of quetiapine are lethargy, nausea (occur rate 9%-44%), insomnia (12%), postural
      hypotension (4%-7%), constipation(8-10%), thirsty (9%-44%), weight gain (5-23%) and liver
      enzyme (GGT、AST、ALT) increasing (6%). Aripiprazole, FDA approved in 2002, DOH in Taiwan also
      approved for schizophrenia for its effective remittance of positive disorders, also effective
      for negative disorders and cognitive function regression. Besides, aripiprazole combine
      lithium or valproic acid can control the onset of manic and mixure of bipolar patients. The
      side-effects of aripiprazole are few, low extrapyramidal syndrome, no significant weight gain
      and blood sugar level, not surge in prolactin level and low menstrual cycle abnormal,
      gynecomastia and sexual dysfunction. Other side-effects are postural hypotension (0.6%-4%),
      headache (12%-27%), lethargy (8%-18%), insomnia (5%-26.3%), constipation (5-11%). Both
      quetiapine and aripiprazole are atypical antipsychotic, serious side-effects are fewer than
      typical antipsychotics, however, in some sensitive patients still have some side-effects such
      as limb-stiffness and akathisia (quetiapine 4%-12%, aripiprazole 2%-27.3%). In some
      retrospect researches, quetiapine will increase the opportunity of cardio- sudden death and
      pass off by 0.3%-1% in age 30-74 adult. On the other hand, aripiprazole (0.1%-1%) showed
      prolonging of QT wave which was considered as a danger factor of fatal arrhythmia. Despite of
      the danger, serious side-effects are rare, aripiprazole and quetiapine are widely used in
      clinical.

      This study hope to further study whether quetiapine and aripiprazole will occur heart rate
      changes similar to clozapine, using heart rate changes approach to find out the possibility
      of causing arrhythmia and fatal of these 2 medicines.

      Secondary goal:

        1. Further investigate the relationship of drug dosage and heart rate change, in order to
           acquire the best relationship both effectiveness as well as safety in acceptable heart
           rate change of clinical suggestion.

        2. The subjects of this study are schizophrenic and bipolar patients, who use quetiapine
           and aripiprazole, also will stratify into gender, age and influence of heart rate
           changes.
    
  