
    
      Seasonal influenza causes significant morbidity and mortality and is the fourth leading cause
      of death for older Americans. Annual immunization with a trivalent inactivated influenza
      vaccine (TIV) is recommended for all adults 50 years and older. However, despite improved
      vaccination coverage in older adults over time, influenza-related mortality has actually
      increased. While many TIV studies indicate its benefit for older adults as a whole, these
      studies lacked representation of the older and frail subset of the elderly who suffer over
      three-quarters of influenza-related mortality. Our pilot study funded by a Beeson K23 award
      showed significant vaccine failures in both antibody response to TIV and clinical protection
      in the frail elderly. Our preliminary data also suggest that chronic cytomegalovirus (CMV)
      infection as defined by the presence of CMV viral DNA in peripheral monocytes using a highly
      sensitive and specific nested PCR-based assay developed in our laboratory, rather than
      anti-CMV IgG serology, is associated with poor antibody and T-cell responses to TIV
      immunization as well as poor clinical protection. This is likely because anti-CMV IgG
      serology, the conventional diagnostic measure for chronic CMV infection, is a crude measure
      that merely indicates prior exposure to CMV and does not distinguish chronic (persistent)
      from past (resolved) infections. Mechanistically, precipitous immune functional decline has
      been observed in those over 75 and chronic CMV infection may contribute significantly to
      age-related immune senescent remodeling, termed immunosenescence. In order to improve our
      assessment of the effectiveness of TIV immunization and understanding of risk factors and
      underlying immune mechanisms that determine vaccine failure in adults over age 75, the frail,
      oldest old adult subset, this study is designed to conduct prospective, 4-year TIV
      immunization and post-vaccination influenza surveillance in adults over 75 years. We will
      first assess chronic CMV infection defined by detectable CMV DNA in peripheral blood
      monocytes and frailty status of the study participants and administer the Fluzone High-Dose
      TIV vaccine. Influenza-like illness (ILI) cases will be identified through post-vaccination
      influenza surveillance as previously done in the Beeson project and respiratory specimens
      obtained from ILI cases will be tested using the cutting edge PCR-based IBIS assay which can
      accurately subtype influenza and other respiratory viruses in the laboratory of Dr. Charlotte
      Gaydos in Division of Infectious Disease, a co-investigator of this project. Strain-specific
      antibody responses to TIV immunization will be measured by the standard hemogglutination
      inhibition (HI) assay. We will also evaluate T-cell responses to influenza viruses at
      baseline and after TIV immunization. Taken together, these studies will provide more accurate
      assessment of the clinical effectiveness of TIV immunization in real world geriatric
      population over age 75 and its underlying humoral and cell-mediated immune mechanisms.
      Moreover, we investigate the role of chronic CMV infection as defined by the presence of CMV
      viral DNA in peripheral monocytes as a risk factor for vaccine failure in the elderly over
      age 75. Because this oldest old subset is growing most rapidly in numbers and is at greatest
      risk for influenza-related morbidity and mortality. The long-term goal of this research is to
      strengthen immune protection against influenza for vulnerable older Americans through more
      effective and targeted immunization strategies as well as possibly through prevention and
      mitigation of chronic CMV infection.
    
  