
    
      Anorexia nervosa is considered one of the most difficult to treat mental disorders and often
      treatment outcomes are unsatisfactory. Outpatient treatment is the ideal choice for the
      treatment of anorexia nervosa, but a large subgroup of patients (50-60%) does not respond to
      outpatient treatments and need more intensive care, such as hospital rehabilitation. The
      hospitalization has often a short-term success, as weight is restored to a healthy level, but
      high percentage of patients relapse during the first year following the discharge. Strategies
      to limit the post-hospitalization relapse rate are now focused on assessing the effectiveness
      of different treatments given after discharge. Our group, after evaluating the results of a
      controlled study, used another strategy. Starting from the observation that the relapse rate
      is lower in outpatient than in inpatient settings, the investigators hypothesized that the
      reason of this difference is the nature of inpatient treatment and post-inpatient therapy.
      For this reason, different procedures and strategies have been implemented during
      hospitalization to reduce the relapse after discharge.

      The primary outcome of interest is the proportion of patients who relapse after discharge
      from hospitalization. For the calculation of the sample size a 95% confidence interval was
      established, an expected prevalence of 40% and a desired accuracy of 10%. Based on these
      premises, it is necessary to have a group of "completers" at 60 weeks of follow-up of 92
      patients. To calculate the initial sample needed to generate 92 patients at 60 weeks of
      follow-up, the investigators considered the attrition rate during treatment (set at 13%) and
      a subsequent attrition rate at follow-ups (set at 10%). This calculation produces a result of
      an initial sample of 118 patients.

      The frequency and time of relapse will be evaluated using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Cox
      proportional hazards regression analysis will be used to examine the role of predictive
      variables in predicting time to relapse. Univariate Cox regressions and multivariate Cox
      regressions will be used to evaluate the potentially predictive variables at baseline, during
      the treatment process, at the end of therapy and during post-discharge.
    
  