
    
      CLINICAL STUDY:

      1. Rate of postoperative pain of 2 endodontic disinfection protocols.

      -A clinical study will be carried out, in patients that attend the Faculdade de Medicina
      Dentária Dental Clinic at Universidade do Porto, for initial nonsurgical root canal
      treatments. About 80 single-rooted and premolar teeth with mature, fully formed apices and
      diagnosed with irreversible pulpitis will be selected.

      Patients will be excluded if they were <12 years of age; pregnant; had an indication for
      antibiotic prophylaxis; uncontrolled hypertension or diabetes mellitus; chronic renal
      failure; hematologic diseases; HIV; osteoporosis treated with bisphosphonates; steroid
      therapy >5mg/day of prednisolone and prior to head and neck irradiation therapy. We will also
      exclude teeth with abnormal root canal anatomy, with more than 26mm in length and with
      advanced periodontal disease. Those patients will be divided in 2 groups: Group 1: (control
      group) 5,25% NaOCl with syringe needle irrigation alone. Group 2: 5,25% NaOCl with syringe
      needle irrigation, activated with sonic system EDDY (VDW, Munich, Germany)

      All the patients will receive anaesthetic solution and after anaesthesia, each tooth will be
      isolated using rubber dam and the access cavity will be made.

      The glide path will be determined using stainless steel hand files, confirmed by periapical
      radiographs. The root canals will be instrumented, confirming the apical patency with a size
      15 K-file, and then the instrumentation sequence. The apical patency will be maintained
      throughout the shaping procedure using #10 k-file between each instrument.

        -  All the canals will be irrigated continuously with 5,25% NaOCl during the
           instrumentation, with a conventional endodontic syringe with 27 gauge needle. In group 1
           (control group), a final irrigation will be made with 1.5 ml of NaOCl per canal, during
           30 seconds in an up-and-down motion, with the needle 1 mm short of the working length,
           without binding. After this, a 30 seconds pause will be done. This step will be repeated
           once again. In group 2, a final irrigation will be made with 1.5 ml of NaOCl per canal
           and the irrigant will be activated using EDDY tips, 1 mm short of the working length
           without binding. The activation will be performed during 30 seconds, followed by a 30
           seconds pause, and the cycle will be repeated once again, according to manufacture
           instructions.

        -  After the final irrigation protocol, all the canals will be dried and sterile cotton
           pellets will be placed in the pulp chamber with a provisional restoration. No intracanal
           medicament will be placed. The obturation will be executed in the following appointment.
    
  