
    
      Reperfusion failure is attributed to different factors, including diabetes. Several
      mechanisms have been proposed for the harmful effects of hyperglycemia after acute myocardial
      infarction. Association of hyperglycemia with the activation of blood coagulation has been
      well studied; it could induce a shortening of the fibrinogen half-life, increase in
      fibrinopeptide A, fragments of pro-thrombin in factor VII, and platelet aggregation, all of
      which could lead to increased activation of thrombosis. Hyperglycemia at admission is
      associated with increased levels of inflammatory markers, enhanced expression of cytotoxic
      T-cells, and reduced expression of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4, indicating
      its association with increased inflammatory immune process after acute myocardial infarction.
      It also could be associated with endothelial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and possibly,
      abolition of protective ischemic preconditioning. Other possible mechanism of harmful effects
      of acute hyperglycemia is microvascular dysfunction after coronary revascularization.

      Studying the influence of diabetes mellitus on clinical outcome in the thrombolytic era of
      acute myocardial infarction, GUSTO-I trial showed that patients with diabetes mellitus have a
      significantly increased risk of both early and late mortality, which may be attributed to
      more advanced coronary artery disease and co-morbidities.

      Results of the HORIZONS-AMI study showed that patients with newly diagnosed diabetes mellitus
      had similarly poor prognosis after primary percutaneous coronary intervention in ST-elevation
      myocardial infarction patients as those with previously established diabetes mellitus, newly
      diagnosed diabetes mellitus was based on HgbA1c levels following admission and did not assess
      for blood glucose levels at admission or during hospital stay.

      Regarding the effect of diabetes mellitus on left ventricular systolic function, diabetic
      patients with first ST-elevation myocardial infarction had reduced left ventricular systolic
      function, measured with speckle-tracking strain, compared with non-diabetic patients at
      baseline and at 6-month follow up, despite similar left ventricular ejection fraction in both
      groups. Similarly, according to the ischemic cascade, diastolic function is expected to be
      affected with variable degrees among diabetic, prediabetic and non-diabetic ST-elevation
      myocardial infarction patients.

      Timmer et al, studied the effect of admission stress hyperglycemia and that of chronic
      hyperglycemia (elevated levels of HbA1c in patients with undiagnosed diabetes mellitus) on
      ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary
      intervention; both elevated glucose and HbA1c levels were associated with adverse outcomes.
      However elevated glucose but not elevated HbA1c was associated with larger enzymatic infarct
      size and high early mortality.

      Furthermore, Ota et al, demonstrated the association between stress hyperglycemia and the
      development of microvascular obstruction using late gadolinium enhancement - cardiovascular
      magnetic resonance imaging, suggesting that hyperglycemic control immediately after admission
      might reduce the incidence of microvascular obstruction.

      This study is designed to explore the impact of the glycemic state on the in-hospital and
      short term outcomes of patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction undergoing
      reperfusion therapy in two separate arms; those with known diabetes mellitus and those
      without known diagnosis of diabetes mellitus, and then comparing results among those with
      controlled diabetes mellitus, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus and newly diagnosed diabetes
      mellitus.
    
  