
    
      Background

      Post-procedural wound hemorrhage is a potential complication following any invasive
      procedure. In the setting of hemodialysis, with multiple repeated vascular access procedures
      performed on uremic patients prone to bleeding, post-procedural bleeding would not be
      infrequent.

      Serious adverse events following central venous catheter removal, while rare, were not
      isolated incidents. The British National Reporting and Learning System, reported 6 incidents
      of late bleeding following femoral line removal over 3 years. Of these, 3 resulted in deaths
      and 2 suffered more than one litre of blood loss. The UK Renal Association, British Renal
      Society and Intensive Care Society subsequently released a recommendation for the safe
      removal of a temporary femoral dialysis line in 2019. Protocols implemented in some units
      required an intense period of monitoring every 5-15 minutes in the first 2 hours.

      However, frequent monitoring protocols places additional demands on already scarce nursing
      manpower. As catastrophic bleeding is rare, it is difficult to expect healthcare staff to
      maintain a consistent high level of vigilance for such a low probability event. The
      possibility of missed catastrophic bleeding is always present, particularly if the patient is
      incapacitated and unable to call for assistance.

      A technological solution to safely monitor patients for bleeding following catheter removal
      is needed. Ideally, this technology should also be applicable for other wounds at risk of
      severe bleeding, for example, after arterial access for coronary angiogram or vascular
      interventions. There were no commercially available devices which fully met the user
      requirements, which included ease of use, wireless, compact form factor and specific
      detection of bleeding with no direct contact with the wound or blood. A compact device was
      developed

      Through a research collaboration between a hospital and a technology and design university,
      supported by a national innovation grant, a device was developed to monitor wound for
      bleeding. By the end of 2018, a working prototype - Blood Warning Technology with Continuous
      Hemoglobin sensor (BWATCH) - was available for first-in-human clinical trials. The
      technological concept has been presented in electrical engineering conferences. This is a
      stand-alone disc-shaped device (approximately 5 cm in diameter and <1 cm thick) which can be
      placed over dressings and continuous monitoring for bleeding will take place. The presence of
      fresh blood triggers a loud alarm, alerting medical staff to attend to the patient.

      Objectives

      The primary aim of this clinical trial was to evaluate the sensitivity of the device in
      detecting bleeding in a clinical environment. The secondary aim is to determine the
      specificity of the device for actual bleeding (false positive rates).

      Materials and Methods

      This study has been reviewed and approved by the institutional review board (Singhealth cIRB
      2014-2036).

      This a prospective, observational study performed in an acute care hospital. Inpatients
      planned for dialysis catheter insertion or removal based on standard clinical care and
      indications will be identified fro recruitment.

      Consent will be obtained from the patient or their legal representative if cognitively
      impaired. As part of standard care, the procedurist will secure haemostasis following the
      procedure and apply a bandage. The investigators will then place the device over the dressing
      and secure it in place. The device will then be left in-situ for at least 6 hours. Any alarms
      triggered and bleeding episodes will be documented in a case report form.

      For safety, throughout the observation period, routine monitoring and inspection for bleeding
      by the nurse-in-charge would continue as per hospital clinical protocol.

      Baseline demographic data of the patients will be collected. Laboratory test results
      collected will include the platelet count, international normalized ratio (INR) and partial
      thromboplastin time (PTT). The use of any anti-coagulation or anti-platelet medication will
      be recorded.

      From the bleeding incidences and device alarm activation rates, the sensitivity and
      specificity of the device for detection of true bleeding will be calculated.
    
  