
    
      In the UK, more than 700 people are diagnosed with type 2 diabetes each day. Higher than
      average (raised) fasting blood sugar (glucose) is a characteristic of those at risk of
      developing this disease and as a result there is significant interest in dietary factors that
      could reduce levels of blood glucose, lowering the frequency of type 2 diabetes in the
      population. Existing scientific evidence suggests an important role of dairy products and
      especially of whey protein in the control of blood glucose levels. However, there is a need
      for further studies to confirm these findings in individuals without diabetes but with higher
      than average blood glucose levels.

      Milk contains high quality proteins, of which 80% are caseins and 20% are whey proteins. Whey
      proteins are a rich source of branched-chain amino acids (such as leucine) which are thought
      to play an important role in regulating blood glucose control and other aspects of
      cardiovascular disease development in both healthy and type 2 diabetic subjects. However,
      very few studies in non-diabetic subjects with moderately raised HbA1c, characteristic of
      long-term poor glucose control, have been performed to investigate how whey protein affects
      blood glucose levels in the body especially when consumed over the longer term in the daily
      diet. Furthermore, data are limited on whether the leucine content of protein plays an
      important role in controlling blood glucose levels.

      Study aims The main aims of this study is to investigate in adults without diabetes but with
      moderately raised HbA1c (a long- term marker of blood glucose control) whether a protein
      obtained from milk and dairy products (whey) has a beneficial effect on fasting and day-long
      blood glucose and insulin levels compared with a plant based protein (such as wheat). The
      researchers will also determine if leucine, a particular amino acid (building blocks of
      protein) found in higher levels in whey protein plays an important role in controlling blood
      glucose levels.

      A secondary aim will determine whether the protein interventions influence risk markers for
      developing heart disease and diabetes including the level of blood lipids, hormones
      regulating blood sugar levels and blood vessel health.

      This study will test the hypothesis that the incorporation of whey protein (total protein
      dose 50 g/d) in the habitual diet for 8 weeks will result in an improvement in fasting and
      day-long blood glucose and insulin levels, and other risk markers of heart disease and
      diabetes compared with wheat protein (total protein dose 50 g/d), and that the addition of
      leucine to wheat (to match the content found in whey protein) will improve blood glucose
      control.

      Study design This study will be a long term, double-blind, randomised, controlled, three-way,
      cross-over study, in which the participants will receive the protein supplements (in random
      order) for 8 weeks each, with a 4 week wash-out period between the different protein
      treatments. At the beginning and end of each protein intervention, a fasting blood sample
      will be collected to determine the longer term effects of the assigned protein supplement on
      fasting glycaemic control, insulin sensitivity, endothelial function and other
      cardio-metabolic risk markers, as well as non-invasive measures of blood vessel health. At
      the beginning of each intervention period, a subset of participants will also undergo a
      day-long test meal investigation to determine the short-term (postprandial) effects of the
      protein interventions on the study outcome measures in response to standard sequential test
      meals containing the assigned protein interventions.
    
  