
    
      These results will help define the optimal concentration of local anesthetic used for
      continuous peripheral nerve blocks and help guide future research in this clinically-relevant
      area.

      This investigation will be a randomized, observer-masked, controlled, parallel-arm,
      human-subjects clinical trial.

      Enrollment. Subjects will be patients undergoing hip arthroplasty. Study inclusion will be
      proposed to eligible patients by the orthopedic surgery or anesthesia services or research
      coordinator/assistant within four weeks prior to surgery. If a patient desires study
      participation, written, informed consent will be obtained. Selection for inclusion will not
      be based on gender, race, or socioeconomic status. The study population of interest includes
      men and women of all races and socioeconomic status.

      Preoperative Management. Prior to surgery but following written, informed consent, subjects
      will have baseline endpoints measured. Patients will then have a perineural catheter placed
      on the operative side using standard techniques currently used at UCSD, and previously
      described. A 15 mL bolus of 2% mepivacaine with epinephrine (5 µg/mL) will be injected
      through the catheter to demonstrate correct catheter placement and provide intraoperative
      analgesia. Patients with a misplaced catheter indicated by a lack of sensory changes in the
      surgical extremity within 15 min will have their catheter replaced or be withdrawn from the
      study prior to randomization.

      The remaining patients will then be randomized to one of two treatment groups: a
      postoperative ropivacaine concentration of 0.1% or 0.4% ("study infusate"). Randomization
      will be based on computer-generated codes that will be created and maintained by the
      Investigational Drug Service. Randomization will be in blocks of four, and stratified by hip
      arthroplasty procedure (either total or resurfacing). A portable electronic infusion pump
      with study infusate will be attached to the perineural catheter. The basal rate and
      patient-controlled bolus volume will depend upon the treatment group (note that the basal
      rate and bolus volume differ for each concentration, but the total dose of local anesthetic
      is the same for each):

      Ropivacaine Concentration 0.1%: Basal Rate (12mL/h); Basal Dose (12 mg/h); Bolus Volume (4
      mL); Bolus Dose (4 mg); Lockout Duration (30 min); Maximum Dose (20 mg/h)

      Ropivacaine Concentration 0.4%: Basal Rate (3 mL/h); Basal Dose (12 mg/h); Bolus Volume (1
      mL); Bolus Dose (4 mg); Lockout Duration (30 min); Maximum Dose (20 mg/h)

      Intraoperative Management. Patients will receive a standardized general anesthetic with an
      inhaled anesthetic in N2O and O2. These gasses will be titrated for a Bispectral Index of
      40-60 in order to provide adequate anesthesia while minimizing postoperative recovery
      duration. Esmolol and hydralazine will be used to provide hemodynamic stability, and opioids
      administered if necessary (fentanyl in 25 µg increments). The ropivacaine infusion provided
      by the Investigational Drug Service will be initiated using an infusion pump attached to the
      perineural catheter. Just prior to emergence, IV morphine will be titrated for a respiratory
      rate of 12-14. Upon emergence, patients will be taken to the recovery room and then to the
      surgical ward.

      Postoperative Pain Management. For the duration of the study, all patients will receive the
      current usual and customary analgesics for hip arthroplasty patients at Hillcrest and
      Thornton hospitals. Perineural infusions will be administered per standard UCSD routine:
      continued administration until recommended discontinuation by the surgical service at which
      time the catheter is removed by the acute pain service.

      Outcome Measurements. We have selected measures that have established reliability and
      validity. Staff blinded to treatment group assignment will perform all measures and
      assessments. Preoperative measurements (performed prior to perineural catheter placement the
      day of surgery): strength of the quadriceps femoris, hip adductors, and hip flexors; and
      sensory level (measurement descriptions below). Postoperative measurements will be performed
      the day following surgery as close to 8:00-9:00 and 12:30-13:30 as possible (logistics
      occasionally preclude therapist evaluation at these exact hours).
    
  