
    
      Exclusion Criteria

      Disease-Specific Exclusions

        -  Patients with a concomitant malignancy other than non-melanoma skin cancer. Patients
           with a prior malignancy who have been disease-free for greater than 5 years or who
           received prior chemotherapy for that malignancy.

        -  Patients in whom pathological confirmation of the tumor is not obtainable. General
           Medical Exclusions

        -  Patients with concomitant medical illness such as serious uncontrolled infection,
           uncontrolled angina, or serious peripheral neuropathy, which, in the opinion of the
           treating physician, make the treatments prescribed on this study unreasonably hazardous
           for the patient.

        -  Patients with third degree or complete heart block are not eligible unless a pacemaker
           is in place. Patients on medications which alter cardiac conduction, such as digitalis,
           beta-blockers, or calcium channel blockers, or who have other conduction abnormalities
           or cardiac dysfunction may be placed on study at the discretion of the investigator.

        -  Patients whose circumstances will not permit study completion or adequate follow-up.

        -  Patients who are sensitive to E. Coli-derived drug preparations.

        -  Life expectancy of less than 12 weeks.

        -  Current, recent (within 4 weeks of the first infusion of this study), or planned
           participation in an experimental drug study other than a Genentech-sponsored avastin
           cancer study.

        -  Inadequately controlled hypertension (defined as systolic blood pressure greater than
           150 and/or diastolic blood pressure greater than 100 mmHg on antihypertensive
           medications).

        -  Any prior history of hypertensive crisis or hypertensive encephalopathy.

        -  New York Heart Association (NYHA) Grade II or greater congestive heart failure (see
           Appendix C).

        -  History of myocardial infarction or unstable angina within 6 months prior to study
           enrollment.

        -  History of stroke or transient ischemic attack within 6 months prior to study
           enrollment.

        -  Known CNS disease.

        -  Significant vascular disease (e.g., aortic aneurysm, aortic dissection). Symptomatic
           peripheral vascular disease

        -  Evidence of bleeding diathesis or coagulopathy. Blood coagulation parameters: PT such
           that international normalized ratio (INR) is less than 1.5 (or an in range INR, between
           2 and 3, if a patient is on a stable dose of therapeutic warfarin) and a PTT less than
           1.5 times the institutional upper limit of normal.

        -  Major surgical procedure, open biopsy, or significant traumatic injury within 28 days
           prior to study enrollment or anticipation of need for major surgical procedure during
           the course of the study.

        -  Core biopsy or other minor surgical procedure, excluding placement of a vascular access
           device, within 7 days prior to study enrollment.

      -History of abdominal fistula, gastrointestinal perforation, or intra- abdominal abscess
      within 6 months prior to study enrollment. Patients with clinical symptoms or signs of
      gastrointestinal obstruction and who require parenteral hydration and/or nutrition.

        -  Serious, non-healing wound, ulcer, or bone fracture.

        -  Proteinuria at screening as demonstrated by:

        -  Urine protein:creatinine (UPC) ratio greater than or equal to 1.0 at screening

        -  Known hypersensitivity to any component of avastin.

        -  Pregnant (positive pregnancy test) or lactating. Refusal to use of effective means of
           contraception (men and women) in subjects of child-bearing potential.
    
  