
    
      Aligning patient preferences (goals of care and values) with treatment is essential for
      quality health care. Treatment of life-limiting illness is especially preference-sensitive,
      where high-intensity care often offers marginal survival benefit but can worsen quality of
      life. Elderly persons with advanced chronic kidney disease (CKD) may face a choice between
      high-intensity dialysis and low-intensity conservative management (CM). This decision is of
      special import because it is often irreversible as dialysis itself can diminish residual
      kidney function. In adults over 70 years-old with advanced CKD, dialysis on average confers
      only marginally better survival than medical management while reducing independence and
      mobility and increasing medical procedures. Poor communication about benefits and risks of
      treatment options available to these patients results in decisional conflict: a state of
      uncertainty associated with making a choice that best reflects values and preferences.
      However, it is unclear how to best educate patients and their care-partners about their
      treatment choices and the importance of advance care planning.

      The objective of this trial is to compare the effectiveness of two widely used strategies,
      in-person education alone versus in-person education plus an interactive web-based decision
      aid, in: 1) reducing decisional conflict and empowering patients and care-partners to select
      treatment aligned with patient preferences; and 2) improving care-partners' ability to
      confidently and accurately express patients' preferences when patients are unable (proxy
      decision-making).

      The hypothesis is that, compared to traditional in-person education, use of the Decision Aid
      for Renal Therapy (DART) will decrease decisional conflict, increase completion of advance
      directives, improve patient and caregiver satisfaction with treatment (quantitative
      outcomes), and contribute to greater patient engagement, satisfaction with decision-making,
      and care-partner concordance (qualitative and quantitative outcomes).

      DART is a web-based multimedia decision-aid that is designed to be accessible to individuals
      with limited health literacy. The investigators will evaluate whether use of DART results in
      greater patient understanding of options, leading to better discussions with care providers,
      and ultimately lower decisional conflict and greater completion of advanced directives
      compared with the comparator, in-person education. DART is replicable, consistent, can be
      shared with care-partners, and can be viewed in the comfort of the patient's home.

      This randomized clinical trial targeting 400 older adults with advanced kidney disease and as
      many as 400 of their care-partners compares the effectiveness of DART plus in-person
      education to in-person education alone for reducing decisional conflict and increasing
      completion of advance care plans (ACPs) among older adults with advanced CKD and their
      care-partners. Patients and patient-care-partner pairs will be surveyed at baseline for goals
      of care, life goals, health literacy, patient activation, end-of-life (EOL) preferences and
      baseline scores on other study outcome measures, and followed at 3- to 6-month intervals for
      up to 18 months, censoring at dialysis, death or study end, to collect data on decisional
      conflict and completion of advance directives as well as QOL, satisfaction, dyad concordance
      and medical events, such as dialysis initiation.
    
  