
    
      Background:

      Personalized risk communication methods have been used to educate patients who are at high
      risk of developing a cardiovascular event. These methods include personalized counseling,
      printed brochures and individualized graphs describing the status of the risk factors. Very
      few studies have provided an interactive tool for patients to use to compare the relative
      change in risk that might result from modifying their risk factors.

      Objectives:

      The goals of this pilot study were to: (a) develop a prototype of a personalized dynamic
      dashboard to educate veterans and help them make informed decisions about modifying their
      vascular risk factors (hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, and tobacco use) to
      reduce the probability of a vascular event; (b) test the usability of this tool from the
      patient's perspective; and (c) provide preliminary data regarding the effectiveness of this
      tool in terms of changes in lifestyle or risk factor control compared with nurse-education.

      Methods:

      This was a three-arm randomized controlled study. Veterans from the panel of one experienced
      general internist were randomly assigned to one of three groups: (1) dashboard with
      nurse-education, (2) nurse-education alone, (3) usual care. To be eligible, patients must
      have had at least two of the following: body mass index >30 kg/m2; current tobacco use;
      systolic blood pressure >140 mm Hg or diastolic >90 mm Hg; LDL-cholesterol >130 mg/dL, or
      hemoglobin Hb1Ac >8%. We developed the dashboard in our Human Computer Interface/Information
      Technology laboratory. Patients in the dashboard group received two in-person counseling
      sessions regarding methods for controlling risk factors, and were asked to use the dashboard
      tool to enter values for their own risk factors and to observe the relative effects of
      varying their risk factor control on their overall vascular risk. The nurse-education
      consisted of two in-person counseling sessions regarding methods for controlling risk
      factors. Both intervention sessions lasted approximately 30 minutes; therefore, the majority
      of the time was used to interact with the tool in the dashboard group whereas the entire time
      was used for personalized risk factor discussion in the nurse-education group. For the usual
      care group, data were retrospectively collected about the primary care visits and laboratory
      tests which took place during the same period as the visits for intervention patients.

      Status:

      Completed.
    
  