
    
      Monitored anesthesia Care (MAC) is a type of conscious sedation delivered by an
      anesthesiologist, during which different medications are given, usually via the intravenous
      route, to obtain varying levels of sedation depending on the surgery or procedure. This is
      routinely done for all EBUS procedures at Cooper University Hospital. Since MAC anesthesia
      does not include having a secure airway, occasionally the patient may develop episodes in
      which their oxygen level drops. During these episodes, the anesthesiologist will stop the
      procedure temporarily until the oxygen level returns to a normal range.

      Often, changes in sedation amount is also required during this time. In traditional MAC
      anesthesia, the patient is receiving oxygen via a nasal cannula or a mask capable of
      measuring capnography. If oxygen is delivered via a capnography mask, the routine is to
      create a hole with scissors in the side of the mask in order to allow the bronchoscope into
      the patient's mouth. The Mapleson Circuit is a breathing system used to deliver oxygen and
      remove carbon dioxide during anesthesia. It consists of fresh oxygen flow, a reservoir bag,
      an expiratory valve, tubing, and a connection to the patient. There are different types of
      Mapleson circuits depending on the different arrangements of its components. The
      investigators plan to use a Mapleson D circuit attached to a nasal trumpet via a connector.

      Endobronchial Ultrasound is a technique that uses ultrasound along with bronchoscopy to
      visualize the airway wall and structures adjacent to it. The clinical application and
      diagnostic benefits of EBUS have been well established, including diagnosis and staging of
      lung cancer. EBUS is usually performed under conscious sedation for patient comfort.

      The route of entry for the EBUS scope requires passage through the vocal cords and into the
      airways. The procedure tends to be very stimulating for this reason, which is the reason for
      the necessity for anesthesia. Due to the amount of anesthesia required to subdue the airway
      reflexes for a smooth procedure, occasionally, the patient may become apneic or obstruct and
      not take adequate tidal volume breaths, leading to hypoxia. During these instances, the
      procedure is halted until the patient's oxygen levels return to baseline. The investigators
      have noticed that anesthesiologists who prefer to use the mapleson circuit with a nasal
      trumpet in place tend to less often interrupt the procedure due to hypoxia.

      Placing a nasal trumpet in one nare allows access to the oropharynx, bypassing soft tissue
      that may relax under anesthesia and cause obstruction. Connecting that nasal trumpet to a
      device that can not only deliver oxygen efficiently when the subject is spontaneously
      breathing, but can also be used as an assist device to deliver assisted breaths in the event
      that the patient becomes hypoxic or apneic provides a method to oxygenate into the oropharynx
      without having to interrupt the procedure. It also helps maintain an airway from the nares
      into the oropharynx and prevent episodes of obstruction, which are commonly seen under MAC
      anesthesia. All anesthesiologists are familiar with the mapleson circuits as well as nasal
      trumpets.

      No research has been done in this field specifically regarding EBUS. There is no anesthetic
      standard of care that is specific for an EBUS procedure. The anesthesia can be local
      anesthesia alone, with just topicalization of the airways, or MAC, or even general anesthesia
      with an endotracheal tube or a laryngeal mask airway. The choice is practitioner dependent.

      Our experience has been that MAC with a mapleson circuit leads to less procedural
      interruptions, less hypoxic episodes and shorter procedural duration.
    
  