
    
      Objectives:

        -  To assess the effectiveness of follow up of mild COVID-19 cases in home isolation

        -  To assess the applicability of telemedicine tools in the follow up of those patients and
           early identification of warning symptoms needing more intensive management measures.

        -  To assess the clinical characteristics for mild COVID-19 cases and post covid sequelae
           and the course of symptoms

        -  To assess the persistence of symptoms during follow up.

        -  To assess the quality of life during home management period.

        -  To assess cost-effectivenes of home isolation vs hospital admission in mild COVID-19
           cases.

      Study population & Sample size :

      The study includes 400 Adult (18-65 years) Egyptian patients with mild COVID 19 diagnosed by
      PCR consented (oral consent) to home isolation to follow them.

      Study Design:

      Prospective observational study.

      Methods:

      • All patients will be subjected to thorough history and clinical examination. 400 adult mild
      COVID cases consented to home isolation to follow them by: phone calls, what's app, hot line
      for emergency, Triage sheet, zoom meetings.

      Patients will be given brochures about home isolation (by Egyptian MOH), list of medications,
      plan of follow up.

        1. Daily follow up for: fever chart, report any new symptoms or progression of previously
           present symptom or presence of red flags.

        2. Blood samples will be obtained and CT chest will be done according to the usual
           protocol.

        3. Patients will be followed for 3 months to detect post covid sequelae and the course of
           symptoms (and the persistence of any symptoms).

        4. Questionnaire will be done to assess the patients' commitment to the advices and
           regulations of home isolation as well as forms to assess fatigue and the quality of life
           (36-Item Short Form Survey; SF-36).
    
  