
    
      The Behavioral Neurology Unit studies the human brain systems underlying learning and
      adaptation with the goal of finding interventions to make these processes more efficient.
      This study will observe neural reorganization underlying episodic memory performance. The
      protocol will investigate how engaging in a memory task alters the activity and connectivity
      of the network and the relevance of those changes to successful task performance. Also, how
      this adaptation influences plasticity of the network will be examined. Using simultaneous
      TMS, EEG, and cognitive testing, this study will examine the network basis of memory
      processing, as well as elucidating potential mechanisms of TMS-induced memory improvement.
      The overall objective of this study is to (1) examine the effects of TMS on EEG biomarkers of
      successful memory performance and (2) investigate how the task state of the episodic memory
      network influences the effect of faciliatory TMS on memory.

      The results will answer basic science questions about the network basis of memory processing,
      with potential application to other cognitive networks and domains. Additionally, these data
      will provide a greater understanding of TMS as a tool for influencing the hippocampus, the
      network, and memory performance, allowing for optimization of stimulation for that purpose.
      Finally, this work will address clinical questions on how to improve memory and re-channel
      activity in networks via noninvasive stimulation for clinical purposes.

      Episodic memory provides a means by which we reflect on the past, make decisions about the
      future, and form a learned identity. Deficits in this system occur in a variety of
      neurological and psychiatric disorders, making them one of the most debilitating problems in
      neurology. However, there currently exist no effective treatments for memory impairment. A
      better understanding of how the brain adapts to perform a memory demand will not only expand
      our basic knowledge of memory processing but could inform novel treatments for individuals
      with memory impairments.

      Episodic memory depends on the hippocampus and a distributed set of regions which form the
      hippocampal-cortical network (HCN), including medial prefrontal, posterior cingulate, and
      medial and lateral parieto-occipital cortex. This network shows changes in fMRI activity and
      connectivity in response to successful memory encoding and retrieval. Likewise, abnormal
      function of this network has been associated with memory impairment in many disorders,
      including traumatic brain injury, epilepsy, and Alzheimer s disease. Additionally, the HCN
      generates real-time EEG signatures of successful encoding and retrieval, most notably the
      Late Positive Posterior Event-Related Potential (ERP) and oscillatory activity in the
      theta/alpha band.

      There has been substantial recent interest in using brain stimulation to manipulate brain
      networks, both to test the role of particular regions and networks in memory processing
      causally and as a potential therapeutic tool in treating memory disorders. Noninvasive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been used to manipulate activity and connectivity
      in the HCN and improve memory performance in healthy adults. Repeated treatment over days
      produces lasting effects, but single sessions of cTBS have been effective and time-locked
      cTBS can produce facilitation at the trial-by-trial level. However, while enhancement of
      connectivity in the HCN is positively correlated with memory improvement, how TMS treatment
      increases the retention of information in the HCN and particularly the hippocampus remains
      unknown. Additionally, while the effects of time-locked cTBS have been examined in relation
      to fMRI activity in the hippocampus39, the effect of HCN cTBS on EEG measures of successful
      memory has not been studied. Establishing these mechanisms will improve the basic
      understanding of how the brain successfully meets a memory demand and inform translational
      studies for the treatment of memory impairment. One goal of this project is to examine the
      effects of on-line TMS on the electrophysiological signatures of successful memory
      performance to provide more information on the mechanism by which TMS improves episodic
      memory to develop new and specific biomarkers of target engagement for future clinical
      studies.

      The effects of brain stimulation have been shown previously to vary depending on neural
      state, such as the phase of oscillations relevant to the stimulated network and network
      activation by simultaneous task performance. However, the influence of brain state on HCN
      facilitation with TMS has not been investigated, despite its likely importance. A second goal
      of this project is to examine this question of task state-dependent modulation for the HCN
      and episodic memory.

      Using simultaneous EEG, TMS, and memory testing, we will investigate the EEG activity related
      to successful memory performance and examine how TMS modulates that activity. In healthy
      volunteers, we will deliver brief, facilitatory TMS before and during the encoding trials of
      a memory task to either the HCN, via an inferior parietal cortex site with maximal
      hippocampal connectivity, or to the vertex as a control. We will additionally deliver
      stimulation during a control task with similar attentional demands and processing load, and
      there will be a no-stimulation condition for both tasks. We will record task performance and
      time-locked EEG activity, focusing on episodic memory performance and the late positive
      posterior ERP, theta/alpha power, and EEG functional connectivity measured during encoding
      and retrieval as our outcome measures.
    
  