
    
      Osteoporotic fragility fractures of the hip are common in the geriatric population, are
      increasing in frequency, and represent a growing social and economic burden. Pain control
      after surgical treatment is an area of growing interest, as improvement in post-injury pain
      is often an important indication for surgical treatment of hip fractures.

      Typically a mainstay of post-operative pain control, the use of opiates has come under
      increasing scrutiny, as it has been shown to be associated with delirium, respiratory
      depression, and even may even lead to addiction or abuse in the medically frail geriatric
      population. These concerns have led to efforts to minimize the use of post-operative opiates
      in hip fracture patients. In that context, a treatment that could reduce the necessity of
      post-op narcotics while still improving pain control would be potentially valuable.

      There has been growing interest in the use of long-acting local anesthetics for improving
      pain control in orthopaedics, particularly in the elective total joint arthroplasty
      population. Studies have shown that arthroplasty patients receiving long-acting local
      anesthetics have decreased opiate requirements, reduced length of stay, and lower costs.
      Although well-demonstrated in the elective arthroplasty population, the effects of
      long-acting local anesthetics have yet to be demonstrated in the hip fracture population.
      Given that these fractures frequently occur in medically frail patients with multiple
      comorbidities, in whom post-operative confusion and delirium are relatively common, there is
      the potential for treatments that decrease opiate requirements to demonstrate substantial
      medical and economic benefits.

      Exparel (liposomal bupivacaine) and long-acting local anesthetics have been used extensively
      in hip replacement surgery and have not been shown to be associated with any increased risks.
      In the case of patients with displaced femoral neck fractures treated with arthroplasty, the
      surgical techniques are identical to those being used in this study. Exparel has also been
      used in trauma surgery as well as foot and ankle surgery without any increased described
      risks, although its use explicitly in hip fractures has not been published. However, the PI
      has trained in other medical centers where Exparel is routinely used in hip fracture patients
      without any identified increased risks or complications, but there is a paucity of data on
      this subject, which is the rationale for this study.

      The investigators hypothesize that in patients with osteoporotic fragility fractures of the
      hip, patients receiving intraoperative long-acting local anesthetics will have decreased pain
      and decreased post-operative opiate requirements, leading to less delirium and decreased
      hospital resource utilization during their index hospitalization.

      The goal is to conduct a multi-center prospective randomized control trial to determine if
      liposomal bupivacaine is superior to standard of care by addressing the below separate but
      related aims:

        1. Determine the effectiveness of Exparel to reduce narcotic requirements and pain post
           operatively after hip fracture treatment. Excess narcotic use in the elderly population
           is associated with a host of complications often magnified by polypharmacy, including in
           hospital delirium, increased length of stay, nausea, constipation, urinary retention,
           respiratory depression and others. Decreasing narcotic usage in this group of patients
           following hip fracture can possibly reduce such complications. Patients will receive
           standard of care medical treatment and be randomized to intra-operative Exparel vs.
           placebo injections. Opioid requirements, complications, pain score, and length of stay
           will be assessed in the post-operative period. Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize
           that total morphine requirements and pain scores will be decreased in this group
           following the administration of exparel in the geriatric hip fracture fracture
           population.

        2. Determine the effectiveness of Exparel to reduce delirium in post-operative hip fracture
           patients. In hospital delirium in elderly patients is associated with poor outcomes,
           including prolonged length of stay, poor participation in rehabilitation, and falls. Use
           of a locally administered liposomal bupivacaine could decrease the need for additional
           medications for pain control in addition to decreased mental stress for patients in this
           unfamiliar situation, thus resulting in decreased episodes of delirium. The
           investigators will assess delirium utilizing Confusion Assessment Method (CAM) scores in
           the post-operative period at regularly scheduled intervals and compare average scores
           between the treatment / standard of care group. Hypothesis: The investigators
           hypothesize that total episodes of delirium will be decreased in the liposomal
           bupivacaine group.

        3. Determine if Exparel is cost-effective in hip fracture patients. The costs associated
           with increased narcotic usage, prolonged stay, resources, and complications can be
           significant. The use of liposomal bupivacaine may lead to decreased resource utilization
           to care for hip fractures. The investigators will conduct an economic analysis
           evaluating total inpatient hospitalization costs including costs associated with length
           of stay, medication requirements, and resources associated with consultations and
           diagnostic evaluations. These costs will be compared against the cost of Exparel
           administration to evaluate the net cost effect of the intervention. Hypothesis: The
           investigators hypothesize that the net cost of inpatient care will be decreased when
           compared to standard of care.
    
  