
    
      Background Information:

      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia worldwide, and it continues to
      grow in prevalence, afflicting an estimated 3 million Americans. While treatment of AF
      symptoms can be resource-intensive, another source of physical, social, and economic burden
      is thromboembolic stroke, the major cause of morbidity and mortality for both symptomatic and
      asymptomatic people with AF. People with AF must decide on a stroke prevention medication
      (typically, Warfarin or Oral Anti-Coagulants (OACs)).

      Shared Decision Making (SD) is particularly useful when decisions, such as this, are value
      laden and complex. Models of SDM stress clear communication of the risks and benefits of all
      treatment options (including no treatment) to patients, who in turn need opportunities to
      share their treatment preferences, relevant values, and goals of care.

      Decision aids are tools designed to support both people with AF and clinicians in SDM by 1)
      providing accurate, balanced information; 2) clarifying patients' values; and 3) improving
      SDM skills.

      Two types of decision aids will be evaluated in the study: a patient-centered Patient
      Decision Aid (PDA) and an Encounter Decision Aid for collaborative use by the clinician and
      patient. The PDA is intended to help people with AF prepare for the medical visit with
      foundational understanding and questions. The EDA is intended to promote SDM between the
      clinician and person with AF.

      Research Design & Methods:

      Through a randomized controlled trial, our study will address whether the use of a PDA, and
      EDA, a combination of the 2, or usual care achieves the best SDM process and health outcomes.
      We will assess the comparative effectiveness of those 4 approaches in terms of their ability
      to affect the following outcomes: 1) SDM outcomes, including decisional conflict, knowledge,
      and quality of patient-clinician communication; and 2) health outcomes, including adoption
      rates of anticoagulation therapy, adherence to anticoagulation therapy regimen, bleeding,
      stroke/systemic embolism, and death. Data collection will include medical record review,
      survey completion, and video/audio recording of the clinician encounter.

      Study sites:

      Recruitment is planned to occur from 6 sites within the US.

      Data Collection:

      Self-reported outcomes from people with AF and clinicians will be collected at the end of
      each clinical encounter. In addition, clinicians will complete a survey that collects data on
      their demographics and practice characteristics.

      Data from the medical record will be abstracted for all enrolled participants with AF to
      capture demographic, clinical, and medication prescription data.
    
  