
    
      This is a prospective cohort study conducted within the medical network of the participating
      investigators and institutions. Patients meeting the eligibility criteria outlined above will
      be eligible for participation and the investigators will obtain written informed consent. A
      central Institutional Review Board (IRB) will approve the protocol and each participating
      institution.

      After diagnosis of DCIS, the most representative tissue block (or 10 sections mounted on
      charged slides cut at 3 microns) will be sent to PreludeDx for DCISionRT. The most
      representative specimen should be selected from tissue collected via direct tumor biopsy
      (either FNA, core needle or excisional biopsy) as part of routine patient care. Patients must
      be enrolled in the study and the enrollment and pre-testing data forms must be completed and
      submitted before the DCISionRT results are reported. Then, after review of the DCISionRT
      results, the investigators complete and submit the post-testing data form. The patient may
      then be followed for up to 10 years (or until death) with completion of a yearly follow-up
      form.

      All study data will be stored in an encrypted, HIPAA-compliant database maintained by the
      coordinating center. Each consented patient will be assigned a unique Study ID number. Study
      personnel at each institution will maintain an electronic key to link the Study IDs of its
      own patients to the patients' local medical record number. All personal health information
      (PHI) will remain at the local institution and only de-identified data will be uploaded to
      the national registry. No genetic test results that may be used to identify the patient will
      be included in the database.

      This study anticipates the participation of 25 to 100 sites within the United States with
      each site enrolling between 10 and 100 patients. The study is designed to collect information
      for up to 2,500 patients.

      The purpose of this study is to create a de-identified database of patients, test results,
      treatment decisions and outcomes that can be queried to determine the clinical utility of the
      DCISionRT™ Test in the management of DCIS, as it is broadly incorporated into clinical
      practice. The primary objective is to identify a statistically significant difference in
      physician treatment recommendations for patients diagnosed with DCIS and treated with breast
      conserving surgery based on availability of the DCISionRT test results. The primary endpoints
      are treatment recommendations according to standard procedure at each clinical site both pre-
      and post-DCISionRT results.

      Secondary endpoints include the percent of patients for which the recommended treatment
      before DCISionRT results and after DCISionRT results differ as a function of clinical
      factors, such as age groups (<40, 40-50 and >50), grade (I, II, III), and tumor size (>1cm,
      >2.5cm, >4cm). Other analyses involve the identification of key driver(s) of treatment
      recommendation, such as age, ethnicity, race, family history, presentation
      (screening/clinical), grade, architecture, necrosis, tumor size, palpability, number of
      excisions, surgical margin, hormone receptor status, HER2 status; distribution of DCISionRT
      scores across the cohort; and identification of key driver(s) of treatment recommendation
      based on geographic region of the investigator.

      The study population will be selected from the clinical practices of the participating
      investigators and institutions. Patients who have been recently diagnosed with DCIS and are
      being evaluated for the need for further therapy will be screened for eligibility per the
      following eligibility criteria.
    
  