
    
      An important attribute of patient-centered care is the active engagement of patients in
      making health care decisions. Despite advances in health care to support shared decision
      making, the patient experience of mental health care remains provider-driven. For individuals
      with serious mental illness (SMI), important decisions involve the choice of medications and
      how best to use medications to support individualized, person-centered recovery goals. By
      comparing the effectiveness of two approaches for promoting shared decision making around
      medication treatment on outcomes that matter most to individuals with SMI, the proposed study
      will advance ongoing and much-needed efforts to evolve toward a more personalized,
      recovery-oriented system of mental health care.

      Building on the work of a multi-stakeholder collaboration, investigators will compare two
      interventions, Person-Centered Care and Measurement-Based Care, both focused on
      patient-prescriber interactions around medication treatment. The investigators' study will
      address three questions that patients have identified as important to them:

        1. Are there ways I can be more involved in my care that will result in better outcomes?

        2. How likely am I to benefit from improved communication with my prescriber?

        3. How will shared decision making support my personal recovery and overall wellness?

      Study aims will compare the effectiveness of measurement-based vs. person-centered care on
      the patient experience of care and on shared decision making. Investigators hypothesize that:

        1. Person-Centered Care will result in greater improvement in patient experience of care
           with medication treatment than Measurement-Based Care.

        2. Person-Centered Care will result in a greater level of shared decision making during the
           medication visit than Measurement-Based Care.

      In addition, investigators will compare the effectiveness of the two approaches on seven
      secondary patient-centered outcomes, and examine differences in outcomes within the two
      approaches for subgroups of patients based on their: (1) current status regarding psychiatric
      medication, (2) engagement with the interventions, and (3) illness severity.

      The target population is 2,460+ Medicaid-enrolled adults with SMI who receive medication
      treatment at one of 15 community mental health centers (CMHC). Using a prospective
      cluster-randomized design with a mixed-methods approach, investigators will randomly assign
      CMHCs to one of the two interventions. Quantitative (self-report, claims, process) and
      qualitative (interviews) data will be gathered at multiple time points across the two-year
      intervention period (baseline, 8 months, 16 months, and 24 months). Multi-level longitudinal
      analyses will examine the impact of the interventions on outcomes and explore the role of
      moderating variables. Qualitative data will be used to understand patient and stakeholder
      perspectives and to promote dissemination and sustainability.
    
  