
    
      B-CLL is one of the most common types of leukemia, remains incurable, and has only limited
      therapeutic options available including alkylating agents and fludarabine. The identification
      of new, selective, and non-toxic forms of therapy for patients with B-CLL is therefore a high
      priority.

      APO866 is a novel drug that induces cell death by specifically inhibiting the biosynthesis of
      NAD+ from niacinamide, which is essential for the cellular metabolism, protein modification
      and messenger synthesis. APO866 is not subject to the commonly known mechanisms of MDR. Its
      activity is cell cycle independent. APO866 exerted high anti-tumor activity on a broad range
      of different tumor cells derived from both human solid cancers and leukemias in vitro,
      including CD38- and CD38+ cell lines, and on a large number of human xenografts in nude mice
      and rats in vivo. Hematologic cancer cells were highly sensitive to APO866 (lower than 6 nM).
      Lymphocytes are the most sensitive normal cells to APO866 resulting in lymphocytopenia and
      reticulocytopenia in rats and monkeys. Furthermore, APO866 may have anti-angiogenic
      properties as shown in vivo and dose-dependent decrease of VEGF levels in patients treated in
      the phase I study.

      It is unclear why CD38 positivity is associated with a short patient survival and poor
      responsiveness to chemotherapy. It is possible that CD38 expression confers to B-CLL of a
      more malignant cellular phenotype. This seems plausible given that the antigen has an
      important role as a modulator of intracellular signaling and that cross-linking of CD38
      up-regulates BCL-2 and inhibits apoptosis in normal mature B cells. Indeed, CD38/CD3l
      interactions lead to increased B-CLL proliferation and survival. This study has been designed
      to recruit patients with progressive or refractory B-CLL of whom, in line with the
      literature, about 50% will be CD38+.

      We hypothesize that CD38+ lymphocytes will be more sensitive to the APO866 therapy due to
      increased intracellular NAD+ consumption as substrate for the PARP dependent DNA repair
      (instable genome, proliferation). However, CD38+ and CD38- B-CLL cells seem to be equally
      sensitive to APO866 in vitro. In addition, decreased intracellular NAD+ levels will reduce
      the anabolism of cADPR. CD38+ can catalyze the synthesis of cADPR from NAD+ and can further
      hydrolyze cADPR to ADP-ribose.85,86,87 The cADPR is a potent Ca++-mobilizing activator and a
      potential endogenous regulator.88 The ability of cADPR to release Ca++ from intracellular
      pools is thought to be part of CD38-mediated signalling pathways that result in cell growth,
      apoptosis, and differentiation.

      APO866 was investigated in 24 patients with advanced cancers in a phase I study aiming to
      determine the DLT and MTD. Treatment was well tolerated and safe. The unique DLT was
      thrombocytopenia. At dose levels higher than 0.036 mg/m2/hr CTC grade III lymphocytopenia,
      not thought to be clinically relevant, preceded all other toxicities. The recommended dose
      for phase II studies of APO866 is 0.126 mg/m2/hr administered by civ infusion for 4
      consecutive days every 4 weeks. This dose was selected because of its safety profile, and the
      translational observation that Css of APO866 at MTD was similar or higher as compared to the
      concentrations at which efficacy was established in vitro and in vivo. In addition, a
      transient decrease of serum VEGF levels, a surrogate marker of angiogenesis, was observed
      within 96 hrs after the start of treatment in 9 out of 11 patients treated at MTD and the
      0.144 mg/m2/hr dose level of APO866

      This forms the rationale to conduct a "Proof of concept" study of APO866, administered at the
      recommended dose in patients with progressive refractory B-CLL non-eligible for aHSCT, either
      CD38- or CD38+.
    
  