
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of CD24 extracellular domain-IgG1 Fc domain
      recombinant fusion protein CD24Fc (CD24Fc) in patients with advanced solid tumors who
      developed debilitating immune-related adverse events (irAEs) from immune check point
      inhibitors (ICIs). (Phase I) II. To determine if CD24Fc shortens the recovery time of irAE
      and increases the recovery rate of irAE in cancer patients with grade (G)2 or 3 irAEs.
      (Randomized phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Time to irAE reduction by at least 1 grade. (Phase I) II. Time to all irAEs reduced to
      grade =< 1. (Phase I) III. Time to resume ICI treatment. (Phase I) IV. Recovery rate (as
      defined by reduction of irAE by one grade) at day (D)42. (Phase I) V. To estimate the time to
      all irAEs reduced to =< 1. (Randomized phase II) VI. To record the use of steroids (drug,
      dose, duration) and other treatment for irAE. (Randomized phase II) VII. To record the time
      to resume ICI treatment. (Randomized phase II) VIII. To estimate the preliminary overall
      response rate (ORR), progression free survival (PFS), and 1-year overall survival (OS) after
      treatment with or without CD24Fc. (Randomized phase II) IX. To determine if CD24Fc treatment
      changes the levels of inflammatory markers in the plasma. (Randomized phase II)

      OUTLINE:

      PHASE I: Patients receive CD24Fc intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1, 14, and 28
      with standard of care (i.e., steroids per treating physician and best supportive care) in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive CD24Fc IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 14, and 28 in addition to
      standard of care treatment for irAE in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 14, and 28 in addition to
      standard of care treatment for irAE in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at days 42 and 60 and then
      every 3 months for up to 1 year.
    
  