
    
      Purpose:

      The purpose of this study is to assess patient satisfaction after reconstruction of Mohs skin
      cancer resection defects in the face, with the resection defect either seen or unseen by the
      patient. In this way, the investigators will determine the effects of visualization of the
      pre-operative defects on patient satisfaction after facial reconstruction. Any effects on
      patient satisfaction that are identified will then be tracked over time.

      Hypothesis:

      The null hypothesis for this study is that patient satisfaction after reconstruction of Mohs
      defects on the face is unaffected by the opportunity to visualize the defect prior to
      reconstruction, and that this observation persists over time. Furthermore, patients are able
      to recall the size of their cancer resection defect as accurately from a detailed description
      as from seeing the defect in a mirror.

      Justification:

      This study will address whether visualization of a defect prior to its reconstruction affects
      patient satisfaction. Visualization of a defect prior to reconstruction is not standardized
      and is occasionally, but by no means necessarily, a portion of their consent for the
      reconstruction procedure. For the excision and reconstruction procedure in this study, all
      patients will be receiving the gold standard treatment for skin cancer. This includes a Mohs
      excision of their cancer and subsequent reconstruction of the excision defect using either
      primary closure or local flaps. Alternative treatments to this approach include various forms
      of excision and reconstruction where cancer free margins cannot be immediately determined.

      Objectives:

      The objectives of this study are to determine whether visualization of a cancer excision
      defect on the face, prior to its reconstruction, improves post-reconstruction patient
      satisfaction. The satisfaction measures sought will primarily be satisfaction with the
      cosmetic result but will also include measures pertaining to symptomatic scarring, skin
      related quality of life and ability to recall defect size will also be collected.

      Research Method:

      Patients meeting research criteria will be recruited to this study. These patients will all
      undergo cancer excision and reconstruction of the skin cancer defect during the same clinic
      visit. After their cancer excision is complete, they will be and randomized to either viewing
      or not-viewing their skin cancer excision defect prior to its reconstruction. After
      reconstruction they will be provided a series of surveys that assess the research questions
      posed by this study. Surveys will be distributed in the clinic on the day of surgery and at
      routine follow-up appointments at one week and two to three months.

      Statistical Analysis:

      The planned sample size for this study is eighty patients randomized to two groups of forty.
      Study end points will be sought from patient answers to three sets of surveys that determine
      patient satisfaction with the cosmetic appearance of their reconstruction, ranked on an
      ordinal scale, as a primary end-point. Secondary end points using ordinal and binary measures
      will also be sought and include skin related quality of life (as measured by the Skindex 16),
      scarring, and the ability to accurately recall the size of the skin cancer excision defect. A
      chi-squared analysis of the data will be performed.
    
  