
    
      Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus - 2 (SARS-CoV-2) caused by Covid-19 epidemics
      have been implicated in 330,000 more than cases in Turkey and 40 health workers at a rate
      close to 5% by thousand cases affected by this epidemic and There is a serious increase in
      risk for people every day.

      There is currently no established post-exposure prophylaxis for people at high risk of
      developing COVID-19. Propolis, a natural resin produced by bees and of plant origin, has
      anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory, anti-oxidant properties, and various aspects of the
      SARS-CoV-2 infection mechanism are potential targets for propolis compounds. This work; It is
      a randomized study aiming to evaluate the effect of Anatolian propolis extract against the
      effects of the new coronavirus threatening human health. In this clinical study, the product
      containing Anatolian propolis will be used to evaluate its effectiveness. According to the
      spectrophotometic analysis report of this product, there should be a minimum phenolic 106.0
      mg gae per ml and 73.1 mg ke flavonoid content in each ml and a total content of 253.9 mg te
      / ml.

      There is no prophylaxis for people at high risk of developing COVID-19. It is one of the
      first clinical studies aiming to investigate the effect of Anatolian Propolis against
      COVID-19. This study will test whether Anatolian propolis can be used to prevent the
      development of COVID-19 in people at risk of COVID-19. If Anatolian Propolis has been shown
      to reduce the risk of developing COVID-19 in people at high risk of infection, this could
      help reduce the morbidity and mortality of the COVID-19 outbreak.

      This study will be done in 2 centers. These centers are planned as Atatürk University Medical
      Faculty Emergency Medicine Clinic and Rize Recep Tayyip Erdoğan University Emergency Medicine
      Clinic. This work will be done entirely on a voluntary basis. The research subject will be
      explained to the healthcare professionals (doctor, nurse, medical secretary) working in both
      emergency medicine clinics and voluntary participation forms will be signed by the healthcare
      professionals who agree to participate in the study. Health workers who agree to participate
      in the study will be accepted as the study group, and healthcare professionals who do not
      agree to participate in the study will be accepted as the control group. The study group will
      be asked to take 20 drops of Propolis drop form twice a day in the morning / evening and the
      control group will not receive any treatment and both groups will be followed. In this
      process, patients diagnosed with COVID-19 will be determined.

      For the diagnosis of COVID-19, PCR test positivity taken from the throat will be accepted.
      The study will cover a period of 1 month and at the end of 1 month, patients diagnosed with
      COVID-19 in the study and control groups will be compared. Thus, the protective properties of
      Anatolian propolis will be determined.

      The data obtained will be analyzed with the SPSS.20 program. Data will be given as
      percentages and numbers. Shapiro-Wilk and Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests will be used to evaluate
      whether the data are suitable for normal distribution. Independent samples t-test will be
      used to compare data normally distributed between two independent groups, and the
      Mann-Whitney U test will be used if the data are not normally distributed. Categorical
      variables will be compared using Chi-square and Fisher tests. A value of p <0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant.
    
  