
    
      Background and Rationale:

      Diagnostic error is an important but often under-recognized source of adverse events in the
      hospital. It ranks second as the cause of adverse events1. Studies have indicated that major
      diagnostic discrepancies are found in 10-20% of autopsies, and that diagnostic error is the
      leading cause of malpractice litigation for physicians in Canada2. Furthermore, diagnostic
      error is of upmost importance in the eyes of our patients: Studies have cited that 55% of
      patients indicated diagnostic error as their chief concern when seeing a physician.
      Diagnostic error occurs most commonly in areas where there is a high degree of diagnostic
      uncertainty such as General Internal Medicine.

      Diagnostic error can be classified as either systems or cognitive errors. Systems errors
      involve technical failure, equipment problems and organization flaws. Systems errors have
      been the focus of most quality improvement and patient safety research in the past few
      decades. In contrast, cognitive sources of errors have received little attention despite
      studies indicating that the cognitive factors play in a role in up to 74% of cases involving
      diagnostic error. Cognitive error is defined by faulty knowledge, data gathering and
      synthesis of information. They often occur as the result of biases and heuristics used by
      physicians during the diagnostic process.

      Most diagnostic errors are associated with common conditions such as sepsis, pulmonary
      embolism, drug intoxication, myocardial infarction and appendicitis.

      This study is focused on the delayed or missed diagnosis of sepsis associated with bacteremia
      among patients admitted to The Ottawa Hospital. Sepsis is a common and important diagnosis.
      Delayed treatment is associated with significant morbidity and mortality9. Therefore, timely
      and correct diagnosis of sepsis is of upmost importance. No research thus far has been
      conducted assess the incidence and etiology of diagnostic error among patients with sepsis.

      Sepsis is defined as life-threatening organ dysfunction caused by dysregulated host response
      to infection and the definitive diagnosis of sepsis is often complex. Given this, this study
      will include only patients with a missed diagnosis of sepsis who also have a positive blood
      cultures given the need for an objective marker of the diagnosis.

      Aims and Objectives:

      The aim of this study is to determine the prevalence and characterization of diagnostic error
      among patients admitted to the at The Ottawa Hospital with sepsis associated with a positive
      blood culture.

      Study Design and Methods:

      This study will consist of a retrospective chart review of all patients who are greater than
      18 years with positive blood culture taken within 12 hours of presenting to the Emergency
      Department of Ottawa Hospital Civic and General Campus between January 2016 to August 13th
      2017.

      For patients with a positive blood culture, charts will be reviewed only for those patients
      who did not receive treatment for sepsis on presentation by an Emergency Room (ER) physician
      or consultant within the first 24 hours.

      Patients with positive blood cultures with an organism that is deemed a probable-contaminant
      organism from the study will be excluded. For this study, probable contaminant organisms will
      be defined as the following: (1) Coagulase-negative staphylococci (CoNs), (2) Bacillus
      species other than Bacillus anthracis, (3) Propionbacterium acnes and (4) Corynebacterium
      species. Coagulase negative staphylocci (CoNs) will be considered as a probable-contaminant
      if detected in only one bottle or the minority of bottles within a blood culture set in the
      absence of risk factors for invasive infection. Risk factors for CoNs invasive infection
      include intravascular catheters, hemodialysis catheters, vascular grafts, recent prosthetic
      joints or hardware, presence of pacemaker or prosthetic cardiac valves. Bacillus species,
      Proprionbacterium acnes and Corynebacterium species, will be considered contaminants if they
      are detected in one or the minority of bottles in a blood culture set.

      For charts that are eligible for review for diagnostic errors, the qSOFA (Quick Sequential
      [Sepsis-related] Organ Failure Assessment) score at time at admission will be used to
      identify those patients who were at risk of serious harm because of a missed diagnosis of
      sepsis and lack of treatment. The qSOFA is a score included in the Sepsis-3 Recommendations
      published in 2016, and is a validated bedside tool used for out-of-hospital, emergency
      department or general hospital ward settings in which patients with a suspected infection can
      be rapidly identified as being more likely to have poor outcomes typical of sepsis. The score
      consists of the following criteria and a score of 2 or more criteria correlates to worse
      outcomes: (1) respiratory rate of 22/min or greater, (2) altered mentation and (3) systolic
      blood pressure of 100mm Hg or less.

      Patient variables will be collected and compared between the following three groups: (1)
      patients who received antibiotics within 24 hours, (2) patients who did not receive
      antibiotics within 24 hours and who did not meet qSOFA criteria, and (3) patients who did not
      receive antibiotic within 24 hours and who met qSOFA criteria. Variables to be studied
      include age, gender, hospital campus, admitting service, day of admission (weekend vs.
      weekday), bacteria species, time of admission (night vs. day), length of stay, disposition
      and Elixhauser Comorbidity Index.

      For charts eligible for review for diagnostic error, the DEER (Diagnostic Error Evaluation
      Research) Taxonomy tool will be used to classify cases per the location and type of error
      that occurred in the diagnostic process.
    
  