
    
      High intensity interval training (HIIT) has recently emerged as a time efficient alternative
      to conventional endurance exercise, conferring similar or superior benefits in terms of
      metabolic and performance adaptations in both athletic and non-athletic populations. Some of
      these physiological adaptations include augmented mitochondrial biogenesis and improved
      substrate metabolism in peripheral tissues such as skeletal muscle. However, nutritional
      strategies to optimise the adaptations to HIIT have yet to be established. Recent evidence
      suggests that acute nutritional status can affect the molecular regulation of genes mediating
      substrate metabolism and mitochondrial biogenesis. Moreover, preliminary evidence suggests
      that completion of exercise in fasted conditions augments some of these exercise-induced
      adaptations compared with the fed state. Given the fact that the transient molecular
      adaptations to acute exercise mediate long-term physiological adaptations, an investigation
      into the effects of different nutritional interventions on metabolic and performance
      responses to HIIT is warranted.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of fasted vs. fed-state (Whey Protein)
      HIIT on metabolic and performance adaptations in the acute (single exercise session) and
      chronic (3 weeks, 9 exercise sessions) phases. The primary hypothesis is that different
      pre-exercise feeding conditions (e.g. fasted vs. Whey protein fed) will result in divergent
      physiological adaptations in terms of skeletal muscle metabolism and performance, both in
      response to a single HIIT session and a chronic HIIT intervention.

      A randomly assigned, parallel group, simple pre-post design has been adopted to answer this
      question. 3 groups of young (aged 18-35 y), healthy, recreationally active, aerobically
      untrained (VO2max <50 ml.kg.min-1), protein sufficient (>0.8 g.kg.d-1), males will undertake
      3 weeks (9 sessions) of HIIT under different nutrient conditions following >10h overnight
      fast: i) Fasted placebo (0.33g.kg-1 body mass artificially flavoured and textured placebo);
      ii) Fed Whey protein (0.33g.kg-1 body mass intact whey protein 45 minutes prior to exercise);
      iii) Fed Whey protein hydrolysate (0.33g.kg-1 body mass hydrolysed whey protein 45 minutes
      prior to exercise). Participants will undergo biological sampling (venous blood and muscle
      biopsy) and measures of performance pre and post the intervention.
    
  