
    
      Chidamide+Cyclophosphamide+Epirubicin+Vindesine+Etoposide+Prednisone Six cycles of therapy
      administered every 28 days were planned. Cyclophosphamide 750mg/m2 IV d1; epirubicin 70mg/m2
      IV d1; Vindesine 4mg IV d1; etoposide 100mg IV d1-3; prednisone 60mg/m2 PO d1-5.

      Chidamide:

      Phase I: Patients were treated at the following bortezomib dose levels: 15, 20, and 25 mg
      twice per week.

      Dose escalation and reduction were on the basis of the continual reassessment method, with at
      least two patients per dose level and no dose level skipped. No intrapatient dose escalation
      will be allowed. If one patient experienced dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), three additional
      patients were added to the dose level. If two of six patients experienced DLT, the previous
      dose level was declared the MTD. If only one of six patients experienced DLT, dose escalation
      was permitted to continue. DLT refers only to toxic events that occur during the first cycle
      of treatment.

      At least 9(3+3+3) patients will be enrolled in Phase I study. Phase II: If MTD was not
      reached at 25mg dose level of Chidamide. The followed study will use 20mg twice per week as
      experimental dose.

      After 3 Cycles, patients who become PD should withdraw the trial and receive other regimens;
      patients who become CR and eligible for auto-SCT will undergo auto-SCT; patients who get PR
      will receive 3 more cycles C-CHOEP regimen treatment, CR patients in them undergo auto-SCT,
      non-CR patients undergo follow-up phase.

      All the patients will continue to receive chidamide treatment until progression of the
      disease (PD), unacceptable toxicity, or patient/investigator discretion.

      During follow-uo phase, surveillance imaging with CT scans can be performed every 6 months up
      to the first 2 years, followed by doctor visit every 6 months up to 5 years or the disease
      relapses.

      from recruiting the first subject until the last recruited subject finished his 2 years
      follow-up phase or the disease relapsed
    
  