
    
      Telenovela is a television drama or soap opera that can be used to lead viewers to
      contemplate and discuss critical issues through video storytelling. Prior work showed
      informational telenovelas had a positive effect on Latino family caregivers' attitudes toward
      end-of-life (EOL) care services. The role of videos in hospice and palliative care shows
      significant promise, underscoring the videos as a mode of education for family caregivers
      that could potentially enhance caregiver's self-efficacy, decrease caregiver's anxiety, and
      reduce burnout. Despite the value of video education, many programs have failed to provide
      engaging material.

      Based on input from HFCG, the investigators have produced a bilingual (Spanish and English
      version) four chapter telenovela video series (To Care/ El privilegio de cuidar) as part of
      NCI funded diversity supplement study. Founded upon extensive preliminary work, To Care
      portrays the journey of one hospice family as the family struggle with the hospice decision,
      pain management, decision-making, and finally the dying process. Averaging only 4:65 minutes,
      each chapter addresses one of these problems, validating family experiences and identifying
      potential solutions. Based on this work and interviews with hospice staff the investigators
      have built an intervention, NOVELA, to disseminate telenovelas to family caregivers in
      hospice agencies. The investigators will test the feasibility of NOVELA delivery in the
      hospice setting and evaluate efficacy of the intervention. The overall expectation is that
      NOVELA will improve self-efficacy thus lowering anxiety in hospice family caregivers. This
      proposal has the following aims:

        -  Specific Aim 1: To pilot test the feasibility and acceptability of integrating NOVELA
           with hospice care for family caregivers of hospice patients

        -  Specific Aim 2: To investigate the preliminary efficacy of integrating NOVELA with
           hospice care for family caregivers of hospice patients
    
  