
    
      Ventral hernias are a common disease and one-half of all individuals are born with or will
      acquire a ventral hernia in their lifetime. Repair of ventral hernias are associated with
      substantial morbidity including surgical site infection, hernia recurrence, and reoperation.
      Randomized controlled trials and nationwide databases have shown that minimally invasive
      ventral hernia repair (i.e. laparoscopic ventral hernia repair) as opposed to open ventral
      hernia repair is associated with decreased rates of surgical site infection and hospital
      length of stay with no impact on long-term outcomes of hernia recurrence.

      Recent large database studies have suggested that robotic ventral hernia repair may be
      associated with decreased hospital length of stay. However, this study is affected by common
      biases of database studies and randomized controlled trials are needed to assess the true
      impact of robotics for ventral hernia repair.

      The growth of the robotic platform in surgery is growing exponentially. Despite this, the
      evidence supporting robotics remains limited. Studies demonstrating benefit such as improved
      outcomes or decreased hospital length of stay, are largely cohort studies subject to
      substantial bias. Among randomized controlled trials, none have demonstrated benefit with
      robotic surgery.

      Recently, the America's Hernia Society (AHS) has endorsed robotic ventral hernia surgery. A
      series of studies published under the AHS Quality Collaborative (AHSQC) database have
      demonstrated improved outcomes with robotic ventral hernia repair when compared to open and
      laparoscopic surgery. However, the results of these studies remain hypothesis generating and
      randomized controlled trials are needed.

      This study would represent among the first randomized controlled trials assessing the effect
      of robotic versus laparoscopic ventral hernia repair.
    
  