
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the investigator-assessed progression-free survival (IA-PFS) between patients
      with NFE2L2 or KEAP1-positive stage IV or recurrent squamous cell lung cancer (SQCLC)
      randomized to TAK228 (MLN0128, sapanisertib) + docetaxel versus standard of care therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) 1.1 between the treatment arms.

      II. To compare overall survival (OS) between the treatment arms. III. To evaluate duration of
      response (DOR) among responders within each treatment arm.

      IV. To evaluate and compare the frequency and severity of toxicities associated within each
      treatment arm.

      V. To evaluate outcomes of IA-PFS, OS, and response in the subsets of patients eligible based
      on the presence of NFE2L2 versus KEAP1 alterations.

      TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To collect, process, and bank cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) at baseline,
      cycle 2 day 1, and end of treatment for future development of a proposal to evaluate
      comprehensive next-generation sequencing of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA).

      II. To establish a tissue/blood repository from patients with refractory non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) and dexamethasone IV over 30 minutes on
      days 1 and 8 and sapanisertib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 2-4, 9-11, and 16-18.
      Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      If docetaxel is discontinued, patients receive sapanisertib PO QD on days 1-21. Cycles repeat
      every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive standard of care treatment comprising either docetaxel IV and
      dexamethasone IV over 30 minutes on day 1 or docetaxel IV, dexamethasone IV over 30 minutes,
      and ramucirumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and
      then at 3 years.
    
  