
    
      While short-term graft outcomes in kidney transplantation have improved, this requires
      adherence to a complex medication regimen. The current twice-daily immunosuppressive regimen,
      immediate release tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil/mycophenolic acid, has reduced
      rejection rates significantly, but frequently cause neurologic and gastrointestinal side
      effects which impact recipient quality of life. These side effects often require dose
      adjustments and studies have shown inferior outcomes when multiple changes are made to the
      immunosuppressive regimen. Furthermore, patients taking twice-daily medications have poorer
      compliance and yet adherence to these medications is critical to mitigate the risk of
      allograft rejection. Acute and chronic rejection are important causes of graft failure and
      patient survival.

      Immediate release (IR) tacrolimus based immunosuppressive regimens have become the standard
      of care at most US centers. With the introduction of a once-daily tacrolimus formulation,
      kidney transplant recipients can now be on a combination regimen (EnvarsusXR and
      azathioprine) that permits all immunosuppressive medications to be taken once a day instead
      of twice . Previous studies suggest that therapeutic goals with EnvarsusXR may be achieved at
      a lower dose than the currently recommended dose. This once a day medication schedule has the
      potential to simplify the immunosuppressive regimen by reducing adverse side effects and
      facilitating compliance.

      The investigators seek to demonstrate that a once-daily regimen, including EnvarsusXR and
      azathioprine, will be at least equally effective with respect to acute rejection, graft and
      patient survival as compared to the standard, twice-daily, immediate release tacrolimus and
      mycophenolate mofetil/mycophenolic acid. The investigators will also assess graft function,
      medication complications and side effects in each arm.
    
  