
    
      Purpose:

      The purpose of the study proposed in this ethics application is to examine the impact of an
      adaptive speech-language treatment app, created using principles of user-centred design, on
      language and communication outcomes of people with aphasia (PwA) within a randomized
      controlled trial.

      Background:

      Nearly one third of individuals who have a stroke will present with aphasia, a communication
      impairment that affects the ability to speak, understand, read and write. People with aphasia
      (PwA) have been shown to demonstrate more limitations in their participation in daily
      activities, lower quality of life and a higher incidence of depression relative to
      post-stroke individuals without aphasia, even when other factors such as physical ability,
      social support and well-being were similar.

      The overall goals of the VoiceAdapt research project are to: 1) conduct a needs survey with
      PwA and speech-language pathologists (SLPs); 2) develop an app employing a user-centred
      design process; and 3) conduct a randomized controlled trial. Using user-centred design, end
      users and stakeholders (PwA, therapists and formal/informal caregivers) will be engage din a
      needs survey during the technology development process. Outcomes will be analyzed to
      elaborate implications for decision makers as to how to implement such adaptive training
      environments in stroke rehabilitation. This aspect of the research (i.e., Goals 1 & 2) will
      be carried out by consortium members in Austria and Germany. Only the randomized controlled
      trial (Goal 3), which is the subject of the present application, will be conducted at the
      University of Alberta and the University of Toronto.

      PwA will be provided with a personalized speech-language treatment app (i.e., on a tablet),
      which automatically adapts the exercises to the users' actual skill level. Individual
      learning progress of PwA will be supported by personalized and gamified training elements to
      achieve higher compliance and adherence to the exercises. As a primary outcome, the adaptive
      assistive technology will examine language performance related to the specific intervention
      of the personalized speech-language treatment app. Additional objectives will examine the
      change in the overall language and communication functioning of PwA; the well-being and
      quality of life of PwA and their caregiver's perception of communication effectiveness after
      intervention with the treatment app.

      The research will be carried out by the VoiceAdapt Consortium, which brings together the
      resources of five participating international institutions. Research partners have expertise
      in the fields of technology/e-health and graphical design skills (Nurogames, NG),
      personalization and adaptvitiy (Technical University of Berlin, TUB), user-centred design and
      gamification/persuasion (Austrian Institute of Technology, AIT), and clinical research and
      intervention studies (University of Toronto, UoT; University of Alberta, UoA).

      Research Methods/Procedures:

      Researchers at the University of Alberta and University of Toronto will be the primary
      investigators of the randomized controlled trial (RCT) portion of the VoiceAdapt Project. The
      RCT will involve 80 PwA in total across University of Alberta and University of Toronto
      sites.

      Design of the RCT: The RCT will be a two arm, randomized, waitlist-controlled, crossover
      group design. In Phase 1, PWA randomized to the intervention group will train with
      VoiceAdapt. The control group will be a waitlist treatment-deferred group. In Phase 2, the
      control group will train with VoiceAdapt. The randomization of participants will be achieved
      by computer-generated assignment.

      Participants: All participants will have suffered a left hemisphere stroke, be at least 6
      months post-onset, and will have aphasia as defined by performance on the Western Aphasia
      Battery - Rev. (Aphasia Quotient greater than or equal to 30, with a prominent verbal
      expression impairment), but type of aphasia will not be an inclusion criterion. Participants
      will speak English as their primary language, pass screenings of visual perception, hearing
      and basic cognitive functioning and be willing to commit to participation for the study
      duration.

      Intervention: Each intervention phase will last for 5 weeks. During this period, participants
      in the experimental condition will be asked to do speech language tasks 5 days a week for 60
      minutes via the VoiceAdapt app (intervention group). The control group will not be engaged in
      any one on one speech therapy during the first intervention phase (Phase 1). During the
      second intervention phase (Phase 2), the control group will participate in training with the
      VoiceAdapt app (60 minutes/day x 5 days/week) and the intervention group from Phase 1 will
      crossover into receiving no treatment. Research staff will check in with individuals in the
      intervention group on a weekly basis to monitor and adjust treatment exercises. Research
      staff will check in with participants in the control group twice during their respective
      control phase.

      Outcome Measures: In line with the recommended core outcome measures for aphasia research
      (Wallace et al., 2019), participants in both groups will be tested before and after each
      condition on the following measures: the primary outcome measure will be the Boston Naming
      Test (BNT) to measure naming; secondary outcome measures will be: Western Aphasia
      Battery-Revised (WAB-R); Stroke and Aphasia Quality of Life Scale (SAQOL-39) to measure
      quality of life; and Communication Effectiveness Index (CETI) to measure the person with
      aphasia and the partners' perception of the participant's communication. In addition to these
      measures, the Situational Motivation Scale (SIMS) and an end of study questionnaire will be
      provided to all participants.

      Plan for Data Analysis:

      The primary analysis will be a one-sided hypothesis test of the null hypothesis of the change
      in naming on the Boston Naming Test (BNT) from baseline to week 6, tested at the 0.1 level of
      significance. The observed change on the BNT as well as the baseline, 6 week and follow up
      values will be summarized for each group as means and standard deviations. Secondary outcomes
      will be summarized using means (SD), medians (IQR) or proportions (CI), and analyzed using t
      tests, as appropriate. All analyses will be presented in aggregate.
    
  