
    
      Treatment resistant depression is a common and disabling condition. The delayed onset of
      action and side effects exhibited by oral antidepressants are significant limitations. An
      alternative and well-established therapy is electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). ECT has rapid
      antidepressant effect beginning with the completion of the first session. Nevertheless, like
      oral medications, patients treated with ECT can develop treatment resistance or failure to
      respond. There is great need for a novel approach to treatment-resistant depression; one that
      that is safe, has rapid onset, and is sustained.

      Pharmaceutical agents with rapid antidepressant effects are a new and promising paradigm in
      the research for treatment of MDD. A potential therapeutic target is glutamate based signal
      transmission because glutamate transmission is abnormally regulated in the limbic/cortical
      areas of many depressed people. Glutamatergic modulating agents, in particular ketamine, have
      been shown to induce rapid antidepressant effects both in both preclinical models and humans.
      Additionally, ketamine has been shown to have persistent antidepressive effect.

      Presently worldwide, propofol is one of the most commonly used anesthetic agents for ECT.
      There are 2 main disadvantages to this practice. First, propofol has no antidepressive
      effect. Second, propofol is a potent anticonvulsant that may worsen the quality of the ECT
      induced seizures. A recent open-label trial compared ketamine to propofol for anesthesia
      during ECT and demonstrated a significant improvement of depression in the ketamine arm.
      Ketamine is routinely used to provide safe general anesthesia as well as procedural sedation,
      analgesia, and amnesia. The combination of the intrinsic antidepressant effects of ketamine
      with electroconvulsive therapy is a promising concept in clinical research.

      This study will include planned interim analysis to ensure patients safety. This analysis
      will be performed by a statistician who is blinded to group allocation after 20 and after 40
      patients. An independent safety committee will informed of the results of the interim
      analysis including side effects and complications and will have the option to adjust the drug
      dosage or to discontinue the trial.
    
  