
    
      Heart failure represents a significant health problem, with the last national heart failure
      audit demonstrating prevalence in the United Kingdom of 900,000 patients, accounting for 5%
      of all acute hospital admissions. This is expected to increase with an ageing population.
      Despite improvements in medical therapy, prognosis remains poor, with an in- hospital
      mortality of 9.6%, and an estimated mortality of 30-40% at 1 year after diagnosis.

      Multiple randomised controlled trials have demonstrated that cardiac resynchronization
      therapy pacemaker devices ("CRT") are an effective therapy for patients with poor pumping
      function and altered electrical conduction of the heart (left bundle branch block, "LBBB"),
      improving both morbidity and mortality. However, only 60-70% of patients notice a symptomatic
      improvement with CRT and even in patients who do respond, response can often be improved
      further by optimising how the device is programmed.

      CRT devices improve coordination of heart pumping by pacing both ventricles of the heart. A
      key function of this is to coordinate the timing of contraction of the the atria and the
      ventricles (atrio-ventricular, or "AV", optimisation). This allows maximal filling of the
      left ventricle with blood. More recently, it has become important not only in standard
      bi-ventricular ("BiV") pacing, but to allow left ventricular pacing to be timed with
      intrinsic conduction to the right ventricle to provide CRT (so called 'fusion' pacing).

      Multiple methods have been described to assess AV optimisation, including echocardiographic
      measurements. However, echo based methods are labour intensive, and their value is uncertain.
      Device algorithms utilising analysis of the intra-cardiac electrogram ("IEGM") have become an
      attractive alternative due to their rapid and automated nature, although evidence suggests
      that they may not have clinical benefit over using fixed AV delays. In addition, intrinsic AV
      conduction is known to alter with exercise, normally becoming shorter. Optimisation of AV
      delays in CRT on exercise has been shown to improve cardiac output. Device algorithms can
      therefore allow dynamic adjustment of AV delays as they change with exercise and heart rate
      (rate-adaptive AV delay or "RAAVD"). Indeed, use of individually tailored RAAVD in CRT
      patients has demonstrated an increase in exercise capacity.

      Patients with heart failure and LBBB often have normal intrinsic right ventricular activation
      through the right bundle. Utilization of timed left ventricular ("LV") pacing to merge (or
      fuse) with this intrinsic conduction may confer benefits over standard BiV pacing, but
      requires relatively normal intrinsic AV conduction as well as correct timing of LV pacing to
      right ventricular ("RV") activation. Algorithms now exist which allow dynamic reassessment of
      intrinsic conduction and so adjustment of the optimal AV delay. They can therefore compensate
      for changes in the intrinsic AV delay on exercising, and so maintain adequate fusion pacing
      and CRT optimisation. One such software algorithm is SyncAV, developed by Abbott (Abbott
      Vascular, 3200 Lakeside Drive, Santa Clara, California 95054-2807). SyncAVTM assesses
      intrinsic AV conduction every 256 beats. It then sets a shorter programmed AV delay by
      subtracting a set period (known as the "delta" - adjustable but nominally set to 50ms) from
      the intrinsic time.

      There is some evidence that fusion pacing gives benefit in terms of both acute pumping
      function of the heart and long term response to CRT. However, what remains unclear is whether
      the effect of dynamic AV optimisation and fusion pacing is maintained on exercise. Firstly,
      the re-analysis and adjustment intervals may be insufficient to allow effective fusion
      throughout exercise. It is therefore possible that with rapidly changing heart rates this
      coordinated timing is lost, leading to inefficient conduction of electricity through the
      heart. This could result in large periods of time on exercising without effective CRT and so
      poor exercise tolerance. Secondly, there is evidence that in patients with heart failure AV
      intervals do not alter with change in heart rate in a similar way to healthy controls. One
      study found that the degree of change is greater on exercise, whilst one demonstrated that in
      a CRT population only a third of patients had shorter optimal AV delay intervals on exercise,
      with a third being unchanged and a third longer. The use of a fixed "delta" in SyncAVTM may
      therefore result in incorrect adjustment of AV intervals as intrinsic conduction changes,
      with the effectiveness of SyncAV therefore depending on how the intrinsic interval changes.

      We will use a prospective single-centre randomized single-blind crossover study to
      investigate the effectiveness of SyncAV on exercise, by randomising participants to either
      use of SyncAV or fixed AV delays, and then carrying out cardiopulmonary exercise testing
      ("CPET").
    
  