
    
      Prostate cancer is the leading cancer among Veterans. One in three Veterans with prostate
      cancer is chemically castrated at some point with long-acting injectable drugs (i.e.,
      androgen deprivation therapy, or ADT). This impacts the well-being of thousands of Veterans
      annually. Although some patients benefit in terms of survival and symptom improvement,
      chemical castration with ADT is also commonly performed when there are little to no health
      benefits to patients raising questions of low value care. A growing awareness of castration
      harms (e.g., heart attack, osteoporosis, loss of sexual function) creates patient safety
      concerns. Despite this, ADT use in low value cases, such as for localized prostate cancer
      treatment, persists in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) with five-fold variation
      across its facilities. Ineffective and harmful practices such as chemical castration of
      prostate cancer patients with ADT outside of the evidence base are ideal targets for
      de-implementation. De-implementation, or stopping low value practices, has the potential to
      improve patient outcomes and decrease healthcare costs. However, provider preferences
      regarding de-implementation are not well understood, and possible de-implementation
      interventions range from blunt formulary restriction policies to informed decision-making.
      Both intervention strategies need tailoring based on provider input for acceptability and
      feasibility in clinical practice, including piloting prior to trialing. As many medical
      practices lack evidence and cause harm, robust, behavioral theory-based methods for
      incorporating provider preferences into de-implementation strategy development will advance
      both implementation research and practice.

      This study will use a theory-based, mixed methods approach to identify, tailor and pilot two
      different de-implementation strategies that vary widely in delivery, impact, and expected
      results for reducing low value ADT use, in preparation for a randomized comparative
      effectiveness trial.

      This innovative mixed-methods research program has three aims. Aim 1: To assess preferences
      and barriers for de-implementation of chemical castration in prostate cancer. Guided by the
      Theoretical Domains Framework (TDF), urologists and patients from facilities with the highest
      and lowest castration rates across VHA will be interviewed to identify key preferences and
      de-implementation barriers for reducing castration as prostate cancer treatment. This
      qualitative work will inform Aim 2 while gathering rich information for two proposed pilot
      intervention strategies. Aim 2: To use a discrete choice experiment (DCE), a novel barrier
      prioritization approach, for de-implementation strategy tailoring. The investigators will
      conduct national surveys of US Government urologists to prioritize key barriers identified in
      Aim 1 for stopping incident castration as localized prostate cancer treatment using a
      discrete choice experiment design. These quantitative results will identify the most
      important barriers to be addressed through tailoring of two pilot de-implementation
      strategies in preparation for Aim 3 piloting. Aim 3: To pilot two tailored de-implementation
      strategies to reduce castration as localized prostate cancer treatment. Building on findings
      from Aims 1 and 2, two de-implementation strategies will be piloted. One strategy will focus
      on formulary restriction at the organizational level and the other on physician/patient
      informed decision-making at different facilities. Outcomes will include acceptability,
      feasibility, and scalability in preparation for an effectiveness trial comparing these two
      widely varying de-implementation strategies. This innovative approach to de-implementation
      strategy development will transform how and why castration is performed for localized
      prostate cancer through combining provider and patient preferences and strategy tailoring.
      This work will advance de-implementation science for low value care and foster participation
      in a subsequent de-implementation evaluation trial by addressing barriers, facilitators and
      concerns through pilot tailoring.

      The 2-year extension of our 4-year ESI MERIT would support logical progression to a
      multilevel, comparative effectiveness de-implementation trial to reduce low value ADT across
      a national delivery system. We have the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: To evaluate the comparative effectiveness of an ADT order restriction (Or) versus a
      provider script (Sc) on decreased low value ADT use after six months. We will conduct a
      6-month cluster randomized clinical trial of Or vs. Sc de-implementation strategies across 40
      facilities with high rates of low value ADT.

      Aim 2: To evaluate 12-month outcomes for competing de-implementation strategies. We will
      examine low value ADT use after 12 months, as well as RE-AIM implementation outcomes,
      moderators (e.g., fidelity), and causal mechanisms underlying implementation interventions.

      This will be a cluster-randomized de-implementation trial involving 40 VA facilities that
      care for prostate cancer patients with localized disease receiving serial ADT injections.
      Primary trial analyses will compare the effectiveness and implementation of two
      de-implementation strategies, Or vs. Sc, on continued primary ADT use after six months
      (primary outcome). Secondary and supplementary analyses will further examine primary ADT use
      after 12 months, as well as moderators of strategy effectiveness (e.g., fidelity), and causal
      mechanisms underlying the strategies. Other secondary outcomes will include RE-AIM
      implementation outcomes,36 and changes from baseline measures as outlined in Aim 3 of our
      current MERIT proposal and Table 1 below. All sites will be followed for a total of 12
      months. Patient-level effectiveness outcomes will be collected for all patients documented as
      receiving primary ADT at baseline (prior to randomization) at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months.
      Implementation and other secondary outcomes will be assessed through VA electronic and
      administrative records at 6 and 12 months. Independent evaluators, RAs not aware of site
      assignment, will conduct study assessments to ensure consistency across sites and to prohibit
      assessment bias.
    
  