
    
      Neuromuscular disorders can be associated with swallowing dysfunction secondary to a
      dysfunction of airway muscles involved in swallowing. We have shown that respiratory failure
      may also contribute to swallowing dysfunction and that, although tracheostomy has been
      reported as impairing swallowing, when a tracheostomy was performed in neuromuscular
      patients, swallowing was improved because it allowed the patient to feed while ventilated.

      We now want to evaluate whether non invasive ventilation may have a beneficial impact on
      swallowing considering some adjustments to ensure a good synchronisation between ventilation
      and swallowing. This could allow avoiding the necessity of a tracheostomy or a gastrostomy
      due to swallowing dysfunction and/or malnutrition. Improving swallowing under mechanical
      ventilation depends on improving the synchronisation between the patient and the ventilator
      during swallowing. For that purpose, we developed a prototype ventilator able to temporarily
      suspend pressurisation under the patient's control so that when the patient needs to swallow
      under mechanical ventilation he may do so with an inadequate insufflation of the ventilator.

      Our objective is to to demonstrate that swallowing is more adapted and easier under nasal
      noninvasive ventilation than during spontaneous breathing in neuromuscular patients requiring
      prolonged noninvasive ventilation.

      In an open monocentric pilot study, we will study 10 neuromuscular patients usually
      noninvasively ventilated. The patients will be their own control and their swallow will be
      studied during spontaneous breathing and under ventilation with the adapted ventilator while
      swallowing boluses of different volumes. Swallowing will be evaluated by measuring swallowing
      duration, numbers of swallows required for a bolus, number of respiratory cycles required for
      the swallow of a bolus. Order ventilation mode and bolus volume will be randomized
    
  