
    
      The backbone of this protocol is the systematic evaluation of the presentation, work up,
      diagnosis and treatment outcome of women who present for evaluation of pain or bleeding in
      the first trimester of pregnancy and are therefore at risk for ectopic pregnancy (EP). Our
      focus is women whose diagnosis was not definitive upon initial presentation. We plan to
      collect systematic data regarding the current diagnostic strategies and treatment of these
      women and compare actual outcomes to those predicted by our newly developed strategies. This
      will be the first time such an endeavor has been conducted at multiple centers concomitantly.
      Expansion to two other sites is vital to ensure our preliminary data is valid and
      generalizable to women from different races and ethnicities, as well as to achieve the
      precision necessary to develop an accurate clinical tool. We will use a secure web-based
      clinical database (the Quantbook) to compile clinical information, and will download
      de-identified data to the research database once the diagnosis and clinical course of a
      patient has been completed. The Quantbook will be an expansion of a clinical database
      successfully utilized at Penn for the past 15 years. For a more detailed description of the
      Quantbook and research databases please see Attachment 2 of the full protocol. High quality
      information obtained from this cohort of women will allow the optimization and validation of
      our currently derived and proposed methods of diagnosis.

      Data Collection Clinical Database (Quantbook): The clinician (e.g., attending physician,
      fellow, resident physician, nurse practitioner) who assesses the patient input information
      into the Quantbook. At the first presentation, this will include the patient's medical
      history, as well as presenting signs and symptoms. Results of tests ordered, including hCG
      and relevant chemistry, hematology, blood type, and ultrasound, will be entered. The
      clinician will assign a clinical impression (which may be a final definitive diagnosis, or a
      suspected diagnosis, or "unable to determine"). Follow-up contacts and assessments are
      recorded as they occur. Each time the patient returns for an assessment, the clinical
      impression can be updated, until a definitive diagnosis is made. A research coordinator will
      be tasked to monitor the Quantbook to provide quality control that the clinical data entered
      is complete and correct.
    
  