
    
      Phase III clinical trial systematic sampling, double-blind, randomized, crossed that
      evaluates the comparative efficacy of a formulation containing enzyme pancreas in 16 patients
      with pancreatic insufficiency exogenous of any cause. The study will be conducted with the
      inclusion of 16 adult patients, both sexes, regardless of color or social class, aged 14 to
      65 years, clinically diagnosed as having pancreatic insufficiency exocrine any etiology
      (cystic fibrosis, cancer, pancreatectomy, Surgery by trauma). The Research Subjects will be
      recruited with the help of medical coinvestigador specialist Dr. Francisco Callejas Neto, who
      will offer their clinic patients to participate in the study. If there is interest from same,
      all are invited to attend the Clinic for total LAL clarification about the study of drug
      action, benefits, possible risks, compensation, study period, and finally understanding
      reading and signing together with the investigator of the Term of Consent.

      The research subjects will have complete freedom to lead to the Informed Consent house, where
      they can review all items easy. After informed and the consent form and signed informed,
      patients will be examined by the researcher LAL Clinic which will perform a physical
      examination in the same general and specific. Will rated their personal background and
      reviewed the Inclusion and Excluded from the study.

      Satisfying the criteria for inclusion in the study subjects are approved to participate in
      the study.

      The 16 Subjects Research approved within the inclusion criteria and exclusion to participate
      in the study be included in the study as sequential by the number of their care. Later, the
      same will be inserted in randomization table, which was outlined in a randomized crossover
      for two drugs, the randomization scheme will be in the balanced cross 2 x 2. A design is said
      to be balanced if it satisfies the following conditions:

      · Each medication is applied only once in each subject;

      • in each period, the number of subjects receiving each medicine must be equal; This
      randomization was previously performed by the computer program and by a qualified
      professional Prof. Dr. Yuko Wada Cilicia (PhD in Biostatistics and PhD of Biostatistics,
      UNICAMP) of Statpharm Scientific Consulting Ltda.

      All study medication will be labeled according to the randomization, previously performed by
      pharmacy LAL Clinica, which should make conference material for 3 checks. In each period of
      the study medication should be labeled with the following words: code of the subject during
      the study period and dose to be administered in the same. All these procedures should be made
      to minimize and avoid bias in the study.
    
  