
    
      There is a worldwide pandemic of obesity with far-reaching consequences for the health of our
      nation. Obesity is the second leading cause of preventable death in the United States.
      Prevention of obesity, especially in children, has been deemed by public health policy makers
      to be one of the most important objectives for our country. Obesity disproportionately
      affects citizens of minority and low socioeconomic status. A consensus of opinion has formed
      that the recently observed increased prevalence of obesity is caused by environmental and
      behavioral factors that favor easy access to high calorie foods and sedentary behavior. This
      prevention project, called LA Health, will test whether modification of these environmental
      and behavioral factors can prevent inappropriate weight gain in children who are enrolled in
      the fourth to sixth grades during Year 1. The primary aims of the LA Health project are to
      test the efficacy of two school-based approaches for obesity prevention. The two approaches
      are derived from two NIH-funded pilot studies called the HIPTeens project (a secondary
      prevention program) and the Wise Mind project (a primary prevention program). The study will
      test the efficacy of primary prevention alone and a combination of primary and secondary
      prevention in comparison to a no-treatment control group using a cluster randomization
      research design, with 18 school clusters from 9 different parishes randomly assigned to the
      three treatment arms. The following parishes were selected for the project: East Carroll,
      Madison, Franklin, East Feliciana, St. John, St. Helena, Pointe Coupee, Avoyelles, and Sabine
      Parishes. Thus far East Carroll, East Feliciana, St. John, Pointe Coupee, and Avoyelles
      Parishes have agreed to participate. We anticipate adding additional parishes in the second
      year of the project.The project will collaborate with a USDE funded project, LA GEAR UP, to
      test the relative efficacy obesity prevention programs for children who come from
      economically disadvantaged environments. The LA GEAR UP program is designed to enhance
      educational achievement. Since LA GEAR UP will be implemented in all 18 school clusters, all
      of the preventions intervention arms, including no-treatment, will be combined with an
      academic enhancement program. The study will span three years and will provide critical tests
      of strategies that modify the child's environment as a primary prevention strategy and
      provide health behavior modification via classroom instruction and internet counseling as a
      secondary prevention strategy. The study will also recruit a similar (but smaller) sample of
      students to measure changes in body weight relative to height, gender, and age over the same
      three-year period. This observation only control group will be studied to evaluate secular
      trends in changes in body weight so that body weight changes observed in the randomized trial
      can be interpreted within the context of stable versus unstable population changes in body
      weight. The results of this investigation will significantly impact public health policy
      related to obesity prevention in rural communities, minority communities, and in children
      from families that are economically disadvantaged.
    
  