
    
      The patients were randomly assigned to the following groups: (1) the VR and Mobile group
      (VRMB) including biofeedback - 7 subjects; (2) the VR and Mobile group (VRM) without
      biofeedback - 9 subjects; (3) the waiting list (WL) group - 8 subjects:

        1. Virtual Reality + Mobile Phone without Biofeedback Condition (VRM). In this experimental
           condition patients received an eight-session VR-based treatment including relaxation and
           exposure. In sessions 1 to 6, the patient explored a beautiful VR tropical island
           (experienced with a head-mounted display and head-tracking) following a predefined path
           leading to different relaxing areas: Campfire, Beach and Waterfall. In these areas the
           patients started to relax by observing the flickering campfire, watching waves lapping
           gently on a shore, or looking to the waterfall and fish pond. Each experience was
           supported by an audio narrative based on progressive muscle relaxation and/or autogenic
           techniques. All the environments were developed by the ESIEA INTREPID team (J.L. Dautin,
           J. Ardouin, F. Crison and M. Le Renard -www.esiea.fr) using the 3DVIA 4.1 Virtools
           toolkit by Dassault Systèmes - www.virtools.com.To improve the efficacy of the training
           and to increase the effects of relaxation, patients experienced at home, using a mobile
           phone, on a non-navigable version of the same virtual reality environment experienced
           during the therapy. The patient was asked to train relaxation abilities at least once a
           day for the entire duration of the treatment following the treatment plan provided by
           the therapist. In session 7 and 8 the patients explored again the island reaching a
           Gazebo in which they are exposed to pre-selected words or images related to their
           personal stressful events. The patients were then asked to use the learned relaxation
           techniques to cope with them.

        2. Virtual Reality + Mobile Phone with Biofeedback Condition (VRMB). The patients
           experienced the same protocol described above, but with the biofeedback support (see
           Figure 2). Specifically, in the sessions with the therapist, HR variations were used to
           modify specific features of the virtual environment:

             1. Campfire (sessions 1-2). HR controls the fire intensity: a reduction of the
                patient's physiological activation reduces fire intensity until it disappears;

             2. Beach (sessions 3-4). HR controls the movement of the waves: a reduction of the
                patient's physiological activation reduces the movement of the waves until the
                ocean becomes completely calm;

             3. Waterfall (sessions 5-6): HR controls the movement of the water: a reduction of the
                patient's physiological activation reduces the movement of the water until the
                water flow becomes completely still;

             4. Gazebo (sessions 7-8): HR controls the size of a stressful image or video: a
                reduction of the patient's physiological activation reduces the size of the
                stimulus until it disappears. This exercise is designed following the procedure of
                SIT.

        3. Waiting List Condition (WL). This was a control condition, in which patients were
           included in a waiting list and not received any kind of relaxation training.
    
  