
    
      Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) is considered the most effective treatment to increase
      disease-free interval and reduce progression of non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC)
      [1]. Although considered safe, BCG can produce both local and systemic side effects leading
      to treatment discontinuation or interruption. The most common local side-effects of BCG
      intravesical instillations include cystitis, characterized by irritative voiding symptoms and
      hematuria, which occur in approximately 75% of all patients. More rarely, serious local
      adverse events as a result of BCG infection, such as symptomatic granulomatous prostatitis
      and epididymo-orchitis, might occur and require permanent discontinuation of BCG treatment.
      Systemic side-effects include flu-like symptoms, such as general malaise and fever, occuring
      in approximately 40% of patients. A high persistent fever might be related to BCG infection
      or sepsis. Local and systemic side-effects might lead to discontinue intravesical BCG
      treatment in approximately 20% of patients [2]. Up to 54% of the patients undergoing
      intravesical therapy with chemotherapeutic agents to treat superficial bladder tumours can be
      affected by nonbacterial cystitis [3].

      Several solutions have been proposed to reduce the occurrence of side effects from BCG with
      the aim to limit BCG discontinuation and the concomitant discomfort during endovesical
      treatment. Some Authors have proposed to avoid BCG administration in case of TUR within
      previous 2 weeks, traumatic catheterization, macroscopic hematuria, urethral stenosis, active
      tuberculosis, prior Bacillus Calmette-Guérin sepsis, immuno-suppression or urinary tract
      infection [4]. Other procedures include the prophylactic administration of isoniazid [5] or
      ofloxacin [6,7] or usually involve BCG dose reductions [8]. In common practice
      antimicrobials, anticholinergics, anaesthetics and analgesics are often used to relieve
      patients' symptoms.

      Glycosaminoglycan (GAG) substitution therapy is an emerging treatment of Bladder Pain
      Syndrome/Interstitial Cystitis (BPS/IC) and response rates between 30% and 80% have been
      described with intravesical administration of various GAGs (hyaluronic acid, pentosan
      polysulfate, heparin, chondroitin sulfate, and dimethyl sulfoxide) [9,10]. Few papers report
      the results of GAG substitution therapy in the treatment of radiation and chemical cystitis
      [9,10]. To our knowledge, to date, only two papers have described GAG use in the treatment of
      BCG local side effects; this papers show very good results, with significant reduction of
      lower urinary tract symptoms after intravesical administration of HA [11,12].

      Aim of the present randomized pilot study was to evaluate if the sequential administration of
      HA and BCG could be safe in prevention of early recurrence and progression of bladder tumor,
      and safe in reduction of local side-effects in patients with high risk NMIBC.
    
  