
    
      Atripla (efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and Stribild
      (elvitegravir/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/cobicistat) are 2 FDA-approved 'one
      pill once a day' combination antiretroviral medications given for the treatment of HIV. Both
      have a common nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) backbone of tenofovir (TDF)
      and emtricitabine (FTC), but differ in the 3rd medication contained in the pill. Atripla
      contains a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase (NNRTI) drug efavirenz (EFV) while Stribild
      (elvitegravir/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/cobicistat) contains an integrase
      inhibitor elvitegravir with the drug cobicistat inactive against HIV but designed to simply
      boost the level of elvitegravir.

      Both drugs are reasonable well tolerated. However, efavirenz is known to cause 'mental'
      side-effects. It is known that the initial use of EFV is associated with central nervous
      system (CNS) toxicity. The symptoms of such toxicity include daytime sleepiness, or
      alternatively inability to sleep, as well as vivid dreams including nightmares. The majority
      of such symptoms are believed to resolve within weeks; however there is controversy as to
      whether residual problems persist on a long term basis. Furthermore there are now reports of
      long time cognitive dysfunction associated with the use of efavirenz. Whether this is related
      to sleep disturbance is not clear. Studies to assess this impact have primarily involved
      assessment of sleep and cognitive function in antiretroviral (ART)-naïve subjects as they are
      initiated on first time ART that includes EFV. Such studies however are confounded by a
      'return to health' phenomena as HIV per se is known to cause sleep and cognitive deficits .
      There is controversy regarding whether use of efavirenz leads to long term disturbances in
      sleep and cognition. HIV per se causes sleep and cognitive deficits6 and studies which have
      tried to assess problems in antiretroviral-naïve subject's pre- and post- initiation of
      efavirenz-based regimens may be confounded by a 'return to health' phenomena.

      This proposal aims to assess whether a switch from efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir
      disoproxil fumarate to elvitegravir/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate/cobicistat
      will be associated with reversal of sleep and cognitive disturbances. Demonstrating changes
      upon withdrawal of drug and substitution of a drug regimen not known to have an impact on
      sleep or cognition may represent the best option to determine whether use of EFV is
      associated with effects on sleep and cognition beyond the immediate period following
      initiation of drug.
    
  