
    
      Progression free survival will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The median survival
      time and its associated 95% non-parametric CI will be provided. Rates at 3 month intervals
      will be estimated using the log-log transformation of the Kaplan-Meier estimates and the
      standard deviation of the Kaplan Meier estimate based on the Greenwood formula.

      For the primary analysis, PFS from randomization will be compared between the two arms using
      the score test from a Cox proportional hazards model adjusted for histology (stratification
      factor). The corresponding estimate of the treatment effect (hazard ratio) and 95% CI will be
      provided.

      Secondary analyses include:

        -  the primary comparison of PFS repeated using methods for interval-censored data to
           adjust for deviations from the planned imaging scheduled, if any.

        -  the above mentioned analyses performed for PFS measured from date of starting firstline
           doxorubicin treatment.

      Overall survival and time to second progression (PFS2) measured from randomization and from
      starting firstline doxorubicin treatment will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The
      median times and their associated 95% non-parametric CI will be calculated. Rates at 3 month
      intervals will be estimated using the log-log transformation of the Kaplan-Meier estimates
      and the standard deviation of the Kaplan Meier estimate based on the Greenwood formula. They
      will be compared between the two arms using an adjusted Cox proportional hazards model; the
      corresponding estimates of the hazard ratio and 95% CI will be provided. The above mentioned
      PFS2 comparison will also be repeated using methods for interval-censored data.

      The adverse events related to the treatment (excluding those declared not reasonably possibly
      related to the treatment, but including those with relationship not assessable) will be
      described in the safety population. Worst grade of the AEs will be tabulated. Whenever a
      CTCAE code exists, the grade will be displayed according to that system, otherwise the values
      will be coded in up to three categories as below lower limit of normal (LLN), within normal
      range, and above upper limit of normal (ULN), as deemed appropriate.

      The percentage of patients presenting severe treatment-related AE (grade ≥ 3), of patients
      reported to have died of toxicity and of patients who stopped treatment due to toxicity will
      be calculated and the 95% confidence interval will be presented.
    
  