
    
      Efficiency of Thoracolumbar Interfascial Plane Block in Lumbar Disk Surgery Lomber disc
      hernia is one of the most common diseases in Turkey. The prevalence in various studies is
      between 60-80% and incidence is between 1-3% for the entire population, If adequate analgesia
      isn't achieved in postoperative period, the patients can faced with postoperative pain due to
      lomber disc hernia. In fact, as a result of inadequate analgesia chronic pain can be develop,
      and patients can be suffered by this pain for long years Thoracolumbar interfascial blok, was
      defined by Hand et al, descibed for reduce pain of thoracolumbar region surgery. After
      afferent fibers separate from medulla spinalis, they're called r.anterior and r.posterior.
      While r. anterior spreads to anterior abdominal wall, r.posterior spreads to thoracolumbar
      region. Goal of TLIP is to provide a same impact in the thoracolumbar region, like
      thoracoabdominal plane block (TAP) diminish the pain in the abdominal surgery.

      The study design was approved by the locale ethics committee. This double-blinded,
      randomized, controlled clinical trial recruited 50 patients aged between 18 and 65 years with
      the American society of anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status classification systems I/II
      who were candidated for surgical operations on lumbar disc hernia surgery. All the
      participants will be asked to sign an informed consent form after having been provided with
      details of the aim and proceedings of the study. Patients will excluded from the study if
      they have a neurological and neuromuscular disorders, psychiatric problems, cardiopulmoner
      diseases, coagulopathy, infections or allergy to local anesthetic agents. Patients will be
      divided into two groups as Group T (TLIP block) and Group E (Epidural group).

      Prior to the study, a power analysis was performed to determine the necessary number of
      patients in each group. With a two-sided type I error of 5% and study power at 80%, it was
      estimated that 25 patients would be needed in each group 20 gauge cannulas are placed over
      the left hand of the patient in the operating room and 4 ml kg-1% 0.9% NaCl infusion will be
      made. The age, weight and sex of the patients will record and the ECG, SpO2, non-invasive
      blood pressure monitor will be used as standard in the operating room. Routine anesthesia
      induction in both groups will be performed with 2 mg kg-1 propofol 50 mcg fentanyl and 0.6 mg
      kg-1 rocuronium anesthesia with 40/60% O2 / N2O 2% sevofloran.

      In group T, TLIP block will be applied before anesthesia and surgery and evaluate block
      efficiency with temperature discrimination and pin-prick test. During the TLIP block, block
      fluid will have total volume of 20 mL of 0.5% bupivacaine. TLIP block implementation will be
      made in accordance with the asepsis antisepsis rules. Ultrasonically assisted, 0.5-1 mL 0.9%
      NaCl test is given between m.longissimus and m.iliocostalis to confirm the position of the
      needle and local anesthetic drugs will be given here (according to new approach). In Group E,
      after surgery, total of 20 ml of 0.1% bupivacaine and 50 mcg of fentanyl will be performed in
      the epidural space with direct vision by the surgeon. After, patients will be administered
      with 0,01 mg kg atropine iv and 0,02 mg kg neostigmine iv and extubated at the end of the
      surgery, they will be taken to PACU. For the postoperative analgesia, patient controlled
      analgesia device will be administered as 20 mg/h continue dose tramadol and administered 10
      mg bolus dose tramadol if patient need a rescue dose. Nausea-vomiting, tramadol consumption,
      bolus dose intervention and visual analog scale value in the postoperative 0-4., 4-12., and
      12-24. hour interval will be assess and results will be record.
    
  