
    
      Cardiovascular diseases remain the major cause of mortality and morbidity in industrialised
      countries. Their prevalence increases steeply as consequence of the aging of the population
      in these countries. Curiously, cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases share common
      aging pathological pathways involving abnormal accumulation of insoluble amyloid proteins in
      the extracellular matrix disrupting normal organ function. Whereas neurological amyloid
      diseases has been considerably investigated, little attention has been paid to the
      aggregation of amyloid proteins in cardiovascular diseases. Post-mortem studies have
      identified cardiac wild-type transthyretin amyloidosis deposition in 25% of individuals over
      the age of 80 years leading to the concept of "senile cardiac amyloidosis" (CA) (Cornwell, Am
      j Med 1984; Pitkanen, Am J Pathol 1984). The cause of this deposition is not yet known but
      might be related primarily to aging process and enhanced by cardiac mechanical stress
      (overload), hypoxia, oxidative stress and inflammation. Since patients with transthyretin CA
      develop severe heart failure with poor prognosis, it is crucial to identify them especially
      among population at risk such those with aortic stenosis (AS). Indeed this common valvular
      heart disease affects mainly senescent subjects and combines so the adverse effects on
      myocardial function of both pressure overload and myocardial aging.

      Interestingly, some elderly patients with severe AS exhibit similar echocardiographic and
      cardiac MRI patterns as those reported in CA including increased cardiac wall thickness and
      progressive left ventricular dysfunction starting with alteration of basal LV-2D strain. They
      also exhibit increased late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) at cardiac MRI. This has been
      interpreted as related to interstitial myocardial "fibrosis" and has been correlated with
      poor prognosis after aortic valve replacement i.e.; high mortality, persistence of heart
      failure symptoms and LV dysfunction (Weidemann Circ 2009; Dweck, JACC 2011; Hermann JACC
      2011). However none of these patients have benefited from a detailed histology analysis with
      aiming at identifying amyloid deposits. The investigators have recently found similar
      clinical observations in the investigators AS cohort. Using specific staining, the
      investigators were able to unmask the association of severe AS and CA in these patients.
      These preliminary findings raise the question of a potential pathophysiological link between
      CA and AS and might explain why some patients with AS may not benefit from cardiac surgery.
    
  