
    
      Narcolepsy is a serious and debilitating condition involving persistent and excessive
      sleepiness that affects 1 in 2000 Americans and 3 million people worldwide. Although
      wake-promoting pharmacotherapy can reduce sleepiness there is no cure and people with
      narcolepsy experience significantly poor health-related quality of life, particularly in the
      domains of mental and social health. Therefore, the overarching goal of this research is to
      test the effectiveness of a mindfulness-based intervention (MBI) for improving health-related
      quality of life as a complementary practice to standard care for narcolepsy. The purpose of
      this study is to conduct a feasibility trial to determine the optimal parameters for adapting
      and delivering MBI to people with narcolepsy. The specific aims are to: 1) Determine the
      feasibility and acceptability of MBI delivered using videoconferencing for the purpose of
      improving psychosocial functioning in people with narcolepsy and 2) Determine the feasibility
      of recruitment and assessment methods for delivering MBI using videoconferencing. The
      feasibility trial includes 60 adults with narcolepsy who will be randomized to receive either
      a 4-week (brief), 8-week (standard), or 12-week (extended) MBI. Each MBI will be similar in
      content, which includes mindfulness practices and group discussions with adaptations for
      working with narcolepsy symptoms. All MBIs will be delivered in small groups using a live
      videoconferencing platform to enhance accessibility. If the findings of this project support
      the feasibility of further testing, the next project would be aimed at enhancing rigor and
      reproducibility (e.g., designing appropriate control, refining outcome measures and
      eligibility criteria) in preparation for a large-scale pragmatic trial. The overall
      significance of this research is to develop a scalable mind-body intervention that addresses
      a major research gap on improving psychosocial functioning in people with narcolepsy.
    
  