
    
      Liver disease and cirrhosis are important causes of morbidity and mortality in the United
      States and are a major public health problem with 40,000 deaths and more than 1.4 billion
      dollars spent on medical services. Hepatic fibrosis is the final common pathway for many
      different liver insults and is known to be a dynamic process, which is reversible if
      diagnosed early and treated. If untreated, fibrosis eventually progresses to cirrhosis, which
      is irreversible. The diagnosis of fibrosis relies on liver biopsy (the gold standard)
      however, is an invasive procedure with risks and sampling errors. Indirect biomarkers of
      fibrogenesis can measure some of these components to determine categories of fibrosis, with a
      sensitivity and specificity of 47% and 90% respectively.It is shown in the literature that,
      fat content of liver is related with fibrosis development. Biopsy is accepted as the most
      accurate technique to assess liver fat and fibrosis amount.

      Fibrotic livers demonstrate increased stiffness, a property that can be measured using
      technology named Ultrasound Elastography or sonoelastography (SWE). SWE is performed by
      insonating the patient with a low energy, amplitude, and frequency shear wave created by a
      vibrating probe. The propagated wave travels faster with increasing fibrosis: the stiffer the
      tissue, the faster the shear wave propagates. A pulse-echo ultrasound acquisition allows
      measurement of the wave velocity and the results are presented as kilopascals (kPa). Prior
      reports have described sensitivity and specificity for liver fibrosis detection of 80% and
      97% respectively for SWE. The benefits of SWE are that it is inexpensive, reproducible,
      painless, rapid (< 10 min), easy to perform, and can be used for diagnosis, prognosis and
      monitoring disease progression.

      The objective of this study is to compare the variation in elastography values and study the
      factors that might cause these variations.

      The proposed investigation is a cross-sectional study using ultrasound elastography. The
      investigators are planning to enroll 30 subjects 18 years old and older in whom diffuse liver
      disease is suspected, and who have undergone non-focal liver biopsy in the past 6 months or
      are scheduled to undergo biopsy within 3 months of enrollment, as part of their routine
      clinical care.

      All subjects will be required to come to the MGH main campus for 2 study visits within 60
      days of each other. In addition, subjects will need to fast for at least 4 hours prior to
      study visits

      There will be two visits in this study and maximum 60 days time frame between the visits is
      anticipated. Two operators will perform the ultrasound examination. Reproducibility and
      repeatability of the ultrasound devices will be estimated.

      Ultrasound examination including sonoelastography will be performed using four FDA-approved
      ultrasound units; Both operators will perform;

        -  Median Elastograpy (10 measurements) on regular and variable map at a depth(in the area
           between 2cm from capsule and 6.5cm from skin)

        -  Median SWE value with active/free breath(10measurements)

        -  Median SWE value with less number of acquisitions(3measurements)

      These measurements will be collected in subgroups using specific systems. In second visit,
      all measurements will be repeated with the same operators.
    
  