
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of MPDL3280A (atezolizumab) that can be
      given with stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SAR) (stereotactic body radiation therapy) in
      patients with inoperable stage I non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the safety profile of this regimen using CTCAE v4 (Common Toxicity
      Criteria for Adverse Events version 4).

      II. To provide preliminary efficacy data of the combination as determine by objective
      response rate and disease free survival using RECIST 1.1 (Response Evaluation Criteria for
      Solid Tumors) and Immune Related RECIST (irRECIST).

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To analyze serial blood for change in cytokine signatures, fluorescence activated cell
      sorting (FACS) and immunophenotyping of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and tumor
      infiltrating immune cells.

      II. To evaluate pre and post treatment tumor tissue (if available) for programmed cell
      death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) and other immune proteins in the tumor and tumor microenvironment and
      for molecular profiling in a subset of patient samples.

      III. To discover biomarkers of response from the data obtained.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of atezolizumab.

      DOSE ESCALATION PHASE: Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on
      day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Within 24-48 hours after receiving atezolizumab, patients also undergo
      4-5 fractions of stereotactic body radiation therapy over days 1-5 of course 3.

      EXPANSION PHASE: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat
      every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 24-48
      hours after receiving atezolizumab, patients also undergo 4-5 fractions of stereotactic body
      radiation therapy over days 1-5 of course 3.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for
      2 years, and then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  