
    
      Thrombolysis with intravenous(iv) tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) is the only effective
      and approved therapy for acute ischemic stroke. The most frequent cause of ischemic stroke is
      thrombosis of the middle cerebral artery (MCA). Preliminary in vitro, animal and human
      studies suggest that ultrasound accelerates thrombolysis induced by t-PA, and recanalization
      of acute MCA occlusion due to thrombolysis is an independent predictor of good clinical
      outcome. Thus, insonation of an occluded MCA through the temporal bone in stroke patients who
      are treated with iv t-PA might enhance recanalization and improve clinical outcome. The
      present prospective, randomized, controlled multicenter pilot study will investigate the
      safety and efficacy of continuous 1-hour insonation of the occluded MCA with 2 MHz
      transcranial color duplex sonography in patients with ischemic stroke treated with iv t-PA
      within 3 hours after symptom onset. It is planned to randomize 400 patients in 6 Swiss
      centers during an enrolment period of 33 months with an individual follow up of 3 months. The
      study endpoints include safety and efficacy assessments. The primary safety endpoint is to
      determine the rate of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) in both treatment groups. The
      primary efficacy endpoint is to determine whether a good functional outcome (modified Rankin
      scale, mRs, score of 0-2) differs between both treatment groups. Secondary endpoints include
      (1) asymptomatic ICH occuring during or within the first 24-48 hours after t-PA infusion, (2)
      early clinical recovery by 10 or more National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS)
      points or dramatic recovery (total NIHSS score of 3 or less) at 24-48 hours after t-PA
      infusion, (3) mean mRS score at 90 days after t-PA infusion, (4) death occuring during the
      study period, and (5) recanalization at 24-48 hours after t-PA infusion.
    
  