
    
      The hypothesis is that obese subjects with sedentary jobs at the Medical College of
      Wisconsin, when assigned use of a standing desk to encourage movement, will reduce their
      daily sedentary time and demonstrate improvement in physiologic parameters and disease
      markers from baseline through the end of the intervention.

      Prior intervention studies are limited and not randomized, but have shown a reduction in
      waist circumference and improvements in cholesterol when overall sitting time is reduced over
      a 3-6 month interval (with a standing or treadmill desk). None of these intervention studies
      have directly measured vascular endothelial function, as assessed by arterial flow-mediated
      dilation (FMD), an early indicator of cardiovascular disease, and a powerful predictor of
      future cardiovascular events and vascular inflammation. Improvements in arterial FMD (or
      endothelial function) are known to reduce the future risk of cardiovascular events.

      Due to differences in the energy requirement of lying down, sitting, and standing, there has
      been increased research interest in activity type classification based on posture. In the
      science of sedentary behaviors, this is an important distinction to consider when evaluating
      health outcomes, such as in the present study. Accelerometers (physical activity monitors)
      utilize piezoelectric crystal sensor technology to provide a measure of accelerations of the
      body during movement and have the advantage of capturing frequency, duration, and intensity
      of physical movement minute by minute. Accelerometer technology will be used to analyze the
      primary outcome of interest (sedentary time). The study team will collect information on
      standing time, sedentary bouts, daily steps, cadence (walking speed in steps/minute), and
      exercise activity. The study team will employ a compact and re-usable physical activity
      monitor that adheres to the subject's thigh. This will provide objective assessments of
      activity levels at baseline and during the intervention. This data can be translated into
      energy expenditure or activity intensity categories (METs) and even position (sitting verses
      standing). The monitor output is Excel-compatible and is ideal for comparing each subject's
      activity and physiological parameters from baseline to intervention.
    
  