
    
      The evaluation of Empowering Families will test the effectiveness of offering relationship
      skills education services with a robust economic security component to low-income couples
      raising children. The program is built on Family Wellness, a relationship education
      curriculum that has not yet been rigorously studied. The Parenting Center (TPC) has
      integrated Family Wellness into a comprehensive set of services that includes case
      management, employment services, and financial coaching. The evaluation will test the effect
      of this full package of services on couples' relationship and employment outcomes. The
      evaluation will also examine effects on outcomes related to child well-being, such as
      co-parenting and father involvement.

      The Empowering Families evaluation will be conducted with low-income couples raising
      children. To be eligible for program services, both members of the couple must: (1) be age 18
      or older, (2) report that they are in a committed relationship with their partner; (3) speak
      a language in which programming is being offered; (4) be interested in participating in a
      program that offers both relationship skills and economic stability services; (5) be
      available to participate in programming for the next six months; (6) pass a domestic violence
      screen; and (7) not have an open case with child protective services. In addition, at least
      one member of the couple must have a biological or adopted child who is under age 18 and
      lives with them at least half time. The Parenting Center will aim to recruit couples who are
      economically disadvantaged and likely to want both relationship skills and employment
      services.

      The evaluation plan for the Empowering Families program calls for the enrollment and random
      assignment of 1,000 couples over the course of two years. This target requires The Parenting
      Center to recruit approximately 42 couples for the study each month. Half of these couples
      will be randomly assigned to the Empowering Families program; the other half will be assigned
      to a control group that is not eligible for program services.To document the outcomes of
      study participants, survey data will be collected at two time points: (1) a baseline survey
      administered at study enrollment and (2) a follow-up survey conducted about a year later. The
      investigators will also conduct a process study to document how Empowering Families was
      implemented.
    
  