
    
      The laparoscopic approach for laparoscopic total mesorectal excision (L-TME) results improved
      short-term outcomes and provides a clearer intraoperative view compared with the open
      approach in a deep and narrow pelvis. Preliminary results from the COLOR II trial confirmed
      improved patient recovery and similar safety, same resection margins and completeness of
      resection using L-TME compared with the results achieved with open surgery.Results from the
      CLASICC trial supported the use of laparoscopic surgery for colorectal cancer and showed no
      difference between laparoscopically-assisted TME and conventional open resection at 10 years
      post-procedure in terms of overall survival, disease-free survival and local recurrence.

      Despite these positive clinical outcomes for L-TME, laparoscopic resection of rectal cancer,
      especially in a deep and narrow pelvis, is technically demanding and demands a long learning
      curve. Technical limitations include limited mobility of straight laparoscopic instruments
      and associated loss of dexterity, unstable camera view and compromised ergonomics for the
      surgeon. These limitations could explain the conversion rate which remained at 17% in the
      last COLOR II trial.2 In order to avoid this drawback, we have described for patients with
      high-risk of conversion, the trans-anal endoscopic proctectomy (TAEP) approach performed with
      the Transanal Endoscopic Operation (TEO) device.This trans-anal procedure is also called
      trans anal minimally invasive surgery (TAMIS) if a laparoscopic port is used.

      Robotic technology was developed to reduce these limitations and offers the advantages of
      intuitive manipulation of laparoscopic instruments with wrist articulation, a 3-dimensional
      field of view, a stable camera platform with zoom magnification, dexterity enhancement and an
      ergonomic operating environment. A major advantage of the robotic approach is the surgeon's
      simultaneous control of the camera and of the two or three additional instruments. This
      advantage facilitates traction and counter-traction. The technological advantages of robotic
      surgery should also allow a finer dissection in a narrow pelvic cavity. However, total
      robotic surgery for rectal cancer is still technically challenging and involves two operative
      fields (splenic flexure and rectum), potential collision of the robotic arms and lack of
      tactile feedback.

      Reports of robotic and laparoscopic rectal cancer surgery outcomes showed similar
      intraoperative results and morbidity, postoperative recovery and short-term oncologic
      outcomes.However, longer operation times have been described as a disadvantage of the robotic
      system, compared with conventional laparoscopy. On the other hand, all meta-analyses
      comparing robotic total mesorectal excision (R-TME) and L-TME concluded in reduction of the
      conversion rate.

      Since 2007, the rectal surgery with robotic assistance is booming. To date, seven
      meta-analyzes have been published. All show that the robot exceeds laparoscopy to reduce the
      conversion rate. The last two meta-analyzes that had gathered more than 800 patients
      undergoing robotic surgery have again highlighted the contribution of the robot to secure the
      radial margin and decrease sexual sequelae. However, there is not so far from Phase 3
      randomized trial dealing with the subject. The ROLARR protocol was completed in late 2014 (Ph
      III laparoscopy / Robot), the first results are published in late 2015.

      The interest of a European multicenter ambispective (retrospective and prospective) database
      is fundamental because this early work suggests that the robot can make more for specific
      subgroups of patients, particularly in high surgical risk patients (Male, narrow pelvis, high
      BMI, mesorectal fat, large tumor of the anterior and middle third).

      The largest series of R-TME stems from the US national cancer database (965 patients operated
      by R-TME) and confirms a 9.5% conversion rate compared to 16.4% with L-TME (p < 0.001).
    
  