
    
      The morbidity and mortality from non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), the most common
      liver disease worldwide, are rapidly increasing as a result of the global explosion in
      obesity, particularly in the Asia-Pacific region where there will be an estimated 300 million
      obese people by 20302. Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), a subset of NAFLD, which is
      present in up to 30% of obese adults, leads to irreversible liver cirrhosis, and is
      associated with type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and increased morbidity and
      mortality. Weight loss has established efficacy on NASH-associated cardiometabolic
      abnormalities and disease activity and severity. Diet and exercise produce a modest effect on
      NASH which is limited by weight regain, even with intensive lifestyle modification. Bariatric
      surgery produces the greatest amount of weight loss, but is less acceptable to many patients
      than lifestyle modification or medical therapy, and is limited by cost and complications,
      particularly post-surgical malabsorption and potential psychological complications. The
      efficacy of previously-studied medications on NASH, such as statins, insulin sensitizers and
      ursodeoxycholic acid, remains unclear.

      This study therefore aims to compare the efficacy and safety of a medication which induces
      weight loss and reduces insulin resistance, with that of lifestyle modification (diet and
      exercise), and bariatric surgery, for improvement in NASH severity, insulin resistance and
      other markers of cardiovascular risk. Liraglutide is an injectable glucagon-like peptide-1
      (GLP-1) analogue which is indicated for treatment of type 2 diabetes in adults. It has been
      shown to induce weight loss and reduction in insulin resistance in type 2 diabetic and obese
      patients. Treatment with clinically relevant doses of liraglutide for at least 20 weeks leads
      to weight loss in obese patients with or without type 2 diabetes. However, there is little
      information on the effects of GLP-1 analogues on NASH, particularly in comparison to other
      modalities of weight loss such as surgery.

      Our study will also compare the accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), the current
      noninvasive reference standard method for measuring hepatic fat content, with liver biopsy
      for staging of NASH. Biopsy is the current gold standard, but carries higher procedural
      risks, and is less convenient and acceptable to patients than non-invasive methods of
      evaluating severity and activity of NASH. Hence liver biopsy for week 0, 26 and week 52 is
      optional based on patient consent. We will also measure biomarkers for altered hepatic lipid
      partitioning and adipokine action, increased oxidative stress and free fatty acid
      lipotoxicity, which have been implicated in the pathogenesis of NAFLD, and which may be
      useful non-invasive methods for evaluating the severity of NASH and the efficacy of
      treatment.
    
  