
    
      The oral nutrition supplementation will be started immediately after randomization and will
      be continued until surgery. The patients will receive a dosage of ONS adjusted to their
      nutritional risk. Regular monitoring of blood sugars, electrolytes, phosphate, and
      triglycerides will occur twice per week, as per standard protocol.

      In-bed cycling will be started as soon as possible after randomization. Cycling sessions will
      be performed daily for 50 minutes, at least 5 times a week until surgery. Standard safety
      criteria will be assessed prior to initiating cycling treatments. The in-bed cycling will be
      performed passively or actively with graded increasing resistance. All cycling interventions
      will be performed under 1:1 supervision of medically trained study personnel while monitoring
      patient's heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure and transcutaneous oxygen
      saturation of blood.

      When evaluating the effect of a combined nutritional and exercise intervention, other
      important co-interventions should be standardized to reduce potential confounding of trial
      outcomes. All study patients should be fed with an oral diet that is in accordance to local
      standards, whereas it is strongly recommended to adhere to current clinical practice
      guidelines. Besides, the investigators highly encourage daily respiratory therapy in both
      groups plus mobilization as much as feasible.

      All other key interventions during preoperative treatment will be standardized in accordance
      to the local clinical practice. Study teams will follow up on the patients on a daily base,
      documenting adherence with study interventions and key co-interventions.

      Patients in the control group will not receive preoperative ONS. No bed cycling will be
      allowed from admission until surgery. Neither of these practices are the current standard of
      care in the participating unit.
    
  