
    
      The basis of enrichment design adjustment ： The latest published literature shows that the
      heterogeneity and immune tolerance of patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) - related HCC are
      significantly correlated with a number of cytokines, including helper T cell subgroup 1 / 2
      (Th1 / Th2) related factors. Moreover, the accumulated data show that the immunomodulatory
      effect of flavonoids including Icaritin is related to Th1 / Th2 factors. At the same time,
      the recent REACH2 study published in Lancet Oncology has successfully used serum alpha
      fetoprotein (AFP≥400) to enrich patients with advanced HCC. Based on the updated published
      data and our phase II clinical trial data, considering that the ongoing clinical trials are
      still in a blind state and no statistical analysis has been conducted, with consulting of
      clinical experts, regulatory agency advice, the protocol was amended and approved into
      adaptive enrichment design. Before unblended and SAP, the amendment protocol was
      prospectively pre-defined including sample size, patient population (CBS score positive), and
      event number for interim and final analysis. combined with the latest FDA clinical trial
      enrichment design guidelines (2019), several experts recommended to use the composite
      biomarkers, including IFN-γ , TNF - α and AFP, which may demonstrate the clinical advantages
      of the immunomodulation therapy with Icaritin for HBV-related advanced HCC patients in China
      with poor prognosis, but currently lack of treatment options.

      Definition of enriched HBV-related advanced HCC patient:

      Patient with serum composite biomarker score (CBS)≥2

      Enrichment design amendment:

      Based on our previous phase II data of Icaritin collected from HBV-related advanced HCC
      patients and the related literature, we assume that the mOS of the enriched population
      (CBS≥2) is 420 days (14 months) in the experimental group and 240 days (8 months) in the
      HUACHASHU control group; the HR of the experimental group relative to the control group is
      0.57. A total of 106 target death events and 130 evaluable subjects were required for the
      enrichment. Once the amendment protocol be effective, the enriched and non-enriched patients
      will be continuously randomized into the experimental and the control arms accordingly (1:1).
      When the number of enrolled cases reaches 280, or 60% of events (64) of 106 deaths has been
      observed in the enriched population, interim analysis will be performed.
    
  