
    
      INTRODUCTION - Personality is the set of characteristics that define the individual's
      behavior, his relationship with the external world and his way of reacting to the events that
      occur in it. Personality is closely related to the development of pathological processes, the
      integrity of your biological tissues and the repercussions that this can cause in your lives.
      In addition, there is a relationship with levels of anxiety, stress and quality of life. The
      enneagram is a tool that groups personalities into nine types, identifies their functioning
      patterns and reaction mechanisms. The use is quite widespread today, but still in an
      empirical way, requiring a greater scientific basis. OBJECTIVE - to observe the influence of
      the enneagram typology on the perception of anxiety, stress and quality of life through
      self-knowledge directed in a virtual learning environment. METHODS: clinical, primary,
      analytical, prospective and longitudinal study. It will be carried out in a virtual learning
      environment (VLE) with the collection of data obtained before and after the beginning of the
      training on the enneagram. The training will be divided into three online AVA modules.
      Casuistry: after orientations and signature of the term (Informed Consent Form), they will
      register on social networks where the initial information will be filled out. to outline the
      group. Inclusion criteria: participants of both sexes, Brazilians, over 18 years old; agree
      to sign the Informed Consent Form; with the desire to realize self-knowledge with the
      availability of time and access to the internet to hold meetings; Non-inclusion criteria: do
      not have previous information about the enneagram and speak the Portuguese language;
      Exclusion criteria: participation in work at any time; Individuals who have missed the
      modules and do not do the replacement later. Instruments: World Health Organization Quality
      of Life - (WHOQOL-BREF). Stress Perception Scale 10 (EPS-10) The Trait-State Anxiety
      Inventory: STAI E and T. After the guidance and signature of the ICF, the Organizational
      Learning Structure will be presented Statistical Analysis: The data will be tabulated in
      Microsoft Excel 2016 and measures will be used central tendency for quantitative variables
      and absolute and relative frequency for categorical variables. Pearson's correlation
      analysis; multiple regression analysis and Wilcoxon test. The product resulting from this
      work will be the Enneagram Online Teaching and Research System (Sep9). KEYWORDS: Personality.
      Anxiety. Quality of Life. Stress, Psychological. Personality Tests.
    
  