
    
      Roughly 600,000 Americans annually die in or shortly after an ICU admission, generally after
      decisions by surrogates to forego life support. Several decades of research indicate:

        1. Family members in ICUs often struggle in the role of surrogate and experience high rates
           of lasting psychological sequelae (e.g. depression, anxiety, PTSD). For example, a
           systematic review found that one third of surrogates have long term feelings of guilt
           and doubt about the decisions they made.

        2. Patients often receive treatment that is inconsistent with their values and preferences.
           For example, in the SUPPORT trial, physicians were frequently unaware of patients'
           wishes regarding end-of-life care, and patients often died receiving more invasive
           treatment than they preferred.

        3. Intensive care near the end of life is a significant contributor to health care costs.
           For example, medical care in the last year of life accounts for 25% of Medicare costs,
           and ICU care contributes substantially.

      Breakdowns in clinician-family communication in ICUs are common and an important target for
      interventions. Using quantitative analysis of audiorecorded goals of care discussions in
      ICUs, we found that in more than 50% of conversations clinicians did not inquire about the
      patient's values and treatment preferences, and in a similar proportion failed to explicitly
      offer alternatives to indefinite life-prolonging treatment, such as time-limited trials or
      comfort-focused treatment. We have also documented frequent omissions of important prognostic
      information during such conversations and other researchers have documented that surrogates
      often hold unduly optimistic estimates of patients' prognosis. These data highlight the
      importance of improving the quality of collaborative decision making in ICUs.

      This proposal is responsive to national research priorities: The proposed research addresses
      priority areas for national action from the Institute of Medicine and NIH: improving
      clinician-family communication and end-of-life care for patients with advanced organ system
      failure. It is responsive to calls by the Institute on Aging to promote patient-centered
      decision making for elderly patients.

      A critical barrier to addressing these problems is the absence of a scalable intervention. No
      empirically validated decision support tools exist for the range of critical illnesses
      confronted in ICUs. Prior interventions to address these problems (e.g., proactive palliative
      care consultation or adding a family support counselor to the ICU team) face major barriers
      to dissemination due to projected palliative care workforce shortages and the high cost of
      adding more personnel to ICU care teams.

      A pragmatic, scalable intervention to overcome these problems has been developed. This pilot
      study among surrogates and clinicians of 50 incapacitated patients will assess the
      feasibility of deploying the web-based tool as well as to examine the tools impact on
      measures of communication and decision quality.
    
  