
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the combination of
      copanlisib, trastuzumab and pertuzumab in patients with metastatic epidermal growth factor
      receptor 2 (HER2)-positive breast cancer. (Phase Ib) II. To assess the benefit of adding
      copanlisib to trastuzumab and pertuzumab in HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer patients
      with PIK3CA mutations or PTEN mutation receiving maintenance therapy after induction
      treatment, as measured by progression free survival (PFS). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the benefit of adding copanlisib to trastuzumab and pertuzumab in HER2-positive
      metastatic breast cancer patients with PIK3CA mutations or PTEN mutation receiving
      maintenance therapy after induction treatment, as measured by overall survival (OS). (Phase
      II) II. To evaluate the safety of copanlisib given at the RP2D in combination with
      trastuzumab and pertuzumab. (Phase II)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate PFS and OS of the patients who receive the triplet combination with:

      Ia. The number of induction cycles. Ib. Hormone receptor status (estrogen receptor [ER] and
      progesterone receptor [PR]).

      Ic. PTEN loss. Id. PIK3CA mutations or PTEN mutations. (Phase Ib)

      II. To assess PTEN immunohistochemistry (IHC), Ki-67 IHC and cleaved caspase-3 IHC and to
      perform molecular profiling assays on malignant and normal tissues, including, but not
      limited to, whole exome sequencing (WES) and messenger ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing
      (RNAseq), in order to:

      IIa. Identify potential predictive and prognostic biomarkers associated with treatment
      outcomes (PFS and OS) with the addition of copanlisib to dual HER2-targeted treatment.

      IIb. Identify resistance mechanisms using genomic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)- and RNA-based
      assessment platforms.

      III. To contribute genetic analysis data from de-identified biospecimens to Genomic Data
      Commons (GDC), a well annotated cancer molecular and clinical data repository, for current
      and future research; specimens will be annotated with key clinical data, including
      presentation, diagnosis, staging, summary treatment, and if possible, outcome.

      IV. To bank formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue, blood (for cell-free DNA
      analysis), and nucleic acids obtained from patients at the Experimental Therapeutics Clinical
      Trials Network (ETCTN) Biorepository at Nationwide Children's Hospital.

      OUTLINE:

      PHASE I: Patients receive copanlisib intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1 and 8.
      Patients also receive trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes and pertuzumab IV over 30-60 minutes
      on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive copanlisib IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 8. Patients also receive
      trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes and pertuzumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Cycles
      repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes and pertuzumab IV over 30-60
      minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 30 days and at 3 months.
    
  