
    
      In recent years there has been a great interest in analyzing the relationship between smoking
      and depression due to the high smoking rates in this population. Smokers with depression are
      more likely to smoke heavily, show greater tobacco dependence, suffer more severe withdrawal,
      experience lower quit rates and have more relapse than smokers without depression. Some
      studies propose the inclusion of behavioural activation techniques to standard
      cognitive-behavioural therapy for quitting smoking, arguing that the loss of the ability to
      experience pleasure in response to daily activities after quitting smoking is a significant
      barrier to achieving and maintaining abstinence. With this type of intervention, the exposure
      to positive reinforcers alternative to cigarettes increases and the resulting distress of
      withdrawal syndrome it is also reduced. Therefore, behavioural activation may improve smoking
      abstinence rates and depressive symptomatology. This project aims to assess the effectiveness
      of a psychological intervention for smoking cessation with components of behavioural
      activation for managing depressed mood. We will use a single blind controlled randomized
      design. Two hundred and fifty daily (≥ 10 cigarettes/day) smokers will be randomized to one
      of three conditions: 1) standard cognitive-behavioural smoking cessation treatment (n=100);
      2) standard cognitive-behavioural smoking cessation treatment plus behavioural activation
      (n=100); or 3) a control group of three months delayed treatment (n=50). Both active
      treatments will be administered in eight weekly 60 minute sessions. The primary outcomes will
      be carbon monoxide (CO) verified at 24-hours point prevalence abstinence at the end of the
      treatment, a 7-day point prevalence abstinence at 3 months follow-up, a 30-days point
      prevalence abstinence at 6-, and 12-months follow-ups; and depressive symptomatology through
      BDI-II and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale scores at the end of treatment, and at 3-, 6-,
      and 12-months follow-ups. Additional aims include assessing others activation-related
      variables, craving, self-efficacy and withdrawal syndrome. This randomized controlled trial
      will be the first trial of Behavioural Activation and Smoking Cessation psychological
      treatment in a Spanish sample of seeking treatment smokers.
    
  