
    
      Epicardial adipose tissue (EAT) is a kind of VAT, between the surface of the myocardium and
      the epicardium. It can easily be measured by standard two-dimensional (2D) echocardiography.
      EAT serves as an endocrin organ that secretes hormones, inflammatory cytokines and
      chemokines. Previous data suggests that EAT can play an active role in the development of
      metabolic syndrome (MetS). Previous studies have investigated the relationship between
      EAT/inflammatory markers and MetS/MetS components. However, there was lack of enough evidence
      regarding this relationship in people with obesity with or without MetS. The aim of the
      present study was to evaluate the association of echocardiographically measured EAT and
      inflammation, on the basis of c-reactive protein (CRP) and neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR),
      as simple and reliable indicators of inflammation, with MetS and its components in people
      with obesity who have similar body mass index (BMI) values. In this cross-sectional study,
      104 consecutive patients with BMI ≥30 kg/m2 who presented to the 'Obesity Solution Center 'of
      Antalya Research and Training Hospital were included . Patients with manifest heart disease
      such as, coronary heart disease, cardiac failure, cardiac valve disease or arrythmia, renal
      failure, hepatic failure, infection, chronic systemic inflammatory disease, pulmonary disease
      , malignancy and inadequate transthoracic echocardiographic images were excluded. The study
      protocol was approved by the local ethics committee and informed consent was obtained from
      each subject.

      Clinical information and current cardiovascular medication use were provided from each
      patient. Height, weight, waist circumference and hip circumference (HC) were measured when
      fasting and standing up with standard measuring tools. Patients were defined as having
      hypertension (HT) if their systolic blood pressure was >140 mmHg, their diastolic blood
      pressure was >90 mmHg, or they were using an antihypertensive medication. Blood samples were
      obtained after overnight fasting. Fasting blood glucose, urea, creatinine, total cholesterol,
      low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol,
      triglycerides, CRP, fasting and postprandial insulin, C-peptid levels, vitamin D, ferritin
      and complete blood counts were measured using standard methods. Homeostasis model assessment
      of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) was calculated using the method described by Matthews et al.
      NLR was defined as the log e neutrophil count/log e lymphocyte count within the peripheral
      blood. Patients were defined as having diabetes mellitus (DM) if they had a history of taking
      an oral antidiabetic or insulin medication, or if their fasting plasma glucose was ≥ 126
      mg/dl. The patients were classified into two groups according to whether they had MetS or
      not. MetS was diagnosed according to the National Cholesterol Education Programme Adult
      Treatment Panel III (NCEP ATP III). Epicardial fat thickness (EFT) was identified as the
      echo-free space in the pericardial layers on 2D echocardiography. EFT was measured on the
      free wall of the right ventricle at end-systole from both parasternal long axis and
      parasternal short axis views using the mean of three consecutive beats.
    
  