
    
      Parathyroid hormone is an endogenous hormone with potent anabolic and catabolic actions in
      bone. It has recently been approved for the treatment of osteoporosis and is marketed as
      FORTEO by Eli Lilly and Company. Numerous studies in humans have validated its use to
      increase bone mineral density and prevent fractures. Interest has also surfaced in its
      potential application in the treatment of non-osteoporotic fractures and several animal
      studies have supported this local application. Little is known regarding its use in treating
      conditions of the oral cavity, but animal studies suggest that bones of the oral cavity are
      responsive to the anabolic actions of PTH. Furthermore, a recent study indicated that in a
      canine model, PTH was effective at reversing periodontal bone loss. Studies from our
      laboratory indicate that patients with hyperparathyroidism (HPT) do not have an increase in
      periodontal disease as measured by attachment levels. In fact, in our patient population
      there was an increase in osseous activity in patients with HPT in the form of tori and
      exostoses (bony protuberances in the oral cavity). This suggests that increased circulating
      levels of PTH do not adversely impact the oral cavity. Furthermore, in a wound healing animal
      model of bone regeneration, we found that regenerating intramembranous bone was more
      responsive to anabolic actions of PTH than endogenous bone of the vertebrae. These studies
      highlight the potential for PTH to positively impact osseous healing in the oral cavity in
      response to periodontal therapy.

      The study will be double blinded, and patients will be randomized into one of two treatment
      groups (FORTEO or placebo once/daily). Patients will self-administer drug on a QD schedule,
      and take Vitamin D and Calcium, PO, QD, for six weeks. Drug administration will begin three
      days prior to periodontal surgery. Subjects will be followed at post-op, week 3, week 6,
      month 3, month 6, month 9, and month 12 visits. Clinical effects will be measured by serum
      collection, gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) sampling, standard dental radiographs, oral exam
      including perio probing, oral health quality of life questionnaire, and DEXA scans.
    
  