
    
      Background:

      Veterans are admitted to Veterans Health Administration (VA) Nursing Homes (NH) because
      impairment in their ability to perform activities of daily living (ADL) overwhelms their
      support system (family/friends) in the community. The etiologies of this impairment are, in
      part, due to chronic disease, deconditioning, and immobility. Yet, after admission, NH
      residents frequently have decreased levels of daily activity compared with their preadmission
      activity. Our preliminary observations suggest that dependent, frail residents improve in
      function in response to exercise in a NH setting.

      Objectives:

      By comparing an exercise group with a non-exercise group that receives a comparable level of
      staff attention and positive reinforcement, we will determine whether changes in function
      normally associated with low intensity exercise are due to exercise or to other factors.

      Methods:

      We conducted a blinded, prospective, randomized, controlled, clinical investigation at a VA
      nursing home, comparing the effect of four months of low intensity exercise with the effect
      of music and art activity on: 1) muscle mass, assessed by DEXA scan; 2) physical function,
      assessed by timed performance tests, strength and independence in ADL; and 3) the cost of NH
      care, assessed by measuring the cost of providing care within the NH minus the cost of
      providing the intervention. Study setting is a VA nursing home, resident participants are new
      admissions to the NH and are 65 years or older. All participants must be able to follow a one
      step command and be able to participate in group activity. Participants with a Mini Mental
      Status Exam (MMSE) of less than 24/30 must have consent of authorized representative.
      Screening of candidates is completed on all NH admissions. Upon completion of the consent
      process, participants are randomly assigned to either the exercise group or the music/art
      group. Baseline tests including the DEXA scan, timed performance tests and observation of ADL
      is completed prior to participation in activity. At the conclusion of four months of
      activity, all baseline tests are repeated.

      Status:

      Recruitment and intervention stage of this project has been completed. In order to achieve
      our desired number of participants, a request was made and approval received for an extension
      of recruitment stage from March 2005 until December 2005. Interventions would continue
      through March 2006 and analysis of data completed in December 2006.
    
  