
    
      Oral cancer, a major global health problem holds the sixth position worldwide with a marked
      variation in its geographic distribution. It is ranked as the third most frequent cancer in
      the developing world after stomach and cervical cancers. Amongst oral cancers, oral squamous
      cell carcinoma accounts for over 90% of the cases.

      Out of the developing counties, Indo-Pak subcontinent amounts to one third of the global oral
      cancer burden. Carcinoma of the oral cavity in Pakistan, one of the high-risk countries is
      the second most frequent cancer in either gender. With differential distribution among
      sub-populations, it represents 8.8% of all reported cancer cases. The most predominant risk
      factors include tobacco smoking, betel chewing and alcohol.

      Screening and specific diagnostic tools are two innovative approaches for early detection of
      oral cancer. Conventional oral examination and clinical evaluation remains the foundation of
      screening approaches whereas surgical biopsy followed by histological analysis is attributed
      to be the gold standard for diagnosing malignant oral lesions. Furthermore, some adjunctive
      techniques may contribute to the diagnosis of oral cancer. Of these vital staining, DNA
      analysis, chemiluminescence, tissue fluorescence, light-based detection systems and
      biomarkers are now on the forefront.

      Biomarkers have been valuable in revealing additional information about tumor pathology,
      including the inactivation of tumor suppressor genes, angiogenesis, apoptosis and cell
      proliferation. Aberrations in proliferation kinetics are the most imperative factor during
      tumor progression. Three main categories of cell proliferation markers include growth
      fraction markers like Ki67, cycle-specific markers like PCNA(Proliferating Cellular Nuclear
      Antigen), and cell cycle time markers like AgNOR. During malignancy, proliferation and
      protein synthesis is mainly controlled by the nucleus.

      Nucleolar Organizer Regions (NORs) are loops of DNA on the short arms of acrocentric
      chromosomes that presumably are associated with cell proliferation. Some of the NOR
      associated proteins are argyrophilic and can be demonstrated as black dots by the silver
      staining technique and the structures thus demonstrated are known as AgNORs. The AgNOR
      quantitative parameters provide information about the velocity of cell proliferation during
      cell cycle. Neoplastic progression is affected more by the rate of cell proliferation, rather
      than the proliferative activity per se.

      Although AgNOR staining and AgNOR quantification are valuable methods in histopathological
      evaluation of malignancies, certain limitations have also been associated with this
      technique. Such AgNOR associated shortcomings include nucleolar affinity for silver stain
      obscuring the individual AgNORs in cases of intense staining, overlapping of variable degree
      between high and low grade tumors, difficulty in discerning doublets or clusters by light
      microscopy, misinterpreted stain deposition as proliferative activity along with some
      technical problems of staining and fixation.

      Methyl Green Pyronin (MGP) stain is a differential stain used for selective staining of DNA
      and RNA. Methyl green binds specifically to deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), staining nuclei
      green, while pyronin is specific for ribonucleic acid (RNA), staining nucleoli red. Methyl
      green pyronin stain has also been used to distinguish between proliferating and
      dedifferentiated non-proliferating cell nuclei. Similarly to assess the degradation of DNA in
      thyroid follicular epithelial cells, this stain has also proven to be useful.

      Morphometry has been a significant advancement in delineating sequence of events responsible
      for cancer progression. Variations in nuclear and cellular size and shape have greater
      implications in the assessment of neoplastic lesions. Methyl Green Pyronin (MGP) stain has
      been attracting attention in the recent times as it has been used to evaluate various nuclear
      morphometric parameters in breast neoplasms. By using methyl green-pyronin staining, not only
      the inadequacies associated with AgNOR staining can be lessened but also the morphometric
      parameters for evaluating changes in the nucleus and nucleolus during carcinogenesis can be
      accomplished.

      So far AgNOR staining appears to be a useful diagnostic tool in oral squamous cell carcinoma
      for examination of nucleolar structure and variations in nucleolar activity. On the other
      hand, MGP staining has been used in assessing the cancerous lesions of breast and thyroid
      gland and recently has been extended to oral lesions. However, no studies have been
      undertaken yet to evaluate and compare the morphometric parameters using these two stains
      within normal oral epithelium and oral squamous cell carcinoma. Similarly, very few studies
      have been undertaken regarding application of methyl green pyronin stain in oral pathologies.

      Hence the current study has been planned to evaluate the morphometric parameters among normal
      oral epithelium and oral squamous cell carcinoma using methyl green pyronin staining;
      moreover these findings will also be compared with those of AgNOR staining. In this current
      scenario, methyl green pyronin staining and morphometric analysis may go hand in hand to
      provide a better diagnosis and early detection of oral cancer.
    
  