
    
      This prospective randomized trial is conducted in the 1st Propaedeutic Department of Surgery
      of National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. The study population consists of adults
      suffering from upper GI malignancy. Informed consent is obtained in written. Following this,
      the patient is classified in either the intervention group or the control group. Patients
      belonging in the control group will receive the usual postoperative care, while the patients
      in the intervention group will receive nutritional support perioperatively. The
      aforementioned "usual postoperative care" consists of administration of intravenous fluids
      until resuming oral feeding, jejunostomy feeding starting from the first postoperative day,
      epidural analgesics for the first four postoperative days, perioperative administration of a
      second generation cephalosporin plus metronidazole and thromboprophylaxis with (low moleculr
      weight heparin (LMWH). The patients are also receiving appropriate for any concomitant health
      problems (e.g. existing diabetes mellitus) and transfusions based on their needs. We record
      the patient's age, the stage and histologic type of the disease, administration of adjuvant
      and/or neoadjuvant therapy and the patient's American Society of Anesthesiologists Score.
      Their preoperative nutritional state will be assessed using Body Mass Index (BMI), serum
      albumin, body fat percentage, muscle mass and total body water following measurement with
      body composition analyzer (Tanita MC-780U Multi Frequency Segmental Body Composition
      Analyzer). At their initial assessment the patients will fill in an appropriate quality of
      life questionnaire. The type of the operation, the use of drains and catheters, the patients
      needs in iv fluids, blood product transfusions, sedatives and analgesics during the operation
      will also be recorded. The postoperative course of any patient will be closely monitored,
      including the postoperative needs in fluid administration and analgesics, the need for
      transfusion, the administration of perioperative antibiotics, the removal of drains and
      catheters, the time of first bowel movement,the need of ICU hospitalization, the total length
      of hospital stay as well as any in-hospital complications. Upon discharge from the hospital,
      the control group will receive instructions on oral and jejunostomy feeding, while the
      intervention group will receive additional nutritional support for 3 months. Both patient
      groups will undergo post-operative follow-up for six months. In the first, third and sixth
      postoperative month body weight and its change, BMI, serum albumin, body fat percentage,
      muscle mass and total body water, as well as quality of life, postoperative complications and
      need for readmission will be evaluated. Neoadjuvant therapy will also be taken into account.
      The results will be statistically evaluated after appropriate stratification.
    
  