
    
      The investigators anticipate enrolling a total of 40 children between 3 and 18 years of age.
      Specifically, two groups of children will be recruited; children with unilateral congenital
      upper-limb reductions (n=20) and age and sex-matched control group of typically developing
      children (n=20). Considering the effect size from preliminary data and to account for a 10%
      drop-out rate, a total sample of 40 subjects will provide 80% power to detect a true
      standardized effect size.

      Participants will be asked to attend a total of 3 sessions. Participants will attend an
      initial measurement session to take a 3D scan of the affected and non-affected upper limbs as
      well as several anthropometric measurements. During this session, three pictures of the upper
      limbs will be taken which will also be used to verify the fit the prostheses in a process
      previously validated by our research team. The research participants will then be asked to
      come for two testing visits. During the first testing visit (visit 1), participants will be
      fitted with the prosthesis and required adjustments to improve comfort and avoid pressure
      point will be performed. After fitting the prosthesis, participants will be given 15 minutes
      to explore the prosthesis and adjust the tensioner dial to regulate the opening of the
      fingers to perform the Box and Block Test. After the training and accommodation period,
      participants will be asked to perform 3 trials of flexion and extension of each wrist with
      and without the prosthesis and 3 different trials of the Box and Blocks Test for each hand
      while monitoring neural activity of the primary motor cortex using a fNIRS device. After a
      period of 20 minutes rest, participants will be asked to perform three trials of a bimanual
      coordination test using an instrumented tray. The bimanual task will require participants to
      start from a standard position and then reach forward and grasp (hand-to-tray), transport and
      place a tray on a ledge (tray transport), and then return the hands to the starting position
      (hand return). This task will be performed unimanually (3 trials for each hand) and
      bimanually (3 trials using both hands). Eight weeks after the baseline measurements,
      participants will be asked to visit our laboratory for a second time and perform the same
      assessments. Between the testing visits, participants will be encouraged to use the
      prosthesis for a minimum of 2 hours a day. In addition, an occupational therapy student will
      perform 3 home visits a week and will direct a training protocol that consists of completing
      three trials of a series of 6 block building activities for each hand separated by 30 seconds
      of rest (a total of 18 block building activities per hand). All participants including the
      control group will perform the same training protocol.
    
  