
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare overall survival in participants with newly diagnosed metastatic renal cell
      carcinoma who are randomized to receive immune checkpoint inhibitor-based combination
      treatment plus cytoreductive nephrectomy versus immune checkpoint inhibitor-based combination
      treatment alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival between arms in the subset who received their assigned
      protocol treatment.

      II. To assess complications of nephrectomy and post-randomization drug toxicities.

      III. To compare objective response rate in metastatic sites between the arms in participants
      with measurable metastatic disease.

      IV. To assess change in diameter of primary tumor at week 12 disease assessment in
      participants who have received pre-randomization treatment.

      BANKING OBJECTIVE:

      I. To bank specimens for future correlative studies.

      OUTLINE:

      PRE-RANDOMIZATION TREATMENT: Treatment naive patients are assigned to 1 of 3 treatment
      regimens per standard of care.

      REGIMEN I: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) and ipilimumab IV. Treatment repeats
      every 3 weeks for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients then receive nivolumab IV on day 1. Cycles repeat every 2-4 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      REGIMEN II: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV on day 1 and axitinib orally (PO) twice daily
      (BID) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      REGIMEN III: Patients receive avelumab IV on day 1 and axitinib PO BID on days 1-14. Cycles
      repeat every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: Some patients may have already completed the standard of care pre-randomization
      treatment specified above off-trial.

      RANDOMIZATION TREATMENT: Between 10-14 weeks from the start of on-trial or off-trial
      pre-randomization treatment, patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive nivolumab IV, pembrolizumab IV, or avelumab IV on day 1. Patients
      also receive axitinib PO BID. Cycles with nivolumab repeat every 2 or 4 weeks, cycles with
      pembrolizumab repeat every 3 weeks, and cycles with avelumab repeat every 2 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Within 42 days following randomization, patients undergo radical or partial
      nephrectomy in addition to nivolumab, pembrolizumab, avelumab, and axitinib as in Arm I in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Axitinib should be stopped at
      least 24 hours prior to surgery.

      After completion of trial treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for the first
      year, every 6 months for years 2 and 3, and then annually for up to 7 years from
      randomization.
    
  