
    
      Background:

        1. Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a main risk factor for cardiovascular disease and heart
           failure, in part due to diabetic cardiomyopathy. Ectopic intracellular lipid
           accumulation and impaired glycogen metabolism in skeletal muscle and liver and are
           closely associated with metabolic impairment in insulin resistant subjects and patients
           with diabetes mellitus. Recent evidence suggests that increased myocardial lipid
           accumulation might contribute to the development of myocardial dysfunction by direct
           toxic effects (lipotoxicity). However, the association between intracellular lipid
           accumulation and (myocardial) functional impairment is likely more complex than
           originally imagined. Recent studies suggest that not fat per se, but the content of
           saturated or unsaturated fatty acids might predict the development of cardiac steatosis
           and myocardial dysfunction.

           In addition carbohydrates stored as glycogen in muscle cells serve as readily available
           energy supply for contracting muscle. Skeletal muscle and hepatic glycogen metabolism is
           impaired in patients with diabetes mellitus. Data from animal experiments suggest a
           relevant role of myocardial glycogen stores in ischemic preconditioning. Due to
           methodological limitations so far data on myocardial glycogen stores and myocardial
           lipid composition in humans are missing.

        2. Heterozygote inherited inactivating mutations in Calcium Sensing Receptor (CaSR)-gene
           leads to familiar hypocalciuric hypercalcemia (FHH), specified by mildly elevated plasma
           Ca and parathyroid hormone concentrations, whereas urine Ca excretion is inadequately
           low. However, in addition to the parathyroid gland CaSR is expressed in various tissues
           including the endocrine pancreas and the heart. So far it is unknown whether the
           endocrine function of the pancreas or myocardial morphology and/or function is altered
           in patients with FHH.

        3. Altered hepatic energy metabolism might play an important role in the development of
           type 2 diabetes. Additionally, the lack of insulin delivery to the liver via the portal
           vein in type 1 diabetes might alter liver ATP synthesis. Therefore we aim to investigate
           hepatic energy metabolism non invasively with MRS.

      Hypothesis:

      In addition to total ectopic lipid deposition in the myocardium, myocardial lipid
      composition, i.e. the relative abundance of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids, and
      impaired myocardial glycogen metabolism may play an important role in the development cardiac
      lipotoxicity leading to diabetic cardiomyopathy.

      Pancreatic endocrine function and myocardial morphology and function is altered in patients
      with heterozygote inactivating mutations of the CaSR-gene / FHH.

      Hepatic and cardiac lipid and energy metabolism is altered in T1DM.

      Aims:

        -  Metabolic virtual biopsy of the myocardium for identification of specific patterns of
           intracellular lipid composition and myocardial glycogen metabolism as possible critical
           determinants of metabolic cardiomyopathy

        -  Characterization of the metabolic interplay between the myocardium, skeletal muscle,
           liver and adipose tissues in different stages of development of type 2 diabetes compared
           to patients with calcium sensing receptor mutation

      Methods:

        -  1H/13C and 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and imaging (MRI) for measurements
           of myocardial, skeletal and liver lipid and glycogen content, abdominal adipose tissue
           distribution and composition, ATP synthesis and myocardial functional parameters

        -  Mixed meal tolerance tests to trace the postprandial partitioning of substrates between
           insulin sensitive tissues (myocardium, skeletal muscle, liver, adipose tissue).

        -  Hyperinsulinemic-hyperglycemic glucose clamp (HHC) with enrichment of the infused
           glucose with the stable isotope [1-13C]glucose to trace the incorporation of circulating
           glucose into myocardial glycogen

      in healthy insulin sensitive volunteers, prediabetic insulin resistant volunteers with
      impaired glucose tolerance, healthy subjects, patients suffering from type 2 diabetes
      mellitus, type 1 diabetes and patients with heterozygote mutation in calcium sensing
      receptor.

      Relevance:

      Despite intensive treatment of cardiovascular risk factors, heart diseases are still the main
      cause of death in diabetic patients. Thus, elucidation of mechanisms that link impaired lipid
      and/or glycogen metabolism and energy homeostasis to the development of heart failure appears
      to be crucial for the development of novel treatment strategies. Additionally, hepatic
      steatosis plays a challenging, emerging role in the treatment of liver disease, wherefore
      further insight in hepatic energy metabolism in various endocrine disease is urgently needed.
    
  