
    
      Metabolic dysfunction, obesity, and type 2 diabetes The incidence of overweight and obesity
      has been increasing during the past 2-3 decades in Singapore, and is expected to rise further
      in the future. By the year 2050, it is estimated that more than half of the population will
      be overweight or obese, defined as having a body mass index (BMI, calculated as the weight in
      kilograms divided by the square of height in meters) equal to or greater than 25 kg/m2. This
      is likely responsible, at least in part, for the concomitant increase in obesity-related
      co-morbid conditions, and particularly type 2 diabetes. The relationship between BMI and the
      risk for type 2 diabetes in populations from the Asia-Pacific region is linear within a wide
      range of BMI values (from ~21 kg/m2 to ~34 kg/m2), so that for every 2 kg/m2 increase in BMI
      (which corresponds to ~6 kg for a normal-weight person of average stature), the risk for
      developing type 2 diabetes rises by ~27 %. In Singapore, the prevalence of type 2 diabetes is
      expected to double from 7.3 % in 1990 to ~15 % in 2050, predominantly as a result of the
      fattening of the population. Remarkably, however, the prevalence of type 2 diabetes in
      Singapore is similar to that in the Unites States, even though the prevalence of overweight
      and obesity (BMI ≥25 kg/m2) is approximately half. This corroborates findings from many
      studies demonstrating that markers of metabolic dysfunction and particularly hyperglycemia,
      hyperinsulinemia, and insulin resistance, are highly prevalent among Singaporean adults, even
      among people who are not overweight or obese. This likely results in increased risk for
      developing type 2 diabetes. These observations underscore the importance of metabolic
      dysfunction independent of body weight per se.

      Metabolic effects of weight loss The pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes involves peripheral
      insulin resistance (i.e. resistance of peripheral tissues and particularly skeletal muscle to
      the glucose uptake-promoting effect of insulin) and inadequate secretion of insulin from the
      pancreatic beta-cells upon glucose stimulation, leading to fasting and postprandial
      hyperglycemia. Weight loss, achieved as a result of chronic negative energy balance induced
      by a variety of ways (calorie restriction, exercise, pharmacotherapy, bariatric surgery),
      improves metabolic function and is considered the cornerstone of diabetes prevention and
      management. Part of the beneficial effect of weight loss could be due to the reduction in
      total body fat, intra-abdominal fat, and ectopic fat accumulation in metabolically active
      organs (e.g. muscle, pancreas, and liver), however acute perturbations in energy balance
      (whether positive or negative, for a period of 24-72 hours) can affect insulin action,
      beta-cell function, and glycemic control even before any changes in body weight or body fat
      distribution occur. For example, one day of overfeeding disrupts 24-hr glucose homeostasis,
      and two days of caloric restriction improves insulin action. Likewise, exercise can also lead
      to negative energy balance and is a very potent intervention that readily improves metabolic
      function and particularly insulin sensitivity, even after just a single session.
      Nevertheless, the degree of negative energy balance that needs to be achieved by calorie
      restriction or exercise in order to improve insulin action and beta-cell function is not
      known, and the dose-response relationship between negative energy balance and metabolic
      function remains elusive. Furthermore, the comparative efficacy of calorie restriction and
      exercise on improving the mechanisms regulating glucose homeostasis (i.e. insulin sensitivity
      and beta-cell function) has not been adequately studied. One study found that for the same
      amount weight loss (8-9 % of initial body weight) induced by a low-calorie diet or endurance
      exercise, exercise caused a greater reduction in fat mass, a smaller decrease in muscle mass,
      and led to a greater increase in insulin-mediated glucose disposal during a
      hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp (by ~30 %), and a greater reduction in the total insulin
      response to an oral glucose tolerance test (by ~2.5-fold), compared with matched diet-induced
      weight loss; although these differences did not reach statistical significance. These
      observations raise the possibility that, for the same negative energy balance, exercise may
      be more effective than calorie restriction in improving metabolic function; however these
      findings are difficult to interpret in the face of the concomitant more favorable changes in
      body composition and fat distribution. No study has directly assessed the effects of the same
      acute negative energy balance induced by calorie restriction or aerobic exercise on metabolic
      function.

      Accordingly, a better understanding of the effects of calorie restriction and exercise on
      insulin sensitivity, beta-cell function and daily glycemic control will have important
      implications for the design of effective lifestyle intervention targeted at preventing or
      managing type 2 diabetes. To this end, this study aims to test the following hypotheses:

      Hypothesis 1: It is hypothesized that a single day of negative energy balance induced by
      calorie restriction improves intravenous glucose tolerance because of improved beta-cell
      function without changes in insulin sensitivity. The investigators further hypothesize that
      this effect requires 20% negative energy balance, and does not improve further with greater
      energy restriction (40%).

      Hypothesis 2: It is hypothesized that a single day of negative energy balance induced by
      aerobic exercise improves intravenous glucose tolerance because of improved insulin
      sensitivity without changes in beta-cell function. The investigators further hypothesize this
      effect requires 20% negative energy balance, and improves further with greater energy
      restriction (40%).

      Hypothesis 3: It is hypothesized that at any given level of negative energy balance (20% or
      40%), calorie restriction has a greater effect than aerobic exercise on beta-cell function,
      whereas aerobic exercise has a greater effect than calorie restriction on insulin
      sensitivity.
    
  