
    
      Ethical Aspects The study will be conducted in compliance with the principles of the
      Declaration of Helsinki as well as the guidelines for research involving human subjects
      stipulated by the National Board of Health of the Brazilian Health Ministry. Eligible
      individuals will receive clarifications regarding the objectives and procedures and those who
      agree to participate will sign a informed consentment.

      Sample and recruitment The study will be conducted in three phases. First: to determine
      differences in postural control and gait between individuals with congenital and acquired
      blindness with and without a guide stick when wearing shoes and while barefoot. Second: will
      involve the characterization of differences in the effects of anodal tDCS on postural control
      and gait when stimulation is administered to different areas of the brain: primary motor
      cortex; somatosensory cortex; and visual cortex. Third: will involve a treatment protocol in
      which the participants will be randomly allocated in four groups: Group 1 - active tDCS +
      dynamic proprioceptive exercises; Group 2 - sham tDCS + dynamic proprioceptive exercises;
      Group 3 - active tDCS + static proprioceptive exercises; and Group 4 - sham tDCS + static
      proprioceptive exercises. Randomization will be performed with the use of sealed opaque
      envelopes containing a card stipulating to which group the volunteer will be allocated.

      Individuals with a diagnosis of complete congenital or acquired blindness will be recruited
      from the community and associations that offer assistance to individuals with visual
      impairment. The characterization of blindness will be based on the classification of the
      degree of visual impairment proposed by the International Statistical Classification of
      Disease and the 10th Edition of the International Classification of Disease, in which visual
      acuity <20/400 or <20/200 in the better eye is classified as blindness.

      With regard to the inclusion criteria: abnormalities of the optic nerve, retina disorders,
      glaucoma, Stargardt disease, macular degeneration, retinitis pigmentosa, congenital
      toxoplasmosis, congenital cataracts, congenital Leber's amaurosis, detached retina and
      astrocytoma. The exclusion criteria: medical diagnosis of injury affecting balance in the
      previous three years; use of medication affecting the central nervous system, coordination or
      balance; current symptoms of vertigo or dizziness; medical neurological diagnosis or symptoms
      suggestive of vestibular disorder; and past surgery or clinical condition of lower limbs or
      spinal column that can affect balance and gait. The subjects will be defined as independent
      if capable of locomotion without the assistance of others in all environments with or without
      the use of a guide stick.

      Evaluation procedures Quantitative assessment of the gait The space-time gait parameters will
      be obtained with a wireless inertial detection (G-Sensor®, BTS Bioengineering SpA, Italy),
      previously validated in the gait assessment (Bugané et al., 2012; Pau et al., 2015).

      Each sensor has 62mm × 36mm x 16mm dimensions, weighing 60g, and consists of a three-axis
      accelerometer (maximum scale ± 6g), a 3-axis gyroscope (full-scale ± 300°/s) and a
      magnetometer of 3 axes (full scale ± 6 Gauss). Data will be collected at a sampling frequency
      of 50Hz and will be transmitted via Bluetooth to a computer and processed using proper
      software of the device (BTS G-STUDIO, version: 2.6.12.0), which automatically provides the
      parameters (Galli et al 2015).

      For data collection, participants will walk along a 15 m aisle at a self-selected speed and
      in a natural way. The inertia sensor will be set at the lower lumbar level (between L4-L5)
      with a semi-elastic belt. The device will acquire acceleration values (along three orthogonal
      axes: anteroposterior, mediolateral and superior-inferior) that will be transmitted via
      Bluetooth to a PC and processed with a software (BTS Bioengineering G-Studio®) to extract the
      following gait parameters: Step length; Gait speed; Cadence; Position and duration of the
      swing phase; Duration of the double support; Pelvic tilt.

      Surface electromyography (sEMG) The sEMG analysis of the rectus femoris, tibialis anterior
      and soleus muscles will be performed with the aid of the eight-channel FREEEMG®
      electromyograph (BTS Engineering; Italy), with a bioelectric signal amplifier, wireless data
      transmission and bipolar electrodes with a total gain of 2000 within a frequency of 20 to 450
      Hz. Impedance and the common rejection mode ratio of the equipment are >1015 Ω and 60/10 Hz
      92 decibel, respectively. Electrode placement will follow the sEMG for the Non-Invasive
      Assessment of Muscles guidelines. All electromyographic (EMG) data will be captured and
      digitized in 1000 frames/second using the BTS MYOLAB® software (BTS Engineering; Italy) and
      will be collected simultaneously with the gait kinematics performed by the (G-Walk) and both
      will be managed by the BTS® system and EMG Analyzer® software, respectively.

      Timed Up and Go (TUG) test This test will analyze the functional mobility and dynamic
      balance, in which the time (in seconds) required to stand up from a standardized chair
      without armrests, walk three meters, turn around, return to the chair and sit down again is
      recorded. The participants will be instructed to perform the test at a safe, self-selected
      pace. The TUG will be performed with shoes and barefoot with and without a guide stick.

      Stabilometry The acquisition frequency of the force plates will be 50 Hz, captured by four
      piezoelectric sensors measuring 400/600 mm positioned at the extremities of each force plate.
      The participants will be instructed to remain in quiet standing with arms alongside the body
      and head held in the vertical position. Measures (45 seconds) of velocity and displacement of
      the center of pressure in the anteroposterior and mediolateral directions will be performed
      barefoot and while wearing shoes.

      Intervention procedure tDCS will be administered during the therapeutic intervention sessions
      using the tDCS device (Trans Cranial Technologies, USA), with two sponge (non-metallic)
      surface electrodes measuring 5 x 7 cm2 moistened with a saline solution between 15 and 140
      millimoles. The participants will be randomly allocated to two types of treatment: active and
      sham tDCS. Anodal tDCS will be administered over the primary motor cortex, somatosensory
      cortex, and the visual cortex. For stimulation of the primary motor and somatosensory
      cortices, the anode will be positioned over the area corresponding to the lower limbs (Cz and
      Pz, respectively), and the stimulation of the visual cortex, the anode will be positioned
      over Oz. During all three stimulations, the cathode will be positioned in the medial
      supraorbital region. A current of 2 milliamperes (mA) will be used for twenty minutes during
      each proprioceptive exercise session. For sham tDCS, the electrodes will be positioned as
      described, but the stimulator will only be switched on for the first 30 seconds, giving the
      participant the initial sensation of tDCS, but no active stimulation will be administrated
      throughout the remainder of the session.

      Proprioceptive exercises The therapeutic intervention will be divided into static and dynamic
      proprioceptive exercises, which will be distributed to the groups in a random fashion. The
      static exercises will be conducted as follows: 1) standing on toes with feet apart; 2)
      standing on toes with feet together; 3) standing on only right leg without support; 4)
      standing on only left leg without support; and 5) standing with heel of right (or left) foot
      touching toes of the left (or right) foot with feet in a tandem position. The exercises will
      be performed on an unstable surface (wobble board) on the anteroposterior (three sets) and
      laterolateral (three sets) axes. Each exercise will be performed in six sets of 30 seconds
      each, with a one-minute rest interval between sets. The dynamic proprioceptive exercises will
      be conducted as follows: 1) walking slowly then more quickly on a trampoline; 2) walking
      backward with one foot behind the other; 3) walking forward on a beam; 4) going up and down a
      flight of stairs; and 5) sitting on a Swiss ball (65 cm) and performing laterolateral and
      anteroposterior movements, circling movements and bouncing. Activities 1 to 4 will be
      performed in three one-minute sets and activity five will be performed in sets with 30
      seconds of each movement. Throughout all exercises, a physiotherapist will remain beside the
      participant to avoid excessive imbalance and the risk of falls.

      Sample size estimation The sample size will be estimated from Phase II where 40 participants
      will be randomly allocated into four groups (10 each group). Then the calculation will be
      considering the minimal difference between the mean of an analysis of variance results
      obtained from both gait speed and the displacement of the center of pressure (COP) as the
      primary outcome. Thus the sample size will be estimated with a unidirectional alpha of 0.05
      and an 85% statistical power. The sample determined by the calculation will be increased by
      20% to compensate for possible dropouts.

      Statistical analysis The data will be analyzed using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Parametric
      variables will be expressed as mean and standard deviation. Nonparametric variables will be
      expressed as median and inter-quartile range. The effect size will be calculated based on the
      difference between means of the pre-intervention and post-intervention evaluations and will
      be expressed with respective 95% confidence intervals.

      Analysis of variance and the Kruskal-Wallis test (nonparametric variables) will be used for
      the analysis of the effects obtained in the three phases of the study. The Bonferroni
      correction for multiple comparisons will be employed as a post hoc test. The analyses of the
      three phases will be performed considering spatiotemporal gait variables, Gait Variable
      Scores, TUG, variables related to the displacement of the center of pressure (area of
      displacement, displacement velocity, anteroposterior sway, and mediolateral sway) as the
      dependent variables. The fixed independent variables in Phase I will be group (congenital and
      acquired blindness) and auxiliary resource (with and without guide stick). In Phase II, the
      fixed independent variables will be group (tDCS over the somatosensory cortex, tDCS over the
      primary motor cortex and tDCS over the visual cortex) and evaluation time (pre-tDCS and
      post-tDCS). In Phase III, the fixed independent variables will be group (active and sham
      tDCS), evaluation time (pre-intervention, post-intervention and follow up), and
      group*evaluation time interaction. For all effects, a p-value < 0.05 will be considered
      indicative of statistical significance.
    
  