
    
      If you are receiving care in the Palliative Care clinic and are eligible to participate, you
      will be asked to fill out one-time quality of life surveys, which will take about 40 minutes
      to complete. The Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACT-G) survey asks
      questions about physical and emotional well-being, functional well-being (how much you
      participate in and enjoy normal daily activities), and social/family well-being.

      This study first collected questionnaires from 100 participants from different racial and
      ethnic backgrounds. When the questionnaires were compared, investigators found some
      interesting differences between the African American and Caucasian participants. To better
      understand these findings, an additional 67 African American patients are needed to compare
      the groups.

      The Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Spiritual Well-Being Scale (FACT-Sp)
      asks questions about personal meaning, faith and peace. The Duke University Religion Index
      (DUREL) asks questions about religious practices. The Locus of Control (LOC) questionnaire
      asks questions about personal internal control, your views on chance, and your views on
      power. The Herth Health Scale (HHS) asks questions about hope. The Edmonton Symptom
      Assessment System (ESAS) asks questions about symptoms you may be experiencing. The Hospital
      Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) asks questions about your feelings of depression and
      anxiety. The "predetermination" questionnaire asks questions about your beliefs about your
      fate.

      These eight questionnaires will take about 40 minutes to complete and may be completed at a
      later time if you become tired. Information about you will also be collected (such as your
      age and gender).

      This is an investigational study. About 167 patients will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  