
    
      First-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer should be administered according to the
      individual situation, patients' needs, therapeutic preconditions (e.g. neurotoxicity
      following adjuvant oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy), biomarkers and aggressiveness of the
      disease.

      The OPTIMOX1 trial showed an equivalent duration of disease control for a de-escalation /
      maintenance / reintroduction strategy compared with a treatment until progression strategy
      for oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy. Continuation of "lightened" fluoropyrimidine-based
      chemotherapy and bevacizumab represents a standard of care in the maintenance setting.

      Panitumumab with FOLFOX-4 chemotherapy represents a standard of care in the treatment of RAS
      wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer. The question whether the maintenance strategy might
      apply also to panitumumab in combination with chemotherapy is unknown at present.

      As the continuation of chemotherapy plus panitumumab until disease progression was foreseen
      in the hallmark "PRIME" trial, the question is whether a de-escalation of treatment intensity
      will not be inferior with respect to resulting time with tumor control, but allow patients a
      period with less toxicity and gain of quality of life.

      However, no data are available at present regarding the optimal maintenance treatment with
      anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) monoclonal antibodies when used in association
      with first-line chemotherapy.

      This is an open label, randomized, multicenter, phase II study to compare the efficacy, in
      terms of non-inferiority of progression-free survival (PFS), of maintenance with panitumumab
      alone (arm B) as compared to panitumumab with 5-FU/LV (arm A) following induction treatment
      with FOLFOX-4 and panitumumab in patients with RAS wild-type, metastatic colorectal cancer.

      Secondary endpoints are:

        -  Safety (according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events -CTCAE- v 4.03). All
           Adverse events will be reported according to National Cancer Institute Criteria. The
           incidence of adverse events will be summarized according to the primary system-organ
           class (SOC) and within the category defined in the CTCAE v4.03. The summaries will be
           overall (severity grades 1-4) and for grade ≥3 events and will also report the actions
           taken in terms of treatment discontinuation. Similar summaries will be made for serious
           adverse events. The safety set will be considered.

        -  Quality of life (patients reported outcomes).

        -  Response rate (RR), duration of response (DR), time to progression (TTP), time to
           treatment failure (TTF) and overall survival (OS).

        -  Exploratory endpoints: Archival tumor tissue samples will be collected at baseline.
           Samples will be sent at Pathology Department of Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei
           Tumori for exploratory biomarkers substudy A representative formalin-fixed,
           paraffin-embedded (FFPE) diagnostic tumor specimen, as a tissue block that must have
           been reviewed by a pathologist to confirm that it contains adequate tumor tissue. In
           alternative, fifteen 5-micron unstained slides are allowed. Next-generation sequencing
           (Ion-Torrent) and in-situ hybridization techniques will be performed to identify
           potential biomarkers of primary resistance. Since the availability of blood-based
           biomarkers could be particularly useful for prediction of treatment efficacy or acquired
           resistance to panitumumab, in this study we will collect blood samples (optional) in
           individual patients (before treatment, every 8 weeks during treatment and at
           progression) to analyze circulating tumor DNA by digital Polymerase chain reaction
           (ddPCR) or next generation (NGS) approaches. Moreover, pharmacogenetic studies to
           predict panitumumab and chemotherapy toxicity are planned.

      Treatment involves an induction phase with panitumumab as 1 hour intravenous infusion at the
      dosage of 6 mg/kg, given every two weeks, plus FOLFOX-4 chemotherapy as standard guidelines.

      Before start of FOLFOX-4 plus panitumumab, at the time of enrollment, patients will be
      immediately randomized electronically 1:1 to one of the two maintenance arms. Induction
      treatment with FOLFOX-4 plus panitumumab will continue until progressive disease,
      unacceptable toxicity or informed consent withdrawal, or for up to 8 cycles. At the end of
      induction treatment, in presence of complete or partial response, or stable disease,
      non-progressing patients will be allocated to one of the two pre-assigned maintenance arms:

      A) 5-FU/LV (De Gramont regimen) plus panitumumab given at 6 mg/Kg every two weeks until
      progressive disease, unacceptable toxicity or informed consent withdrawal B) Panitumumab
      alone given at 6 mg/Kg every two weeks until progressive disease, unacceptable toxicity or
      informed consent withdrawal Imaging studies (thorax and abdominal CT or MRI scan) will be
      performed at baseline (4 weeks prior enrollment) and every 8 weeks (4 cycles) during
      treatment.

      The sample size is calculated on the basis of a non-inferiority hypothesis of median PFS with
      panitumumab alone as compared to 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin and panitumumab, taking into
      account a median PFS of 10 months observed in the PRIME trial. An overall sample size of 224
      subjects (112 in the control group and 112 in the study group) achieves 90% power to detect a
      probability of 50% in the control group and a maximum difference of 15% in the study group,
      with a significance level of 0.1. The drop-out rate is 15%. The accrual pattern in the two
      groups is uniform (allocation 1:1).

      The study lasts for 24 months of enrollment and 12 months of follow-up
    
  