
    
      Research Protocol

      Preoperative Cesarean Section Intravenous Acetaminophen and Postoperative Pain Control: A
      Blinded Randomized Placebo-Controlled Trial

      Background: To date, there has been no study that has analyzed the use of intravenous
      acetaminophen given preoperatively in scheduled cesarean deliveries. There have been studies
      in non-obstetrical surgical procedures that have demonstrated better pain scores and less use
      of opiates post surgery when administered preoperatively. If these study findings were found
      to be equally effective post-cesarean delivery, then fewer opiates would be used by the
      mother. This would benefit better ambulation and less bowel dysfunction by the mother and
      less effect on the newborn if the mother is breast-feeding. Acetaminophen is one the drugs of
      choice for analgesia in obstetrics, because it has no known effects on the mother or
      fetus/newborn. The drug has been found to be safe when given intravenously. Likewise, more
      patients are found to have therapeutic levels when the drug is given intravenously versus
      oral administration. Lastly, since patients are NPO prior to scheduled surgery, giving a
      medication orally is not recommended. Of the prospective blinded studies performed to date,
      small numbers have been used ranging from 20 to 28 in each arm. Intravenous acetaminophen is
      already being used preoperatively for scheduled cesarean sections at UT Medical Center Labor
      & Delivery and the presumption by the nursing staff is that the patients who receive this "do
      better" post-delivery (with less pain and less need for oral opiates), but without a blinded
      placebo-controlled trial, this finding cannot be proven or reported.

      Specific Aims: The primary aim of this study is to see if maternal opiate use is decreased in
      the postoperative period for the study group which receives 1 gram of acetaminophen prior to
      scheduled cesarean section. The secondary aim of this study is to evaluate the length of stay
      of the mother post-delivery in both the study and placebo groups to see if there are any
      differences. If found to be significant, this can be analyzed for cost effectiveness. Lastly,
      pain scores will be evaluated to determine if they improved with preoperative acetaminophen.
      To date no one has ever studied the cord blood levels of acetaminophen following
      administration close to delivery, and as such no information on normal acetaminophen levels
      in the newborn is available.

      Enrollment: Enrollment will involve all pregnant patients that enter labor and delivery for a
      scheduled cesarean delivery once the study is started until a total of 150 are obtained.
      Enrollment will be determined by the Primary physicians involved in the study, or nurse
      practitioners/research coordinators or any of the anesthesia or obstetrical residents.

      Randomization: The study is a prospective randomized placebo controlled trial. Once patients
      are consented, an order for the medication will be supplied to the Pharmacy Department. The
      Pharmacy Department will supply the mediation in a 100 mL bag to be infused over 15 minutes
      just prior to incision. The Pharmacy will randomly supply these as either a placebo bag of
      normal saline or the study drug of 1000 mg (1 gram) of intravenous acetaminophen in normal
      saline. No study personnel from OB/GYN or Anesthesia will have results until the study has
      been completed. The Pharmacy is responsible for maintaining the blinding of this study

      Study Procedure: All eligible pregnant patients (as described above) that are admitted to
      labor and delivery for a scheduled cesarean delivery will be asked to participate in the
      study. If they meet inclusion criteria and agree, an approved informed consent form (see
      attached) will be signed. The goal will be to obtain 150 patients. Once the drug bag is
      received from Pharmacy, it will be infused over 15 minutes, approximately 30 minutes prior to
      the incision start time. All patients will receive standard preoperative anesthesia and
      antibiotics per protocol for pain and prevention of surgical site infection.

      At delivery, cord blood will be obtained (the newborn will NOT need a blood draw) and this
      sample will go the laboratory for an acetaminophen level of the fetus.In order to maintain
      blinding, all 150 cord blood samples will be sent for testing and results will blindly be
      reported to the Pharmacy.Pharmacy personnel will also keep cord blood levels. No action by
      the pharmacy personnel for monitoring of cord blood levels will be necessary, as there are no
      cord blood therapeutic levels available. This study will seek to discover that information.

      Post-delivery, pain and medication assessment scoring per UT Medical Center protocol will be
      performed by the postoperative/postpartum nurses to assess pain control. Patients are
      currently monitored by the Pharmacy for acetaminophen levels not to exceed 4000 mg/day and
      this process will continue per hospital protocol. In order to avoid breaking the blind, all
      study patients will be treated as if they received preop acetaminophen and will then be
      switched to a non acetaminophen analgesic if a fifth dose of acetaminophen is required. After
      the first 100 study patients are enrolled, a preliminary study assessment will be performed
      to see if any significance in study goals (ie: decreased opiate use, length of stay and
      improved pain scores) is found since statistical differences were seen in other studies with
      fewer numbers. This information will be collected through chart review by investigators and
      research assistants which the IRB has approved. If this data collection on the first 100
      study patients is found to be significant, the study will be stopped. However, blinding will
      be maintained until study completion is determined.

      Adverse Event: Adverse events related to this study are minimal because the patient will have
      an intravenous line placed for the surgery whether or not she consents. In addition, all
      patients receive preoperative antibiotics prior to the surgical delivery so receiving a
      medication in this fashion is already being done. Furthermore, obtaining cord blood does not
      involve any laboratory blood draws on the newborn. (No study has ever evaluated the
      acetaminophen level in cord blood though levels in the newborn following oral administration
      have not been higher than the maternal levels. The reports on patient levels in other studies
      have not been in the toxic range following a single administration of 1000 mg. Therefore,
      though never studied, it is not expected that the cord blood levels will be above the
      therapeutic range. The molecular weight of acetaminophen is 151 Daltons with a
      bioavailability of about 75% and a half-life of 1 to 4 hours. Based on these parameters, the
      drug would be expected to cross into and out of the fetus fairly easily similar to
      penicillin, creating a fairly steady state within the mother and fetus.) Although adverse
      events are not expected in either the mother or neonate, the study investigators will be
      responsible for monitoring any adverse events should that become necessary. Evaluation of
      maternal and neonatal liver and kidney function is not necessary as the mother will only
      receive one dose of acetaminophen, 1000 gms, which is considered a normal adult dose.

      Study Withdrawal: Any patient at any time can ask to be withdrawn from the study.

      Statistics: A formal power analysis has been completed by Dr. Eric Heidel and 150 study
      subjects has been shown to be more than adequate for this study.

      Confidentiality: All patient material will be kept confidential and all patient-identifying
      information will be deleted once the pain scores, number of opiates dosages received, the
      length of stay for each participant, and the cord blood acetaminophen level is recorded. The
      laboratory results will be sent to the Pharmacy Department until study completion to keep the
      process blinded since all cord blood samples will be tested.

      Follow-up / Record Retention: No patient follow-up will occur since the purpose of this study
      is to basically determine if this preoperative medication protocol is found to be beneficial
      in the short term post cesarean section. Record retention of study results will be based on
      the rules of the peer-review journal that accepts the study for publication.
    
  