
    
      Study Aims:

      SA1: To determine if REDvent acute and/or weaning phase protocols can shorten the duration of
      weaning from MV (Primary outcome).

      SA2: To determine if changes to direct measures of respiratory muscle strength, load, effort,
      and architecture throughout the duration of MV are related to weaning outcomes.

      SA3: To determine if patient effort of breathing during both acute and weaning phases of MV
      is independently associated with the development of respiratory muscle weakness.

      Study Design: Single-center randomized controlled trial (138 children per arm) using REDvent
      (intervention arm) as compared with usual care ventilator management including a standardized
      daily SBT (control arm). Acute phase randomization will occur upon study enrollment, and
      patients who fail the first SBT will undergo a weaning phase randomization. The investigators
      will obtain serial measurements of respiratory system capacity, load, effort of breathing,
      and diaphragm architecture throughout the course of MV.

      Acute Phase: The acute phase is defined as the time from intubation until the patient meets
      weaning criteria, passes the initial oxygenation test (decrease PEEP to 5 cmH2O and FiO2 to
      0.5, maintains SpO2 > 90%), and undergoes a Spontaneous Breathing Trial (SBT).

        1. Intervention Arm (REDvent-acute): Patients will be managed with pressure control plus
           pressure support ventilation using a computerized decision support tool that will
           recommend changes to ventilator settings approximately every 4 hr (with or without a new
           blood gas). If the patient is spontaneously breathing, it will incorporate real-time
           measures of effort of breathing (esophageal manometry) to keep it in a target range.

        2. Control Arm (Control-acute): Ventilator management will be per usual care until the
           patient meets weaning criteria and passes the oxygenation test.

      Weaning Phase: The weaning phase is defined as the time from the first Spontaneous Breathing
      Trial (SBT) until the patient successfully passes an SBT or is extubated (whichever comes
      first). Patients who pass the initial SBT at the end of the acute phase will not undergo
      weaning phase randomization.

        1. Intervention Arm (REDvent-weaning): Patients will be managed in a pressure support/CPAP
           mode of ventilation with assessments or changes to the level of pressure support every 4
           hours, targeting maintaining effort of breathing (esophageal manometry) in a normal
           range. An SBT will be conducted daily, and the weaning phase will continue until the
           patient passes the SBT.

        2. Control Arm (Control-weaning): Ventilator management will be per usual care. An SBT will
           be conducted daily, and the weaning phase will continue until the patient passes the
           SBT.

      Analysis Plan and Sample Size Justification:

      Aim 1: The primary outcome is weaning duration. Sample size has been determined to adequately
      power 3 separate comparative analyses: (a) REDvent-acute versus Acute Phase control (b)
      REDvent-weaning phase versus Weaning Phase control (c) REDvent both phases versus control
      both phases. Power is based on 2 planned methods for analysis: cox proportional hazard ratios
      for multivariable analysis and univariate analysis with an independent t-test using log
      transformation (as needed) to account for the expected distribution of weaning duration. For
      all three of the planned comparisons above, with the proposed sample size the investigators
      would be adequately powered (>0.8) to detect a difference in weaning duration of ≥ 1 day, or
      a hazard ratio of ≥ 1.4 between groups. The secondary outcomes are ventilator free days and
      extubation failure. Directly comparing control only patients to REDvent only patients, with
      an expected standard deviation for VFDs between 5 to 9 days, the investigators will be able
      to detect a 2-day change in VFDs between groups with a power between 0.35 and 0.82.
      Re-intubation rates are expected to be 10%, allowing the investigators to confirm that
      REDvent is not inferior to usual care in regards to re-intubation with a non-inferiority
      margin of 0.10 with a power of 0.8 and alpha of 0.05.

      Aim 2: The primary outcome of this aim is weaning duration. For respiratory muscle strength
      the investigators will compare the first measured aPiMax (after resolution of the acute
      phase, before the first SBT), the trajectory and value of the daily aPiMax during the weaning
      phase prior to extubation, the lowest and highest measured aPiMax, and aPiMax on the day of
      extubation against weaning duration. For analysis, aPiMax will be dichotomized at 30 cmH2O,
      and weaning duration will be compared between patients with aPiMax > 30 versus ≤ 30 cmH2O
      using a t-test with or without log-transformation, or Mann-Whitney U test, depending on the
      distribution. From preliminary data, it is anticipated at least 35% of patients (n=84) will
      have aPiMax ≤ 30 cmH2O. Based on a similar power analysis as presented above, this would
      allow the investigators to determine whether low aPiMax is associated with a ≥ 1-day increase
      in weaning duration, with an alpha of 0.05 and power of 0.8. The investigators will perform
      identical analysis for ePiMax. Diaphragm Thickness analysis will compound daily ultrasound
      measures to detect the relative change in diaphragm thickness from study day 1 until passage
      of an SBT. The investigators will compare the change in thickness after resolution of the
      acute phase (on the day of the first SBT) against weaning duration, in a similar manner as
      proposed above for aPiMax. In addition to weaning duration, the investigators will also
      examine whether the respiratory measures taken just prior to or during each SBT are
      associated with the patient passing the SBT. For example with aPiMax and ePiMax, the
      investigators will examine if there is a dose response relationship between PiMax measured
      just before the SBT and the rate of passage of the subsequent SBT.

      Aim 3: The primary outcome of this aim is aPiMax < 30 cmH2O.The analysis will focus on
      determining whether the degree of patient effort of breathing is independently associated
      with the development of respiratory muscle weakness. For the acute phase, the investigators
      will generate a time-weighted average PRP during the acute phase and graph it against aPiMax
      at the first SBT. They will subsequently dichotomize aPiMax at the first SBT and compare mean
      time weighted average PRP in the acute phase between aPiMax groups (> 30 vs. ≤ 30 cmH2O). For
      the weaning phase, the investigators will graph the changes in aPiMax throughout the weaning
      phase (from first failed SBT until successful SBT) against time-weighted average PRP, with
      the anticipation that low PRP will be associated with either further reductions in aPiMax, or
      no improvement, while PRP in the physiologic range of 150-400 will be associated with
      improvement in aPiMax. The investigators will subsequently dichotomize aPiMax (at 30 cm H2O)
      at the time of successful passage of an SBT and compare time-weighted average PRP in the
      weaning phase between aPiMax groups. Subsequently, the investigators will build a
      multivariable logistic regression model on the outcome of aPiMax ≤ 30 cmH2O to determine if
      time-weighted PRP in the acute phase, weaning phase or both have an independent association
      with preserving aPiMax, after controlling for confounding variables.
    
  