
    
      The acoustic neuromodulation trial (ANM-T) is a two-phase, single-site, pilot randomized
      clinical trial examining the feasibility of completing a larger scale efficacy study of a
      novel treatment of non-linear modulated acoustic stimuli to reduce anxiety severity in youth
      with anxiety disorders. Phase I involves a randomized controlled trial comparing active
      acoustic neuromodulation to a non-active acoustic stimuli (Placebo or PBO) in youth ages 7-17
      years with at least one of the following primary DSM-5 diagnoses: separation anxiety disorder
      (SAD), social anxiety disorder and generalized anxiety disorder (GAD).

      Additionally, this study will include up to ten healthy volunteer participants in order for
      study staff to be appropriately trained to administer the EEG. Furthermore, three pilot cases
      will be completed at the start of data collection to ensure effective delivery of all study
      procedures and maintenance of blind during the acute study phase. Phase II is a 3-month
      treatment maintenance period for Phase I responders. Phase I non-responders to PBO will be
      offered active open treatment. Assessments will include those that will likely be used in a
      larger efficacy trial including parent on child report, and child self report, and blinded
      independent evaluator ratings of the primary outcomes. In addition, in an effort to assess
      over all feasibility, monthly recruitment rate, number of consents signed, subjects
      randomized, rate of adherence to the treatment protocol, safety of the intervention and
      control conditions, patient and family acceptability of the treatment and assessment
      protocols will be evaluated. Study Phases Entry Gates: 30 subjects ages 7-17 years will be
      enrolled, using a multiple gating procedure designed to ensure that subjects enrolled
      evidence a stable, pervasive anxiety diagnosis at the start of treatment.

        -  Gate A is a 20-minute semi-scripted telephone screening procedure to elicit preliminary
           inclusion/exclusion information and to provide additional information to the caller.

        -  Gate B is a screening assessment that determines "caseness".

      After completing informed consent participants and their parents will complete standard
      questionnaires and will be interviewed to establish that the child meets all inclusion and no
      exclusion criteria and are medically safe to complete the study (clearance from the
      pediatrician and pregnancy test for menstruating females). This visit will be videotaped and
      will last approximately 2.5 hours.

      -Gate C is a baseline assessment of anxiety severity and randomization visit and takes
      approximately 2.5 hours and will be videotaped. All subjects will be recruited and screened
      and enrolled by investigators at the Weill Cornell Medical College.

      Phase I: Phase I is a 6-week randomized (1:1) controlled comparison of ANM and PBO. Subjects
      will come in for 20-minute treatment sessions approximately every other day for 2 weeks (5
      days in 2 weeks). At each study treatment visit the study coordinator will collect a brief
      interim history of anxiety symptoms and adverse events prior to treatment. Formal outcome
      assessment by the blind independent evaluator (IE) will be collected at week 6.

      Phase II: Phase II is a 17 week treatment maintenance phase (from week 7 to 24). At this
      stage, ALL PARTICIPANTS will begin active treatment. Active responders from phase 1 will be
      monitored for the durability of the treatment response. Non-responders to the active
      treatments will be given a second chance to elicit a response. Non-responders to control
      treatment will have a full course of the active treatment. Control treatment responders will
      be given the chance to respond to active treatment. At each study visit the coordinator will
      collect an interim history and adverse events. Formal outcome assessment by a blind
      independent evaluator will occur at weeks 12 and 24
    
  