
    
      Ovarian cancer is a common and lethal disease for which early detection and treatment in high
      volume centers and by specialized clinicians is known to improve survival. Hence, accurate
      methods to preoperatively characterize the nature of an ovarian tumor are pivotal. The IOTA
      group has suggested Simple ultrasound based rules that can be used to classify adnexal masses
      as benign or malignant. In about 1/5 of patients the Simple Rules give an inconclusive result
      and therefore a suitable second line test is necessary. The benefit of using MRI in
      sonographically indeterminate masses has been evaluated previously. However, the ability of
      MRI to correctly classify tumors unclassifiable by the IOTA Simple Rules has not been
      examined. The group of Thomassin-Naggara et al has recently developed the ADNEXMR SCORING
      system, this is the first Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) score system that focuses on
      ovarian tumors.

      The primary aim of this prospective study is to evaluate the performance of pelvic MRI
      examination with perfusion -and diffusion- weighted sequences and the application of the
      ADNEXMR SCORING system in ovarian tumors that cannot be classified by the IOTA Simple Rules
      (regarding the prediction of malignancy). Secondary aims are the determination of the
      malignancy rate per ADNEXMR SCORING system class, the evaluation of interobserver
      reproducibility and the assessment of the accuracy of the specific diagnosis based on MRI
      images.

      The study is a multicenter prospective study. In centers where perfusion -and diffusion
      weighted MRI imaging is not a part of clinical routine in unclassifiable ovarian masses based
      on ultrasound, the study is considered to be interventional. However, in other centres,
      depending on the local guidelines, perfusion -and diffusion weighted MRI imaging can be
      standard of care. In these centres, the study can be considered to be observational.

      The IOTA-MRI project is linked to the IOTA study. In this multicenter study different
      diagnostic ultrasound algorithms are tested prospectively in patients with an ovarian mass
      prior to surgery. This study allows to define a subgroup of patients in which Simple Rules
      are inconclusive, in other words the population eligible for inclusion in the IOTA-MRI
      project. We plan to include 250 patients in the IOTA-MRI study. Patients will be included
      consecutively, yet only after completing the informed consent. Recruitment will take 2 years
      of time as of the start of the individual center.

      At first, a standardized patient history will be registered, followed by a standardized
      transvaginal gynecological ultrasound. All variables required for the diagnostic models as
      well as the subjective diagnosis and certainty of diagnosis by the examiner will be
      collected. Quality control is provided by the fact that all examiners involved in
      gynecological ultrasound have completed IOTA-training and succeeded in a certification test.
      All data will be registered in an online Clinical Data Miner system (CDM).

      In case that the results of the Simple Rules are inconclusive, and surgery is justifiable,
      the patient will be informed about the IOTA-MRI study. If the patient agrees to participate,
      the inclusion criteria are met and if there are no contra-indications, the patient will be
      referred to the radiology department of the same center or an affiliated center.

      Second, at the radiology department, a standardized pelvic MRI examination will take place
      (diffusion- and perfusion- weighted sequences). All the variables that are needed for the
      classification of the ADNEXMR SCORING system as well as the subjective diagnosis of the
      radiologist, will be registered in CDM. Quality control in this part is provided by the fact
      that all radiologists involved in the study are certified by EURAD (EURopean ADnex mr score).

      The gold standard is the histopathology diagnosis of the mass within 120 days after
      ultrasound evaluation. The surgical approach is chosen by the managing clinician. In case of
      malignancy, staging of the tumor will be reported by the International Federation of
      Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) classification. All results will be registered in CDM.
    
  