
    
      The hospital survival of patients hospitalized after prolonged stay in intensive care unit
      has improved however there are a loss of functional autonomy and an impaired of peripheral
      and respiratory muscle performance, what leads to an impairment life's quality. These sequels
      constitute the Post Intensive Care Syndrome (PICS). Incomplete understanding of the
      physiopathological mechanisms that allow the recovery of functional autonomy and the lack of
      consideration of post-intensive care pathway seems central to explain the contrasting results
      of therapeutic trials in this syndrome.

      Incomplete understanding of the physiopathological mechanisms that allow the recovery of
      functional autonomy and the lack of consideration of post-intensive care pathway seems
      relevant to explain the contrasting results of therapeutic trials in this syndrome.

      The objective of this cohort is to describe the functional autonomy at 6 months of a
      prolonged stay in intensive care unit and to study the associations between functional
      autonomy and 1 / the biological data obtained from quadriceps biopsies / the trajectory of
      post-resuscitation care

      Patient at high risk of loss on functional autonomy, staying in the three intensive unit care
      participants will be recruited, if they present inclusion criteria and don't present
      exclusion criteria Inclusion criteria: - mechanical ventilation for at least 72 hours and
      extra-respiratory organ failure Exclusion criteria : neurological or psychiatric deficit
      preventing the performance of assessment tests, chronic ventilation on tracheotomy, bedridden
      patient or moribund

      The primary endpoint is functional autonomy at 6 months of ICU stay, assessed by the
      Functional Independence Measure (FIM) score. The secondary endpoints are survival, peripheral
      and respiratory muscle performance, metabolic stress testing, biologic features associated
      with muscle regeneration (quadriceps biopsy in resuscitation (before and after) and one at
      M6) , the quality of life and the path of care post-resuscitation. The statistical analysis
      will make it possible to describe the population according to 3 groups of the same size
      according to the Tertiles of the FIM to M6. The analysis will look for variables associated
      with belonging to the "case" group: patients with the highest disability (last testeile of
      the FIM score) compared to "controls": patients with a less severe disability (first two
      tiertiles of the score) FIM). In order to take into account a rate of loss of sight we
      propose to include in this cohort 120 subjects during their stay in intensive care unit.

      Progress: 2 visits are planned (ICU, M6 and monthly telephone interviews). The duration of
      the inclusions will be 30 months and the duration of the follow-up of the patients will be 6
      months.

      Prospect :

        -  identification of physiopathological and structural factors (post-ICU trajectory)
           associated with recovery of functional autonomy and respiratory and peripheral muscular
           performance at a distance from a stay in intensive care unit

        -  the design of a personalized interventional study in order to improve the functional
           autonomy
    
  