
    
      One of the most challenging roles a physician can serve is delivering life altering and/or
      bad news to patients and their families, and yet this skill is not widely taught to
      physicians. A survey from 2003 of pediatric residents found that not only was there minimal
      education and training in this area, but that they felt there was no natural improvement in
      their skills from the first to third year of training. It has also been shown that the art of
      eliciting a patient or family's concerns about death and responding to them is felt to be
      poorly taught. Worse, residents have indicated that a hidden curriculum in medicine seems to
      indicate that there is no value to these conversations at all. Residents are not the only
      stakeholders involved who have expressed concern with this reality. Parents of pediatric
      patients have repeatedly reported wanting increased sensitivity and clarity during sharing of
      life-altering information. Up to 75% of parents have reported a negative experience involving
      end of life (EOL) discussions, and cited inexperience, lack of comfort in communication, and
      a lack of knowledge as contributing factors to their negative experiences. Less than 18% of
      students and residents report receiving formal education in EOL discussions, despite the fact
      that 90% or more of residents have identified caring for those dying as part of a physician's
      responsibilities. Of residents who do get experience with EOL discussions, less than 2/3
      receive feedback. Some residencies, such as internal medicine, have recognized the need for
      formal instruction on how to have EOL discussions is needed and have implemented formal
      programs to answer it, and it has even become a standard expectation for many fellowships.
      Formal education regarding EOL has also become a standard expectation for many fellowships,
      including pediatric neonatology, intensive care, and hematology/oncology. Despite the
      evidence that there is need for formal intervention and education regarding EOL care, there
      has been little advancement towards implementing a formal curriculum in pediatric residency
      programs. Review of the literature demonstrates that only one study has developed a formal
      curriculum involving a method called SPIKES (Setting, Perception, Involvement, Knowledge,
      Empathy, and Summary) that targets pediatric residents. The initial data from this study is
      promising and indicates increased comfort level in residents. However, to date no study has
      evaluated if the method of instruction affects the resident education, an important
      consideration as some interventions (ex. standardized patients) are more costly and time
      consuming than others (ex. facilitator guided small group sessions).
    
  