
    
      Hypotheses or Key Questions

      I. Primary Hypothesis (obtained + maintained employment): Subjects assigned to IPS will have
      a higher maintained employed rate for the 12-mo observation period than their standard VRP
      counterparts.

        -  I.a. First Component Primary Hypothesis (obtained employment): Subjects assigned to IPS
           will have higher rates of obtained employment for the 12-mo observation period than the
           VRP subjects.

        -  I.b. Second Component Primary Hypothesis (maintained employment): Among those subjects
           employed, those assigned to IPS will have worked more weeks for the 12-mo observation
           period than the VRP subjects.

      II. Secondary Hypothesis: Those subjects who obtain competitive employment will have
      significantly reduced symptoms of PTSD from baseline to endpoint compared to those subjects
      who do not obtain competitive employment.

      III. Confirmatory and Correlational Hypotheses: Compared to VRP subjects, those subjects
      assigned to IPS will have:

        -  greater work intensity (# weeks, days, # hours, wages earned)

        -  higher total earnings

        -  greater improvement in quality of life outcomes

      Supplemental hypothesis (moderator): Because of the superior integration with the mental
      health (MH) treatment team, social work services, and community resources that the IPS-SE
      employment specialist provides as part of this model, we hypothesize that the IPS-SE model
      will have greater success in the maintenance of competitive employment compared to standard
      VRP for veterans with PTSD challenged in one or more of these psychosocial domains. From a
      research perspective, a variable that characterizes subjects for whom a particular treatment
      will be effective is called a moderator of treatment.

      The hypothesized moderators of IPS-SE and standard VRP for subjects with PTSD are: 1)
      Transportation, 2) Housing, 3) Financial Means, and 4) Family Care Burden. We hypothesize
      that these variables will have moderating effects for each of two outcomes: 1) number of
      weeks the participant is competitively employed during the 12-month study period and 2) their
      score on the Sheehan Disability Scale.

      Several principles are important in defining a moderator. First, the moderator must precede
      treatment. In our RCT, these psychosocial domains are baseline characteristics of subjects
      enrolled in the study. Second, the moderator must be uncorrelated with treatment choice. This
      will be the case in this RCT due to a 1:1 randomization, which should balance baseline
      characteristics between the two groups. Third, a moderator of treatment must have a
      differential effect of treatment for each level of the moderator. The treatment effect (e.g.,
      active vs. comparator) must be shown to be greater for one level of the moderator (i.e.
      IPS-SE will show a greater effect size than standard VRP in subjects with a moderator
      present). Also, an index that combines these domains will be explored and formulated to
      identify subjects that may benefit to greater extent from IPS-SE.
    
  