
    
      It is hypothesized that high spinal anesthesia combined with general anesthesia decreases the
      intraoperative stress and inflammatory response and improve post-operative pain control and
      respiratory function in this patient population. It is also hypothesized that the technique
      will provide stable intraoperative hemodynamics during aortic valve replacement surgery.

      Stress response: Levels of hormones such as epinephrine, norepinephrine and cortisol are
      elevated during cardiac surgery and on the initiation of cardiopulmonary bypass. This stress
      response has previously been shown to be blunted with the use of high spinal anesthesia when
      combined with general anesthesia in coronary artery bypass surgery patients (Lee, Grocott, et
      al).

      Inflammatory response: In addition to the stress response there is also an accentuated
      inflammatory response. With contact of the patient's blood to the artificial bypass circuit,
      there is activation of various plasma protease pathways that generate multiple
      proinflammatory mediators. Complement levels and cytokine levels also rise. Clinical organ
      dysfunction involving the cardiovascular, pulmonary, renal and neurological systems can
      ultimately result. The effects of high spinal anesthesia on the inflammatory response that
      occurs with bypass have not been studied.

      Hemodynamics: It has previously been shown that high-spinal anesthesia for coronary artery
      bypass surgery provides stable intra-operative hemodynamics (Kowalewski, MacAdams, et al;
      Lee, Grocott, et al.). Although the use of spinal anesthesia in patients with aortic stenosis
      has been considered to be relatively contra-indicated, total spinal anesthesia may actually
      improve cardiac function by decreasing systemic afterload and increasing myocardial
      contractility.

      Post-operative analgesia and pulmonary function: The spinal administration of opioids, such
      as morphine, has been shown to improve post-operative pain management in patients having both
      cardiac and non-cardiac surgery (Jacobsohn, Lee, et al). Total spinal anesthesia with
      bupivacaine and spinal morphine combined with general anesthesia may also improve
      post-operative pain management and facilitate improved post-operative lung function.
    
  