
    
      Original Protocol for Group A: Patients with at least a SLEDAI score of 6 or a BILAG score of
      B in at least two organ systems or A in at least one organ system were immediately entered
      into this study once informed consent was obtained. Background immune suppressants (if any)
      were stopped and in about half of the patients hydroxychloroquine was also stopped. All
      patients immediately received a shot of depomedrol 160 mg IM. Over the next two weeks they
      could elect up to three more shots of depomedrol for a total of four shots by the two week
      visit period. A complete battery of blood tests to assess lupus disease was drawn at the
      screening visit, and monthly thereafter. Exploratory biomarker studies were drawn as often as
      weekly for some markers and as often as three times in the study (landmark visits) for
      others. Protocol Changes during course of study: Biomarkers were drawn at Day zero, week 2
      week 4 and monthly thereafter until flare. Patients who did not improve with protocol steroid
      treatments were withdrawn from Group A and immediately treated as warranted. Since there was
      no protocol-defined improving visit, they could not continue the protocol until flare.
      However their baseline samples were appropriate for study as part of Group B (see below).

      Landmark visits for Group A are defined as: 1.) screening (pre-dose, on background meds with
      active disease) 2.) two weeks or four weeks after screening as optimal to assess a patient
      who has stopped background meds and is now maximally improved (but at least one grade drop in
      BILAG scores in all organs entered at A or B or a four point drop in SLEDAI, otherwise the
      participant is deemed a treatment failure and could not participate further in Group A. 3.)
      Flare visit on no background immune suppression defined as an increase in SLEDAI of 4 points
      from maximal improvement or one new BILAG moderate (B) score AND the investigator considers
      the condition to be a significant flare with intent to treat. Patients were (whenever
      possible) seen within 3 days for the flare visit if flare occured between monthly scheduled
      visits.

      The primary purpose of this study was to evaluate the time to flare and safety of a treatment
      withdrawal protocol in patients with active, but non-organ threatening SLE. The following
      biomarkers were obtained for exploratory analysis: cytokine panel, B Cell studies, T Cell
      studies, autoantibody profiles, epigenetic and gene expression studies and flow cytometry
      studies.
    
  