
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Beginning in Fiscal Year 1975, the multidisciplinary SCOR examined causes, consequences, and
      treatments of human hypertension. A central theme was the renal basis for human hypertension.
      The subproject on calcium metabolism and the renin-angiotensin system in hypertensive and
      normal pregnancy began in December, 1990.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A longitudinal study was performed on normal pregnant women and women with chronic
      hypertension who had a high incidence of superimposed preeclampsia. In a previous study, the
      investigators had demonstrated that preeclampsia was associated with reduced urinary
      excretion of calcium and with lower plasma renin activity (PRA) compared with normal
      pregnancy. The goal of the investigators was to identify the metabolic and cellular basis for
      these alterations in calcium homeostasis and in the renin angiotensin system. They tested two
      hypotheses. The first hypothesis was that diminished placental and/or renal production of
      1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, leading to lower serum calcium, higher parathyroid hormone, and
      increased renal tubular reabsorption of calcium, was the metabolic basis for hypocalciuria in
      preeclampsia. The second hypothesis was that lower PRA in preeclampsia was due to systemic
      and renal vasoconstriction with hypertension and diminished natriuresis.

      Serial measurements of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D, parathyroid hormone, serum ionized calcium,
      PRA, estradiol and progesterone, and urinary calcium and electrolytes were obtained,
      particularly at the onset of preeclampsia. Acute renal hemodynamic studies were also
      performed in women with preeclampsia and in gestational age matched normals. The studies
      investigated the relationships among glomerular filtration rate, renal blood flow,
      parathyroid hormone, vitamin D, atrial natriuretic factor, renin, estradiol and progesterone,
      and sodium and calcium excretion during infusion of inulin and PAH with either saline or
      calcium chloride.

      Intracellular free calcium concentration in platelets and lymphocytes of pregnant women
      participating in longitudinal and acute renal hemodynamic studies were also measured. Basal
      and stimulated (with angiotensin II, ionomycin and thrombin), intracellular free calcium
      concentrations were compared in normal and hypertensive pregnant women and correlated with
      calcium regulatory hormones, plasma renin activity and hypertension.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  