
    
      60 participants will receive the DIAL intervention or Wait List Control. While main outcomes
      are focused on feasibility and acceptability, physical activity, fitness, and body weight and
      composition data will be collected and measured at baselines and 12-weeks.

      DIAL Intervention: The physical activity intervention is based on Social Cognitive Theory and
      emphasizes behavioral strategies for increasing activity levels (i.e., goal setting,
      self-monitoring, problem solving barriers, increasing social support, rewarding oneself for
      meeting physical activity goals) and includes daily activity reporting via an Individual
      Voice Response (IVR) system that allows computer-assisted interaction with participants by
      telephone. Computer expert system feedback on physical activity progress will be based on
      participants' reported daily step counts and >moderate intensity PA . In addition to IVR
      system feedback, participants will receive monthly graphic-based feedback letters delivered
      by mail. Messages will encourage incremental increases until national PA guidelines are
      reached and provide specific information on cancer risk reduction ("In the past 7 days, you
      called the DIAL study line all 7 days and reported engaging in 80 minutes of moderate
      intensity PA. The national guidelines call for >150 min/week of moderate intensity PA so you
      are well on your way. Keep up the good work. Make small increases in PA each week until you
      reach that goal. Remember: 30-60 min/day of moderate-vigorous intensity PA may significantly
      lower your risk of breast and colon cancer").

      To improve self-efficacy, social support, outcome expectations, and perceived enjoyment, we
      will assess these variables at baseline, 30, 60, and 90 days. Responses will be used to
      select appropriate tailored feedback modules (for low self-efficacy score, "You do not seem
      confident about your ability to exercise. Often trying to fit in some PA on top of the
      demands of work and family can be a challenge. Try making time for a 10 minute walk 1-2 days
      this week. It will help build confidence about your ability to fit PA into your lifestyle.")
      Finally, participants will receive access to problem solving modules, addressing PA barriers
      identified by the community during formative research (lack of time, negative outcome
      expectations, enjoyment, social support, see table below). Module options will be rotated and
      constantly updated to keep participants engaged.

      Wait List Control Condition: Will receive the intervention after 12 weeks following baseline
      assessments.
    
  