
    
      The aim of this study is to determine whether vibrations on the sole of the foot accelerate
      mobilization after cardiac surgery. Preliminary studies show that the mechanisms of
      cardiovascular regulation in the event of changes in position, e.g. when getting up from the
      lying position, can be positively influenced by vibration treatments on the soles of the
      feet, if at the same time a small part of the body weight is shifted to the soles of the
      feet. In the early phase after the operation, you may feel dizzy when you get up, which
      creates uncertainty in the patient, which in turn delays further mobilization.The sole of the
      foot vibrations and various measurements of the cardiovascular regulation are carried out in
      this study.

      This study is carried out by the clinical department for cardiac surgery together with the
      chair of physiology at the Medical University of Graz. Thirty patients will participate in
      this study. Through a random selection process, the patients are divided into three groups of
      10 patients each and receive the following treatment in addition to standard clinical
      physiotherapy:

      A: Intervention group I receives a unit of 10 minutes daily on the vibrating plate with an
      upright posture of 15 ° postoperatively from the 2nd to the 7th day B: Intervention group II
      is positioned postoperatively from day 2 to day 7 for 10 minutes at 15 degrees, but without
      vibration C: The control group only receives standard physiotherapy and no further treatments

      Standard physiotherapy consists of the patient trying to stand up together with the
      physiotherapist from the intensive care bed or IMC bed. The participation in this clinical
      trial will take approximately 60 minutes per appointment. This consists of 20-25 minutes for
      attaching the electrodes, 15 minutes for the "sit-to-stand test" and 15-20 minutes for the
      survey (filling out the questionnaires). At the beginning of the study or before the
      operation (OP), questionnaires are used to determine whether you have an increased risk of
      falling and whether you are frail. These questionnaires will be carried out by trained
      employees together with you during the initial measurement, upon discharge and after about 3
      months.

      To measure the cardiovascular regulation during changes in position, a sit-up test is carried
      out. Values such as blood pressure and cardiac output (Task Force Monitor), muscle activity
      on the calf over the skin and vascular reaction in the calf over the skin, and blood flow to
      the brain are measured with a Ultrasound device included. All methods used are non-invasive
      (that is, only adhesive electrodes are used on the skin and no needles or syringes, there is
      no blood draw in this measurement) and not painful. The patient will be asked to participate
      in such a sit-up test (from supine/lying position to standing upright) at a total of 5
      measuring dates. In total the patient will be given two blood pressure cuffs, one on the
      right upper arm, the second on the left middle finger. To measure the ECG and other
      cardiovascular values, 8 electrodes are attached to your upper body. In addition there are 3
      adhesive electrodes on the calves for measuring the muscles. No additional blood tests are
      carried out as part of the tests. The results of your routine blood tests will be included in
      the study.

      All measurements from the patients in group A-C are compared to determine whether training
      with the vibration exercise leads to faster mobilization after cardiac surgery.
    
  