
    
      This research will use randomized controlled trial (RCT) methodology to assess the
      feasibility of a prescription by University Health Services (UHS) Providers for
      fruit/vegetable CSA shares or exercise by bikeshare on obesity-related outcomes. Three
      cohorts of n=10 UW-Madison students (total 30) will be randomized to three groups: (1) a
      10-week fruit and vegetable community supported agriculture (CSA) share prescription program
      with vegetable education and cooking support from UW Slow Food; (2) a 10-week Madison B-cycle
      bikeshare membership prescription program with exercise support from the UHS wellness
      program; or (3) a non-interventional wait-list control group. The primary outcome will be
      change in Body Mass Index (a measure of obesity using a person's weight in kilograms divided
      by his or her height in meters squared). Secondary outcomes will be fasting lipids, blood
      pressure, and HGA1c levels. All of these measures will be tested at baseline and just after
      the 10-week intervention. Fasting lipids and HGA1c levels will be assessed through a blood
      draw. Study participants will be asked to refrain from eating or drinking anything except for
      water 8-12 hours prior to the blood draw. Study participants will fill out validated
      questionnaires assessing perceived stress, physical activity levels, self-efficacy, social
      support, and general mental and physical health at baseline and after the intervention. Study
      participants will also conduct a 3 day dietary recall before and after the intervention.

      Study participants randomized to the "CSA group" will be expected to pick up their weekly CSA
      box at University Health Services and to commit to using and consuming as much of the produce
      as they are able. CSA group participants will also be required to attend two cooking and food
      preparation classes coordinated by Slow Food UW. The classes will teach study participants
      how to properly clean and prepare the fruits and vegetables from a weekly CSA box, and also
      offer techniques and show them how to cook the foods in a healthy manner. These classes will
      also educate study participants on the benefits of eating fruits and vegetables and buying
      them from local farmers. These two classes will only exist for study participants in this
      fruit and veggie CSA group. Participants in the "CSA group" will also be required to take a
      field trip to the farm providing their CSA share, which will offer the opportunity for
      participants to gain a better understanding of from where their food comes.

      Study participants randomized to the "bikeshare group" will be expected to use B-cycle
      bikeshare bicycles for transportation and/or recreation as much as is safe and appropriate.
      Bikeshare group participants will be required to attend two bicycle use/safety courses. These
      courses will introduce the B-cycle program, demonstrate use of the B-cycle station, provide
      information use of helmets and safety gear, and provide information on the basics of cycling
      and keeping yourself safe and comfortable while riding a B-cycle bike in traffic. B-cycle
      usage, including estimated distance traveled and frequency of use, will be tracked via the
      B-cycle Madison website.

      Study participants in the control group will receive continued "usual care" from University
      Health Services providers, which includes educational brochures on healthy eating and
      exercising. Control group participants are not part of a wait-list group.
    
  