
    
      Alcohol use is the most common underlying cause of injuries in the United States. There is a
      growing body of literature suggesting that brief interventions (BI), in the form of a short
      (10-60 minute) counseling session, may decrease alcohol consumption and its harmful
      consequences. In contrast to the abundant literature on the effectiveness of BI in the
      outpatient setting, only 3 randomized controlled trials have been performed an adults
      specifically in the setting of acute trauma, and have had inconclusive results. All three
      studies used highly trained persons to perform the BI, and all were greater than 30 minutes
      in duration, a situation that may not necessarily reflect the practicalities of routine
      medical care. This raises the question of whether the benefits seen in these studies reflect
      the expertise of a small number of individuals or whether the effects correlate with the
      amount of time spent with the patient. Highly trained personnel and time are valuable
      commodities in a busy trauma center and may not be feasible given the competing clinical
      demands. We propose to investigate whether BI are effective in a setting that is more likely
      to reflect "real world" of clinical medicine rather than an idealized setting, utilizing
      trauma nurse practitioners to perform brief (5-10 minute) interviews.

      We will identify all patients admitted with trauma who test positive on a blood alcohol test.
      These patients will be consented and randomized to either a brief intervention group, or a
      standard medical care group. All patients will receive an AUDIT questionnaire to identify
      patterns of drinking behavior and an alcohol information pamphlet. After discharge, patients
      will be telephoned at 1,6, and 12 months. The first 2 contacts will be to see how the patient
      is doing and to verify the contact information. The AUDIT questionnaire will be
      re-administered during the 12 month interview.
    
  