
    
      Introduction

      In recent decades, with the increase in life expectancy, the number of older people and their
      relative rate within the population have risen dramatically. This trend led to increased
      rates of people suffering from a mild cognitive disorder and dementia in developed countries.
      Mild Neurocognitive Disorder or Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) is defined as a transition
      state between successful aging and a state of dementia. This state is characterized by
      cognitive impairment and a decline in memory skills while daily functioning is maintained.

      Older people diagnosed with MCI are at increased risk of developing dementia, particularly
      Alzheimer's disease. This risk is ranked at about 12% every year.

      Since this is a pre-dementia stage, great importance lies in finding methods that may prevent
      or at least decelerate the progress of MCI to dementia. Cognitive training is believed to be
      an appropriate intervention for preserving cognitive function.

      The Feuerstein Program

      This program is designed to prevent mental deterioration and preserve cognitive abilities
      among people aged 60 and above (hereinafter "The Feuerstein Program"). The program is the
      initiative and brainchild of Professor Reuven Feuerstein - Israel Prize Laureate, founder and
      President of the Feuerstein Institute for the Enhancement of Learning Potential.

      The program is based on the theories of Structural Cognitive Modifiability as well as on
      Mediated Learning Experience. For the needs of this program, the tools were suited to the
      unique characteristics and requirements of the older population.

      The program is composed of a variety of tools (hereinafter: instrumental enrichment) that
      offer systematic activities intended to stimulate mental and cognitive development.

      Instrumental enrichment is a set of tools dealing with required thinking skills to promote
      learning and thinking processes. The tasks of the various tools are free of educational
      content and they engage in pure learning and thinking processes. The tools are delivered
      through a special mediation approach, in which teachers and supervisors are trained in
      specialized courses.

      Objectives of the Feuerstein Program

      The main objective: to enhance the transformation (variability) capacity of a human being.

      The sub-objectives:

        1. Correction and development of defective thinking skills, that are responsible for
           learning difficulties and the absence of transformation (variability).

        2. Equipping the learner with literal and conceptual content that he requires during his
           learning processes.

        3. Creating and establishing proper sound thinking and working habits.

        4. Creating insight and awareness regarding the processes involved in learning.

        5. Creating internal motivation for carrying out tasks.

      The Learning Process

      The instrumental enrichment tools are distributed to the participant as work sheets. The
      teacher creates a "mediating" dialogue between himself and the participants, thus enabling
      them to construct learning skills and essential thinking strategies. In addition, the teacher
      bridges the learning skills that were studied to the daily life of the older participant.

      Products

        1. Creating within them awareness to their learning and thinking processes (Metacognition)
           while introducing an optimistic and positive attitude towards the ability to effect a
           significant change in these areas.

        2. Instill the older person with control over his thinking skills.

        3. Enhancing the sense of capability of the older person.

      The Intervention Focuses of the Instrumental Enrichment Tools that will be utilized in the
      Program

        1. Methodical information gathering.

        2. Orientation and function in space and time.

        3. Comparison and sorting capabilities.

        4. Memory.

        5. Raising hypotheses and their examination.

        6. Perspicuousness (clear wording) and naming capabilities.

      MRI imaging

      The current study includes anatomical and functional MRI imaging in order to evaluate the
      relationship between cognitive changes and brain functional connectivity.

      Research Objective

      Examining the effects of the Feuerstein Program on brain functional connectivity as measured
      by MRI and cognitive function assessed by a computerized cognitive battery in subjects with
      MCI.

      Research Hypothesis

      The Feuerstein Program will improve cognitive abilities and affect brain functional
      connectivity.

      Methodology

      An open-label single group interventional study.

      Research Assessment Tools

        1. Cognitive screening by means of the MoCA (Montreal Cognitive Assessment) Test.

        2. CogSym (Cognitive Symptom) Meta-cognition questionnaire composed of ten items related to
           the cognitive ability of the examinee during his daily functioning. The examinee is
           asked to assess for each item, what is his ability level for the function being
           described, on a 5 levels scale (1 = excellent, 5 = inferior).

        3. World Health Organization well-being index questionnaire.

        4. The Neurotrax computerized cognitive assessment battery.

        5. Anatomical and functional MRI imaging

      The intervention

      Phase 1:

      15 participants will undergo the aforementioned assessments at baseline followed by an
      intervention period involving 30 twice weekly sessions of the Feuerstein Program each lasting
      90 minutes over 15 weeks. Assessments will be repeated after session 30 and finally at 9
      months following intervention commencement.

      Phase 2:

      15 participants will undergo the aforementioned assessments initially, followed by a waiting
      period of 15 weeks without intervention (baseline function). This will be followed by an
      intervention period involving 30 twice weekly sessions of the Feuerstein Program each lasting
      90 minutes over 15 weeks. Assessments will be repeated after session 30 and finally at 9
      months following intervention commencement.

      Data Analysis The statistical analysis will be conducted as is customary in clinical research
      within the field.
    
  