
    
      Efficacy study - ANAEMIA project C么te d'Ivoire The proposed project is aimed at testing two
      interventions, namely a highly bioavailable iron compound and a combination of SP plus
      amodiaquine for intermittent preventive treatment (IPT) of malaria, to reduce anaemia in very
      young children. The fortified product will be provided as porridge (Nutribon produced by PKL)
      with an optimized formula (2 mg in the form of NaFeEDTA and 3.8 mg in the form of ferrous
      fumarate) of the premix. In addition, we will assess the Nutribon product currently available
      on the market and we will compare it to an optimized premix formula. The current and the
      optimized formula contain each 2 mg iron in the form of NaFeEDTA. In addition to the NaFeEDTA
      the current premix contains 3.8 mg in the form of ferric pyrophosphate, which is less
      bioavailable than the 3.8 mg ferrous fumarate in the optimized formula. The study will be
      carried out between May and December 2012 which includes the rainy season (April - October)
      with its two peaks in C么te d'Ivoire and thus the period when malaria transmission is highest.
      The study will be implemented in a Health and Demographic Surveillance System in Taabo in
      C么te d'Ivoire and comprise 625 children between 12 to 36 months. 375 eligible infants will
      receive a fortified porridge (250 with the improved formula and 125 with the current
      formula), whereas 250 infants will continue with their local diet (control group). Infants
      receiving the optimized formula and infants in the control group will be randomly assigned to
      IPT of malaria (125 in each group) or placebo (125 in each group). Thus, infants can be
      assigned to one of the following five groups: 1. group (n=125): fortified porridge (optimized
      formula) and IPT of malaria 2. group (n=125): fortified porridge (optimized formula) and
      placebo 3. group (n=125): local diet and IPT of malaria and 4. group (n=125): local diet and
      placebo. 5. group (n=125): fortified porridge (current formula) and placebo, representing the
      current situation in C么te d'Ivoire in infants consuming fortified complementary food. This
      efficacy trial will deepen our understanding in preventing anaemia and the interaction of
      bioavailable iron compounds with an antimalarial drug and related conditions in very young
      children. Further, the study should demonstrate whether the earlier study failed to show an
      impact on anaemia due to the use of an iron compound that lacked bioavailability and/or using
      an antimalarial drug in the IPT intervention arm that lacked efficacy perhaps due to
      resistance by P. falciparum, or other yet to be investigated causes.
    
  