
    
      The optimal energy selection for biphasic direct current (DC) cardioversion of atrial
      fibrillation is unknown. The energy delivered should be sufficient to achieve prompt
      cardioversion but without the risk of inducing any potential injury e.g. skin burns,
      myocardial stunning or post-cardioversion arrhythmias. The use of an escalating protocol,
      with a low energy initial shock, has been considered conventional practice, originally to
      avoid post cardioversion arrhythmias when using monophasic shocks.(1) This practice has been
      directly transferred to biphasic cardioversion. The European Society of Cardiology 2016
      guidelines (2) and the American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology 2014
      guidelines on the management of atrial fibrillation (3) do not recommend any specific energy
      settings, whereas the European Resuscitation Council 2010 guidelines for cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation (4) recommend a starting energy level of 120-200 J with subsequent escalating
      energy setting.

      Previously, a non-escalating protocol (200 J) (5) has been found to have a significantly
      higher first shock success resulting in fewer shock deliveries without compromising safety
      compared with a low energy escalating shock protocol (100-150-200 J). Further, a study found
      fewer arrhythmic complications with increasing energy suggesting an 'upper limit of
      vulnerability'. It is well-established that biphasic shocks induce fewer post-shock
      arrhythmias (6), skin burns (7) and shorter periods of myocardial stunning compared with
      monophasic shocks.(8) Importantly, no correlation between increasing biphasic energy delivery
      and any complications was found in these studies. Nonetheless, the efficiency and safety of a
      high energy shock (360 J) biphasic protocol compared with a conventional low energy
      escalating protocol is unknown. Accordingly, this study aims to compare the efficiency and
      safety of a high energy protocol (360-360-360 J) versus a standard escalating protocol
      (125-150-200 J). We hypothesise that a high energy cardioversion protocol is more effective
      compared to standard escalating energy protocol, without compromising safety.
    
  