
    
      Condition Depressive symptoms, anxiety symptom, emotional problems Interventions Participants
      in experimental group Receive 12 weeks training according to the guideline below Participants
      in control Receive treatment as usual, also the experts will respond to their questions. The
      unified protocol can track its basis from cognitive-behavioral therapy approaches. As in the
      traditional CBT approaches, the unified protocol has several modules whose base is the
      emotions . The modules focus on increasing awareness of interaction and the function of the
      model of emotion components which include thoughts, physical sensations, and behaviors. The
      final bit of the unified protocol is to change the components to a present moment awareness.
      The unified protocol is used to treat different emotional disorders unlike the traditional
      CBT approaches. This is done by targeting the underlying mechanisms that form part of all
      emotional disorders. The 5 core skills above are delivered to patients through five core
      modules. Before the key modules, there are 2 modules for introduction and learning about
      emotions. After the 5 core modules there is a module for treatment progress appraisal and
      making plans to prevent relapse.

      The unified protocol modules are as follows:

      Module 1: Setting the treatment goals and motivation augmentation Module 2: Using
      psychoeducation to learn the function of emotions and their development Module 3: Mindful
      (present-focused and non-judgmental) emotional awareness- Core module Module 4: Cognitive
      flexibility- Core module Module 5: Identifying and countering emotional avoidance behaviors-
      core module Module 6: Increasing awareness and confronting physical sensations/ interoceptive
      sensitivity- core module Module 7: Both situational and interoceptive emotion-focused
      exposures- Core module Module 8: Recognizing accomplishments and looking to the future
      (relapse prevention) Primary outcome measure

      At baseline and 12 weeks:

        1. Anxiety measured using the Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI)

        2. Depression measured using the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-II) Secondary outcome
           measures

      At baseline and 12 weeks:

        1. Mental health measured using:

           1.1. Overall Anxiety Severity and Impairment Scale (OASIS) 1.2. Overall Depression
           Severity and Impairment Scale (ODSIS) 1.3. Positive and Negative Affect Scale (PANAS)

        2. Quality of life measured using the qolwbref questionnaire) Eligibility Participant
           inclusion criteria

      1. 18 years or older 2. Ability to understand and read Persian or Pashto 3. Access to
      Internet at home and having an email address 4. Meeting the DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for ED
      (MDD, DD, MDNOS, PD, A, SAD, GAD, ADNOS, OCD) 5. Providing written, informed consent
    
  