
    
      The participants will visit the laboratory three times. At each time the environmental
      chamber will simulate a different environment in a random order for each participant. The
      three different environments will be as follow:

        1. Cold environment 15-17°C and 40-50% relative humidity

        2. Thermoneutral environment 22-24°C and 40-50% relative humidity

        3. Warm environment 33-35°C and 40-50% relative humidity The participants will stay in a
           sited position for 20 minutes in order to collect baseline data and to allow to their
           blood flow and body temperature adapt to the exposing environmental condition each time.
           Immediately after the baseline period the participants will immerse their left hand and
           foot in warm water (34-36°C) for 5 minutes for a consistent starting (hand and foot)
           temperature. Following that participants will immerse their hand and foot in cold water
           (8°C) for 40 minutes. This procedure will be repeated in every measurement and it will
           only change the environment.

      Anthropometric data [self-reported age, self-reported body stature and body mass (DXA, Lunar,
      GE Healthcare Boston, Massachusetts, U.S)] will be collecting at the beginning of the first
      measurement. Medical history of all the participants will be recording. During the study,
      continuous heart rate (Polar Team2. Polar Electro Oy, Kempele, Finland), core temperature
      (telemetric capsules BodyCap, Caen, France), mean skin temperature (wireless thermistors
      iButtons type DS1921H, Maxim/Dallas Semiconductor Corp., USA), finger temperature
      ((Smartreader 8 Plus, ACR, Vancouver, Canada), skin blood flow and sweat rate data (laser
      Doppler flow-meter PeriFlux System 5010, function unit; Perimed, Stockholm, Sweden and
      PeriFlux System 4002, master unit, satellite unit; Perimed, Stockholm, Sweden) will be
      collecting. Blood pressure will also be monitoring every 10 minutes with an automatic
      sphygmomanometer (Omron Healthcare M6 comfort, Japan). Skin temperature data will be
      collecting from four sites (chest, arm, thigh, and leg) and will be expressed as mean skin
      temperature according to the formula of Ramanathan (Tsk = [0.3(chest + arm) + 0.2(thigh +
      leg)]. Questionnaires (thermal sensation scale: -3 = cold; +3 = hot) will be used to assess
      participants' thermal comfort/sensation and pain.
    
  