
    
      Over recent years a growing body of research has reported significant, beneficial effects of
      using an "elaborative reminiscence" (ER) intervention on a range of typically-developing
      child outcomes including memory language skills, emotional understanding and understanding of
      mind. A recently published 9- year follow-up study further indicates that these benefits are
      longstanding. This has prompted speculation that ER could be a beneficial intervention for
      children with neurodevelopmental disorders who have known difficulties in these areas. To
      date, no studies have assessed the benefits of using ER as an intervention for ASD.

      This study aims to evaluate the feasibility, acceptability and preliminary effectiveness of
      training parents to use ER as an intervention for high-functioning children with ASD. This
      study will use a two-arm, parallel-group, randomised controlled design to compare a
      parent-delivered ER intervention against a control intervention (present tense talk).

      Fifty parent-child dyads (comprising children with ASD and IQ >70) will be recruited from
      mainstream schools, specialist unit/ schools, or relevant organisations (25 dyads per trial
      arm). Primary outcomes will be NIHR-recognised quantitative indicators of feasibility and
      acceptability for the ER condition.This will include (yet is not limited to) exploring the
      feasibility of methods of recruiting participants, feasibility of administering outcome
      assessments at baseline and follow-up, feasibility of delivering the training for ER and PTT
      remotely (i.e. through video conferencing), the feasibility of parents delivering ER or PTT
      in their home setting, and the acceptability of ER to parents. Parent acceptability of ER
      will be assessed using a daily logbook questionnaire and post-trial interviews, based on the
      Theoretical Framework of Acceptability.

      Secondary outcomes will be measures of clinical and functional outcomes for both experimental
      conditions. Descriptive measures of general intelligence, vocabulary and developmental level
      will be administered at baseline for both experimental conditions (ER and PTT) and used to
      describe the participant sample. Outcome measures for child memory, mental state
      understanding, and self-concept will be administered at baseline and again after 20 weeks to
      assess change or response to the interventions. Differences in parent reminiscing style from
      baseline to post-trial will be assessed for all participants to assess the success of
      intervention training.

      On completion of follow-up outcome assessments, parents in the ER condition will be invited
      to participate in a single qualitative interview to evaluate the acceptability of the ER
      intervention and study procedures. Interviews will be based on the Theoretical Framework of
      Acceptability and the Necessity-Concerns Framework.

      Descriptive statistics will be taken for indicators of intervention feasibility and
      acceptability.Comparisons between the two trial arms will be made using inferential
      statistical analysis for multiple outcomes, whilst adjusting for covariates.

      In response to the present Covid-19 situation, this study will take place remotely. All
      interaction with participants (recruitment and data collection and participant testing) will
      use video software (e.g. Zoom, AdobeConnect, MS Teams), or online surveys (e.g. Qualtrics).
      Data analysis will either take place in the Autism Research Unit laboratory, located at City
      University of London, or remotely via a secure network.
    
  