
    
      We conducted a quasi-experimental study with 31 children with cerebral palsy from both sexes,
      of various types and GMFCS levels who were followed for 6 months with three repeated
      measurements: beginning of the study (T1), 3 months (T2) and 6 months (T3) after the initial
      evaluation. Participants were measured 3 times on postural control and balance, gross-motor
      function and twice on quality of life. Children attended hippotherapy session one a week for
      30 minutes. Sessions were conducted by equestrian therapists (physiotherapists or
      occupational therapists) qualified by the National (Brazilian) Association of Hippotherapy.
      The horses were trained for hippotherapy practice, and each patient used the same animal in
      all sessions. The specific hippotherapy gear included safety straps, riding blankets,
      stirrups and saddles with and without support straps. The use of protective helmets for
      patients was mandatory in all sessions. Playful and educational toys were also used. The
      participants included the patient, the equestrian therapist, the horse handler (the
      professional who drives the horse) and, when necessary, an auxiliary helper to ensure the
      safety of the child. The hippotherapy sessions were individualized. The goals set by the
      therapist were based on the specific demands and the motor condition of each client. The
      activities proposed during each session sought to stimulate the development of the postural
      control of the child with CP. Such activities could be performed in various postures (i.e.,
      classic, inverted, lateral, dorsal decubitus, ventral decubitus and standing on the
      stirrups). They included demands for stability and balance (i.e., trunk rotation activities,
      range in various directions and bimanual tasks), active stretches and antigravitational
      exercises during riding, integrated with ludic-cognitive resources (i.e., memory games and
      identification of colors, numbers and letters). For the most part, children with mild and
      moderate impairments rode individually and were encouraged to maintain an upright posture
      throughout the session. Those with more severe impairment were encouraged to maintain control
      and postural alignment, with the minimum of support being provided. In some cases, it was
      necessary to use a double riding strategy, in which the therapist rode the horse along with
      the patient to favor and stimulate the child's postural control on the animal. Throughout the
      session, the horse varied speed, cadence and direction to the therapist's command, using
      different paths (i.e., circles, zigzags and straight lines) and different types of terrain
      (i.e., uphill, downhill, dirt, asphalt and grass). All participants were instructed to
      continue with their rehabilitation routine (i.e., physical therapy, occupational therapy and
      others). For data analysis, participants were stratified by age (04-07 years and 08-12
      years), severity (mild, moderate and severe), topography of the members involved (diplegia,
      hemiplegia, and quadriplegia) and previous time of hippotherapy (between 3-6 months and more
      than 6 months).
    
  