
    
      Pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) is a rare normocytic normochromic anemia with reticulocytopenia,
      characterized by a reduction of erythroid precursors from the bone marrow, could be divided
      into congenital and acquired PRCA according to pathogenesis. Congenital PRCA, also known as
      Diamond-Blackfan syndrome, has been associated with pathogenic variant in GATA1 and TSR2 and
      gene encode ribosomal proteins. Acquired PRCA can be a primary disease which is usually
      mediated by immunology, or secondary to other diseases, such as lymphoproliferative diseases,
      autoimmune diseases, thymoma, infection, or drugs. The first line therapy of acquired PRCA is
      Cyclosporine A and steroids, the second line therapy are anti-CD20, ATG, immunosuppressive
      drugs like cyclophosphamide, bone marrow transplantation. Unfortunately, some patients did
      not response or tolerate the above treatments.

      Sirolimus (rapamycin) is an agent produced by the bacterium Streptomyces hygroscopicus,
      inhibits the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). mTOR is a serine/threonine kinase that
      regulates cell growth, proliferation, metabolism and survival in eukaryotic cells, and is
      identified as two interacting complex, mTORC1 and mTORC2. Sirolimus primarily inhibits
      mTORC1, has been approved for prevent organ transplant rejection, especially in renal
      transplantation, sirolimus also promises to treat autoimmune, degenerative and
      hyperproliferative disorders. Recently, sirolimus has been reported to be effective and well
      tolerated for many immune-mediated cytopenias, such as autoimmune lymphoproliferative
      syndrome, immune thrombocytopenia, EVANS syndrome, etc. However, due to the rare occurrence
      of PRCA and good response rate to cyclosporine, there are very few studies of sirolimus on
      refractory PRCA so far.

      In this study, It is anticipate to evaluate the effect of sirolimus on 30 patients with
      refractory PRCA, the side-effects was documented and plasma concentration of sirolimus will
      be monitor.
    
  