
    
      Patients who have a single HCC tumor up to 5 cm or a maximum of 3 HCC tumors of up to 3 cm
      per tumor will receive the same procedure: microwave ablation using only the NeuWave Certus
      Microwave Ablation System. Patients in this study will come to their study site for the
      ablation procedure. After the ablation procedure, the patient will be observed, which in most
      cases is expected to be 2 to 3 hours, and afterwards may return home. If the Study Doctor
      decides it is warranted for patient safety, the patient will remain in the hospital longer.

      A minimum of one MRI of the liver must be taken at Baseline/Screening to ascertain tumor
      type, location, and size. (Tumor size will be measured in longest diameter and the diameter
      that is perpendicular to this longest diameter; tumor size must be measured with at least 2D
      imaging.) Physicians who are experienced with tumor ablation will do all ablations
      percutaneously using only the NeuWave Certus Ablation System. During the ablation, patients
      will be under an anesthesia method as per the institution's SOC. Ultrasound and/or CT scan
      will be used to guide the probe to the tumor and confirm accurate placement of the probe
      prior to emitting the microwaves.

      Within 7 days after ablation, contrast-enhanced MRI will be done to confirm the completion of
      the ablation procedure. According to the standard practice at each study site, ablation
      confirmation will be classified as:

        -  complete tumor ablation with adequate margin (A0).

        -  complete tumor ablation with insufficient margin (A1).

        -  incomplete tumor ablation (A2). Over the course of 3 years, patients will return to
           their study site for post ablation follow-up visits, which will be carried out per the
           Schedule of Activities (see Table 1 at the end of the Synopsis). The follow-up schedule
           will be based on the original ablation procedure date. A re-ablation for any reason will
           not re-start or change the follow-up visit schedule.

      At every follow-up visit, every patient will be scanned with at least one MRI to see if there
      are any tumor foci at the edge of the ablation zone, which indicates tumor progression.
      Repeat microwave ablation (using the Certus Microwave Ablation System only) may be performed
      for recurrence of target tumor(s) or to achieve complete tumor ablation with adequate margin
      (A0) of the target tumor(s) if the initial ablation had an insufficient margin, if the
      treating physician deems appropriate and necessary.

      While repeat ablations for a recurrence may be conducted at any point during the study
      duration, repeat ablations to correct an ablative margin may only be performed within the
      first 30 days of the original ablation (by Visit 3).
    
  