
    
      Study Design:

      One hundred patients with an acute exacerbation of COPD admitted to the regular pulmonology
      department via the emergency room will be recruited after they have given written informed
      consent. Inclusion criteria are an age > 40 years or ≤ 80 years, at least 10 pack years of
      smoking history and COPD at least GOLD II. Each form of physical therapy is accepted outside
      pulmonary rehabilitation. Exclusion criteria include participation in a pulmonary
      rehabilitation program in the preceding year, comorbidity that can limit exercise training
      (for example: invalidating ischaemic heart disease, RA, malignancy and lung embolus),
      intolerance to prednisone, history of asthma, non-compliance, findings on chest radiography
      other than fitting with signs of COPD and a prior randomisation. During admission patients
      will receive standard exacerbation COPD treatment consisting of O2, combivent inhalation,
      antibiotics and prednisone. Exercise capacity is measured by a 6 minute walk test performed
      at discharge. The COPD GOLD classification is detected with a spirometry after completion of
      exacerbation therapy and before randomisation and discharge.

      Both measurements are repeated after completion of the pulmonary rehabilitation program at 3
      months. Quality of life is evaluated by the following questionnaires at discharge: St. George
      respiratory questionnaire (SGRQ), SF-36-scores (short form health survey) and clinical COPD
      questionnaire (CCQ). Before discharge, patients are randomised with a computer minimisation
      program for pulmonary rehabilitation or usual care with special attendance to age (< 70 years
      or ≥ 70 years), sex, length of hospital stay (< 7 days or ≥ 7 days), six minute walk test
      distance at discharge (< 100 or ≥ 100 meters) and predicted forced expiratory volume in one
      second (FEV1< or ≥ FEV1). Pulmonary rehabilitation will take place within ten days after
      discharge and shall be given by a multidisciplinary team (pulmonologist, respiratory nurse,
      physical therapist, dietician and a social worker). The program will last 2 hours weekly; 1
      hour exercise training and one hour education during 8 weeks. All patients are followed up
      after discharge at 3 and 6 months. These questionnaires will be repeated after accomplishment
      of the pulmonary rehabilitation program at day 90 and day 180. Readmission rate will be also
      evaluated in this period.
    
  