
    
      Patients who have been scheduled for elective endoscopic examination at the Dallas VA Medical
      Center for the evaluation of GERD or Barrett's esophagus will be invited to participate in
      the study. Patients who provide written, informed consent will have a medical history taken.

      Women of child bearing potential will have a pregnancy test. Eligible subjects will be
      treated with omeprazole 20 mg BID for at least four weeks before the scheduled endoscopic
      examination. Eight days before the endoscopy, patients will be instructed to discontinue any
      aspirin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (unless there is a contraindication
      to discontinuing those medications including a history of coronary artery disease, myocardial
      infarction, cerebrovascular accident or transient ischemic attacks). The endoscopic
      examination, which had been scheduled for clinical purposes, will be performed as usual, with
      biopsy specimens taken as required for clinical purposes.

      When the clinical examination has been completed, a perfusion catheter will be passed through
      the biopsy channel and positioned 5 cm above the squamocolumnar junction in the distal
      esophagus. The distal esophagus will be perfused with 10cc of a 250 M solution of either
      deoxycholic acid (DCA) or ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) for 5 minutes. Odd-number patients
      enrolled in each of the two patient groups (GERD patients with and without Barrett's
      esophagus) will receive DCA, whereas even-number patients will receive UDCA. The catheter
      position, bile acid concentration and duration of bile acid perfusion are chosen to simulate
      a typical episode of gastroesophageal reflux.

      In all patients, 12 biopsy specimens of the squamous epithelium will be taken using jumbo
      biopsy forceps at a level 2 cm proximal to the squamocolumnar junction at baseline (6
      biopsies will be used to establish the primary cell cultures and six will be used for the
      molecular analyses); 6 more biopsy specimens will be taken at the same level immediately
      after bile acid perfusion for molecular analyses.

      In the patients with Barrett's esophagus, 12 biopsy specimens of the specialized intestinal
      metaplasia also will be taken using jumbo biopsy forceps at a level 1 cm distal to the
      squamocolumnar junction at baseline (6 biopsies will be used to establish the primary cell
      cultures and six will be used for the molecular analyses); 6 more biopsy specimens will be
      taken a t the same level immediately after bile acid perfusion for molecular analyses. All
      endoscopic procedures will be performed by Dr. S.J. Spechler.

      All patients will be maintained on omeprazole 20 mg BID for one year, after which the
      endoscopic examinations will be repeated. The endoscopies will be performed with bile acid
      perfusions and biopsy sampling exactly as described above, except that patients who received
      DCA during the first examination will receive UDCA and vice-versa.

      After the second endoscopy, patients will be treated with UDCA in a dose of 10 mg/kg for 8
      weeks, after which a final endoscopy will be performed.

      During this endoscopy, DCA perfusion will be performed as described above. In all patients, 6
      biopsy specimens of the squamous epithelium will be taken using jumbo biopsy forceps at a
      level 2 cm proximal to the squamocolumnar junction at baseline for the molecular analyses; 6
      more biopsy specimens will be taken at the same level immediately after bile acid perfusion
      for molecular analyses.

      In the patients with Barrett's esophagus, 6 biopsy specimens of the specialized intestinal
      metaplasia also will be taken using jumbo biopsy forceps at a level 1 cm distal to the
      squamocolumnar junction at baseline for the molecular analyses; 6 more biopsy specimens will
      be taken at the same level immediately after bile acid perfusion for molecular analyses.
    
  