
    
      Rationale: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a leading cause of death worldwide
      and its morbidity and mortality are still rising. A symptom-driven maintenance and reliever
      therapy (SMART) with budesonide/formoterol is a frequently used treatment strategy in asthma.
      Several studies have shown that the SMART approach effectively reduces the number of asthma
      exacerbations when compared to a fixed maintenance dose of, e.g. fluticasone/salmeterol. In
      addition, larger improvements in lung function and symptoms have been observed in asthma
      patients with the SMART approach. Thus far, no studies have investigated the efficacy of the
      SMART approach in patients with COPD. The investigators hypothesize that SMART treatment with
      budesonide/formoterol will be more effective than fluticasone/salmeterol fixed dose treatment
      in COPD.

      Objective: This research proposal aims to investigate the efficacy of the SMART approach with
      budesonide/fomoterol versus fixed dose treatment with fluticasone/salmeterol in patients with
      COPD.

      Study design: This will be a randomized, parallel 2-arm, open-label, multi-centre study.

      Study population: A total of 260 COPD patients will be included with a smoking history of >10
      pack years, an FEV1 <80% predicted either or not using inhaled corticosteroids and having had
      at least one COPD exacerbation during the 2 years prior to inclusion.

      Intervention: COPD patients will be randomized to one of the following two treatment groups:

      A: One year Spiromax® budesonide/formoterol 160/4.5 μg two inhalations twice daily +
      Spiromax® budesonide/formoterol 160/4.5 μg as needed with a maximum of 8 inhalations daily.

      B: One year Diskus® fluticasone/salmeterol 500/50 μg one inhalation twice daily + salbutamol
      100 μg as needed with a maximum of 8 inhalations daily.

      Main study endpoints/objectives: The primary endpoint is the reduction in number of COPD
      exacerbations requiring treatment with oral prednisolone).

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: This study has no specific benefits for the participating patients. The study
      also has no major risks. Minor risks for participants in this study are:

        -  Nasal epithelium collection may cause a temporary nose bleed.

        -  Blood collection may cause bruising.

        -  All drugs may cause side effects. The combination treatments with an inhaled
           corticosteroid and long-acting β2-agonist: budesonide/formoterol and
           fluticasone/salmeterol are medicinal products that have been on the market for many
           years in many countries and they are often prescribed both in asthma and COPD.
    
  