
    
      Technological improvements such as the miniaturization and development dual lumen
      ureteroscopes have improved the urologists' ability to treat urolithiasis1. The quality of
      flexible ureterorenoscopy is dependent on adequate visualization of the upper urinary tract.
      Adequate irrigation and visualization are compromised by debris from stone fragmentation
      and/or any bleeding during treatment. Fortunately, use of an ureteral access sheath (UAS)
      increases irrigant flow and reduces intrarenal pressure 2.

      Ureteral access sheath technology was significantly improved by a member of our investigative
      team (RVC) thereby making it more widely acceptable3-5. The design changes allowed for easier
      deployment of the access sheath and the newer design was made to be kink resistant. This
      iteration of the device is easily deployed over a guidewire and has varying lengths such that
      it can be passed to the level of the stone in each case. Today's ureteral access sheaths
      range in size from 11-French to 16-French in diameter. The use of a ureteral access sheath
      has been shown to decrease intraoperative time, provide higher stone free rates, incur less
      cost due to shorter operating room times, and lead to fewer secondary procedures5,6. The
      access sheath should also, in theory, lower the risk of urinary tract infection due to
      decreased intrarenal pressure thereby resulting in less pyelovenous and less pyelolymphatic
      backflow. Lastly, use of an access sheath minimizes damage to the fragile flexible
      ureteroscope and thus increases their longevity while decreasing repair costs7.

      Despite the above findings use of the UAS has not been universally embraced. A single study
      by Traxer et al., showed the incidence of low grade ureteric injury using UAS was 46% and
      that with serious injuries (i.e. urothelial tears) occurred in 13%8. However, a follow-up
      study by the same group showed no evidence of delayed long-term ureteral stricture formation;
      in fact, the patients who had a ureteral access sheath deployed there was a lower risk of
      post-operative complications9. Further, other studies have shown that the rate of ureteral
      stricture formation following use of a ureteral access sheath is 1.4% compared to a baseline
      rate of 1-3% during routine ureteroscopy without an access sheath10. In the afore cited
      study, the solitary occurrence of a post-ureteral access sheath ureteral stricture occurred
      at the ureteropelvic junction in a patient who underwent four endoscopic procedures for
      struvite stones; in all four surgeries, the access sheath was deployed at the level of iliac
      vessels well below the site of the patient's stricture10. Of note, porcine models have shown
      decrease ureteral blood flow following the acute deployment of a large access sheath, however
      over time the flow normalized and in follow-up there was no increase in post procedural
      ureteral stricture formation11.

      Most urologists who place a ureteral access sheath do so without any pretreatment for
      ureteral relaxation. At our institution, the investigators routinely use alpha blockers
      (tamsulosin) as an adjunctive medical therapy to possibly relax the ureteral muscle; the
      medication is begun one week prior to surgery as it takes five days for the medicine to reach
      a steady state. It has been the investigator's experience that they are able to place larger
      ureteral access sheaths (i.e. 14 and 16 French size) with this approach. Additionally,
      examination of the ureter at the end of the procedure has shown minimal effect from placement
      of the access sheath; to date, the study team has not had any patient return with a post
      procedural ureteral stricture. Of note, it is the investigator's practice that if there is
      any resistance to deployment of the ureteral access sheath, then a smaller sized sheath is
      used; should the smaller sheath encounter resistance to its passage then a ureteral stent is
      placed and the procedure is postponed for a week. Stent placement in a ureter facilitates
      subsequent placement of an access sheath8,12.

      An extensive literature exists on the role of alpha-blocker medications on the relaxation of
      ureteral smooth muscle13. This is due to the numerous alpha-1 receptors along the ureter,
      particularly in the distal ureter14,15. This knowledge originally led to the development of
      medical expulsive therapy in the treatment of ureteral stones. Several meta-analyses have
      shown that alpha blockers help passage of distal ureteral stones in the 5-10mm range, in less
      time and with less pain. The most extensively studied medication in this regard has been
      tamsulosin In addition to alpha blockade, recent in vitro studies have shown that
      phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitors such as a tadalafil, commonly known by its tradename
      Cialis, also facilitate ureteral relaxation18-20. This has been substantiated by clinical
      studies which showed that sildenafil compared to placebo improved stone passage by 27%21.
      Further when tadalafil was added to tamsulosin the result was improved stone passage; the
      combined medications were well tolerated22,23.
    
  