
    
      Lung transplant is a lifesaving intervention for patients with advanced lung disease. In
      addition to this, patients can experience an improved quality of life and reduction in
      disability post transplant. Despite extensive candidate evaluation and pre-transplant
      scoring, waitlist mortality remains relatively high, in 2015 at 16.4 per 100 waitlist years
      and post-transplant 1-year mortality 16.6%.

      Frailty is defined as a "generalized vulnerability to stressors" resulting from an
      accumulation of cognitive and physiologic deficits, which can lead to a significant decline
      in health following an additional stressor such, i.e. major surgery. Frailty has been
      associated with delayed graft function and mortality in kidney transplant recipients and
      waitlist mortality in liver transplant candidates. Components of frailty include weight loss,
      exhaustion (self-reported), weakness, slow walking speed and low physical activity, however
      all these components have a complex interplay.

      In lung transplant, frailty was also found to be independently associated with
      patient-reported disability and with subsequent de-listing or death before transplant. There
      is conflicting evidence regarding the role of pre-transplant frailty on post-transplant
      outcomes in regards to overall post-operative mortality and hospital length of stay. However,
      prospective investigations have shown improvements in frailty following lung transplant can
      lead to improved disability over the first year following lung transplant.

      Physical therapy interventions aimed at elderly, frail non-transplant population, were found
      to be successful at reducing future frailty and mobility related disability. Important
      components of these regimens include resistance and endurance building exercises to improve
      maximum oxygen consumption and muscular strength. Identifying at-risk candidates pre- and
      post-transplant may allow for interventions to improve outcomes. It may also assist in
      preventing re-admissions, since previous investigations have shown frailty was associated
      with 30-day hospital re-admissions in patients with after colorectal surgery.

      Post-transplant, standard care should include physical activity for patients to help prevent
      post-operative atelectasis, increase energy, fuel appetite and reduce frailty. In lung
      transplant patients, exercise following transplantation has been shown to beneficial for
      muscular strength, six-minute walk distance and self-reported physical functioning. However
      the reality of care is that physical therapy availability may limit patients from ambulating
      more than once daily while hospitalized. An improvement in the level of activity available to
      patients is critical to daily their daily progress after transplant.

      The investigators hypothesize that a graded protocol of ambulation which can be implemented
      by a dedicated patient care nursing assistant (PCNA) multiple times daily will provide
      significant benefit to patients without the labor and cost requirements of full-time nursing
      and physical therapy expertise.

      The investigators believe this intervention will improve frailty in participants. These
      benefits will be objectively measured with evaluation of frailty during the pre- and
      post-transplant period, along with documentation of hospital length of stay, discharge
      disposition, overall mortality, 30-day readmission rate, and the number of inpatient falls.
    
  