
    
      This clinical study is a twelve-week single-center, randomized, double-blind evaluation of
      the safety and efficacy of a folic acid wound treatment (FAWT) versus Placebo in the
      promotion of healing of chronic (greater than 4-weeks), early stage diabetic foot ulcer
      (ES-DFU) wounds (PEDIS-Grade 1 or 2 Depth - wound above fascia without exposed muscle, tendon
      or bone). Study wound areas will be between 1.0 and 12.0 cm-square.

      The chronic, non-healing DFU is a serious and common complication of diabetes. Chronic DFU
      complications are among the most frequent diabetes-related diagnoses for hospitalization and
      the leading cause of diabetes-associated lower limb amputations. Increased levels of the
      tumor suppressor protein p53 in wound keratinocytes from non-healing DFUs suggests increased
      cell death due to significant (p<0.05) transcription factor activation. Treatment with high
      dose folic acid (5mg/day) correlates to improved healing in ES-DFU wounds, perhaps by
      improving folate/methionine metabolism which provides support for DNA repair, the generation
      of reductive equivalents and regulates DNA methylation, an important epigenetic regulator of
      p53 transcription activity. Folinic acid calcium salt (calcium folinate) is the bioactive
      metabolite of folic acid that does not require reduction by dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR).
      In this study, FAWT (2.5-percent by weight) is provided by compounding 1.25-gms of folinic
      acid calcium salt with 50-gms of the Placebo (Plurogel Burn and Wound Dressing™, Medline
      Industries, Inc.). Experimental studies of topical folinic acid demonstrate significant
      improvements in wound healing parameters with decreased cellular markers of inflammation and
      increased active signaling of tissue repair. Topical administration of FAWT removes the
      potential for the adverse impact of high blood folate levels observed with oral high dose
      folic acid, that could include an increase in the occurrence of sub-classes of colon or
      prostate cancer.

      The study hypothesis is that during a twelve-week evaluation period FAWT may provide
      significant (p<0.05) improvements, as compared to Placebo, in the rate of healing and
      complete closure (re-epithelialization) of chronic ES-DFU wounds.

      The study will have two phases: Screening and Treatment.

      The Screening Phase (first 4 weeks) is designed to determine if male and female Veterans
      selected as study participants are eligible to proceed to the Treatment Phase of the study.
      This phase consists of screening assessments that will include evaluation of the rate of
      study wound closure while the participants receive standard of care (SOC) therapy, including
      off-loading. SOC treatment will include wound cleansing and sharp debridement, fluorescent
      surveillance of wounds for microbial colonization and the management of infections.
      Participants observed with greater than 50-percent wound area reduction at the end of 4-weeks
      will be excluded from entering the Treatment Phase. Those observed with less than 50-percent
      wound area reduction and who continue to meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be
      allowed to enter the Treatment Phase of the study.

      The Treatment Phase (12 weeks) will continue with assessments of the eligibility of the
      remaining study participants. Thirty study participants (n=30) selected after the four-week
      Screening Phase will be randomly assigned to either the FAWT or Placebo group of fifteen
      subjects each (n=15). Study participants and the treating staff members will be blinded to
      the treatment (FAWT or Placebo) being provided to each participant. During the Treatment
      Phase subjects will be evaluated every two weeks. These evaluations will include the
      collection of selected blood chemistries, assessment of ulcer wound healing, wound
      measurements and microbial surveillance using digital imaging. Paired marginal wound tissue
      biopsies (3-mm) will be obtained during two points of the Treatment Phase: 1) at the
      beginning of the Treatment Phase and 2) following the complete closure of the wound or after
      twelve weeks of Treatment. Study evaluations of the wound will continue until the wound is
      closed or at twelve weeks, whichever occurs first.
    
  