
    
      Trial design:

      The AWAKE trial is an investigator-initiated, multicenter, observational trial currently
      underway in 4 centers in Spain (Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Hospital Universitario La Paz,
      Hospital General Universitario de Ciudad Real, and Hospital Universitario Gregorio Marañón),
      and open to more participant hospitals. Only tertiary care hospitals with extensive expertise
      in the management of SCD and post-resuscitation care will participate in the trial. All of
      them are required to have on-site 24 hours a day, 7 days a week availability for percutaneous
      coronary intervention, and critical care units staffed by cardiologists and/or critical care
      specialists. This selective center recruitment is supported by recent data suggesting that
      direct admission to invasive heart centers is associated with lower mortality in patients
      with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA).

      Consecutive patients admitted to the hospital after out or in-hospital cardiac arrest due to
      VF will be registered and screened for potential inclusion in the study. Patients will be
      classified into either of two groups:

        1. Study group: comatose survivors (GCS ≤8) after RoSC and, in whom neurological prognosis
           is unknown at the time of admission. This group is divided into a prospective cohort
           (new admissions), and a retrospective one, in which cases will be obtained from existing
           databases in the participating centers.

        2. Control group: patients who are conscious (GCS=15) and whose neurological status is
           known and good at admission. This will be the control group for the spectral-based
           predictive model, setting the gold standard for predicting FNP.

      Ethics:

      The study protocol has been approved by the ethics committee of the Hospital Clínico San
      Carlos, which in is in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration. Every patient will be
      requested to sign the informed consent before inclusion in the trial. If patient's condition
      makes it unfeasible to obtain a signed informed consent, it will be requested to their next
      of kin. Prospective patients will be requested to sign the informed consent during hospital
      admission, whereas retrospective patients/relatives will sign the informed consent at the
      time of follow-up contact. The main investigator at each participating center will be
      responsible for its on-site obtainment and storage according to current Spanish law.

      Decisions to withdraw advanced life support will be led by the physician in charge and
      discussed with representatives according to institutional standards, with no intervention
      whatsoever from the investigating team.

      Eligible patients will need to fulfill all of the inclusion criteria. Exclusion criteria will
      also apply.

      Temperature management in comatose survivors after cardiac arrest due to ventricular
      fibrillation:

      Patients included in the study group must have undergone therapeutic mild hypothermia (target
      temperature 32 to 34ºC) or controlled normothermia (target temperature 36ºC) for at least 24
      hours according to the institution protocol, as long the it is in agreement with current
      requirements. Routine use of prehospital or in-hospital cooling during cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation with rapid infusion of large volumes of cold intravenous fluid is discouraged,
      due to lack of evidence to improve neurological outcome or mortality. Rewarming strategies
      (e.g. passive or active rewarming) are open depending on institutional standards. Sedation,
      drug-induced paralysis during mechanical ventilation, the use of cardiovascular drugs,
      support devices or any other intensive care therapy is left at the criteria of the treating
      physicians.

      Data collection and spectral analysis of VF tracings:

      All data, either from the prospective or the retrospective cohort, will be entered in an
      electronic Case Report Form (eCRF) by individual investigators at each center. Demographic
      and clinical variables will be obtained from all available medical records and by in-person
      interview, if possible. Clinical variables and biomarkers as neuron-specific enolase (highest
      recorded value), electroencephalogram, somatosensory evoked potentials (N20 component with
      median nerve stimulation) and brain imaging, are encouraging to be collected in the
      prospective cohort, if available. VF recordings prior to the first DC shock will be scanned
      using commercial desktop scanners (600 dots per inch) and uploaded to the eCRF. Data
      consistency and quality will be weekly monitored by one of the investigators (M.M.B).

      Stored ECG traces in a codified digital format will be processed as reported elsewhere.
      Briefly, digitization will be performed using a supervised semi-automatic approach based on
      region of interest selection, histogram thresholding and intensity transformations. Up to 5-s
      long segments are extracted after segmentation and signal codification from artifact-free VF
      tracings. Signals are band-pass filtered between 1.5 and 40 Hz. Two independent investigators
      will visually inspect the extraction quality (J.G.Q and M.M.B). Averaged power spectral
      density will be obtained at each frequency using the non-parametric Welch method for using
      fast Fourier transform and normalized to the peak power in the 1.5-10 Hz band for each
      patient. Dominant frequency (DF), the relative power between high and low frequency bands
      (cut-off: 3.9 Hz) (HL-PSDR), and the relative number of spectral peaks above and below the
      3.9 Hz threshold with power above 40% the frequency with the highest power (rHL-pKR), along
      with the number of DC shocks before ROSC, will be the variables used to obtain a
      model-derived risk score for outcome prediction. Investigators blinded to clinical outcome
      will perform all data analysis, extraction and quantification using custom-made scripts of
      MATLAB software (V. 2016b, The Mathworks). The results of such analysis will not be disclosed
      to the treating physicians and site investigators, not to interfere in standard care,
      decision-making and outcome assessment.

      Outcome assessment:

      The primary clinical outcome will be FNP during hospitalization. All patients will be
      classified using the Pittsburgh Cerebral Performance Categories (CPC) outcome categorization
      of brain injury, according to current standards of care for SCD assessment. Patients will be
      considered to have FNP if they score 1 or 2 in the CPC scale (good performance and moderate
      disability, respectively). CPCs 3, 4 and 5 (severe disability, vegetative state and brain
      death, respectively) will be considered as a non-FNP. In the prospective cohort, neurological
      outcome will also be determined using the mini-mental state examination (MMSE). The threshold
      value in MMSE for normal cognitive function is 24/30, which will be used as complementary
      neurological evaluation.

      In the prospective cohort, neurological outcome will be established before hospital
      discharge. In the retrospective cohort, the assessment will be done using medical records and
      in-person interviews with the patient or relatives. During follow-up, neurological outcome
      will be prospectively assessed by in-person interview in all survivors. Patients within the
      prospective cohort will be evaluated 6 months after hospitalization. In the retrospective
      cohort, the follow-up will take place at the moment of patient enrolment or contact with
      patient´s relatives, in case of decease.

      The secondary clinical outcomes will be survival to hospital discharge, and FNP and survival
      at follow-up. The control group will be used to test the predictive model against a cohort of
      patients with known FNP, in which the model should also properly predict FNP.

      Sample size and study timeline:

      The sample size was estimated using the diagnostic performance obtained from the pivotal
      study. The spectral-based four-variable model using DF, HL-PkR , HL-PSDR, and the number of
      shocks delivered before ROSC, showed a diagnostic sensitivity of 0.94. Looking for a 95%
      confidence interval and 5% precision, and assuming that 61% patients will show FNP according
      to our previous research, a total 143 individuals (both prospective and retrospective
      cohorts) suitable for analysis must be included.

      It is estimated that each of the aforementioned centers receives ~60 SCD per year, but only
      around one fourth of them will fulfill the inclusion criteria, namely VF as first documented
      rhythm and ECG tracing availability. Considering the inclusion of 2 more centers (currently
      undertaking protocol evaluation), the incidence of annual new cases per hospital and
      retrospective cases from previous years, the sample size will be achieved in a time frame of
      30 months. The latter includes the follow-up period for the last group of patients who will
      be enrolled in the study. As of the writing of this manuscript, the starting center (Hospital
      Clínico San Carlos) has already evaluated 60 patients, of who 21 met the inclusion criteria
      and are enrolled in the trial.

      Statistical analysis:

      Patients from the study group (prospective and retrospective) will be categorized according
      to the risk score obtained from the multivariate spectral-based model. More specifically,
      patients will be categorized within four subsets for FNP as follows: very high and high
      probability of FNP (expected FNP), low and very low probability of FNP (expected non-FNP).
      Model-derived categorization will be compared with clinical outcomes to assess model
      sensitivity, specificity and accuracy during hospitalization and follow-up.

      In order to assess the clinical relevance of the spectral-based model the investigators will
      compare its performance and overall accuracy with a model built using the most associated and
      clinically relevant variables (e.g. highest recorded value of neuron-specific enolase,
      somatosensory evoked potentials) to the primary outcome. To develop a clinical-based
      predictive model, each of the clinical variables will undergo univariate analysis to evaluate
      its association with in-hospital FNP.

      Normal distribution of variables will be assessed with the Shapiro-Wilk test. Statistical
      significance will be assessed by the parametric Student's t-test or the non-parametric
      Mann-Whitney test, as appropriate. If necessary, the investigators will use Bonferroni
      correction for multiple comparisons. Categorical variables and percentile comparisons will be
      performed using a Chi-squared test or the Fisher's exact test, as appropriate. Two-sided
      p<0.05 will be considered statistically significant. Variables with statistically significant
      differences and clinically relevant variables will be regressed out against the in-hospital
      FNP by using a stepwise backwards multivariate logistic regression approach. The
      clinical-based model will be developed to predict FNP with the highest sensitivity and
      specificity achievable by using the minimum number of variables that guarantees the best
      performance and predictive accuracy.
    
  