
    
      It has been suggested that treatment of the hips should improve outcomes in patients with
      mechanical low back pain. This has yet to be studied in a randomized controlled fashion or in
      a conservative venue. For this study, there will be two groups of patients with low back pain
      (by randomization). For inclusion into the randomized clinical trial, patients will need to
      be 18 years of age or older with mechanically producible LBP. They will require a minimum
      Modified Oswestry Disability Index score of 20% and a baseline pain score of >2.0/10 on the
      numeric analog scale for pain, and a within session change (improvement during the visit) in
      pain and/or range of motion during the assessment phase of the clinical examination. This
      finding has been advocated as an effective mechanism to determine if a patient is a candidate
      for manual therapy. Exclusion criteria will include the presence of any red flags (i.e.,
      tumor, metabolic diseases, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoporosis, prolonged history of steroid
      use, etc.), or signs consistent with nerve root compression (reproduction of low back or leg
      pain with straight leg raise at less than 45°, muscle weakness involving a major muscle group
      of the lower extremity, diminished lower extremity muscle stretch reflex, or diminished or
      absent sensation to pinprick in any lower extremity dermatome). Other exclusion criteria
      include prior surgery to the lumbar spine and current pregnancy. Both groups will receive a
      pragmatic treatment approach by physical therapists for low back pain. One group will also
      receive a prescriptive treatment approach for both hips. The investigators will track the
      outcomes of disability (Oswestry), Pain (Numeric pain rating scale), and recovery at
      baseline, 2 weeks, and discharge. Our aims are to determine if differences in groups exist,
      with our primary outcome measure of ODI. The investigators feel that the additional of a
      standardized exercise program and stretching for the hips will improve outcomes in patients
      with mechanical low back pain.
    
  