
    
      In recent years, Endocrinologist and Diabetologists have found that intestine might serve as
      a novel target for treating diabetes or other metabolic diseases. Incretins are well-known
      hormones secreted from intestine, such as CCK（Cholecystokinin), Serotonin, GIP(gastric
      inhibitory polypeptide) and GLP-1(glucagon like peptide 1), to help control wholesome
      metabolic status through their effects on pancreatic islet cells, hypothalamus neurons and
      gastrointestinal movement. Gut microbiome has been recently revealed exerting major effect on
      host's immune system and metabolic balance with its various metabolites and components.

      α-glucosidase inhibitors have been used as anti-diabetes medicine for dozens of years. They
      are known to be effective by delaying glucose absorption in small intestine. Questions then
      have been arisen that if delaying glucose absorption changes the intestinal bacteria flora
      component by increasing bacteria fed on glucose, or that if it influences incretin secretion,
      since most glucose sensitive L cell (secreting GLP-1) were located in the distal part of
      small intestine and colon, and that if the hypoglycemia effect of α-glucosidase inhibitors
      might be mediated by either intestinal flora or incretins.

      To address the questions above and to find the new targets from the intestine to treat
      diabetes, we therefore design this study, taking advantage of clinical trial and basic
      biomedical studies to find if α-glucosidase inhibitor- Acarbose (Bayer, Corp.) could change
      the profile of intestinal incretins and microbiome.

      Study design:

        1. Multi-center, open label, randomized, positive control cohort.

        2. 110 cases of newly-diagnosed Type-2 Diabetes patients from five clinic centers from
           Shanghai, China Mainland.

        3. All patients will sign the consent and screened by the criteria before enrolled by this
           study.

        4. 55 cases of Type 2 Diabetes will be assigned to glucobay treatment and another 55 will
           take glipizide.

        5. 50 healthy volunteers for baseline data comparison.

        6. The duration of whole study will be 3 month.

             1. Before treatment, all the patients will be required to have OGTT(oral glucose
                tolerant test) and IRT(insulin release test) test and give their feces. Standard
                meals will be required one day before the feces are collected.

             2. In 3 months, all patients will take the medicine and their glucose will be
                monitored closely by visiting outpatient office once a month.

             3. In the end of the study, patients will be required to receive OGTT and IRT and give
                their feces again.

        7. Serum and feces will be stored at -80℃ for further biomarkers investigation and
           microbiome sequencing.

        8. After 3 months intervention, patients will be observed for another 3 month with access
           to routine clinic visiting.
    
  