
    
      Composite resin materials are widely used in the dental clinic for replacement of hard
      tissues. Although the mechanical properties and wear resistance of these materials have been
      improved substantially, their antibacterial properties are still limited. These resin-based
      materials accumulate more dental plaque than other restorative materials both in vitro, and
      in vivo, which may result in secondary caries. A number of reports described experiments in
      which composite resins were impregnated with antibacterial agents such as antibiotics, silver
      ions, iodine and quaternary ammonium compounds, and gradually released them. However, release
      of antibacterial agents into the surrounding milieu at various releasing rates had several
      disadvantages: a decrease in the mechanical properties of the carrier material over time,
      short-term effectiveness, and possible toxicity if the release is not properly controlled. As
      compared with conventional antibacterial agents of low molecular weight, the advantage of
      polymeric antibacterial agents is that they are nonvolatile, chemically stable, can be
      chemically bound within the polymer carrier via active groups for improved integration in the
      composite, and are difficult to penetrate through the skin. It has been reported that
      polycations exhibit antibacterial properties, i.e. interact with and disrupt bacterial cell
      membranes. A number of polymers with antibacterial properties were developed for this
      purpose, including soluble and insoluble pyridinium-type polymers involved in surface
      coating. Several reports have described incorporation of a methacryloyloxydodecylpydidinium
      bromide (MDPB) monomer in composite resins that showed no release of the incorporated monomer
      but still exhibited antibacterial properties. The objective of this study is to evaluate
      clinically the safety and efficacy of alkylated polyethylenimine (PEI) nanoparticles in
      composite resin restorative materials . In an in vitro study, addition of a small percent (1%
      w/w) of nanoparticles did not affect significantly the flexural strength of the commercial
      materials. The mechanical properties of the new composites were close to those of the
      original composite, but exerted a strong antibacterial activity upon contact that lasted for
      at least six months.

      methods:alkylated polyethylenimine (PEI) nanoparticles added (1% w/w)to hybrid composite
      resin disks embedded in a palatal removable appliance.The disks would be in close contact
      with the palate in order to check for contact mucosities. disks on the side facing the Tongue
      would be evaluated for their antibacterial potency with confocal laser scanning microscopy.
    
  