
    
      STAGE 1 - BASELINE DATA COLLECTION:

        -  Potential participants will be identified at outreach clinics in the Mzimba, Rumphi, and
           Nkhata Bay Districts for participation in the study.

        -  Potential participants will take the Washington Group Extended Set Questions on
           Disability (WGES) and those that meet a baseline level of disability/mobility impairment
           - validated by physiotherapist opinion - are invited to participate in the study.

        -  100 or more participants (50+ per group) who fulfill the inclusion criteria will be
           selected for participation.

        -  Participants will complete a Demographic Survey to determine their age, gender, health
           barriers, social determinants of health etc.

        -  Participants will complete the Global Physical Activity Questionnaire (GPAQ) to
           determine a baseline of their physical activity.

        -  Participants will complete the PROMIS Satisfaction with Participation in Social Roles -
           Short Form 8a (SPSR) and General Life Satisfaction (Ages 18+) - Fixed Form A (GLS)
           questionnaires to determine a baseline of their overall life satisfaction.

        -  Treatment groups will be randomized through the use of randomization envelopes.

        -  Selected devices, as determined in the randomization process, will be distributed to
           participants in each treatment group.

        -  The addresses/villages of residences of selected participants will be recorded and
           marked manually on a detailed satellite map. A list of study participants will be
           provided to the local Health Surveillance Assistant (HSA) for record keeping and
           monitoring purposes. (HSAs have intimate knowledge of the communities they serve and
           will be useful partners to help find participants in the follow-up stages of the trial.)

      STAGE 2 - ONE-YEAR FOLLOW-UP DATA COLLECTION:

        -  Participants will be located using the assistance of the local HSA, address records, and
           map markings from Stage 1.

        -  Participants will complete follow-up SPSR, GLS, WGES and GPAQ questionnaires, and will
           complete the Crutch Satisfaction Survey.

        -  Reports of missing and damaged crutches will be taken.

      STAGE 3 - DATA ANALYSIS:

      The two study groups will be compared using the following metrics:

        -  Stratified by level of disability based on Washington Group Extended Set Questions on
           Disability

        -  Changes in GLS and SPSR scores between baseline and follow-up data collection will be
           used to determine changes in participants' overall life satisfaction.

        -  Changes in Global Physical Activity Questionnaire scores between baseline and follow-up
           data collection will be used to determine changes in participants' mobility impairments
           and day-to-day activity levels.

        -  Scores from the Crutch Satisfaction Survey will be used determine participants'
           subjective experiences with their respective mobility devices.
    
  