
    
      Background: The Family Integrated Care (FICare) model is a modern approach that supports the
      participation of parents (excluding ventilation, monitor adjustments, vascular fluid and drug
      administration) developed in collaboration between parents and healthcare professionals,
      which is carried out gradually in the NICU (1). Parents are informed about the general
      development of the baby, brain and sensory development, motor and behavior development, care
      of the premature. In addition, parents are informed about what they can do about general body
      cleaning and care, especially in touch, attachment, skin-to-skin contact, breastfeeding and
      increased breast milk and diaper change (2).FICare; It is a care model with a 25% increase in
      the weight gain of premature babies, a 80% increase in breastfeeding rate, a 25% decrease in
      parental stress, a significant decrease in critical incident reports such as hospital
      infection and sudden infant death (3). The care that these babies receive in their first
      hours, days, weeks and months is vital to determine their future health and long-term
      outcomes. Evidence suggests that if parents are supported and encouraged to take care of
      their babies while in hospital, this will have better outcomes for both the baby and their
      family. FICare support not only reduces the length of hospital stay of parents, but also
      reduces the rate of re-hospitalization, and strengthens the bond between parents and babies.
      It helps parents feel safer when taking care of their babies, both in the hospital and at
      home (4).

      A standard care model for discharge preparation is not applied to parents who have a
      premature baby in their NICU. Institutions make the decision to discharge with the opinions
      of the doctor and nurse working in the unit. With the FICare model, it is thought that
      parents will be prepared for discharge, bonding between parents and babies, fulfilling their
      parental roles, supporting babies' breastfeeding, reducing hospital stay, enhancing
      parental-employee communication, and increasing the quality of care services..

      Method: This research is a randomized controlled experimental study. The data of the research
      will be carried out between 01.08.2020-01.05.2021 with the parents of the premature babies in
      accordance with the inclusion criteria in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit of the Ministry of
      Health University Education and Research Hospital. The sample of the study was calculated in
      accordance with the intervention group selection criteria and by performing power analysis.
      Power analysis was performed using G * Power (v3.1.7) program in order to determine sample
      size. The effect range value was taken as 0.70 as the method used in cases where it is
      unknown how many units difference is significant between the groups. In cases where Type 1
      error probability (α) was 0.05 (at a confidence level of 95%), at a power level of 80% and
      the effect range was 0.70, the study was planned with a total of 68 mothers, including 34
      mothers women for each group. It will be ensured that the mothers to be assigned to the study
      and control groups show similarity in terms of two factors (age, education level). People
      will be assigned to groups with simple random sampling. The sample of the study will randomly
      allocated into two groups: the FICare model will be applied to the intervention group, and
      the other group, which was the control group, will be followed in the routine maintenance of
      the service. Since the Family Integrated Care model will be given by researchers and baby
      nurses trained in this subject, single blind (researchers are not blind) randomization will
      be provided. The statistician was also blinded for the data analysis purpose. In the data
      collection tools, investigators would use the "Parental Identification Information Form"
      containing the sociodemographic characteristics of the family, the "Newborn Identification
      Information Form containing the characteristic features of the babies" and the
      readiness-ready scales prepared for mother and father, with validity and reliability studies.

      FICare trainings will be given to the parents in the study group, and the parents will
      experience their care (sub-care, skin care, bath etc.) applications on the model and then on
      their babies.

      There will be no intervention to the control group and the routine care and discharge process
      of the clinic will be applied. The questionnaire will be applied to both groups in the first
      24 hours of the baby's hospitalization, and the same questionnaire will be applied 24 hours
      before the discharge plan. The results of the two surveys will be compared.

      Statistical Analysis in Data Evaluation will be done using Statistical Package for the Social
      Sciences (SPSS) software. For normality, the Kolmogorov-Smirnov (K-S) test will be used. In
      order to determine whether there are differences in dependent variables according to
      independent variables, independent group t-test will be used if the distribution is normal,
      and if the distribution is not in normal percentages, Mann Whitney-U test will be used.
      Results will be evaluated at 95% confidence interval and significance at p <0.05 level
    
  