
    
      Lung cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer-related death in Taiwan. Early diagnosis
      of lung cancer may improve cancer survival. Low-dose computed tomography (LDCT) was thought
      to be the best screening tool for lung cancer. However, there is growing concerns about
      radiation exposure, high cost, and high rate of false-positive screening result.
      Epidemiologic studies from western countries showed that cigarette smoking is the major cause
      of lung cancer, and other risk factors may include age, environmental pollution, occupational
      exposures (included of radon exposure), gender, race, and pre-existing lung diseases.
      Adenocarcinoma is the major type of lung cancer in Taiwan and is less attributable to
      smoking. The investigators need a different risk prediction model adapted to the
      investigators country.

      National Taiwan University Hospital Chu-Tung Branch initiated the lung cancer screening by
      LDCT since June 2015. Many people can get the LDCT screening with affordable price with the
      subsidy from enterprise donation. The purpose of this study is observing those participants
      with 2-year follow-up. Furthermore, those data may connect with another study of "Low dose
      computed tomography screening study in nonsmoker with risk factors for lung cancer in Taiwan"
      （Non-smoker study）which is implemented in other hospitals in Taiwan.

      Aim 1: Being the control group of the non-smoker study, the investigators collect the
      relevant information from participants to validate and modify their risk assessment model.
      Applying the same the questionnaires of the non-smoker study and results of LDCT screening in
      different population. All data could provide extra information to improve their risk
      prediction model for predicting lung cancer in non-smokers in Taiwan.

      Aim 2: To establish the local epidemiological data for lung pathology. From the baseline
      data, screening results of LDCT, telephone follow up on questionable lesions, collection of
      patient's medical records, and linkage to National Health Insurance Database, the
      investigators will be able to establish local epidemiology data on lung pathology as well as
      information on screening accuracy of LDCT.

      Aim 3: To examine the psychosocial impacts and health behaviors of the participants receiving
      LDCT. Questionnaire surveys provide the understanding of anxiety and life quality at several
      time points since LDCT screening. The study was to investigate whether the screening results
      were associated with health behaviors change, such as smoking, drinking, and exercise.

      With low enrollment rate in first year, we decided to extend the enrollment period. But we
      only observed those participants for one year, not 2 year. So far we carry on the analysis
      and the discussion.

      Keywords: Lung cancer, Low dose computed tomography, screening, health behavior,
      psychological factors.
    
  