
    
      Renal transplantation is the most effective form of treatment for end-stage renal failure. It
      doubles long-term survival and has major socioeconomic and health benefits compared to
      patients who remain on dialysis. Graft survival in the UK is 90% at one year and greater than
      75% at 5 years [UKTransplant, 2004], with better survival of grafts from living donors
      compared with deceased. However, by 15 years post-transplantation, over 50% of recipients who
      are still alive have returned to dialysis. Indeed, premature allograft failure is now one of
      the leading causes of end stage renal disease. As short-term outcomes of renal
      transplantation continue to improve, increasing attention is being paid to this late
      attrition of renal allografts.

      It is recognised that calcineurin inhibitor (CNI) nephrotoxicity is a major factor in late
      renal allograft failure and dysfunction. In fact, withdrawal of CNI from patients with
      deteriorating graft function may improve graft function. However, there is abundant evidence
      that histological renal allograft damage may progress even in the absence of changes in renal
      function - i.e. declining renal function is a late marker of renal damage, and therefore
      institution of therapies (including CNI minimisation) to slow this process may be "too
      little, too late".

      CNI minimisation may be optimised by three major routes. Firstly, by minimising the CNI
      beyond 12 months post transplantation when the risk of acute rejection is at its greatest.
      Secondly, by performing a renal biopsy in patients prior to CNI minimisation and avoiding CNI
      minimisation in patients with inflammation on the biopsy. Finally, converting azathioprine to
      mycophenolate prior to CNI minimisation should have a renoprotective effect.

      The type of CNI we will investigate is cyclosporine.

      Patients who fulfill the study entry criteria will require a renal allograft biopsy prior to
      randomisation to exclude acute rejection, recurrent disease or de novo glomerulonephritis.
      Those patients with an acceptable biopsy will proceed to randomisation on a 1:1 basis into 2
      groups:

      Group 1: CNI [Cyclosporine] minimisation; Group 2: CNI [Cyclosporine] withdrawal.

      At this point participants will undergo assessment of the primary and secondary outcome
      measures. The treatment period comprises three stages:

      Firstly, a 2 week period during which the patient will be stabilised on mycophenolate sodium
      720mg twice daily (in place of azathioprine);

      Secondly, a 3 month period during which the CNI [Cyclosporine} will be either targeted to a
      specified low blood level of 50-100ng/ml, or withdrawn completely (depending on
      randomisation);

      Thirdly, a 12 month maintenance period on the new immunosuppression regimen.

      During the first two stages, patients will be reviewed every 2 weeks. This 2-weekly follow-up
      will continue for the first two months of the third stage of the study, and then visits will
      be reduced to monthly. At these visits routine blood and urine analysis will be performed as
      per routine clinical practice.

      At the end of the third stage of the study (i.e. 16 months after randomisation) the
      participants will undergo the second assessment of the primary and secondary outcome
      measures. This will signify study end for the individual study participant.
    
  