
    
      Background: Disturbances in bodily wellbeing represent one key aspect of psychosocial
      impairments related to cancer. Therefore, interventions to improve bodily wellbeing in
      post-treatment cancer patients are important.

      Objectives: This project aims at two goals:

        1. Investigators want to evaluate whether bodily disturbances in post-treatment cancer
           patients can be influenced positively by group BPT (Non-randomized evaluation of a
           weekly group BPT using a waiting-period comparator).

        2. In addition the efficacy of intermittent smartphone-triggered bodily interventions is
           assessed with a nested RCT to evaluate short-term efficacy of smartphone-triggered
           bodily interventions.

      Study design: The project follows the outline of a non-randomized evaluation of a weekly
      group BPT using a waiting-period comparator, with a nested randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      to evaluate the short-term efficacy of smartphone-triggered bodily interventions.

      Study flow:

        -  Participants will first undergo a waiting period (duration at least 6 weeks) followed by
           the group BPT (6 weekly sessions, 90 minutes each).

        -  During the group BPT, either a smartphone-triggered bodily intervention or a
           smartphone-triggered control intervention will be provided at random (randomization on a
           daily basis) over a period of 5 consecutive weeks on 6 days per week. This will result
           in 15 smartphone-triggered bodily interventions and 15 smartphone-triggered control
           interventions, which each patient will undergo.

      Measurement points: Patients will be surveyed at three points in time (initial consultation,
      pre- and post-intervention). Standardized questionnaires will be used to measure patients'
      body disturbances, body image, body mindfulness, physical complaints, quality of life,
      vitality, mental health, anxiety and depression and to explore the effects of BPT on bodily
      disturbances and body image in post-treatment cancer patients.
    
  