
    
      Patients with refractory hematologic malignancies, including those who develop recurrent
      disease after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation, have a dismal prognosis.
      Historically, both regimen-related mortality and disease recurrence have been significant
      causes of treatment failure in this heavily pre-treated patient population. Our institution
      has utilized mismatched family member (haploidentical) donors for these patients for a number
      of years for the following reasons: (1) Only 30% of patients have matched related donors
      available; (2) transplantation can be performed more rapidly since the time to unrelated
      donor transplantation averages 3 to 4 months; (3) no other curative treatment options are
      available. These therapeutic interventions have been largely successful given the dismal
      prognosis in this patient group; however disease recurrence remains the most significant
      cause of treatment failure. To provide maximum benefit for this challenging population, the
      goals of a therapeutic transplant protocol should include: (1) a conditioning regimen that is
      well tolerated, even in a heavily pre-treated population; but it should also provide
      substantial antileukemia effects, and (2) should establish rapid immune recovery such that
      the patient may benefit from graft versus leukemia effect and early protection from life
      threatening infections while also limiting dangerous and counter-productive graft versus host
      disease.

      The primary aim of this protocol will be to evaluate if the one-year survival is
      significantly improved in the group of patients receiving T-cell replete haploidentical donor
      HCT with a novel clofarabine, cytarabine, busulfan, plerixafor, cyclophosphamide, and ATG
      based reduced intensity conditioning regimen whose hematologic malignancy has relapsed or is
      refractory after prior allogeneic transplant. Toxicity will be evaluated by the rate of
      transplant related mortality and the rates of moderate and severe graft versus host disease
      at day 100. The investigators will also describe event-free, and disease-free survival at one
      year, as well as the rates of hematopoietic recovery and donor engraftment. Additionally, the
      investigators will study comprehensively immune reconstitution following T-cell replete
      haploidentical transplantation.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

        -  Evaluate if the one-year survival is significantly improved in a group of children
           receiving a therapeutic regimen for high-risk hematologic malignancy that is relapsed or
           refractory despite previous allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) using a
           novel reduced intensity conditioning and T-cell replete haploidentical donor
           hematopoietic stem cell plus NK cell transplantation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  Estimate the incidence of malignant relapse, event-free survival, and disease free
           survival (DFS) at one-year post-transplantation.

        -  Estimate incidence and severity of acute and chronic (GVHD).

        -  Estimate the rate of transplant related mortality (TRM) in the first 100 days after
           transplantation.
    
  