
    
      Objective: The aim of this study is to determine effect of BCC on micronutrients intake and
      growth of children age 6-59 month old in Arsi Zone highland, Oromiya, Ethiopia.

      Chapter 1 knowledge and attitude about the prevention of iodine deficiency disorders among
      women and quantification of iodine found in table salt. This chapter presents the
      investigation of iodine content in table salts samples obtained from households and
      headquarters markets and the women's understanding and approach status about iodine
      deficiency disorders.

      Chapter 2 Median urinary iodine concentration and associated factors among children age 6 to
      59 months; It summarizes the median level of iodide found in children's urine and determined
      significant associated factors.

      Chapter 3 hemoglobin level and associated factors among children age 6 to 59 months. It
      describes predictors of knowledge and attitude about the prevention of iron deficiency anemia
      among women and it presents the hemoglobin threshold of children and determines factors.

      Chapter 4 effect of NBC on iodised salt utilization and median urine iodine concentration
      among the growth of children. This chapter describes the impact of NBC intervention on
      iodised salt utilization in the HH, compaction of the endine - baseline difference of median
      urine concentration, and its significant association with the growth of children.

      Chapter 5 effect of NBC on prevent anemia and hemoglobin concentration among the growth of
      children. This chapter describes the impact of NBC on iron-rich dietary intake in the HH.
      Also, the chapter described the comparition of endine - baseline mean differences of
      hemoglobin concentration, and factors associated with the growth of children.

      Chapter 6 micronutrient concentration effects on growth defect among children; this chapter
      describes the deference endline - baseline difference of the mean differences in iron and
      iodine and concentration association with linear growth of children.

      Methods: Community based, clustered randomized controlled trial will be carried out.

      Study sample size: The sample size was determined using Gpower 3.0 software assuming a power
      of 95%, precision of 5%, and an effect size of 0.25 giving 834. Additionally, we considered
      the loss of study participants due to an increase in age of children above 59 months for the
      given intervention period was 11% =95. Where the design effect had 10% =83 and a final the
      estimated sample size was 1012.

      Multistage sampling method was applied to select 16 kebeles [lower administration Units]
      randomly and equally assigned into intervention and control clusters using computer ENA 2011
      version software. Further, systematic random sampling will be used to select
      mothers/caregivers with their children from randomly assigned kebeles Baseline data will be
      collected from recruited mothers and from their pair children. Questionnaire on behaviours on
      dietary intake of children and micronutrients utilization, and anthropometric data will be
      collected; Households' table salt samples will be collected and analyzed with a titration
      biomarker in Ethiopian Public health institute food and nutrition laboratory (EPI). Urine
      samples for baseline will be collected and transported to EPI and analyzed to determine urine
      iodine Concentration (UIC) and this will be applicable at the end line of nutrition behavior
      change intervention. Blood samples will be collected to determine hemoglobin level before
      after nutrition behavior change intervention implementation.

      Data processing and analysis: Anthropometric and other data were entered into EpiData 3.0
      version software and transferred and analyzed using the Statistical Package for Social
      Science statistical software for Windows, version 21, Anthropometric data will be exported to
      Emergency Nutrition Assessment [ENA] software to generate height for age Z-score (HAZ) and
      weight for height z-score [WHZ]. HAZ ≥ -2 Z-score will be categorized as normal growth status
      and HFA < -2 z-score will be indicated as a growth defect. According to WHO classification, >
      40% is very high and 30 to 39% is high and 20 to 29 medium and < 20% is low (22). Also,
      weight for height Z score (WHZ) was generated to determine wasting among children (16, 17).
      Anthropometric results of children's growth at baseline and end-line surveys were compared
      with the WHO 2005 growth standard using ENA software.

      Linear regression was used to determine the effect of iron and iodine concentration on the
      linear growth of children. Independent sample t test will be used to determine mean
      differences between end-line-baseline in micronutrient concentrations (iodine and iron) and
      will be compared between intervention and control groups and significance will be determined
      with Standard Error (P<0.05) . Finally, independent variables that will have P <0.25 in
      samples t-test will be transferred to Generalized Estimating Equations [GEE] for further
      analysis and the results presented using Beta coefficients (β) and 95% confidence intervals.
    
  