
    
      The World Health Organization estimates at least 3% of the world's population is infected
      with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV), and up to one third of all HIV infected people are
      coinfected with HCV. HCV can damage the liver cells and cause liver diseases such as
      cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. People infected with HCV can also suffer from
      neurocognitive deficits, including problems with information processing, slowing of muscular
      processes related to thinking, and difficulty focusing on complex things. These
      neurocognitive deficits are similar to those found in HIV infected individuals, and previous
      research indicates that people infected with both HIV and HCV have greater overall cognitive
      impairments. This study aims to determine the impact of anti-HCV treatment on neurocognitive,
      neuropsychiatric, and neuroimaging factors in people infected with HCV and people coinfected
      with both HCV and HIV. The study also aims to measure whether possible neurocognitive
      improvements from anti-HCV treatment are related to a physical health outcome, measured as a
      sustained virologic response, and whether adherence to the medication schedule laid out for
      the participants influences possible positive effects on either neurocognitive or physical
      health.

      Two kinds of participants will be recruited for this study: those infected with HCV and those
      infected with both HCV and HIV. These two groups will be compared to determine how comorbid
      HCV and HIV infection affects treatment outcomes. The treatment specified for HCV is
      pegylated interferon alfa and ribavirin (PEG-IFN/RBV), considered standard care for patients
      with chronic HCV. Participants will continue to see their doctors as regularly scheduled, and
      any other prescribed medications or advice concerning HCV treatment will be noted by
      researchers. All participants will be tested at baseline, after 12 weeks of treatment, and 12
      weeks after the completion of treatment. A subset from each group of participants will
      undergo additional neuroimaging tests. Participation in this study will last for varied
      amounts of time depending on the recommended treatments for HCV. Based on each virus'
      genotype and rapid virologic response, the treatment period for HCV may last 24 or 48 weeks,
      with further extensions of 12 to 24 weeks in some cases.

      During the three testing sessions, each lasting 5 hours, participants' health, cognitive
      functioning, and medication adherence will be measured. Testing will include self-report
      measures, intelligence tests, tasks designed to assess cognitive functioning, and motor
      functioning tasks. Urine tests screening for narcotics will also be collected. In addition to
      self-report measures, caps to pill bottles storing HCV medication will automatically record
      every time the cap is removed to measure adherence to the medication schedule.
    
  