
    
      This is a prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled study randomizing patients with acute
      intermediate-risk PE who meet enrollment criteria in a 2:1 manner into intervention (TNK)
      versus placebo arms, respectively. There will be up to 6 sites. After 18 patients are
      enrolled, a safety assessment will be performed by an independent Data and Safety Monitoring
      Board, and if a safety issue arises, it will be considered and discussed among the
      investigators. The planned sample size is 45 patients (30 treatment and 15 control). Subjects
      will be assessed daily while hospitalized. Subjects discharged from the hospital will be
      asked to attend study visits at Days 14 and 30 (telephone / telemedicine, clinic or inpatient
      ward).

      The overall objective of the study is to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of IV
      bolus tenecteplase (TNK) and therapeutic anticoagulation compared with placebo and
      therapeutic anticoagulation in hospitalized adults diagnosed with COVID-19 infection and
      acute intermediate-risk PE.

      Written informed consent for participation in the study must be obtained before performing
      any study-related procedures (including screening evaluations). Informed Consent Forms for
      enrolled patients and for patients who are not subsequently enrolled will be maintained at
      the study site.

      After informed consent is obtained, screening assessment will be completed to confirm a
      patient's eligibility for participation in the study. The screening visit will include
      medical history, physical exam and vital signs. Standard of care (SOC). labs will be
      reviewed. These may include INR, aPTT, PT (if patient is currently taking an anticoagulant),
      CBC with diff, comprehensive chemistry panel, D-dimer and Ferritin. The results of the
      SARS-CoV-2 will be documented. If subject is in child-bearing age and a pregnancy test was
      not done for SOC, a urine pregnancy test will be performed. Electrocadiogram and CTA will be
      reviewed.

      If the patient is determined to be eligible, the study site will obtain the patient's medical
      record number/unique patient identification number, and treatment assignment to either
      interventional (TNK) or placebo will be randomly determined. Patients will be allocated to
      the interventional versus placebo arms in a 2:1 manner as per a computer-generated
      randomization schedule using permuted blocks of random sizes. The block sizes will not be
      disclosed to ensure concealment. A total of 30 TNK subjects versus 15 placebo controls will
      be enrolled.

      Before the study drug/placebo is administered, the following labs will be drawn CBC with
      diff, comprehensive metabolic panel, CRP, Ferritin, IL-6, Fibrinogen, D-dimer, PT/PTT, LDH,
      lactate, troponin, creatinine kinase, and Thromboelastography (TEG). Vital signs and
      echocardiogram will be obtained. Shock Index will be calculated, then the infusion will
      begin.

      Within 10 minutes (+ 5min) of infusion, a second TEG will be collected. At 6 hours after the
      infusion, a second Shock Index will be calculated. At 24+/- 6 hours after the bolus, a
      physical exam will be performed, vital signs will be collected, an echocardiogram will be
      performed and D-dimer, CRP, IL-6, and Ferritin will be done. TEG will be an optional addition
      to the 24-hour labs. Daily safety labs will include CBC and chemistry panel. SOC lab results
      will be collected from the chart.

      Patients will have follow-up visits on Day 14 +/- 2 days and Day 30 +/- 4 days. These visits
      may take place via televisit or in person. Data will be collected on adverse events, vital
      signs and new concomitant medications. Safety labs will be obtained if visit occurs in
      person.
    
  