
    
      Hospital Acquired Infections (HAIs) surveillance at the local and national levels is an
      essential component of its control and prevention. The highest prevalence of HAIs is in
      Intensive care units (ICUs) and it is associated with considerable negative impact on the
      patients' outcome with a marked increase in the treatment costs. Therefore, early appropriate
      antibiotic therapy is a fundamental part of the treatment of these patients and it can be
      lifesaving. However, bacteria are becoming more resistant with alarming rates of antibiotic
      resistance worldwide.

      Antibiotic resistance is part of a broader threat called antimicrobial resistance (AMR) that
      includes resistance to medicines used to treat all types of infections, including those
      caused by bacteria, parasites, and fungi. ICUs are considered the epicenter of AMR
      development due to the severity of critical illness, patients are at high risk of becoming
      infected through the use of invasive devices (e.g. endotracheal tubes, vascular and urinary
      catheters), and the extensive antibiotic use with variable infection control practices.
      Consequently, management of infections in ICU is a growing challenge and ICU physicians
      should have regularly updated antibiograms in order to guide appropriate decisions about the
      choice of empirical antibiotics when waiting for culture results Antibiograms are reports
      that summarize the information of bacterial antibiotic susceptibility rates within a single
      facility over the duration of one calendar year. They are used in tracking bacterial
      resistance and guiding empirical antibiotics prescription within the facility.

      With the high burden of AMR and the ample variety between ICUs in the prevalence of
      micro-organisms and their antibiotic susceptibility, it is crucial that the selection of
      empirical antibiotic therapy should be guided by ICU-specific antibiogram. Also, the emerging
      trends in bacterial resistance at the local level should be monitored regularly.

      The aim of this study is to find out the prevalence and types of pathogens and to determine
      their antibiotic susceptibility and resistance in different ICUs of an Egyptian tertiary care
      hospital (Zagazig University Hospitals).
    
  