
    
      The life time risk of developing nephrolithiasis is about 10-15% in the western world, but
      can be as high as 20-25% in the middle east. Evidence suggests that the incidence and
      prevalence of kidney stones is increasing globally which represent a significant economic
      burden. Besides the lack of hydration, the most common metabolic abnormalities associated
      with calcium stones are hypercalciuria, hypocitraturia and hyperoxaluria. In addition, low
      urinary pH from consumption of non-dairy animal protein has been associated with reduced
      urinary citrate and increased uric acid stones which form a nidus for subsequent calcium
      oxalate precipitates.

      Dietary modification is the first line approach in the treatment of idiopathic calcium
      oxalate (CaOx) nephrolithiasis. General advice includes adequate hydration, avoiding
      oxalate-rich foods, and consumption of an adequate amount of calcium. Adequate hydration is
      an easy and effective way of preventing stones. Siener et al found in healthy men,
      consumption of mineral water rich in magnesium and bicarbonate resulted in favourable changes
      in urinary pH, magnesium and citrate excretion (inhibitors of CaOx stone formation). Our
      pilot study in 10 young and healthy surgical residents also revealed similar results after
      drinking bicarbonate rich mineral water for 1 week.

      In this study, the investigators compared the effect of drinking bicarbonate rich mineral
      water with plain water on urine biochemistry in a prospective randomized study in patients
      with known CaOx stones. The investigators hypothesize that the intake of bicarbonate rich
      mineral water, particularly at meal times, reduces stone risk via reduction in urinary
      oxalate through increased intestinal oxalate binding with dietary calcium. Other potential
      benefits of mineral water include increased urinary stone inhibitors like magnesium, citrate
      and alkalinisation of urine.
    
  