
    
      The exit site (ES) of any transcutaneous device, or foreign body, through the skin presents
      as the site most vulnerable in terms of device survival. With the large numbers of catheters
      in use in chronic dialysis today exit-site care for the prevention of infection is of
      critical importance in reducing morbidity and mortality. Pericatheter infection is the number
      one cause of catheter loss in peritoneal dialysis patients.

      It appears that honey is a compound with a multi-factorial mode of action. It is thought that
      with most honeys, the antimicrobial action stems from its high osmolality and the fact that
      it produces continuous non-cytotoxic levels of hydrogen peroxide due to enzymatic break down
      of the sugar. Honey also has a low pH which is not conducive for most bacterial growth but is
      good for wound healing.

      Observational reports have shown some success in healing infected wounds, ulcers, protection
      of plastic surgery transplants, burns, herpetic skin lesions, and atopic dermatitis. Honey
      has also been shown to have antimicrobial action against a broad spectrum of fungi and
      bacteria including antibiotic resistant bacteria. Another study reports that honey reduces
      inflammation, edema, and promotes angiogenesis.

      In an animal study of urethral injury it was shown that contrary to controls, there was a
      total healing with restoration of normal urethral epithelium and connective tissue with
      complete absence of fibrosis and inflammation. There was also no narrowing of the lumen as
      seen in the other study groups.

      A study of prophylactic exit-site care of hemodialysis catheters comparing honey and
      Mupirocin demonstrated that results with honey were comparable to that of Mupirocin. However,
      unlike Mupirocin, there has not been an emergence of honey-resistant bacterial strains which
      makes it an attractive alternative agent.
    
  