
    
      This patient population will be recruited from the cohort presenting to Women and Children's
      Hospital for percutaneous fixation of pediatric supracondylar humerus fractures. Participants
      will be asked to assent to take part in the study and their parents or guardian will be asked
      to sign an informed consent. Patients will be randomized to a treatment group that receives
      one dose of pre-operative antibiotics or one that does not. Patients randomized to
      preoperative antibiotics will receive 25mg/kg cefazolin IV up to 1g or clindamycin 10mg/kg up
      to 600mg IV in cases of documented allergy to cefazolin. Patients randomized to the
      no-antibiotic group will receive a saline placebo. The resident, anesthesiologist,
      circulating nurse and other operating room staff will be instructed to not reveal the
      patient's randomization to the attending physician so as not to interfere with blinding.

      The patient will then undergo closed reduction percutaneous pinning of supracondylar humerus
      fracture. Final AP and lateral fluoroscopic images in the case will be taken. The patient
      will be discharged from the hospital when pain is controlled with standard oral pain
      medications and all goals of inpatient management have been achieved. No patients will
      receive post-operative antibiotics regardless of randomization group as is the existing
      standard of care. Patients will be scheduled to follow up in 3-6 weeks depending on age. At
      that time the cast will be removed and AP and lateral radiographs will be used to assess
      healing. The pins will be removed in clinic and a soft dressing applied to the elbow region.

      In cases of excessive pain or cast loosening the patient may be seen in clinic earlier with
      radiographs and physical exam as indicated. If the attending physician determines that a deep
      or superficial infection is present at any time during the treatment period the patient will
      be categorized as infected. If no infection is detected at an earlier-scheduled appointment
      the patient will be recasted and instructed to follow up as previously scheduled.
    
  