
    
      The first phase of the clinical trial will involve subject recruitment and informed consent
      for genetic testing. Because the target population is patients with stable coronary artery
      disease, patients will be recruited from the outpatient setting during clinic visits or at
      the time of outpatient cardiac catheterization. It is expected that all potential candidates
      will be initially screened for eligibility by their treating cardiologist. If a patient
      agrees to undergo formal screening, they will be approached by a member of the research team
      and receive a written summary of the clinical trial protocol that will be reviewed with the
      trial personnel. The initial informed consent will allow the patient to undergo genetic
      testing and baseline VerifyNow assay, and will also give the trial personnel permission to
      contact the patient by phone if they are found to be eligible for the interventional phase of
      the trial. The goal for enrollment in the genetic testing portion of this clinical trial is
      200 patients.

      If the genetic testing results confirm that the patient is a candidate for the interventional
      study, they will be contacted and asked to make an outpatient appointment to initiate the
      interventional study protocol. The therapeutic portion of this study will be a randomized,
      unblinded cross-over comparison of two clopidogrel dosing strategies. It is anticipated that
      all eligible patients will have continued their previous chronic clopidogrel therapy with
      standard dosing of 75 mg/day. Because all patients will be receiving chronic clopidogrel at
      the initiation of the intervention protocol, steady state levels should be present in all
      patients. Dose dependent inhibition of platelet aggregation can be seen two hours after a
      single oral dose of clopidogrel. Repeated doses of 75mg daily produce steady state inhibition
      between day 3 and day 7 of administration.

      Patients who agree to participate in the therapeutic protocol, and who meet the eligibility
      criteria, will be randomized to an initial dosing strategy of 75 or 150 mg daily for a
      minimum of 30 days. At day 30 (+/- 5 days), patients will return for repeat platelet function
      testing. In a randomly selected subset of 15 patients, blood will be tested for the active
      metabolite of clopidogrel. At that time, there will be a crossover with those patients
      receiving 75 mg qD increased to 150 mg qD and those receiving 150 mg qD decreased to 75 mg
      qD. At day 60 (+/- 5 days), participants will again return for comprehensive platelet
      function testing and a second randomly selected group of patients will undergo testing for
      clopidogrel metabolites. Chronic clopidogrel dosing will be reduced to 75mg in all
      participants. Please see the attached schedule of events for a summary of the trial schedule.
    
  