
    
      The intraoperative assessment of analgesia remains problematic and no analgesia monitor is
      used in routine practice. Currently, this assessment is based on hemodynamic changes,
      although hypertension or tachycardia is neither sensitive nor specific. An overdose in
      opioids exposes to many side effects ranging from respiratory depression to phenomena of
      post-operative hyperalgesia. Conversely, an under-dosage in opioids is at the origin of a
      nociceptive stress whose neurovegetative and hormonal response can aggravate post-operative
      morbidity or promote the occurrence of implicit memorization.

      Nociceptive influx can not be detected directly. However, its ascent to the somesthetic area
      of the cerebral cortex leads to physiological reactions that can be evaluated. In particular,
      there are numerous anatomical and functional interactions between the autonomic nervous
      system and the nociceptive tract in the brain stem. These interactions are mainly at the
      level of the gray periqueducal substance, the rostral ventro-lateral bulbous region, the
      solitary tract nucleus and the hypothalamus. The nociceptive influx thus leads to changes in
      the activity of the ANS. The study of changes in the ANS would therefore be a method of
      assessing the intensity of the nociceptive influx.

      This objective method can be used in the non-communicating or unconscious patient to evaluate
      the pain and to adapt the analgesic treatment to the best.

      Obese patients who receive surgical management often have comorbidities such as restrictive
      syndrome, or obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. They thus represent a target of choice in
      perioperative analgesic optimization in order to avoid respiratory complications that may be
      related to over or under assay of morphine such as atelectasis, alveolar hypoventilation.

      It is hypothesized that this device is more effective for the intraoperative evaluation of
      analgesia than the usual method based on hemodynamic changes in intraoperatively anesthetized
      patients for bariatric surgery.
    
  