
    
      Background:

      Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease classically triggered by hypertension,
      diabetes, smoking and elevated cholesterol.

      It is hypothesized that genetic predisposition plays a crucial role in an individual's
      susceptibility to these risk factors with Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) being
      identified as functional mediators of key inflammatory genes.

      Objectives:

      To determine the frequency of haplotypes of SNP combinations in the proximal promoter region
      of MCP-1, the MCP-3 gene, and eotaxin gene in patients with risk factors for CVD and their
      siblings.

      To determine the MCP-1 levels in an affected population with Coronary artery disease and
      their siblings and certain haplotypes to determine a functional association between MCP-1
      levels and haplotype frequency.

      Eligibility:

      Eligibility criteria for enrollment in sib and family studies included: 1) having a sib or
      1st degree family member with heart disease, 2) ability to give inform consent to participate
      in the study, 3) age 18 years or older, 4) ability to speak English or Spanish. The entire
      set of 2,000 samples available to the LDG will be analyzed. No subject will be excluded.

      Design:

      DNAs derived from properly consented subjects enrolled in three protocols sponsored by the
      Johns Hopkins Heart Study will be sent to the LGD and used to test specific markers in the
      MCP-1, MCP-3, and eotaxin chemokine family located in the C-C chemokine cluster on
      chromosome17q11.2.

      A minimum of 11 SNPs will be examined.

      Sib-pair analysis will be utilized to identify associated markers. Linear regressions will be
      used to analyze associations between genetic variations and chemokine levels. Haplotype will
      be assigned to unrelated individuals using the maximum likelihood approach.

      The DNA samples, chemokine levels, and relevant clinical data provided by John Hopkins
      University School of Medicine will be coded and linked.

      Following this study, the DNAs will be maintained in our repository and curated through our
      central Laboratory database. Loss or destruction of these samples will be annotated to our
      database and cannot impact the study participants in any way. We understand that studies
      subsequent to the completion of this protocol will require additional OHSR/IRB approval prior
      to commencement.
    
  