
    
      Background: Neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) is a specialized unit created for sick and
      premature newborns. There are various painful procedures through which neonates have to
      undergo during the NICU stay. The most common procedure is the blood tests for the laboratory
      investigations which include the heel lancing and venipuncture. Pain is the one of the cause
      of the development of the acute stress in neonates soft tissue therapy has considered as the
      major contributory factor of in reducing the procedural pain among neonates admitted NICU.
      There is no documentation on soft tissue therapy in managing procedural pain in neonates.

      Purpose: To determine the effects of soft tissue therapy in managing procedural pain among
      neonates admitted in NICU.

      Methods and materials: The study will recruit neonates who underwent for various painful
      procedures in NICU such as venous and arterial puncture, capillary puncture, pulmonary
      mechanical ventilation, tracheal intubation, removal of adhesive tapes, the introduction of
      various drains etc. Preterm, Term, Full terms Neonates Stable Neonates. The samples will be
      taken via stratified random sampling technique. Neonates with unstable vitals are to be
      excluded from the study.

      Discussion: To best of our knowledge, this will be the first study determining the effects of
      soft tissue therapy in procedural pain on neonates admitted in NICU. The role of neonatal
      physiotherapist in NICU is to provide diagnosis and treatment to admitted newborns. Massage
      therapy is considered as an effective management technique in pain management. In this study
      soft tissue therapy will be applied to neonates especially in context with procedural pain.
      There are various painful procedures performed to check the prognosis of neonates.

      Keywords: Neonatal; Newborns; Infant; NICU; Procedural pain; Massage therapy.
    
  