
    
      Electronic cigarettes (e-cig) are increasingly popular among adult smokers and adolescent
      never smokers. Chemical analyses of e-cig vapor and liquid have shown the presence of many of
      the same carcinogens as those found in cigarette smoke, albeit in generally lower
      concentrations. However, the carcinogenic potential of e-cig has not been investigated in
      e-cig users (otherwise known as 'vapers'). The investigators will investigate the
      cancer-causing potential of e-cig use as compared to cigarette smoking by quantifying
      molecular changes linked to risk of cancer in smokers who switch to e-cig use vs. those who
      maintain their smoking habits. Leveraging a source population for ongoing studies on e-cig,
      the investigators will recruit smokers who are interested in switching to e-cig use, and two
      control groups of non-vapers, including smokers and nonsmokers who do not intend to change
      their smoking and nonsmoking status, respectively (n = 50, each group). Smokers consenting to
      switch completely to e-cig will be assigned to a 3-month intervention with a standard e-cig
      with fully described product characteristics. Control groups will maintain their
      smoking/nonsmoking habits during the intervention. At weekly intervals, the investigators
      will verify participants' compliance through personal interviews, CO breath tests, cotinine
      quantification, and vaping/smoking topography measurements. The investigators will use a
      non-invasive brushing technique to collect oral cells from the inside of the cheeks of all
      participants at baseline and every 2 weeks, afterwards. The investigators will use an
      integrative 'multi-omics' approach complemented with single-locus/gene validation analyses to
      detect temporal changes in the genome, epigenome, and transcriptome relevant to cancer in the
      oral cells of the participants as the intervention progresses.
    
  