
    
      Rationale: In 2016/2017, one in five (19.5%) New Zealand adults (≥15 years and older) had an
      alcohol drinking pattern that carriers a risk of harming the drinker or another, and one in
      three (32.9%) young adults aged 18 to 24 years are hazardous drinkers. To reduce
      alcohol-related harm and help New Zealanders make positive decisions about their alcohol use,
      strategies are needed that not only inform them about health risks but also alter the
      environment they find themselves in on a daily basis. Unlike most packaged food products,
      alcoholic beverages are not required to present a statement of the composition of the
      product, such as amount of alcohol, energy or the nutrient content. It has been suggested
      that in the absence of this information, consumers of alcohol have no idea how much energy,
      alcohol or kilojoules they are consuming. Research indicates that nutrition labelling of food
      and non-alcoholic beverage products does impact consumer perceptions and product evaluations.
      A recent poll by Stuff showed that 83% of 3,300 New Zealanders indicated that they want to
      know what they are consuming and supported placement of ingredients and nutritional
      information on alcohol products.

      Objectives: To provide insight into consumers' awareness of energy in alcoholic beverages,
      and in their views on energy labelling of alcoholic beverages. The project also aims to
      explore the effects of different types of energy labelling on consumers alcohol purchase
      behaviour.

      Design: Two-staged qualitative and quantitative study.

        -  Qualitative stage: Focus groups.

        -  Quantitative stage: Four-arm randomised controlled trial. This qualitative stage aims to
           test the effects of three different types of alcohol energy labels on alcoholic
           beverages on (online) purchase behaviour, compared to a control (no label) condition,
           using an 'online shopping cart'.

      Recruitment: Panel.

      Sample size: Qualitative stage: n=36 (six focus groups with six people per group);
      Quantitative stage: n=600 (n=150 participants per experimental condition).
    
  