
    
      In 2007, GEICAM started the EpiGEICAM case-control study, to investigate the association of
      diet and other lifestyle factors with breast cancer risk. In this study, we were able to
      identify two dietary patterns related with breast cancer in an opposite way. Thus, while
      women with high adherence to the so-called "Western" diet had an excess risk of breast
      cancer, high adherence to the "Mediterranean" pattern reduced the risk of breast cancer,
      being this effect particularly marked for triple negative tumors. Regarding physical
      activity, our preliminary results show a positive association between sedentarism and breast
      cancer risk. This project will focus on breast cancer patients included in that study in
      order to explore their degree of adherence to lifestyle behaviour recommendations and their
      association with the quality of life of these women.

      Survivors will be re-surveyed to assess tobacco, alcohol, diet, obesity and health-related
      quality of life, using a specific questionnaire witch contains the following information:

        -  Sociodemographic information.

        -  Anthropometric data (weight, height).

        -  Clinical and gynecological data.

        -  Assessment of lifestyle habits: including tobacco consumption and diet.

        -  Physical activity questionnaire, with the International Physical Activity Questionnaire
           (IPAQ).

        -  Questionnaire to know the preference of patients on receiving information about their
           treatment in physical exercise.

        -  General Short Form-36 (SF36) quality of life questionnaire already used at the time of
           diagnosis.

        -  Specific Fatigue and Quality of Life Questionnaires: Functional Assessment of Cancer
           Therapy - Breast Cancer (FACT-B) and Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Fatigue
           (FACT-F).

        -  Coping questionnaires: COPE-28 and Brief Resilience Scale (BRS).
    
  