
    
      Neuroimaging Study. Male and Female volunteers will be recruited from the Investigational
      Weight Management Clinic (IWMC) at the University of Michigan for this study. All
      neuropsychological instruments will be collected in lean and obese individuals at baseline,
      and between 4-6-months. Obese individuals will undergo 4 PET scans: 1) at baseline following
      an overnight fast; 2) at baseline following consumption of an Ensure shake; 3) after at least
      a15% reduction in body weight following an overnight fast; 4) and following consumption of an
      Ensure shake at the post-weight loss time point. Lean individuals will undergo the two scans
      at baseline after fasting and post-Ensure shake consumption. All lean subjects will consume
      their normal diets prior to the initial scanning. The obese subjects will undergo their
      second set of scans, post-weight loss, while still consuming the HMR diet.

      Neuroimaging Measures. Two PET studies with [11C]carfentanil (a selective µ-opioid receptor
      radiotracer) will be acquired for each lean volunteer and 4 PET studies with [11C]carfentanil
      will be acquired for obese individuals. Structural and functional MRI will be acquired for
      obese individuals before and after weight loss, and for lean individuals at baseline for
      co-registration and anatomical standardization of the PET data and activation response to
      visual stimuli. After their completion, the following data will be used for statistical
      analyses: 1) Baseline µ-opioid receptor availability in vivo (binding potential, BPND) in
      lean and obese individuals following an overnight fast. 2) µ-opioid system activation after
      consuming 500 kcal (16fl oz, 18% protein, 14% CHO, 25% fat) of Ensure shake (fed) in lean and
      obese individuals as measured by acute reductions in BPND. 3) Baseline MOR BPND in obese
      individuals who have lost ≥15% of their body weight over 4-6 months (fasting), following an
      overnight fast. 4) µ-opioid system activation in obese individuals who have lost ≥15% of
      their body weight after consuming 250 kcal of Ensure shake (fed).

      PET Acquisition. Briefly, [11C]carfentanil a selective and specific µ-opioid receptor
      radioligand, is administered at tracer doses using a bolus/continuous infusion protocol to
      achieve rapid steady-states between specific and non-specific binding regions (5-7 min
      post-tracer administration). Twenty-eight frames will be acquired over 70 minutes with an
      increasing duration (30 sec to 5 min). Two scans will be acquired twice each: A baseline,
      without challenges, and a scan following consumption of an Ensure shake. Subsequently,
      dynamic image data for the receptor scans is transformed, on a voxel-by-voxel basis, into
      parametric maps, and co-registered to each other. These include, 1) a tracer transport
      measure (K1 ratio, proportional to cerebral blood flow; tracer transport = blood flow x
      tracer extraction), and receptor-related measures, (BPND), during 2) baseline scans, and 3)
      following shake consumption. The reduction in BPND from baseline to post-shake consumption
      represents a measure of endogenous opioid system activation following shake consumption
      (related to the occupancy and ligand-receptor interactions by the endogenous ligand). These
      parametric images are calculated using a modified Logan graphical analysis, with the
      occipital cortex as the reference region. PET images are then co-registered to the T1 MRI
      structural, anatomical image, affine transformed and warped to standard Montreal Neurological
      Institute (MNI) stereotactic space using mutual information algorithms. The baseline scan, in
      the fasted state, will precede the post-consumption scan due to time constraints, and to
      avoid carry-over effects from active (fed) to baseline (fasted) states. Both PET scans will
      be performed on the same day to reduce travel time for the subjects and hence experimental
      burden.

      Clinical Measures Psychobehavioral measures to be acquired during the imaging studies
      include: The Positive and Negative Affect Scale, Profile of Mood Scales, State portion of the
      Spielberg Anxiety Inventory, and a visual analog scale (VAS) for appetite and palatability
      will be administered before and after each experiment. These measures will assess emotional
      state and appetite for correlative purposes with changes in neuroreceptor and circulating
      hormone levels during performance of the studies. The MINI International Neuropsychiatric
      Interview (MINI600), Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology (IDS-SR), EuroQol measure of
      health outcome, Trait portion of the Anxiety Inventory, and NEO Personality Inventory will be
      obtained prior to scanning for secondary analyses (e.g. relationship between imaging measures
      and "stable" traits).
    
  