
    
      STUDY GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:

        1. To obtain preliminary data regarding postoperative complications in subjects undergoing
           abdominal surgery and receiving remote limb ischemic or sham conditioning.

        2. To test whether remote limb ischemic conditioning (RIC) decreases systemic inflammatory
           response in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery.

      HYPOTHESiS:

      The central hypothesis of the research is that pre- and post-operative RIC in patients
      undergoing major abdominal surgery would decrease the systemic inflammatory response to major
      abdominal surgery and decrease postoperative complications.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      A prospective, randomized, double - masked clinical trial of RIC will be conducted in adult
      patients undergoing major abdominal surgery at University Hospital in Newark, NJ.
      Participants will be randomized into two groups: RIC and No RIC. RIC will be induced at three
      time points - the first after anesthesia induction but before commencement of surgery, and
      the second and the third on post-operative days 1 and 2, respectively. The RIC intervention
      consists of 5 minutes of inflation of a pneumatic tourniquet placed mid-thigh followed by 5
      minutes of deflation, repeated for 3 cycles. The pressure used will be 250 mmHg for the
      pre-operative intervention. Subsequent tourniquet pressures will be 50 mmHg above the
      patient's systolic blood pressure. The No RIC group will receive a sham intervention at all
      the same time points. The thigh tourniquet will be inflated to only 20 mmHg. A Doppler probe
      will be used to assess pedal arterial flow in both groups. Blood samples will be collected at
      baseline, 1hr after skin closure, and 1hr after interventions 2 and 3.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      Adults (> 18 years of age) of both sexes scheduled for elective major abdominal surgery at
      University Hospital will be considered for inclusion. Major abdominal surgery is defined as
      peritoneal, retroperitoneal and pelvic surgery expected to last >/= 120 minutes (from
      incision to closure) with an expected hospital stay >/= 2 days. A list of surgeries
      considered for inclusion is included as Appendix A. Additional operations will be considered
      for inclusion if the study team and primary surgical team both agree that the procedure is a
      major abdominal surgery and that the duration of surgery is likely to be > 2 hours.

      RISKS AND BENEFITS

        1. Risks to Subjects During inflation of the tourniquet in awake patients (post-op), there
           is a risk of pain secondary to tourniquet inflation. The investigators believe this risk
           is small, and if it occurs, the patient will have the option to discontinue the
           intervention.

           There is a theoretical risk of injury to the limb receiving the RIC stimulus. However,
           such occurrences have not been reported to date in other clinical studies.

           During collection of blood samples, there is a theoretical risk of bleeding from the
           venipuncture site; however this risk is no greater than routine blood draw. The amount
           of blood drawn for study purposes will be small (less than 50 mL total anticipated).

        2. Benefits to Subjects The anticipated benefit to subjects is fewer complications after
           major abdominal surgery. However, no such benefit may accrue. In addition, the study is
           expected to provide valuable information regarding how RIC might modulate stress
           response to major surgery.
    
  