
    
      Application - HUM00107546

      Study Title:

      Longitudinal Study of Innate Lymphoid Cells in Peripheral Blood in ALS

      Full Study Title:

      Longitudinal Study of Innate Lymphoid Cells in Peripheral Blood in ALS

      If there are other U-M studies related to this project, enter the eResearch ID number (HUM#)
      or IRBMED Legacy study number. Examples of related projects include, but are not limited to:

      00028826 - Epidemological Risk Factors and The Genetics of ALS

      Principal Investigator:

        -  Benjamin Murdock, PhD

      Study Team Members:

        -  Eva Feldman, MD, PhD Co-Investigator

        -  Stephen Goutman, MD Co-Investigator

        -  Claudia Figueroa-Romero, Research Investigator

        -  Crystal Pacut, Biorepository Coordinator

        -  Jayna Duell, Study Coordinator

        -  Blake Swihart, Study Coordinator

        -  Adam Patterson, Biostatistician

      Project Summary:

      Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder characterized
      by progressive muscle weakness and eventual death. Studies demonstrate that the immune system
      plays a key role in ALS progression; however, the role of the immune system is unclear, as
      various aspects can play both a beneficial and detrimental role in the disease course.
      Attempts to universally suppress the immune system in ALS patients have at best had
      negligible effects on progression or at worst accelerated the disease. Alternatively,
      augmenting or depleting specific immune cell populations in ALS mouse models alters the
      disease course and slows progression. Thus, there is a critical need to identify immune cell
      populations to serve as biomarkers and therapeutic targets.

      Neuroinflammation is a hallmark of ALS in both human patients and mouse models. While
      clinical symptoms result from motor neuron degeneration, it is becoming increasingly clear
      that the immune system plays a key role in pathology. A variety of insults give rise to
      identical immune responses which go on to produce the characteristic clinical and
      histopathological manifestations of motor neuron disease. This makes the immune system an
      attractive target for therapeutics, as the wide variety of potential ALS sources all funnel
      through a common immunological pathway over the course of disease. The investigators recent
      studies have demonstrated that ALS patients have increased levels of several subpopulations
      of innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) in their peripheral blood. A subset of patients has ILC
      levels 5-10 times greater than those found in healthy control patients. The differences seen
      in the ILC levels in peripheral blood are much greater differences seen in other immune cell
      populations during ALS. Thus, these cell populations are attractive candidates for use as
      biomarkers or therapeutic targets.

      The proposed study can be broken into three broad phases which will applicable to each
      patient: recruitment, sample collection, and analysis. Following diagnosis of disease, ALS
      patients who live within 1 hour of the University of Michigan will be called by our clinical
      coordinator and enrolled in the study (recruitment). Following enrollment in the study, each
      of the patients will be visited once every 28 ± 5 days for a year after the initial visit by
      a Michigan Institute for Clinical & Health Research (MICHR) clinical research unit; this unit
      will take 20 ml of blood per patient. Samples will then be returned to the University of
      Michigan. ILCs will be isolated from peripheral blood using fluorescence-activated cell
      sorting (FACS) and the mRNA of each ILC population will be collected and cytokine production
      analyzed using multiplex (analysis). On the day of collection, a clinician or clinical
      coordinator from the University of Michigan Comprehensive ALS Clinic (UMCAC) will contact the
      patient to complete an ALSFRS-R questionnaire to assess the physical deterioration of the
      patients.

      The study will also incorporate control subjects. The control subjects will have blood taken
      once a month for 12 total visits over 36 months, but will not complete the ALSFRS-R
      questionnaire as they will not have been diagnosed with ALS and therefore the questionnaire
      does not fit; 20ml of blood will be taken per visit.

      Subjects need to live within approximately 60 miles of the University of Michigan.
    
  