
    
      Objective: Our study intends to evaluate prospectively the incidence and severity of oral
      mucositis in patients undergoing high-dose chemotherapy and hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation, as well as to evaluate the potential influence of nutritional-, physical-,
      and transplant-related factors associated with the development of this complication and its
      grade of involvement.

      Research plan: This is a prospective cohort study with an observational basis that involves
      all of the patients undergoing high-dose chemotherapy and peripheral blood stem cell
      transplantation at the Audie L. Murphy VA Hospital Bone Marrow Transplant Unit and at the
      University Hospital Bone Marrow Transplant Unit. We expect to enroll 400 patients during a
      5-year period.

      Methods: In order to answer the study questions, subjects will be assessed several times
      during the study period. The study involves a multidisciplinary group that will be evaluating
      and following the subjects. A baseline will be established by a physician and a nutritionist
      before the subjects start the high-dose chemotherapy regimen. The subjects will be followed
      with oral evaluations 3 times per week, beginning on the day of the transplant and ending
      when mucositis resolves, or the patient is discharged home, or 30 days post-transplant,
      whichever occurs first. At day 15 post-transplant, patients will be evaluated for the second
      time by the nutritionist. Further information such as blood values, use of medications and
      treatment complications, will be obtained by daily chart review.

      Clinical relevance: Mucositis is, without a doubt, one of the most common and debilitating
      complications resulting from the intense cytotoxic therapies preceding hematopoietic stem
      cell transplantation. Mucositis is not only a problem for the patient who needs to deal with
      the pain and the rapidly decreasing quality of life, but it is also a problem for the health
      system. Mucositis frequently results in increased hospital length of stay, resulting in a
      significant increase in the cost of medical care. Multiple prophylactic and therapeutic
      attempts have been made in order to control the symptoms and the severity of mucositis. No
      prevention or cure is available for the disease. Despite the renewed interest in this
      complication, important gaps in knowledge remain in this area of the supportive care of
      cancer patients. These gaps in knowledge are wider in the area of mucositis in patients who
      undergo hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
    
  