
    
      Intubation and mechanical ventilation are common treatments in the care of patients with
      traumatic brain injury (TBI). Intubation allows for airway control and facilitates removal of
      respiratory secretions. Mechanical ventilation allows control of arterial carbon dioxide to
      aid in control of intracranial pressure. Recent evidence suggests that lung protective
      ventilation (tidal volumes of 6 ml/kg of predicted body weight and moderate positive end
      expiratory pressure) improves outcomes following brain injury and reduces brain-lung cross
      talk.

      The treatment of respiratory failure in TBI must balance the need to improve lung function
      with the negative consequences of increased intrathoracic pressure on mean arterial pressure,
      intracranial pressure and venous return. Traditional treatment of increasing positive end
      expiratory (PEEP) and mean airway pressure then, represent competing interests. Methods for
      improving arterial oxygenation while avoiding negative hemodynamic effects are needed.

      The impact of head injury on respiratory mechanics has been studied in just a few clinical
      investigations. (1-3) Of note, the earliest of these noted that the ventilation perfusion
      (V/Q) matching following TBI was not the result of lung collapse or parenchymal lung disease
      but secondary to alterations in perfusion. There are three possibilities for this finding:

        1. redistribution in regional perfusion, which is partially mediated by the hypothalamus

        2. pulmonary microembolism, leading to increased dead space

        3. lung surfactant depletion due to excessive sympathetic stimulation and hyperventilation.

      The introduction of inhaled pulmonary vasodilators such as inhaled nitric oxide or
      aerosolized epoprostenol offer an opportunity to improve oxygenation in patients with TBI
      without increasing airway pressures in the face of V/Q inequalities.

      This study will evaluate the changes in respiratory mechanics following TBI and determine the
      effect of inhaled nitric oxide on gas exchange.
    
  