
    
      Patients with type 1 DM using CSII require bolus insulin for two purposes: first, to cover
      carbohydrate intake to control postprandial glucose, and second, to correct episodes of
      hyperglycemia. The latter function is referred to as a "correction dose" or "correction
      bolus". Insulin pumps have bolus calculators which calculate correction doses based on the
      patient's individualized BG target and insulin sensitivity factor (ISF). Rapid-acting insulin
      analogues delivered by pump typically require 2 to 4 hours to fully correct an acute
      hyperglycemic episode, and sometimes multiple correction doses are needed to normalize the
      blood glucose level. This can be frustrating for patients, particularly when a correction
      bolus is necessary in addition to a meal bolus; frequently, patients must wait for the
      correction bolus to take effect and delay eating until the blood glucose has begun to
      normalize to avoid severe postprandial hyperglycemia. There is consequently an unmet need in
      insulin delivery, and in particular in CSII, for an insulin which can correct a hyperglycemic
      episode more rapidly than is currently possible with rapid-acting insulin analogues.

      Faster insulin aspart (Fiasp) is a novel formulation of insulin aspart with an accelerated
      time-action profile which results in twice the exposure to insulin and 74% greater insulin
      action within the first 30 minutes after injection compared to conventional insulin aspart.
      This results in twice-as-fast onset of appearance in the bloodstream (4 vs. 9 min compared to
      conventional insulin aspart) which has been demonstrated to reduce postprandial glucose
      levels in patients with type 1 DM using CSII. Theoretically, this faster insulin action would
      be useful in correction dosing during acute episodes of hyperglycemia to normalize the blood
      glucose level more rapidly than is currently possible with conventional insulin aspart
      (NovoLog).

      Many patients with type 1 DM using CSII now also use continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) for
      making insulin dosing decisions. Currently the FDA has approved 2 CGM systems for
      nonadjunctive use in bolus insulin dose calculations. Only one of these systems, the Dexcom,
      reads continuously to the patient and has alarms to warn of impending episodes of hyper- or
      hypoglycemia, and this is the system used most commonly by patients with type 1 DM using
      open-loop CSII. Patients now incorporate the Dexcom trend arrow, which depicts the rate and
      direction of glucose change, into the correction dose calculation, and recommendations on how
      to incorporate CGM information into correction dose calculations have recently been updated
      based on an expert consensus report. However, these guidelines were created for use with
      rapid acting insulin analogues. How they might need to be modified for use with Fiasp (the
      first and only ultra-rapid insulin analogue) is not known.

      The purpose of this investigator-initiated trial is to compare the efficacy in terms of time
      to recovery from hyperglycemia as measured by time to arrest of hyperglycemic excursion
      ("glucose plateau point", primary endpoint) and return to premeal glucose target if feasible
      (secondary endpoint) between Fiasp and conventional insulin aspart when used as a correction
      bolus. These endpoints will be determined by CGM (Dexcom) from data exported from the Dexcom
      Clarity program.

      Study hypothesis:

      Compared to conventional insulin aspart, Fiasp will correct hyperglycemia (defined as arrest
      of rise of blood glucose, following correction bolus, ie, GPP ) faster than conventional
      insulin aspart in subjects with type 1 DM using CSII.
    
  