
    
      Background:

      Caregiver depression is common following a family member's stroke and is a major contributor
      of survivor's hospital readmission and institutionalization. Researchers have consistently
      found that interventions to help caregivers resolve problems are effective in reducing
      depressive symptoms. However, these problem-solving interventions have been underused in
      practice because they involve multiple, in-person or telephone sessions and require large
      amounts of staff time to implement. To overcome these barriers, the long-term goal is to
      implement stroke caregiver programs that involve low-cost interventions that are sustainable
      in routine clinical practice. The immediate objective is to test, using a randomized
      controlled trial, a problem-solving intervention for stroke caregivers that can be delivered
      shortly after the Veterans' in-patient stays followed by online, in-home sessions. The
      investigators will modify the traditional, problem-solving intervention by adding web-based
      training using interactive modules, factsheets, and tools on previously developed and
      nationally available RESCUE Caregiver website (www.cidrr8.research.va.gov/rescue). The
      investigators will also provide on-line, skills training and application of the
      problem-solving approach via the RESCUE messaging center, a secure site behind the VA
      firewall. This work builds on the team's extensive experience in stroke caregiver education.

      The immediate, primary aim (#1) is to test the effect of the intervention on stroke
      caregivers' depressive symptoms at 11 and 19 weeks after baseline data collection. Primary
      Hypothesis: Stroke caregivers who receive the intervention will have less depressive symptoms
      at 11 and 19 weeks after baseline data collection compared to stroke caregivers who receive
      standard care. The investigators propose four secondary aims. Aim #2 is to test the effect of
      the intervention on stroke caregivers' burden, positive aspects of caregiving, self-efficacy,
      health-related quality of life (HRQOL), and satisfaction with care at 11 and 19 weeks after
      baseline data collection. Aim #3 is to test the effect of the intervention on Veterans'
      outcomes: functional abilities and healthcare utilization (i.e., unintended hospital bed days
      of care, number of emergency room visits, number of unscheduled clinic visits) at 11 and 19
      weeks after baseline data collection. Aim #4 is to determine the budgetary impact for
      implementing the intervention. Aim #5 is to determine the facilitators, barriers and best
      practices for implementing the intervention.

      Methods:

      The investigators will conduct a two-group randomized controlled trial with repeated measures
      and use mixed methods to determine caregivers' perceptions of the intervention. The
      investigators will enroll 240 stroke caregivers at 8 study sites (North Florida/South Georgia
      Veterans Healthcare System, Miami VA Healthcare System, James A. Haley Veterans Hospital in
      Tampa, Michael E. Debakey VAMC in Houston, Hunter Holmes McGuire VAMC in Richmond, Central
      Arkansas Veterans Healthcare System, VA Tennessee Valley Healthcare System, and the VA Boston
      Healthcare System). Eligible caregivers will be interviewed, complete baseline measures, and
      then be randomized to two groups: 1) intervention group, or 2) standard care. A study team
      member will telephone caregivers at 11 weeks and 19 weeks after baseline data collection to
      answer questions on instruments with established reliability and validity. The team member
      will review the Veterans' VA Computerized Patient Record System health record to obtain
      information on the Veterans' healthcare utilization. The investigators will determine the
      budgetary impact of the intervention by examining the cost data in the VA Managerial Cost
      Accounting System (MCAS) (formerly DSS) National Data Extracts and Non-VA Medical Care files.
      Qualitative interviews will be conducted with selected caregivers to obtain in-depth
      perceptions of the value, facilitators, and barriers of the intervention. Throughout all
      phases of the project, the investigators will collaborate with VA (Offices of Nursing Service
      and Office of Geriatrics and Extended Care.

      Impact:

      This is the first known study to test transition-to-home intervention combined with
      technology to improve the quality of caregiving and the recovery of Veterans. Other outcomes
      will be a state-of-the-art website and an evidence-based model (in-patient, discharge
      planning and online, training and caregiver-provider messaging) that can be transportable to
      other disease models
    
  