
    
      As a major oncology and hepatology center, the investigators perform about 3-5 guided
      biopsies for liver tumors weekly. Ultrasound is the preferred modality for imaging biopsies
      due to its ability to visualize and position the biopsy needle in real time with high
      accuracy and safety, is nonionizing, and is quicker compared to other techniques, especially
      CT-guided biopsies. The failure rate of ultrasound guided liver biopsies (including cases
      where biopsy was declined to be performed due to lack of lesion visibility) is about 10%. By
      comparison, in the investigators' practice genotyping of metastatic tumors, with multiple
      core biopsies, is often requested for entry into oncology trials, and failure of tumor
      genotyping after biopsy is estimated to be about 30%.

      Recently, the first ultrasound contrast agent was FDA-approved for characterization of liver
      lesions [sulfur hexafluoride lipid-type A microspheres (Lumason, Bracco Diagnostics, Monroe
      Township, NJ)]. The microbubble agent is deemed safe, including in cardiac failure patients
      and those with chronic airway obstruction. Injecting microbubbles may allow better
      visualization of lesions and adjacent vasculature by enhancing the microvasculature and
      adjacent vessels and potentially reduce incidence of failed biopsy or bleeding complications.
      In addition, determination of necrotic regions in a lesion may allow better direction of
      biopsy.

      Yet there is limited literature on the use of ultrasound contrast agents for improving
      targeted liver biopsies. The investigators intend to prospectively assess the non-diagnostic
      biopsy and complication rates in a group of patients who undergo contrast-enhanced
      ultrasonography (CEUS) using microbubbles at the time of biopsy. The investigators will then
      compare the results from this group with the failure and complication rate from a control
      group of patients undergoing the standard US-guided biopsy procedure. Over 12 months the
      investigators expect to perform approximately 200 biopsies. Power analysis suggests that 125
      patients in both contrast-enhanced sonography and control groups, each, are required. The
      investigators should be able to enroll sufficient patients in 18 months
    
  