
    
      The following research project is being carried out following the 2010 Consort Declaration
      (32)

        1. Ethical considerations: Declaration of Helsinki. Access to the data of the research
           subjects in order to guarantee their confidentiality according to national regulations
           and international recommendations .

        2. Sample selection In case of natural phenomena, health emergency and the population
           cannot continue, another population will have to be found. Biosecurity in
           Sarv-cov2.Recommendations for the Treatment of Pit and Fissure Sealants (36-38)

        3. Data collection techniques: Phase 1. Coordination with the Ethics and Parental
           Authorization Committee The Research Ethics Committee of the Institute of Tropical
           Medicine Daniel Alcides Carrión UNMSM will give us the first pass. Letters of invitation
           will be made and they will be distributed in class through the teachers, and each
           student will take it home to deliver to their parents or guardians; Each letter
           (envelope) will have the informed consent (Annex 1), the informed consent (Annex 2),
           data record sheet (Annex 3) and an informative bulletin (Annex 4) where it explains all
           the procedure that will be carried out for each participant, there will also be an
           informative talk at the school for parents and teachers, where they will be informed
           about the study and will collect the envelopes. Research will not force any child to
           participate; each will have the option of choosing to participate in the study by verbal
           assent. A report will be delivered to the parent or guardian of the child after the
           intervention. Informed consent process Researcher 1 will give an informative talk about
           the study and will collect the envelopes containing the informed consent, informed
           consent and data record sheet). Students and parents who accept participation will
           receive a summons for subsequent dental visits (Annex 5). It will collect the consents
           signed by both parents / guardians and in the event that the signature of one of the
           parents cannot be obtained either due to impossibility (death, difficulty in obtaining
           the signature, absence and reasons of personal strength)(39)Only the signature of one
           will be accepted to give consent; and informed assent if the child reports that he
           understands and is mature enough to understand(39). Diagnostic Process Assistant 1 will
           be in charge of bringing the students for their dental check-up and will also provide
           the materials to operator 1 who will do the oral hygiene and prophylaxis index
           procedure. Afterwards, operator 2, who has 10 years of experience, will be previously
           calibrated according to the ICDAS II criteria, using the visual method, he will detect
           and classify the lesions according to the International System criteria. Detection and
           Evaluation of Caries (ICDAS-II) (26) and the teeth that will represent scores 0 and 1
           will be selected. The inclusion and exclusion criteria mentioned above will be taken
           into account; and patients who have at least one pair of homologous permanent first
           molars that meet the same requirements will be considered. The assistant 2 will be in
           charge of filling in the data sheets of the participants. Operator 1 will evaluate the
           Simplified Oral Hygiene Index until you reach an OHS score of 1 over a period of one
           month. Researcher 1 will select the participants taking into account the inclusion and
           exclusion criteria and will deliver the list of those participants to the programmer for
           randomization. Treatment randomization process The name of each participant will be
           coded by letters, this will be done by the programmer; the materials are going to be
           coded by number and the cards are going to be worked with these codings for their
           subsequent data analysis. And regarding patient data, it will only be handled by the
           programmer who will be in charge of coding, randomizing the first permanent molars,
           randomizing the materials to be used so that it is placed in the first permanent molars
           and this information will be given to the coordinator so that the put in sealed
           envelopes and then these sealed envelopes will be given to a housekeeper so that said
           data is not disclosed or published. In case this section of data confidentiality is in
           the informed consent it could be mentioned. The programmer will give the randomized list
           to the coordinator and the coordinator will give the external assistant who is not
           participating in the clinical trial in sealed envelopes labeled by each participant.
           This external assistant will bring the randomized patient for treatment. Allocation
           concealment mechanism process and implementation The programmer without participation in
           the clinical trial will do the randomization sequence generating the list of numbers
           randomly assigned to participants and will be created with Stata 16 statistical software
           (Stata Corp. College Station, TX). The investigators will give this list to the
           coordinator and this external assistant will receive the envelopes and will take care of
           taking the patient to receive treatment. Blinding process Blinding will be strictly
           maintained; by emphasizing it on the operators, assistants, evaluators, workers of the
           educational institution and the parents / guardians and participants. While the
           participants, operators, evaluators, assistants assigned to carry out the diagnosis,
           procedure and placement of the material, will not know the brand of the pit and fissure
           sealant, due to which will be covered with kraft paper, labeled and numbered .Outcome
           assessors and data analysts will be blinded to allocation. "The investigators who
           performed the intervention procedure will not take any result measures. Procedures
           process Assistant 3 will be in charge of labeling with kraft paper and listing the
           intervention material A and B (giomer F03 beautifil-Shofu and Tetric N-Flow ivoclar
           vivadent) in prior coordination with the research coordinator. Operator 3 and assistant
           4 will be previously trained and calibrated; they will do the procedure, without knowing
           the names of the sealants.A split-mouth study design will be used and will be used as
           follows; It will be applied on the upper / lower first molars with sealing material,
           being the order assigned according to the previous randomization, for the intervention
           group they will be sealed based on fluid resin s-prg (giomer F03 beautifil-Shofu) in
           association with a bottle of adhesive (single bond) and on the contralateral side, the
           upper / lower first molars will be sealed, the control group will be sealed with a fluid
           resin compound based on flowable resin (TetricN-Flow ivoclar vivadent) in association
           with a bottle of adhesive (Single Bond). Placement of materials on the right / left side
           of the mouth will be randomly assigned following block randomization procedures with a
           1:1 allocation using the random block sizes of 4 and 8(35). A computerized random number
           generator will be used. A total of 120 upper / lower molar teeth will be sealed with
           both materials (60 teeth for each material). The materials will be placed by the same
           operator according to the protocol UNMSM for the sealing of pits and deep fissures.
           Steps for the application of the sealant, the teeth will be isolated with cotton rolls
           carefully and the assistants 4 will hold a plastic saliva ejector to avoid contamination
           of the saliva and facilitate the operative procedures of the occlusal surfaces of the
           upper molars and / or lower for each operator: The occlusal surfaces will be cleaned
           using water, brush and low hand piece; wash and dry of the occlusal surface; then
           deproteinization will be done with sodium hypochlorite (5.25%) for 60 seconds, wash with
           a water / air spray for 30 seconds; and dry. The tooth will then be etched using a 37%
           orthophosphoric acid gel for 15 seconds, rinsed with a water / air spray for 30 seconds,
           and dried with cotton balls. For the intervention, the sealants will be covered and
           listed on Kraft paper, it will be sealed for the intervention fluid resin with sprg
           (giomer F03 beautifil-Shofu) and for the control group it will be sealed with fluid
           resin (Tetric N- Flow). Subsequently, a uniform layer of fluid composite resin will be
           applied and it will be light-cured for 11 seconds using an LED curing unit with an
           output of 1500 mW / cm2 (Gnatus). The cotton rolls and plastic saliva ejector will be
           removed, and the occlusion will be checked with articulating paper. The operator will
           not know the brand of sealant to be used, because it will be covered with Kraft paper
           and will be delivered by another person(assistant) previously trained for this activity
           and both materials have a similar color. The child will also not be informed about the
           brand of the material used. The assistant 5 will collect the data on the card. An
           average attendance will be 6 participants per day with time intervals to prepare the
           work environment between each procedure. Evaluation and monitoring process: Assistant 6
           will bring and take the participants to operator 4 who will do the prophylaxis and help
           fill out the cards. Operator 5 with at least ten years of experience it will be
           previously trained, evaluated and calibrated; in accordance with ICDAS-S II criteria and
           retention of sealants. The calibration will be given by the Kappa measure (κ >0.7).
           Operator 5 will not have performed the pit and fissure sealants procedure, he will
           record the retention of the sealant in a period of 6, 9 and 12 months. Follow-up of
           sealed teeth will be observed in good lighting, after tooth prophylaxis. Evaluation will
           be performed with an oral mirror and periodontal probe. Each sealant is classified as
           follows: Total retention of the sealant in all pits and fissures (RT). Partial retention
           of sealant in some pits and fissures (PP). Total loss of sealant in all pits and
           fissures (TP): no trace of materials is detected on the surface. The coordinator will be
           in all the evaluation follow-ups. Statistical process The Statesman informs the
           coordinator of the tooth coding and materials. Phase 2. Calibration The researcher who
           will diagnose and apply the pit and fissure sealants will be trained by a principal
           teacher the Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, calibrated in ICDAS II and in
           Minimal Intervention Dentistry. Phase 3. Pilot Study The pilot phase had the purpose of
           planning and organizing the study, measuring work time, the four-hand technique,
           preparing the materials for treatment (covering the sealants with a Kraft paper),
           recording the information and the evaluation in controls. This pilot will take place in
           the Juan Pablo Vizcardo y Guzmán School.

      ADVERSE EVENTS A. THE PROCEDURES FOR OBTAINING, RECORDING AND MONITORING ADVERSE EVENTS BY
      THE INVESTIGATOR AND THEIR NOTIFICATION TO THE SPONSOR The investigators have a registration
      form that is in annex 11 and that will be monitored at 6, 9 and 12 months, the investigators
      will be in constant communication with the school and parents and / or guardians will be able
      to communicate and this information is in the Appendix 1.It is important to remember that the
      rights, welfare and safety of research participants will always prevail over the interests of
      science and society. Therefore, study participants should be supervised and any suspected
      adverse event (AE) will be addressed by the study dentist. There is a record of adverse
      events (Annex 11), where you can record any reaction such as: dental caries, premature
      contact points and allergy. In case of an adverse event (AE); the first contact will be with
      the dentist of the responsible study who is in the province of Pichanaki. Immediate
      tele-dentistry will be done to see the problem. It will be referred within 48 hours in the
      pertinent time. in dentistry, adverse problems are considered emergencies and not
      emergencies. The sponsor, school principal, parents, ethics committee, and study
      investigators will be informed.The progress of the clinical trial will be monitored every 3
      months.
    
  