
    
      Background:

      The mainstay of therapy for newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients remains systemic
      chemotherapy. Although partial remissions of up to 60% are obtained with conventional
      regimens, multiple myeloma is essentially an incurable disease with a median survival of
      approximately 30 months.

      Allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) results in a high percentage of complete
      remissions, but it can be associated with significant treatment-related mortality, which has
      been primarily attributed to conventional myeloablative transplant regimens.

      Recent clinical studies have shown that highly immunosuppressive yet non-myeloablative doses
      of fludarabine-based chemotherapy can result in allo-engraftment. Even with a reduction in
      treatment related mortality, success with allogeneic SCT is limited by a significant risk of
      relapse.

      Donor immunization with myeloma Id in the setting of a non-myeloablative allogeneic SCT may
      represent a novel strategy for the treatment of multiple myeloma.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objectives:

      To induce cellular and humoral immunity in allogeneic stem cell donors and recipients against
      the unique idiotype expressed by the recipient's myeloma.

      To determine whether antigen-specific immunity, induced in the stem cell donor, can be
      passively transferred to the allogeneic SCT recipient in the setting of a non-myeloablative
      conditioning regimen.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To evaluate the effect of the Fludarabine-EPOCH regimen on host T cell depletion and myeloid
      depletion prior to allogeneic SCT.

      To determine the efficacy of a novel conventional chemotherapy regimen (Fludarabine-EPOCH) in
      the setting multiple myeloma.

      To determine the treatment-related morbidity and mortality of allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation using a non-myeloablative conditioning regimen in multiple myeloma.

      To determine if the re-vaccination of allogeneic stem cell donors with the unique idiotype
      expressed by the recipient's myeloma will enhance cellular and humoral immunity to patient
      specific-idiotype prior to lymphocyte donation for the treatment of patients with recurrent
      or progressive disease after transplantation.

      Eligibility:

      Patients 18-75 years of age with IgG or IgA multiple myeloma.

      Patients must have achieved at least a partial remission following initial conventional
      chemotherapy regimen or after autologous stem cell transplantation.

      Consenting first degree relative matched at 6/6 or 5/6 HLA antigens.

      Design:

      Phase 2 trial using a non-myeloablative conditioning regimen to reduce treatment-related
      toxicity.

      Recipient will undergo a plasmapheresis to obtain starting material for the isolation of
      idiotype protein. Donors would be immunized with an Id vaccine prepared from the patient.

      Prior to transplantation patients would receive a conventional chemotherapy regimen which
      contains agents active in myeloma and is T cell depleting. The allogeneic SCT would be
      performed with a conditioning regimen consisting of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine. The
      stem cell source would be blood mobilized with filgrastim. Recipients will be immunized with
      the Id vaccine following transplantation.
    
  