
    
      In recent years, many countries, including Namibia, have experienced reductions in malaria
      transmission in association with the scale-up of effective interventions and are now moving
      towards malaria elimination. In malaria control, the goal is to reduce the clinical burden of
      malaria. In malaria elimination, the aim is to interrupt transmission, and it becomes
      necessary to address not only symptomatic malaria, but also asymptomatic infections that
      contribute to transmission. Since malaria transmission is highly geographically
      heterogeneous, elimination activities should target hot spots, or areas where the risk of
      future infection is highest. Hence, in the transition from control to elimination, enhanced
      surveillance and response is necessary to target hot spots with interventions to interrupt
      transmission.

      Reactive case detection (RACD), active surveillance in communities around passively detected
      cases, is a recommended elimination strategy to identify secondary cases and hot spots.
      However, RACD can be labour-, time-, and cost- intensive, and misses people who are absent
      during screening or refuse to have their blood drawn. Furthermore, both microscopy and rapid
      diagnostic tests (RDTs) utilized in RACD have shortcomings, for instance, the suboptimal
      sensitivity of RDTs for low parasite density and non-falciparum infections. Polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR) offers markedly improved sensitivity over RDTs but requires hours of
      processing time, sophisticated technical skills, and expensive equipment. Given these
      limitations, presumptive treatment may be a more feasible and effective strategy to reduce
      and interrupt transmission.

      Reactive focal mass drug administration (rfMDA), a form of presumptive treatment, has been
      used successfully in China to overcome some of the weaknesses of RACD. rfMDA targets
      remaining reservoirs of infection in low endemic settings by treating everyone at high risk
      (subjects residing around an index case), rather than rely on RDT results, which have been
      shown to miss infections. In a low transmission setting such as Namibia, only a small
      proportion of the populations is at high risk of infection, therefore, only a small number of
      people need to be targeted (perhaps 20-50 people). Additional indoor residual spraying (IRS)
      targeted to homes in high risk locations can also be implemented.

      rfMDA is a promising strategy, but evidence does not yet exist to prove its efficacy in
      Africa. Questions remain about where to target rfMDA, what drugs to use, and whether drugs
      should be used alone or in combination with additional vector control. For rfMDA to be most
      successful, it is necessary to kill parasites in the human as well as the vector population
      of the target area. However, one challenge of pre-transmission season IRS is that it is
      difficult to predict where future infections will occur. A reactive approach, in conjunction
      with the pre-transmission approach, will ensure coverage of effective vector control in the
      highest risk areas. Further, if there is unknown resistance to the insecticide used during
      pre-transmission season, the subsequent reactive use of a different, and presumably effective
      insecticide, will provide better protection.

      In this study the investigators will utilise a cluster randomized controlled study design to
      evaluate rfMDA in response to a passively identified index case and compare it to RACD. The
      investigators will study each intervention (rfMDA, RACD) both with and without additional
      focal insecticide spraying.

      56 enumeration areas (EAs) within catchment areas of 11 study health facilities will be
      randomized to one of four intervention arms:

        1. RACD only

        2. RACD with RAVC

        3. rfMDA only

        4. rfMDA with RAVC

      A rapid reporting surveillance system will capture confirmed, passively identified cases at
      all study health facilities, and those cases will trigger an intervention by the study team
      if located in one of the study EAs.
    
  