
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the cumulative incidence of hyperglycemia after 3 cycles of treatment between
      standard or tailored rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine
      sulfate and prednisone (R-CHOP) chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the cumulative incidence of hyperglycemia after 6 cycles of treatment and at 6
      months post-treatment between standard or tailored R-CHOP chemotherapy.

      II. To compare response rates after 6 cycles of treatment as measured by Cheson's criteria
      between standard or tailored R-CHOP chemotherapy.

      III. To compare cumulative rates of grade III or higher adverse events using Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) criteria between standard or tailored R-CHOP
      chemotherapy from cycle 1 through cycle 6.

      IV. To compare severity of prednisone related adverse events using the Patient Reported
      Outcome (PRO)-CTCAE form between standard or tailored R-CHOP chemotherapy from cycle 1
      through cycle 6.

      V. To compare health related quality of life (HRQOL) between standard or tailored R-CHOP
      chemotherapy at baseline, cycle 4 day 1 and after cycle 6.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the alternative glucose measures of fasting blood glucose (FBG), hemoglobin
      A1c (HbA1c), fasting insulin and fructosamine to estimate hyperglycemia.

      II. To compare health related quality of life (HRQOL) in those with and without hyperglycemia
      after 3 cycles, 6 cycles, and 6 months post R-CHOP chemotherapy.

      III. To compare glycemic variability between the standard and tailored prednisone arms at day
      1 of each cycle IV. To determine the ability of patients in the standard or tailored
      prednisone R-CHOP groups to complete all six cycles of chemotherapy.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Participants receive rituximab intravenously (IV), vincristine sulfate IV, doxorubicin
      hydrochloride IV, and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1. Participants also receive tailored
      prednisone dose orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for
      up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Participants receive rituximab, vincristine sulfate doxorubicin hydrochloride, and
      cyclophosphamide as in Arm I. Participants also receive usual care prednisone dose PO QD on
      days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up to 5 years.
    
  