
    
      A clinical situation will often present itself where primary teeth under radiographic
      examination show inter-radicular or periapical root resorption, perforation of coronal third
      of roots and/or loss of bone support as a result of infective or inflammatory conditions.
      Pathologic root resorption is the most common cause of premature tooth loss in primary
      dentition. The reason for that may be the high content of undifferentiated mesenchymal cells,
      which may give rise to odontoclastic cells in response to either the caries process or the
      pulp-capping materials, resulting in the exaggerated inflammatory response and consequently
      internal resorption in primary teeth. It would make sense to utilize the rich supply of
      undifferentiated mesenchymal cells towards regeneration of remaining dental tissues.

      Antibiotic Mix as an intracanal medicament

      In recent years, the Cariology Research Unit of Niigata University School of Dentistry has
      developed the concept of lesion sterilization and tissue repair (LSTR) therapy that employed
      a mixture of antibacterial drugs for disinfection. Repair of damaged tissues can be expected
      if lesions are disinfected. This procedure uses a mixture of three antibacterial drugs (3Mix
      MP) as a root canal medicament to eliminate the remaining bacteria in endodontic lesions. The
      medicament consists of metronidazole, ciprofloxacin and minocycline - with macrogol (M) as
      the ointment base and propylene glycol (P) as the carrier Alone, none of these drugs resulted
      in complete elimination of the bacteria. However, in combination, these drugs were able to
      consistently sterilize all samples.

      Although a local antibiotic medication in endodontics offers many advantages, this mode has
      some drawbacks, including development of bacterial resistant strains. That is a major concern
      and may lead to the transfer of resistance genes from antibiotic-resistant to
      antibiotic-susceptible microorganisms. Other drawbacks include allergic reactions inhibition
      of angiogenesis , and tooth staining or discoloration particularly with Minocycline. More
      importantly is that although the concept of Lesion sterilization and tissue repair (LSTR)
      therapy is that it provides an efficient and predictable disinfection, through 3 Mix on a
      local level and providing the suitable environment for tissues to heal, it does not in itself
      have any anti-inflammatory nor regenerative potential. Statins may provide these two benefit.

      Choice of comparator Statins are structural analogs of HMG-CoA
      (3hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A). These drugs are the first-line for hyperlipidemia and
      it has been recognized to be a safe and low-priced drug as a result of its worldwide longtime
      usage. Moreover, statins have multiple functions including anti-inflammation, induction of
      angiogenesis and improvement of the vascular endothelial cell function. Another interesting
      and important function of statin is its effect on bone formation. It has been reported that
      several statins such as simvastatin and lovastatin have anabolic effects on bone metabolism
      at in vitro and in vivo studies. They promote mineralization in non-mineralizing osteoblasts
      through induction of BMP-2 and osteocalcin. Local application of simvastatin gel has shown to
      stimulate the regeneration of alveolar bone defects Statins have an anti-inflammatory effect.
      They act by decreasing the production of interleukin-6 and interleukin-8 and may also improve
      the function of odontoblasts, thus dentin formation.

      3 Mixstatin as an intracanal medicament

      Often, different chemicals or drugs are combination in a cocktail in an attempt to elicit
      variety of effects with a single application.

      Aminabadi et al combined the above-mentioned techniques by adding simvastatin powder to the
      tri-antibiotic mix (3Mix) and proposed the term "3Mixtatin", (an acronym of 3Mix and
      simvastatin) with the aims of suppressing bacteria, preventing pulp inflammation, and
      inducing hard tissue formation. His study population involved poor prognosis primary molars
      with advanced root resorption and/or pulpal floor perforation.

      When compared with MTA, radio graphic and clinical healing occurred more successfully
      following 3Mixtatin treatment within a 24-month study period 96.8% success rate both
      clinically and radiographically. 3Mixstatin, a previously unstudied combination was applied,
      lead to preservation of the primary teeth that were otherwise indicated for extraction
      according to current guidelines. It may lead to a paradigm shift in the treatment of primary
      teeth in the future.
    
  