
    
      Study design:

      SEACOAST 1 is a prospective, randomized, blinded endpoint trial comparing collateral vigor
      and clinical outcomes, focusing on two distinct sedation strategies:

        1. General anesthesia with mild hypercarbia (GAH) during the sedation up until full
           revascularization versus

        2. General anesthesia with normocarbia (GAN) during the sedation up until full
           revascularization

      Neuroanesthesia protocol, focused on maintenance of baseline BP, avoidance of hypotension
      during induction, and targeted partial pressure of carbon monoxide (PCO2) levels (normocarbia
      or mild hypercarbia):

        -  Anesthesia must not delay target initiation of procedure (groin puncture) of 90 min from
           ED arrival

        -  Standard American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) monitoring: 5 lead ECG, end-tidal
           CO2 (ETCO2), Pulse oximeter, BP monitor, Body temperature per esophageal probe, ET gas
           analyser

        -  Neuromuscular block (NMB) monitor for depth of neuromuscular blockade

        -  Arterial line placement is encouraged if it can be inserted within 5 min. Otherwise
           noninvasive BP per cuff. If arterial line has not been placed prior to induction monitor
           noninvasive blood pressure (NIBP) every 1 min per cuff until arterial line becomes
           available.

        -  BP goals - keep at baseline with goal of no more than 10% drop (last recorded BP prior
           to induction) and cannot exceed 185/105 if patients received intravenous tissue
           plasminogen activator (IV TPA).

           *BP can be lowered to desired goal only after revascularization as deemed necessary by
           the neurointerventional physician

        -  Induction with propofol or etomidate and rocuronium 1.2 mg/kg or succinylcholine

        -  Short acting vasoactive drugs (Phenylephrine, Ephedrine, Esmolol, Clevidipine) should be
           readily available to maintain BP in the predefined range throughout procedure.
           Phenylephrine drip recommended to maintain BP

        -  Anesthesia maintenance with volatile anesthetic and fentanyl; doses to be titrated to BP
           per anesthesiologist

        -  Qualitative end-tidal CO2 (ETCO2) measurement

        -  Immediately upon groin puncture interventionalist will provide blood gas sample to test
           arterial C02

      A. Normocarbia arm:

      Controlled ventilation with PCO2 levels 40 (±5%)

      B. Mild hypercarbia arm:

      Controlled ventilation with PCO2 levels 50 (±5%)

        -  Normalize PCO2 levels to 40 (±5%) immediately after adequate revascularization (TICI 2B)

        -  Baseline arterial blood gas values for correlation/correction with PCO2 level detected
           on ETCO2 measurements

        -  Mandatory extubation attempt within 60 minutes after procedure completion. Reasons for
           failed extubation should be documented
    
  