
    
      Consistent with NIMH strategic priorities, neural targets that account for individual
      differences are needed for the next generation of mental health interventions. Misophonia,
      the inability to tolerate certain aversive repetitive and common sounds, is gaining rapid
      recognition as a debilitating condition that is not currently well understood and for which
      interventions do not yet exist. In order to align research efforts to understand and treat
      misophonia with NIMH priorities, the investigators propose to conduct an experimental study
      that differentiates the neural circuitry of misophonia-induced distress from other types of
      emotional distress, and that begins to identify the optimal neural target for possible
      interventions. Noninvasive neurostimulation (i.e., the purposeful modulation of neural
      circuitry), such as repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), is a powerful tool
      which can modulate neuronal activation and can be used to examine the responsiveness of
      neural circuits to intervention. Therefore, for this project, the investigators bring
      together a multidisciplinary team of researchers with expertise in misophonia, neuroscience,
      neuromodulation, biostatistics, and neurology with the aims to: (1) differentiate the brain
      circuitry dysfunction in misophonia compared to non-misophonia emotional distress and (2)
      identify the optimal intervention target for changing misophonic distress using rTMS. The
      investigators propose to recruit adults who self-report significant misophonia symptoms and a
      comparison group of adults who meet criteria for a current psychiatric disorder and who
      self-report high emotional dysregulation. Those who have contra-indications for MRI or rTMS
      will be excluded. All participants will undergo an MRI session during which misophonic cues;
      aversive, non-misophonic cues; or neutral cues will be presented. Participants will be asked
      to listen only or listen and attempt to downregulate emotions associated with these cues.
      Functional MRI (fMRI) analysis will then be performed to define two personalized
      neurostimulation targets defined as the region in the frontal cortex that is the most (1)
      activated during emotion regulation and (2) connected to the anterior insular cortex (AIC)
      during emotional experiencing. Participants will be assigned to receive active or sham
      neurostimulation over target 1 and target 2 in a random order, while engaged in listening to
      versus downregulating misophonic, aversive, or neutral cues. The investigators plan to employ
      excitatory neuromodulation to examine the effects of enhancing prefrontal cortex activation
      during emotion regulation. The investigators also plan to employ inhibitory neuromodulation
      to examine the effects of inhibiting AIC activation during listening only without efforts to
      regulate emotional distress. The investigators plan to assess emotional dysregulation,
      psychopathology, and misophonia with a multi-method battery of measures during all three
      study appointments. Feasibility and acceptability will be examined qualitatively. The
      investigators will use results from this study to design larger trials and to seek federal
      funding with the ultimate goal of designing an effective misophonia intervention. If
      successful, our study can be the first step in a series of investigations that establish the
      unique targets for neural intervention for misophonia.
    
  