
    
      Fibromyalgia is a disease characterized mainly by generalized pain, with great repercussion
      in the patient's quality of life as well as in his work and social performance. There are
      different therapies that have not been totally effective for the management of this
      pathology, for that reason it is necessary to look for cost-effective options and the reach
      of all the patients to obtain remission of the symptoms.

      Fibromyalgia affects 1-4% of the general population, patients manifest chronic pain and other
      comorbidities such as sleep disorders, fatigue, depression, psychological stress and
      cognitive disturbances. It is a significant cause of loss of employment and disconnection
      from the social environment.

      A longitudinal, prospective, randomized study with patients diagnosed with Fibromyalgia will
      be performed at the outpatient clinic of the Rheumatology Service at the University Hospital
      "Dr. José Eleuterio González "of the Autonomous University of Nuevo León.

      DEFINITION OF VARIABLES

      Dependent variable:

      Vitamin D levels Conceptual definition: it is considered as pro-hormone, its active
      metabolite 1-25-dihydroxyvitamin D functions as a hormone since it has its own receptors
      found in all human cells.4 Operational definition: Normal levels> 30-100 ng / ml, 10-30 ng /
      ml insufficiency and a deficit <10 ng / ml as defined by the laboratory.19 Measurement scale:
      qualitative.

      Independent variables:

      Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ) Conceptual definition: a questionnaire that assesses
      the impact of FM in physical capacity, the possibility of doing the usual work and, in the
      case of performing a paid work, the degree to which FM has affected this activity as well As
      subjective items very related to the FM picture (pain, fatigue, tiredness and stiffness) and
      emotional state (anxiety and depression).

      Operational definition: consists of three domains functionality, global impact and
      symptomatology. It consists of 10 items. The first is the only one containing several
      sub-items (a-j), in number of 10, each with a rank of 4 points (from 0, always, to 3, never)
      according to a Likert scale.

      This item evaluates the functional capacity of the patient through questions about activities
      related to daily life: buy, drive, etc. The second and third items correspond to numerical
      scales that refer to days of the week: the second on a scale from 1 to 7, and the third from
      1 to 5. The rest of the items are valued using analog visual scales (EVA) From 0 to 10.

      Type of variable: Quantitative dichotomous.

      Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) Conceptual definition: approach used to measure pain. In one line
      the patient scores a point that best describes the intensity of his pain.

      Operational definition: a scale that allows to measure the intensity of pain, draws a line
      that divides from 0 to 10, on the left corresponds to the use of pain with the number 0, on
      the right is the maximum degree of pain corresponds to 10 .

      Type of variable: quantitative

      Other variables:

      Age Conceptual definition: Time that has lived a person counting since birth. Operational
      definition: Age expressed in years according to the clinical file. Type of variable:
      quantitative.

      Gender Conceptual definition: set of people or things that has common general
      characteristics.

      Operational definition: male and female according to the clinical file. Type of variable:
      Qualitative.

      C-reactive protein (CRP) Conceptual definition: plasma protein or acute phase reactant that
      rises during inflammatory processes.

      Operational definition: it was considered elevated when its levels exceeded 1 mg / dl as it
      marks the laboratory. It was taken as positive or negative according to this commented level.

      Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) Conceptual definition: acute phase reactant, measures
      the time it takes erythrocytes to fall or decant in a period of time. It is elevated in
      inflammatory, infectious and neoplastic processes.

      Operational definition: elevated ESR levels were considered according to the formula adjusted
      for age in men = age / 2, for women = age + 10/2.

      MEASUREMENT TOOLS

      Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ) Questionnaire that measures the impact that
      Fibromialgia has on the daily life of the patient. It is responsible for evaluating three
      items: functionality of the subject, overall impact of the disease and symptomatology. It was
      developed in 1980 by Drs. Carol Burckhardt, Sharon Clark and Robert Bennett Portland, Oregon
      USA. Published 1991, revisions 1997 - 2002 - 2009. It is one of the most used tools for
      evaluation of patients with FM. It consists of 10 items. The first is the only one containing
      several sub-items (a-j), in number of 10, each with a rank of 4 points (from 0, always, to 3,
      never) according to a Likert scale. This item evaluates the functional capacity of the
      patient through questions about activities related to daily life: buy, drive, etc. The second
      and third items correspond to numerical scales that refer to days of the week: the second on
      a scale from 1 to 7, and the third from 1 to 5. The rest of the items are valued using visual
      analogue scale (VAS) From 0 to 10. It was validated by Monterde in 2004.

      Visual Analog Scale (VAS) Scale that allows to measure the intensity of pain, draws a line
      that divides from 0 to 10, on the left corresponds to the use of pain with the number 0, on
      the right is the maximum degree of pain corresponds to 10.

      Mini Neuro-Psychiatric Interview It is a brief and highly structured interview of the major
      psychiatric disorders of ICD-10 and DSM-IV. It was elaborated by Y. Lecrubier et al. Of the
      "Salpétrére" of Paris and D. Scheehan et al. Of the University of Tampa Florida in 1992, 1994
      and 1998. It serves to diagnose depressions, phobias, suicides, generalized anxiety
      disorders, agoraphobia, substance abuse or dependence. A tool of great utility in primary
      care.

      SAMPLE SIZE:

      According to Young's nomogram for sample size calculation for controlled clinical trials
      (with an alpha of 0.05 and statistical power of 0.8), the sample size (including a 20% to
      compensate for possible losses) by study group is : 80 patients.

      SAMPLING TECHNIQUE:

      Patients were selected using a non-probabilistic sampling technique for consecutive cases.

      STATISTIC ANALYSIS:

      The t-test for independent samples and logistic regression will be used to evaluate the
      effect of the independent variables on the dependent variable. A value of p ≤ 0.05 shall be
      considered significant. The statistical package SPSS version 17.0 for Windows 7 will be used.

      METHODS Allocation method: Consecutive incident patients will be included, those eligible for
      the study will be assigned to treatment groups using a pre-established allocation table,
      which was generated in the randomization module of the True Epistat statistical program.

      DESCRIPTION OF THE STUDY

        1. Four visits are planned for the evaluation of subjects.

        2. At the first visit, the subjects attend the consultation 12 of the Department of
           Rheumatology at the University Hospital "Dr. José Eleuterio González "where they are
           evaluated by a rheumatologist to confirm the diagnosis of Fibromyalgia according to the
           criteria of the American College of Rheumatology of 1990 and 2010. The Fibromyalgia
           Impact Questionnaire (FIQ) will be applied at baseline and the Visual Analog Scale
           (VAS).

        3. Once the diagnosis of Fibromyalgia has been made, at the same first visit, a joint
           ultrasound will be performed by Rheumatologist expert in the field, in order to evaluate
           the presence of synovitis only in those patients with Primary Fibromyalgia.

        4. All patients included in the Fibromyalgia Diagnostic Study will continue with their
           standard established treatment for the disease and may receive salvage treatment for
           pain management if they so require.

        5. On the second visit, 15 ml of blood sample will be taken through venipuncture. 4ml of
           serum will be stored in aliquots of 0.5mL each in a freezer at -80 ° C located in the
           laboratory of the Rheumatology Service, in order to determine basal levels of vitamin D.
           Levels of c-reactive protein and Sedimentation to correlate them with the clinical data
           of inflammation obtained to the interrogation. We will determine levels of serum calcium
           to rule out the possibility of hypercalcemia at the start of the study and as a safety
           measure. In the case of clinical suspicion of Fibromyalgia secondary to rheumatoid
           arthritis, the study of rheumatoid factor and anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide
           antibodies will be carried out. The Mini-Neuro-psychiatric Interview will be applied by
           an expert Psychiatrist from the UANL, previously trained to perform this task.

        6. At the second visit, subjects will be randomized to placebo or 50,000 international
           units of Vitamin D3 weekly for 12 weeks. It should be noted that neither the
           Rheumatologist who performed the Fibromyalgia diagnosis nor the person who will be
           responsible for providing the placebo or the vitamin will know the contents of the
           capsules. A double-blind study is planned.

        7. At week 6 of the study a telephone call will be made to all patients to assess adverse
           effects.

        8. The third visit will be performed at week 12 of the study, subjects from both groups are
           again assessed through the FibromyalgiaImpact Questionnaire (FIQ) and Visual Analogue
           Scale (VAS). A 15 ml blood sample will be taken to determine vitamin D levels as well as
           serum calcium levels for monitoring adverse effects.

        9. After completing 12 weeks of vitamin D supplementation or placebo as appropriate. All
           subjects in the placebo group will have the option of receiving vitamin D3
           supplementation 50,000 IU orally in capsules per week for 12 weeks and then on a fourth
           visit they will be given a 15ml blood sample to measure vitamin D levels. It means that
           the study will be opened to know the subjects who received placebo after having
           completed the first twelve weeks. The blood samples obtained will be stored in the
           Laboratory of the Department of Rheumatology only during the duration of the study.

      DATA COLLECTION SYSTEM A patient file will be included (Case report form). Finally, the data
      will be transferred to the database and analyzed with the SPSS program for Windows 7 version
      17.0.
    
  