
    
      This is a prospective case-control study validating Pregnancy Unique Questionnaire of Emesis
      (PUQE) in a Norwegian population. The questionnaire has been translated from English to
      Norwegian by authorized translators. The Norwegian questionnaire's title is Svangerskaps
      Utløst Kvalme Kvantifisering (SUKK). The Norwegian version has been independently
      back-translated to English. The back-translated version has been approved by the original
      author Gideon Koren.

      The primary objective is to evaluate if the questionnaire score is significantly different
      between a group of presumed healthy pregnant woman and a group of patients hospitalized with
      hyperemesis gravidarum.

      The women will also fill in a self-reported 24-hours nutritional intake diary and this will
      be related to the Pregnancy Unique Questionnaire of Emesis (PUQE)score. For patients
      hospitalized with hyperemesis gravidarum the Pregnancy Unique Questionnaire of Emesis
      (PUQE)score both at admission and discharge will be compared.

      Background clinical information for both groups at enrollment will be recorded as well as
      pregnancy outcome for woman and child.

      The study has been approved by the Institutional Board as well as the Norwegian Regional
      Ethical Committee (REK Norway). Women will be included after giving informed written consent.
      Data will be stored electronically, anonymised, at a designated research server in accordance
      with the institutional research rules.

      The sample size have been determined on basis of a similar study evaluating different
      nutritional status in emesis and hyperemesis patients, using 20 patients in each group. We
      aim to include 30 patients in each group.

      Patients with diagnose of Hyperemesis gravidarum admitted form 1st of May 2013 will be
      consecutively asked to participate. Control patients will be recruited by invitation at
      primary care facilities or private out-patient gynaecologists.

      Statistical analyses will be performed using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences
      (SPSS). Categorical variables will be compared using Chi-square test and continuous variables
      by non-parametric tests. Paired test will be used when comparing Pregnancy Unique
      Questionnaire of Emesis (PUQE)scores sequentially from admittance to discharge.
    
  