
    
      Patient selection Two hundred and sixteen of 245 patients (119 women and 97 men) aged 18-65
      years were incorporated in this research while 29 were excluded as not meeting the inclusion
      criteria. (Fig. 1). Sample size estimate was achieved according with a method for this
      specific purpose (Cochran's method, 1986). Therefore, the 56 teeth allocated to each group
      were adequate to confirm an essential sample size.

      For hand instrumentation, the Balanced Force technique was used. All root canals were shaped
      with hand Flex-R files (Moyco/Union Broach, York PA, USA). Gates-Glidden drills (Dentsply
      Maillefer) sizes #2 and #3 were used at the orifice of the root canals. For mechanical
      preparations, all instruments were used with a micro motor (VDW Silver Motor, VDW, Munich
      Germany). Torque and rotation were preset for each Reciproc or WaveOne instrument. Rotary
      Ni-Ti instruments were used in continuous brushing rotary motion and reciprocating mode
      respectively.

      Dentinal debris was eliminated from the file with a gauze, instantaneously to the instrument
      change (WaveOne) or after 2-3 in-and-out (pecking) movements (Reciproc) following the
      manufacturers' recommendations. Each root canal was irrigated with 2.5mL 2.6% NaOCl.
      Irrigation was performed using a 24-gauge needle (Max-I-Probe; Tulsa Dental, York, PA) and a
      31-G NaviTip needle (Ultradent Products Inc, South Jordan, UT) when reaching the WL after
      each instrument insertion.

      Group BF. For the Balanced Force group, the root canals were shaped and shaped using a #40
      instrument for thin or curved canals and a #55 file for wide canals.

      Group WON. For the WaveOne group, a file size 25/.08 was used to prepare narrow, straight and
      curved canals, and a file size 40/.08 was used for large and wide canals.

      Three in-and-out pecking motions were used with an amplitude of not more than 3 mm until
      reaching the estimated working length.

      Group REC. The R25 (size 25/ .08) instrument was used in thin and curved root canals, and R40
      files (40/ .06) were used in wide root canals. Three in-and-out pecking motions were used
      with an amplitude of not more than 3 mm until reaching the estimated working length.
    
  