
    
      1. Background

           One out of three adult females suffer from daily urinary incontinence. Two thirds of
           urinary incontinence is physical activity-related stress urinary incontinence (SUI). If
           the first-line treatment for SUI, training of pelvic floor muscles, is insufficient,
           treatment options are suburethral sling operation or transurethral bulking injection.

           Tension-free Vaginal Tape (TVT) is considered the gold standard for the treatment of
           SUI1. TVT operation is an effective treatment with efficacy as high as 90%. TVT
           performed by an experienced operator carries a very low risk of serious complications.
           Following complications rates have been reported after TVT: bladder perforation 3,8%,
           urinary tract infection 4,1%, complications requiring laparotomy 3,4%, complete
           postoperative urinary retention 2,3% and minor voiding difficulties 7,6%. All these
           complications or side effects occur in up to 20 - 30% of the patients. Long-term effects
           of TVT are still unclear and complications such as vaginal erosion or urinary tract
           protrusion of the tape are concerning.

           Bulking agents create an artificial mass into the urethral submucosa and according to
           hypothesis improve urethral coaptation and restore continence especially when abdominal
           pressure is increased. It has also been suggested that midurethral injection therapy may
           increase the central filler volume and consequently increase the power of the urethral
           sphincter. Several different agents have been used for periurethral and transurethral
           injections, e.g. collagen, ethylene vinyl alcohol, hyaluronic acid and polyacrylamide
           hydrogel (PAHG). However, some of these agents have been abandoned due to safety issues.

           In Nordic countries Polyacrylamide hydrogel (PAHG) is nowadays used for urethral
           injections. PAHG is biocompatible, non-biodegradable, non-allergenic, non-migrational,
           atoxic, stable, and sterile. Urethral bulking therapy is minimally invasive in nature
           and treatment doesn't require hospitalization. Procedure can be performed under local
           anaesthesia.

           The efficacy of PAHG-injections in treating stress urinary incontinence has varied from
           64% to 74% depending on the treated patient group. Urethral injections have a lower risk
           of complications than TVT-operation and PAHG has shown a very low risk of serious
           adverse events. Bulking therapy has no negative effect in terms of possible subsequent
           midurethral sling operation.

           Cochrane review on urethral injection therapies concluded that injection therapies are
           inferior to surgery at 1-year follow-up but have a better safety profile. However, the
           objective outcome and effect of the treatment are not necessarily equal to patient
           satisfaction and improvement in quality of life (QOL). A study by Corcos et al.
           comparing surgery and collagen injections for treatment of SUI showed significantly
           better outcome in 24-hour pad test for women treated with surgery compared to those
           treated with collagen injections but no difference in patient satisfaction and QOL at 12
           months between the two groups. Number and severity of complications were much greater in
           the surgery group. A questionnaire study assessing treatment acceptability and treatment
           expectations in women with lower urinary tract symptoms, showed that patients have a
           general preference for less invasive therapy even with the cost of lower success rate.

        2. Hypothesis and aims of the study

           Randomized studies comparing urethral injection treatment and TVT are missing. There was
           no significant difference in patient satisfaction after urethral injections with
           collagen and surgery. Surgical group in this study consisted of treatment with sling
           operation, Burch procedure or needle bladder neck suspensions. While there are no
           comparative studies between TVT and Bulkamid®, the knowledge about cost-effectiveness
           and patient satisfaction is missing.

           This prospective randomized study compares TVT and Bulkamid®-injections in treatment of
           SUI.

        3. Materials and methods

      Subjects included in this study are women suffering from such a stress urinary incontinence
      that a non-conservative treatment is planned. They have to be willing to participate in the
      study.

      Patients are given oral and written information on the study and randomized into two groups
      undergoing either TVT-Exact® or Bulkamid®.

      Study Flow:

        1. Randomization before treatment

        2. Treatment (Bulkamid or TVT exact)

        3. Phone call contact after 1 month

        4. Second Bulkamid-treatment if necessary within 3 months after first treatment

        5. 3 months follow-up visit and decisions about secondary treatment if necessary

        6. (Secondary) TVT treatment at least 3 months after follow-up visit (or Bulkamid treatment
           following primary TVT-treatment)

        7. One-year follow-up visit and decisions about further treatments if necessary
           (re-Bulkamid/TVT?)

        8. Questionnaires 2,3 and 4-years after treatment, mail contact

        9. 3-year follow-up visit offered

       10. 5-year follow-up visit

      Examinations before treatment:

        -  2-3 day micturition diary and standardised questionnaire forms assessing symptom
           distress (UDI-6, IIQ-7) and the impact of urinary incontinence on quality of life and
           sexual function (RAND-36, PISQ-12)

        -  Patient's estimation of the distress caused by SUI (VAS scale 0= no distress to 10= very
           much distress)

        -  Exclusion of urinary tract infection (sample 2-3 weeks before treatment)

        -  Physical examination: cough stress test and PVR measurement by ultrasound, exclusion of
           pelvic organ prolapse and large uterine myomas

        -  Urodynamics, if needed to confirm diagnosis

        -  A stress pad test described by Svenningsen et al.20 (Pad weighing after 20 jumping jacks
           on the spot and three forceful coughs in the standing position with 300 ml bladder
           volume. To women unable to perform the test it was modified version to 10 coughs in the
           standing position).

      Examinations after the treatment:

        -  Post-void residual urine volume (if <150ml patient will be discharged)

        -  Pain in VAS scale (0=no pain to 10= worst possible pain the patient can imagine)

        -  Question of: would the patient recommend the treatment to a good friend?

        -  Was the pain during treatment: as the patient expected, less, worse?

      Examinations on follow-up visits (3 months, 1 year, 3 years, 5 years):

        -  Gynecological examination (with ultrasound)

        -  Cough stress test with 200 to 250 filling in the bladder

        -  Stress PAD test described earlier

        -  PVR measurement

        -  Exclusion of urinary tract treatment to patients with failed response or symptoms of
           infection

        -  Questionnaires (RAND-36, UDI 6, IIQ-7)

        -  Pain in VAS scale

        -  Satisfaction to treatment in VAS scale

        -  Question of: would the patient recommend the treatment to a good friend?

        -  The length of sick-leave after the operation, possible other visit to other health care
           providers

        -  Analysis of the efficacy of the treatment against stress urinary incontinence in
           categories: fully recovered, partly recovered, no change, worse symptoms, cannot answer.

      The surgeon, who performed the procedure, will not perform follow-up visits.Questionnaires
      (RAND 36, UDI-6, IIQ-7, PISQ-12) will be collected from the patients two to four years after
      treatment via mail. Also above mentioned analysis of the efficacy of the treatment and
      further questions on possible incontinence are collected.

      The analysis of possible adverse events (complications) of the treatment will be performed
      during the operation and after it during the whole follow-up time. The adverse effects will
      be categorized as related to the treatment, possibly related to the treatment and not related
      to the treatment.

      TVT treatment

      TVT will be performed under local anesthesia (70 - 100 ml 0.25% prilocain cum epinephrine)
      with i.v. pain medication phentanyl two doses and more on request. Operation will be
      performed with TVT-Exact® kit. Operation can be performed policlinically or in an operation
      theatre depending on the patient's medical condition. Cystoscopy will be performed after the
      set of tapes. A cough stress test with 250 to 300 ml bladder fulfillment will show the right
      tension of the tape. Before the operation a prophylactic antibiotic of Cefuroxime 1.5 g i.v
      will be given (Dalacin 900 mg i.v in cases of allergy to penicillin). The patient can go home
      after 2 to 4 hours follow-up, when PVR is under 150 ml. A sick leave of 5 days is
      recommended.

      All used medications, the duration of treatment, follow-up time and the time when patients
      leave the hospital are written down as well as the onset of urination. Pain is asked in VAS
      scale 0 to 10 (maximal and total VAS) and the patient's are asked to describe, whether the
      pain during treatment was as expected/less/more.

      Bulkamid®- injections

      Urethral injections will be performed policlinically under local anesthesia (10 ml lidocain,
      two injections on both sides of the urethra). The Bulkamid-injections will be transurethral
      four injections (0.2 - 1ml) in locations "ten, two and five and seven o'clock" within 0.5 to
      1 cm from the bladder - urethra junction.

      Additional injections will be avoided and can be injected only if the first injections fail.
      After the operation the patient urinates to empty the bladder. The PVR is checked after the
      treatment with ultrasound simultaneously with evaluation of stability of the
      Bulkamid-injections. The treatment will be photographed as before and after still pictures
      for later evaluation.

      All used medications, the duration of treatment, follow-up time and the time when patients
      leave the hospital are written down as well as the onset of urination. Pain is asked in VAS
      scale 0 to 10 (maximal and total VAS) and the patient's are asked to describe, whether the
      pain during treatment was as expected/less/more.

      If the given treatment fails to treat stress urinary incontinence or stress urinary
      incontinence returns after a while, a TVT- or Bulkamid®-operation can be (re-)performed after
      the follow-up visit. The primary treatment after one Bulkamid®-injection is a secondary
      injection after follow-up visit. Bulkamid® injections do not interfere subsequent TVT
      operation and vice versa.

      Re-injections of Bulkamid will be done in basis of "filling up the gaps" after primary
      treatment. In other words they are done according to the situation seen during second
      treatment. The treatments are photographed before and after (still pictures).

      Sample size

      The study will be conducted as a non-inferiority trial based on patient satisfaction rates.
      The patient satisfaction rate of VAS scale ≥80 was assumed in 80% and 75% of the TVT- and
      Bulkamid-patients. If there is a true difference in favour of the standard treatment of 5%,
      then 192 patients (96 per group) are required to be 80% sure that the upper limit of a
      one-sided 95% confidence interval will exclude a difference in favour of the standard group
      of more than 20%. A 10% dropout rate was assumed and 212 women were planned to randomize
      (1:1) in this study.

      Randomization numbers

      The randomization numbers will be generated before the onset of the study and sealed in
      opaque envelopes. Randomization will performed using a computer-assisted random block system
      (R Development Core Team, 2006, Greg Snow, 2006) with permuted randomization for random block
      clinical trials. Random blocks of 4 to 6 women were used. Altogether 250 random numbers will
      be generated.

      Time schedule

      The enrollment of the patients will be done within the end of year 2017. Primary follow-up
      and reporting of first outcomes will happen within 2018.

      Ethical reason

      The effectiveness or complications of operations for stress urinary incontinence have been
      shown, but a randomized comparison of TVT and urethral injection is missing. Therefore this
      study is needed. This study will also provide information about the cost-effectiveness and
      patient satisfaction of these treatments. This is a comparison between a more effective TVT
      operation that has a higher risk for complications and a probably less effective, but safer
      Bulkamid®- injections. TVT operation can be performed after Bulkamid® treatment and Bulkamid®
      injections do not interfere the subsequent TVT treatment.
    
  