
    
      The data and information collected for each patient will initially be extracted through the
      setting of filters that are specific for date and type of surgical procedure, on the data
      management system for surgery of the Arcispedale S.Anna (Ormaweb). Subsequently, for patients
      who meet the inclusion criteria, the data collection will be implemented by evaluating
      discharge letters, radiological and pathological reports relating to the analysis of the
      surgical specimen, contained in the management program of the data (SAP network) of the
      Arcispedale S.Anna di Cona and, if necessary, the digitized archive of the medical records of
      the Archispedale S.Anna will be queried to analyze the medical records relating to the
      hospitalization during which the patient underwent surgery. The radiological examinations of
      the patients, in particular the Computed Tomography of the abdomen, will be further analyzed
      using specific software for the analysis of the density and muscle conformation of the psoas
      muscles in order to evaluate the state of sarcopenia and extrapolate the indices related to
      psoas muscle density, psoas index, and total psoas area.

      The following data about each patient will be collected:

        -  demographic variables as age at the time of surgery, sex, weight, height and BMI, weight
           loss in the 3-6 months prior to surgery, performance status, ASA score (American Society
           of Anesthesiologists score) also malnutrition scores according to MUST indexes
           (Malnutrition Universal Screening Tool) and NRS 2002 (Nutrition Risk Screening 2002)
           will be taken into account.

        -  Pre-existing or intercurrent comorbidities aimed at formulating the comorbidity score
           according to the Charlson Comorbidity Index; and frailty according to the 11 items of
           the Frailty Index (arterial hypertension, vascular disease, heart disease, vascular
           encephalopathy or previous transient ischemic attack, diabetes mellitus, inflammatory
           bowel disease, chronic pulmonary obstructive disease , renal or hepatic insufficiency,
           neurological or haematological diseases).

        -  Radiological characteristics of the patient (distance between the anterior-superior
           iliac spines, density, size and area of the psoas muscles considered at L4 vertebra
           level) for the constitution of indices of sarcopenia (Bilateral average density of the
           psoas muscles in HU, Hounsfield Unit Average Calculation , Total psoas area and Psoas
           Index).

        -  Characteristics of the surgery (date of surgery, duration in minutes, type of surgery,
           peri-surgical antibiotic prophylaxis, incision time, any intraoperative complications
           reported in the official operative document).

        -  Characteristics of the postoperative hospital stay (duration, complication according to
           the Clavien-Dindo scale and its possible treatment, date of death or follow-up and time
           elapsed since surgery).

        -  Definitive histological examination including macroscopic and microscopic description of
           the specimen, classification according to TNM score (Tumour, Node, Metastasis), number
           of lymph nodes removed).

      The scales used to evaluate the malnutrition scores, comorbidity and frailty scores and the
      sarcopenia indices are the following:

        -  CCI (Charlson Comorbidity Index): score used for the assessment of comorbidities

        -  11-items FI (Frailty Index): score used for the assessment of frailty

        -  M.U.S.T. (Malnutrition Universal Screening Tool) and NRS-2002 (Nutritional Risk
           Screening): scores used to define the state of malnutrition

        -  Scores used to define the state of sarcopenia with the aid of the PACS Carestream
           program.

      Average density of psoas muscles = [right psoas muscle density (HU) + left psoas muscle
      density (HU)] / 2 HUAC (Hounsfield Unit Average Calculation) = [(right psoas area * density)
      + (left psoas area * density)] / total psoas area PI (Psoas Index) = (right psoas area in cm2
      + left psoas area in cm2) / height in m2 TPA (Total Psoas Area) = (right psoas area + left
      psoas area) / BSA (body surface area) BSA (m2) calculated using Mosteller's formula = (height
      (cm) x weight (kg) / 3600) ½ RPSI (ratio of psoas and iliac spines) = ratio between the
      distance between the anterior-superior iliac spines in the transverse CT projection in cm and
      the sum of the lengths of the psoas in cm calculated at the level of the same transverse
      projection.

      The data will be collected in a special electronic database respecting the privacy of the
      subjects involved; each patient will be identified by means of a unique identification code
      whose decryption is known only to the team involved in the study. Patient data and consent to
      the study will be stored in the medical office of the Surgery Unit and accessible only to
      health personnel involved in the study.

      The person responsible for storing the collected data is identified in the figure of the
      promoter of the study, Professor Gabriele Anania, Medical Director of the Surgery Unit.

      To improve the accuracy of data entry, standard automated control processes will be
      implemented (verifying that the data is in the correct format or within an expected range of
      values and consistency checks).

      The Shapiro-Wilk test will be used to verify the distributive normality of continuous
      variables. In the presence of symmetry of the distributions, the variables will be
      represented with mean and standard deviation (sd) or, in the case of non-symmetric
      distribution, with the median value and the interquantile range [1Q-3Q]; categorical data
      will be expressed with absolute and percentage values.

      For the analysis of short-term mortality, the Kaplan Meier estimator will be used to identify
      the survival curves and a Cox regression model will be estimated to identify predictive
      factors and evaluate the impact of comorbidities, frailty, state of malnutrition and
      sarcopenia.

      All analyzes will be performed using Stata 15.1 SE (Stata Corporation, College Station,
      Texas, USA). The value <0.05 was defined as statistically significant.

      In conclusion, the study will be performed in compliance with the protocol and international
      guidelines (Good Clinical Practice) and in compliance with the regulations in force on
      clinical trials. Each Investigator is therefore responsible for conducting the study in
      accordance with these guidelines.

      The current version of the Declaration of Helsinki (2013) is a reference for the ethical
      aspects of this clinical trial and will be respected by all those engaged in this research.
    
  