
    
      The most common major side effect of radiation therapy for the treatment of primary brain
      tumors is the necrosis of normal brain tissues (radiation necrosis). Radiation necrosis
      typically occurs weeks to months following treatment. The diagnosis is suspected when
      patients have new areas of gadolinium enhancement on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans.
      Tumor recurrence can also occur within weeks to months following treatment and is represented
      by new areas of gadolinium enhancement as well. As the management options for radiation
      necrosis and tumor recurrence are significantly different, distinguishing the two is of
      critical importance. Conventional MRI, diffusion-weighted MRI (DW-MRI), MR spectroscopy,
      SPECT, and PET imaging have all been used to try to make this distinction, but the
      sensitivity and specificity of these techniques have not been clinically useful. Most
      patients must therefore undergo a risky diagnostic surgical procedure. Diffusion tensor MRI
      (DT-MRI) is an imaging technique that provides information regarding both the diffusive
      properties of water as well as the directionality of water movement. A modification of
      DT-MRI, referred to as two-compartment DT-MRI, appears to be more sensitive than other
      variations of MRI for the diagnosis of selected types of brain abnormalities.

      Objective: We plan to conduct a feasibility study to determine if two-compartment DT-MRI can
      distinguish tumor recurrence from radiation necrosis.

      Study Population: Patients aged greater than or equal to twenty one years old with a prior
      diagnosis of primary brain tumor and history of radiation treatment who develop new areas of
      gadolinium enhancement on conventional MRI scans and who require surgery for diagnostic or
      therapeutic purposes will be evaluated for enrollment in this study. Ten patient controls
      will also undergo DT-MRI scans for the purpose of obtaining normative data for this
      quantitative study.

      Design: Patients who meet eligibility criteria will undergo a two compartment DT-MRI scan.
      Regions of abnormality will be identified and surgical biopsies will be obtained of these
      regions. The radiographic and histologic characteristics of the samples will be correlated.
      Volunteers will undergo DT-MRI scans only.

      Outcome Measure: The primary outcome measure of this study is the degree of agreement between
      the radiographically predicted diagnosis of tumor recurrence or radiation necrosis using
      two-compartment DT-MRI and the histologic diagnosis of such. This outcome will be measured as
      the proportion of instances in which the two modalities identify a particular lesion as being
      tumor recurrence or as being radiation necrosis. The information gathered from this study
      will allow for the implementation of a larger study with more patients if there is a high
      degree of agreement between the two compartment DT-MRI and histologic diagnoses of surgical
      biopsy specimens. The long range goal of the larger study is to radiographically diagnose
      tumor recurrence or radiation necrosis with a high enough level of sensitivity and
      specificity to avoid a diagnostic surgical procedure with its attendant risks.
    
  