
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES;

      • To determine if CE/BZA reduces proliferation as measured by Ki-67 protein expression

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To determine if CE/BZA modulates expression of ERα, progesterone receptor (PR) and human
           epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER-2).

        -  To determine if CE/BZA modulates a previously validated set of epithelial markers of
           progression.

        -  To determine if TSECs will restore expression of the stromal marker CD36 and repress
           pro-tumorigenic ECM proteins and soluble factors.

        -  To determine if a short intervention with CE/BZA results in any difference in Quality of
           Life (QOL) as it relates to menopausal symptoms in postmenopausal women with DCIS.

        -  To determine if a short intervention with CE/BZA has a favorable side effect profile
           compared with other endocrine therapy interventions using the validated Breast Cancer
           Prevention Trial Eight Symptom Scale (BESS) questionnaire.

      Exploratory Objectives

        -  To determine if CE/BZA alters expression of estrogen-modulated genes and elicits novel
           ER dependent-gene signatures in breast epithelium

        -  To demonstrate that CE/BZA does not upregulate Anterior Gradient 2 (AGR2), a marker of
           ERα agonist activity.

        -  To determine if CE/BZA will modulate some aspects of immune function as measured by a
           switch to a M2-type pro-tumorigenic macrophage signature and an immunosuppressive T cell
           signature.

        -  To determine if a short intervention with CE/BZA alters expression of estrogen-modulated
           genes and elicits novel ER dependent-gene signatures in the breast stroma.

        -  To determine if CE/BZA affects plasma concentrations of BZA in patients with the
           UGT1A1*28 gene polymorphism.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive conjugated estrogens/bazedoxifene orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 28
      +/- 7 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then
      undergo surgery.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO QD for 28 +/- 7 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo surgery.
    
  