
    
      The proposed study is designed to compare MedHub AutocathFFR measurements obtained from
      angiograms for the non-invasive determination of the presence of hemodynamically significant
      coronary lesions. The software device will run on angiograms generated during cardiac
      catheterization and results will be compared to invasive FFR measurements.

      The study is a prospective (analysis of retrospective data), multi-center, observational,
      single-arm, study.

      A total of 308 cases will be enrolled in the study. The study population who represent the
      target population for this procedure consists of subjects with stable angina, unstable angina
      or NSTEM1 who underwent a clinically indicated invasive coronary angiography and for whom
      invasive FFR have been measured in vessels with coronary lesions. For each lesion of
      interest, a minimum of two 2D angiographic projections, will be obtained. Patients of both
      genders, all ethnicities, >18 years of age will be recruited to the study. Study cases will
      be sourced from numerous hospitals in the United States and Israel.

      Investigators will screen cases based on the inclusion/exclusion criteria described below.
      General patient demographics, medical history, concomitant medications, C-arm angiography
      system used, FFR pressure wire used, etc., will be obtained for each study case.

      Subjects with known or suspected coronary artery disease who were scheduled for clinically
      indicated invasive coronary angiography (ICA) and on whom invasive FFR has been measured in
      vessels with coronary lesions will comprise the patient population. Coronary angiography will
      have been performed in a routine fashion in patients with suspected coronary artery disease.
      When clinically indicated, invasive FFR will have been measured in vessels with coronary
      lesions of varying severity using a coronary pressure wire and hyperemic stimulus.

      The patient's angiographic images will be sent to an independent Quantitative Coronary
      Arteriography (QCA) Core Laboratory, where they will be processed using the MedHub
      AutocathFFR device, by independent potential users of the device (i.e., interventional
      cardiologists). The users will use the diagnostic angiograms and upload them to the
      AutocathFFR device, to generate the AutocathFFR value. The independent users will be blinded
      to the software device-generated FFR results and to the invasive FFR measurements. Blinding
      will be employed in the study because the primary endpoint, i.e., the scored FFR measurements
      per vessel are subject to bias by device users. Observations in patients with more than 1
      study vessel will be presumed independent. The AutocathFFR will not be used for diagnostic or
      clinical decisions. A detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) for AutoCathFFR computation
      will be provided to the QCA Core Laboratory.

      The AutocathFFR device automatically suggests and marks locations of suspicious narrowing and
      computes an FFR value for each detected area. The clinician can also select and mark manually
      locations with suspected narrowing for computing of FFR value. The clinical performance of
      AutocathFFR device depends only on the uploaded angiograms, on which the AutocathFFR results
      are presented alongside the viewed blood vessel. There is no need for user interaction with
      the system during the diagnostic angiography procedure. For example, there is no need to take
      specific orthogonal projection nor to designate or mark the blood vessels or segments. When
      the desired coronary artery is viewed on the Cath Lab monitor, the AutocathFFR measurement is
      automatically shown alongside the viewed vessel, if an area of narrowing is identified in the
      vessel. Therefore, the use of the AutocathFFR device is seamless with the angiographic
      imaging procedure and does not require any additional intervention by the cardiologist.
    
  