
    
      Schizophrenia patients (SZ) show profound and persistent cognitive deficits in attention,
      executive processing, and verbal and visuospatial memory, which persist even after psychotic
      symptoms are ameliorated. Cognitive deficits may be more important in preventing functional,
      occupational, and social recovery in SZ than other symptom domains and are not effectively
      treated by current pharmacological approaches. Alternating current stimulation (tACS) is less
      expensive than other modalities (e.g. repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation; rTMS),
      easily available, and has a good safety profile in healthy controls (HC) and SZ. The ability
      to entrain γ oscillations with 40Hz tACS, might compensate more specifically for this deficit
      in γ oscillations in schizophrenia, and, may therefore, produce more robust behavioral
      improvements in working memory and other aspects of cognition.However, no studies have looked
      at the effects of multiple daily tACS stimulation at a 40HZ γ frequency on cognitive function
      and symptoms in schizophrenia. This provides a rationale for the current study, which
      proposes to investigate the effects of 10 sessions of 40HZ tACS on cognitive functions,
      symptoms in schizophrenia.

      Active vs. sham treatment will be randomly assigned in a 2:1 fashion (A:S) in groups using
      computer generated lists. Subjects and tDCS testers or evaluators will be blind to treatment.
      Subjects will be evaluated with cognitive, symptom and functional measures at baseline,
      within 1 day ( or 2 days fro some measures) after 10 sessions, 2 weeks after 10 sessions, 1
      month after 10 sessions, and 2 months after 10 sessions.After the 1 month evaluation,
      subjects in the initial active tACS group will be randomly assigned to receive either 5
      booster sessions of either active or sham tACS ( 25 subjects each), following parameters used
      in the initial treatment. Subjects in the initial Sham group will receive 5 booster session
      Sham tACS. Participants will be scanned once prior to tACS sessions, and within 3 days after
      the 10th tACS session, using our Siemens 3T Tim Verio MRI scanner with a standard 32-channel
      phased-array head coil.
    
  