
    
      Melanoma (MM) is a common cancer affecting 11,000 new cases per year in France and the
      incidence has tripled in 30 years. It now includes young people, and is responsible for 1600
      deaths /year in France. Greater tumor thickness and delayed diagnosis are associated with
      higher mortality. Prevention and early detection on a large scale in the general population
      are effective but expensive. First-degree relatives have a greater risk of developing MM. A
      study carried out in the USA found that a biennial consultation is justified and
      cost-effective in first-degree relatives of MM patients. The best way to deliver the message
      of sun protection and screening by a dermatologist, and the reality of behavioural changes
      induced by counseling and the psychological determinants of adherence to medical skin
      examination are not fully understood.

      A pilot study performed in our center suggested the value of a short written advice provided
      for participants to give to their relatives to promote sun protection and medical skin
      examination. The participants reported a significant increase in interest in medical skin
      examination by their relatives (p=0.006), but the investigators do not know whether the
      relatives really consulted for examination.

      The aim of the multicenter cluster-randomized study is to demonstrate that a higher ratio of
      relatives will in fact consult their GP or dermatologist for skin examination in the centers
      randomized to the intervention arm, i.e advice leaflet and usual oral counselling, compared
      to the centers randomized in the control arm, i.e. usual oral counselling. Participants and
      their relatives in the intervention group will be asked to undergo psychological tests to
      identify potential barriers to skin examination and sun protection.

      If effective, the investigators expect to improve the written information and to generalize
      its distribution at national level.
    
  