
    
      The antimalarial agent hydroxychloroquine have been used widely for the treatment of
      rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus.

      Among rheumatic diseases, the primary role of HCQ is in the management of articular and skin
      manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and the treatment of mild to moderately
      active rheumatoid arthritis (RA). As a cornerstone of SLE management, HCQ leads to reduction
      in the risk of disease flare as well as providing a valuable adjunct in the therapy of lupus
      nephritis, and is a relatively safe option for t0reatment of SLE during pregnancy,It also has
      been linked to the prevention thrombosis as well as a reduced risk of permanent organ damage.
      HCQ's beneficial effects on lipid levels and reduction in the risk of diabetes .It is a
      member of the "triple therapy" triad for the treatment of RA , serving as an important
      component of the therapeutic approach in active disease. Other less common uses for HCQ
      include the treatment of palindromic rheumatism, Inflammatory cutaneous disorders, and the
      antiphospholipid antibody syndrome because of its antithrombotic effect .

      Retinal toxicity from HCQ is of serious ophthalmologic concern. Because even after the drug
      is discontinued, there is little if any visual recovery. Additionally, it has been shown that
      the retinal degeneration caused by HCQ can continue to progress. For this reason, regular
      screening for retinal toxicity is recommended to detect early retinopathy and discontinue the
      therapy.

      The exact mechanism of HCQ and CQ toxicity remains unclear. Previously, it was hypothesized
      that retinal toxicity results from binding of HCQ and CQ to melanin in the retinal pigment
      epithelium (RPE), thus damaging the overlying photoreceptors and ultimately causing vision
      loss .Whether the primary effect of antimalarials occurs at the level of the RPE versus the
      retinal photoreceptors has been debated, however, as newer imaging technology has become
      available ,Early retinal toxicity is generally asymptomatic, with subtle alterations in
      foveal pigmentation that are often not evident on routine ophthalmologic examination. As
      toxicity progresses, classic "bull's eye" maculopathy, representing a ring of parafoveal RPE
      depigmentation sparing the central fovea, may be noted. Progression leads to increasing
      visual impairment, symptomatically manifesting as decreased central vision, reduced color
      vision, reduced night vision, reading difficulties, central scotomata, flashing lights, and
      increasing visual field defects.

      Cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes play major roles in drug metabolism. Certain single-nucleotide
      polymorphisms(SNPs) in CYP genes may have a large impact on CYP enzyme activity.Polymorphisms
      in the cytochrome P450 gene might influence blood concentration.

      HCQ is metabolized to N-desethyl HCQ (DHCQ) in the liver through the N-desethylation
      pathway,This reaction is mediated by CYP 2D6, 3A4, 3A5, and 2C8 isoforms.

      some patients have a genetic predisposition to HCQ toxicity (e.g.,from abnormalities in the
      ABCA4 gene) However, in 2015 ABCA4 polymorphisms proposed that could be protective agent.
      Which is not studied previously among Egyptian population
    
  