
    
      All patients receiving an organ or tissue transplant must take special medicines known as
      "immunosuppressive drugs" in order to prevent the immune system from rejecting the
      transplant. These drugs can be very effective, but they leave the patient at an increased
      risk of serious infections and certain types of cancer. New methods of preventing transplant
      rejection are needed.

      Researchers have found that transplanting both bone marrow and a kidney from the same donor
      can create what is called "mixed chimerism." This means that the transplant recipient has a
      mixture of the donor and recipient's immune systems. It is believed that this mixture of
      immune cells can prevent rejection of the kidney. In a small prior study, performing a kidney
      transplant together with a bone marrow transplant from the same donor allowed 4 of 5 patients
      to stop taking immunosuppressive drugs altogether, without rejecting their transplant. This
      clinical trial will study more patients to confirm if the technique is safe and effective.

      Patients eligible for this study must be candidates for a living kidney transplant, and have
      an eligible donor identified. The transplant recipient and donor must both consent to
      participate in this study. Transplant recipients enrolled in the study will receive both
      kidney and bone marrow transplants from the same living donor. Prior to the transplant
      procedure, the transplant recipient will undergo a "conditioning regimen" that prepares their
      immune system for the recipient's immune (bone marrow) cells. This conditioning regimen is a
      combination of chemotherapy, radiation, immunosuppressive drugs and specialized medications
      called rituximab and MEDI-507. MEDI-507 is an investigational medication that has not been
      approved by the FDA. After the transplant procedure, transplant recipients will be prescribed
      steroids for several weeks and immunosuppressive drugs. After 2 months, the dose of the
      immunosuppressive drugs will slowly be decreased to zero in patients whose immune system and
      kidney function meet certain criteria.

      Transplant recipients enrolled into the study will be hospitalized for 1 week prior to the
      transplant procedure. After the transplant, patients will remain in the hospital until the
      doctor feels they are well enough to go home. Recipients will receive approximately monthly
      checkups over a period of 2 years after transplant, plus a checkup at 2 ½, 3, 3 ½ , 4, and 5
      years after transplant. Checkups will include physical exams, and blood and urine tests to
      assess immune system and kidney function. At four of these checkups, a kidney biopsy will be
      requested.

      Transplant donors enrolled in the study will attend a screening visit, which will include a
      physical exam, blood tests and chest x-ray. Eligible donors will be admitted to the hospital
      for 3-5 days, where bone marrow will be collected prior to removal of the kidney. Transplant
      donors may be asked at a later date to donate additional blood samples for research purposes.
    
  