
    
      Treatment guidelines for women with HIV during pregnancy and after delivery in
      resource-constrained settings changed significantly with the WHO 2013 guidelines, which
      recommended that all pregnant women with HIV should initiate triple-combination ART (Option
      B). With these guidelines, women previously eligible for life-long ART at initiation should
      continue for life, while the rest should remain on ART at least through the duration of
      breastfeeding. A related recommendation was that all pregnant women newly diagnosed with HIV
      should initiate ART as lifelong treatment. As of 2014, the Kenyan Ministry of Health (MOH)
      recommends Option B+, which includes the "immediate initiation of life-long ART in pregnant
      and breastfeeding women upon HIV diagnosis with continuous adherence support" regardless of
      CD4 count. Throughout this document, the 2014 policy is referred to as standard of care
      (SOC).

      Recognizing the barriers pregnant women newly diagnosed with HIV during antenatal care would
      face if they were referred elsewhere for HIV care and treatment, in 2005 the South Rift
      Valley PEPFAR program established a policy to integrate all HIV-related care including ART
      into PMTCT services provided at the larger MCH clinics within the region. As of 2013, this
      policy began to be implemented in the 12 largest facilities in the program accounting for
      more than 85% of women newly diagnosed with HIV during pregnancy in the region.

      As part of the standard of care, Kenya also developed the National Guidelines for PMTCT Peer
      Education and Psychosocial Support in Kenya: The Kenya Mentor Mother Program (KMMP). Mentor
      Mothers are clinic staff members who are also women living with HIV. They are trained and
      employed to be part of the clinic's medical team to provide pre-test group education
      sessions, one-on-one and couples counseling, support groups and defaulter tracing. As part of
      their routine clinic activities, Mentor Mothers obtain consent from their clients for various
      forms to follow up, including full consent for both phone and SMS follow up (or only phone
      follow up, or no follow up) as well as consent for home follow up by her or a community
      health worker.

      Successful implementation of the PMTCT services requires that: (1) pregnant women with HIV
      initiate life-long ART with minimal delay after their first ANC visit (and women already on
      ART should continue on ART); (2) they continue on treatment through delivery; (3) they
      continue on treatment after delivery and the cessation of breastfeeding (and continuing for
      life for their health); and (4) their child completes HIV testing at 6, 36, and 72 weeks so
      that they are known to be uninfected after the cessation of breast feeding. Kenya does not
      yet know if the new policy will lead to better PMTCT outcomes, much less how much better,
      than under the old policy. Information continues to be lacking in Kenya and elsewhere on the
      ability of PMTCT programs to initiate pregnant women with HIV on ART during pregnancy and
      retain them on treatment along the PMTCT cascade of care through delivery, cessation of
      breastfeeding and for the longer term. This information is largely lacking for the time
      period when countries implemented prior PMTCT policies (e.g., Option A), and such information
      does not yet exist for the new policy in Kenya.

      What information exists suggests significant room for improvement. For example, a recently
      published study from a treatment program in western Kenya, with an active outreach
      department, reported that 32% of women initiated on ART during pregnancy disengaged from
      treatment before delivery. Although the data for this study were from 2006-2009, they
      indicate the difficulties with retaining pregnant women on ART during pregnancy. Information
      on other key outcomes, such as the proportion of those eligible who actually initiated
      treatment are not reported. Another study from roughly the same region of Kenya during the
      same time period reported that 38% of women newly diagnosed with HIV during pregnancy did not
      register in the PMTCT program. In two hospitals between Kericho and Nairobi (Gigil and
      Naivasha), only 4% of women eligible for ART initiated treatment within six months of their
      HIV diagnosis.

      Some evidence suggests that integration of ART within MCH clinics improves linkage to and
      initiation of treatment. For example, a study from Zambia found that integration of PMTCT
      including ART into MCH services increased the percentage of women who initiated PMTCT care
      (44% compared to 25%) and increased the percentage of those eligible who initiated treatment
      during pregnancy (32% compared to 4%). While integration improved upon these basic outcomes,
      more than the majority of patients still did not initiate PMTCT care or initiate ART if
      eligible. Early evidence on the implementation of life-long ART for pregnant women from
      Malawi suggests that eliminating CD4 counts as an eligibility criterion might facilitate
      initiation, but some significant share may still not agree to initiate ART, and retention on
      treatment during and after delivery may remain problematic without specific attention
      directed towards these issues.

      To support effective implementation of then Kenya PMTCT SOC in the South Rift Valley, other
      regions of Kenya, and in other resource limited settings, better and up-to-date information
      remains needed on implementation as currently provided in the study region. And recognizing
      the importance of both timely initiation and retention on treatment during and after
      pregnancy, active strategies for retaining patients in care are preferable to after-the-fact
      follow up to re-engage a patient in care who previously disengaged. Thus, feasible
      programmatic interventions can support successfully implementation of the SOC and long-term
      patient care beyond pregnancy.

      The study proposed here is designed to fill this information gap and to improve
      implementation of the Kenyan PMTCT SOC. The investigators will evaluate the impacts and costs
      of an innovative strategy to improve implementation of the SOC. The strategy, called the
      Enhanced Mentor Mother ProgrAm (EMMA), provides specific structure to the use of Mentor
      Mothers within PMTCT programs. The EMMA strategy was developed in collaboration with local
      health facility and PMTCT program staff based on their experience providing PMTCT services
      within the integrated ART-MCH facilities. If successful, this approach has the potential to
      improve dramatically PMTCT service delivery and support global goals to eliminate mother to
      child transmission. This enhancement to the existing Mentor Mother program is consistent with
      the KMMP guidelines, which emphasize that "The National Guidelines do not intend to remove
      the space for creativity and innovation in these approaches. On the contrary, the MOH hopes
      to inspire ongoing dialogue about quality improvements from the clearly defined starting
      point outlined herein".
    
  