
    
      Chronic low back pain (cLBP) is common. The point prevalence of low back pain in the US is
      about 25%, and the majority of Americans will have at least one episode of low back pain in
      their lifetimes. Approximately 50% of all US Veterans have chronic pain, and cLBP is the most
      common type of pain in this population. Low back pain is the second most common condition
      leading patients to seek a physician's care. In addition, cLBP is costly. Healthcare
      expenditure for low back pain in the US is greater than $30 billion per year, and total
      expenditures including the cost of disability approach $100 billion per year. In fact, low
      back pain is the most common cause of work-related disability and is a major cause of
      service- connected disability amongst US Veterans. Making matters worse, the US is in the
      midst of a growing opioid abuse epidemic having its roots in the lack of understanding of how
      to effectively treat cLBP and other common forms of acute and chronic pain.

      Using a sequential randomized, pragmatic, 2-step comparative effectiveness study design, the
      main goal is to identify the optimal approach to cLBP treatment employing commonly
      recommended non-surgical, non-pharmacological options. Options for treatment in this trial
      were selected based on the VA's stepped-care model for the treatment of chronic pain,
      availability of treatments, controversies in current clinical practice, and the surveyed
      preferences of both Veterans with cLBP and VA healthcare providers. The implementation of
      study results has been kept closely in mind, and stakeholder input has been incorporated.

      The first step compares continued care and active monitoring arm (CCAM) to internet-based
      pain self-management (Pain EASE) and an enhanced physical therapy intervention that combines
      Pain EASE with tailored exercise and physical activity. The utility of tailored exercise
      requiring physical therapist guidance added to internet-based self-management has not been
      examined. A CCAM arm is included in this step to definitively assess the effectiveness of
      these initial treatment options. Patients failing to achieve clinically significant
      reductions in pain interference (a functional outcome) in Step 1 and those desiring
      additional treatment will be randomized in Step 2 to yoga, spinal manipulation therapy (SMT),
      or therapist-delivered cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). These options appear in consensus
      guidelines although little information is available to help patients and providers select the
      most effective option. Each option has a distinct theoretical basis for effectiveness with
      yoga described as a mind-body therapy, SMT as a technique to adjust the structural
      relationships of the spine, and CBT as a psychological or behavioral approach. While the
      literature suggests approximate clinical equipoise between these treatments, costs, side
      effects, access to specific options and patient/provider acceptance may differ significantly.
      Participants proceeding to randomization in Step 2 will be allowed to exclude up to one of
      the three Step 2 treatments based on their preferences.

      The investigators' primary hypothesis corresponding to the first treatment step is that an
      enhanced physical therapy intervention that combines pain self-management education with a
      tailored exercise program will reduce pain interference greater than internet-based pain
      self-management alone or CCAM in Veterans with cLBP. For the second step, the study has been
      powered to detect clinically meaningful pairwise differences among the three treatments. The
      primary outcome is change in pain interference at 3 months, measured using the Brief Pain
      Inventory (BPI) pain interference subscale. This is a widely accepted functional outcome in
      musculoskeletal pain trials and emphasizes an endpoint important to patients, providers and
      healthcare management systems. Study participants will be followed for one year after
      initiation of their final study treatments to assess the durability of treatment effects.

      The investigators will leverage the power of this large study and maximize its impact by
      incorporating additional outcome measures as recommended by the Initiative on Methods,
      Measurement, and Pain Assessment in Clinical Trials (IMMPACT) consortium and other pain
      trials consensus groups. These secondary outcomes include pain severity, physical
      functioning, depression, anxiety, fatigue, sleep, global impression of change, and quality of
      life. The investigators will evaluate the impact of patient characteristics, treatment
      preferences and expectations on study outcomes as these variables have been identified in
      smaller studies to modify treatment response. To derive information rapidly translatable to
      changes in VA care, the investigators will collect information critical for implementation of
      the treatment strategies under study. Key implementation factors will include treatment
      fidelity, treatment adherence, patient acceptance, provider acceptance, logistical
      feasibility, and resource requirements. Finally, a carefully designed costs and downstream
      budget impact aim will provide additional practical information for clinical managers and
      policy makers related to non-pharmacological treatments for cLBP.

      The study will involve diverse VA centers with respect to geographical region, racial
      characteristics of the population served and facility size. The study plans to randomize 2529
      patients across 20 centers. Preliminary site surveys indicate a high level of enthusiasm for
      the project. In addition, a query of the VA's Corporate Data Warehouse (CDW) identified more
      than 850,000 potential cLBP study subjects receiving regular care through VA. Twenty-five VA
      medical centers have more than 10,000 potentially eligible patients underscoring the high
      prevalence of cLBP. The investigators' pragmatic trial design will incorporate broad
      eligibility criteria.

      Chronic low back pain is an enormous problem for the VA, the United States and many other
      countries. This study will provide definitive information concerning the effectiveness,
      costs, acceptability, and implementation of several commonly used, patient-preferred,
      non-pharmacological treatment options. All the selected treatment options carry relatively
      low levels of risk, are guideline congruent, and are consistent with stepped-care models of
      healthcare delivery used by the VA and other healthcare organizations. The impact on VA
      healthcare is expected to be large and immediate.
    
  