
    
      Background: Urinary tract infections are the most frequent hospital-acquired infections. A
      majority is catheter-associated and the main risk factor is the duration of catheterization.
      Early removal is therefore a priority. Treatment with alpha-blockers in men with acute
      urinary retention due to prostatic disease increases the rate of successful early catheter
      removal. No intervention has been studied in elderly women in whom urinary retention is
      usually favored by an acute health issue. However, alpha-blockers have proved effective in
      other circumstances, as the prevention of acute urinary retention after hysterectomy and the
      treatment of chronic voiding disorders.

      Objective: To evaluate the benefit of tamsulosin for 6 days in older women hospitalized for
      an acute medical condition and experiencing urinary retention.

      Primary endpoint: Rate of failed early catheter removal (day 3), requiring placement of
      another catheter within the following 72 hours.

      Secondary endpoints: rate of hospital-acquired urinary tract infections, rate of hypotension,
      length of hospitalization.

      Design: Double-blind and multicentric randomized controlled trial (tamsulosin 0.4 mg/day or
      placebo orally for 6 days).

      Number of patients: We assume a 40% failure rate of early catheter removal in the placebo
      group. Expecting a 10% dropout rate, 448 patients need to be randomized to show a reduction
      of this rate by one third in the tamsulosin group with two-sided alpha level at 5% and beta
      level at 20%.

      Inclusion criteria: 75-year or older women hospitalized in an internal medicine or geriatric
      ward and with a bladder catheter for less than 48 hours for acute urinary retention.

      Non-inclusion criteria: chronic urinary retention; acute retention with an anatomical (pelvic
      tumor, pelvic surgery) or neurological cause (peripheral neuropathy, spinal cord compression,
      multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease); catheter placed for
      another indication (pressure ulcer protection, urine output monitoring); patients at the end
      of life; contra-indication to alpha-blockers.

      Course of the study: The patient receives a treatment dose in the evening inclusion (day 0)
      and the five following evenings. The catheter is removed after the third dose, between
      midnight and noon. The patient is followed up until day 12.

      Total time: 36 months (35 months of inclusion + 12 days of participation per patient).

      Number of participating centers: 8 Expected number of inclusions per month and center: 2-4
    
  