
    
      In this study, the investigators aim at treating different pathological conditions, resulting
      in the appearance of a septum separating a healthy pathway and a pathological pouch. Food
      then stagnate in this pouch and results in different symptoms including dysphagia, pain
      and/or regurgitation or postprandial dysrhythmia.

      Esophageal diverticula consists in the apparition of a pouch (diverticulum) alongside the
      esophagus. Some post-surgical conditions can result in the appearance of pseudo-diverticulum
      or afferent limb that transforms into a large pouch. One example is the candy cane syndrome,
      being an afferent loop syndrome post gastrectomy or post Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass, were the
      afferent limb becomes a structure similar to a large diverticulum.

      All those pathological conditions could be solved by the marsupialization of those
      (pseudo-)diverticulum. For several years, Zenker's diverticula (pharyngo-esophageal
      diverticulum) have been treated endoscopically using this technique, providing good clinical
      results. However, it is difficult to go further than the pharynx with this technique, since
      it needs specific semi-rigid tools and a stable cutting position. Hence, for further septa of
      the GI tract, the classic treatment is thoracoscopy and thoracotomy or laparoscopy and
      laparotomy, depending on the site. Those highly invasive procedures have a significant
      mortality and morbidity rate respectively of more than 5% and 20% and are liked to different
      complications including abdominal pain, port site wound infections, intraabdominal collection
      or anastomosis ulcer.

      The MAGUS device consists of a flexible catheter preloaded with a magnetic device, made of
      two magnets linked by a wire. Each magnet is attached to the catheter and can be dropped
      separately from this catheter. The magnetic device aims to create an anastomosis by means of
      compression, using magnetic force and a retractable wire pulling system. For a given septum,
      the magnets are placed on either sides of the bottom of it. The retractable wire goes then
      from one another, passing on top of the septum. Both creates compression necrosis. This
      process induces eventually a cutting of the septum.

      Once the cutting is performed, the magnets migrate and are expelled through natural ways.

      The MAGUS device is an endoscopic procedure. Above standard of care monitoring, safety
      assessment of the procedure and device performance decreases the risk and unforeseen events.
    
  