
    
      This is a multicenter, randomized, phase III, superiority study comparing standard vs
      response driven approach to maintenance. Adult patients (age ≥ 18 years) with naïve,
      untreated follicular lymphoma, stage II-IV, Follicular Lymphoma International Prognostic
      Index 2 (FLIPI2) >0 requiring a therapeutic intervention will be recruited and randomly
      assigned in a 1:1 ratio to either standard or experimental arm.

      All patients will receive the same induction therapy with 6 cycles of R-CHOP or
      R-bendamustine and 2 additional doses of Rituximab.

      At baseline patients will be assessed for molecular status and staged by means of CT scan. A
      baselineFluorine-18-Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography (FDG-PET) scan should
      also be performed.

      At the end of chemoimmunotherapy all patients will be assessed for disease response by common
      clinical and laboratory examination, CT scan and FDG-PET. An intermediate assessment of
      response with CT scan and FDG-PET (optional) will also be performed after the first four
      courses of R-chemoimmunotherapy.

      At the end of induction therapy the status of minimal residual disease will be also
      evaluated.

      After induction treatment all responding patients in the standard arm will receive standard
      maintenance therapy with Rituximab (every 2 months for 2 years), while patients in the
      experimental arm will be subdivided into two risk groups and assigned to different post
      induction treatments based on FDG-PET and MRD results. In both arms, patients with stable or
      progressive disease (PET positive and less than PR on CT scan) will be addressed to salvage
      treatment chosen at physician discretion.

      In the experimental arm, risk group allocation will be performed primarily on the basis of
      FDG-PET results:

        -  Group 1 (low risk): negative FDG-PET

        -  Group 2 (high risk): positive FDG-PET

      Patients at low risk (FDG-PET negative) will received maintenance therapy according to their
      MRD status,particularly:

        -  Group 1a (MRD negative): observation

        -  Group 1b (MRD positive): pre-emptive Rituximab therapy

      Patient at high risk (FDG-PET positive) will receive maintenance regardless of their MRD
      status:

      · Group 2: intensified maintenance ((90)Y Ibritumomab Tiuxetan + Rituximab maintenance )
    
  