
    
      A Cochrane Review was unable to show a superior antipyretic effect of paracetamol compared
      with placebo in febrile children. Recent research suggests that the time to parasite
      clearance in non-severe malaria is longer in children being given paracetamol. As the costs
      associated with the use of paracetamol is not trivial and the risk of adverse effects is not
      negligible, we want to evaluate the effects of paracetamol on:

        -  the well-being of the child;

        -  the parasite clearance time; and

        -  the recrudescence rate.

      Children presenting at Bandim Health Centre with symptoms of malaria and a malaria film
      showing mono-infection with P.falciparum will, following consent to participate, randomly be
      allocated to treatment with chloroquine and paracetamol or with chloroquine and placebo.

      Blood samples will be obtained daily for the first 4 days. The children will be visited and a
      malaria film taken on day 7 and then weekly until day 35. On inclusion and whenever
      parasitaemia is detected a capillary blood sample will be taken for PCR analyses to be able
      to distinguish re-infection from recrudescence.

      During follow-up children are recommended to present at the health centre in case of
      persistent fever or any other symptoms. Examination and treatment will be free of charge.
      Whenever a child has re-infection sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine will be used for re-treatment
      following the recommendation of the National malaria Programme.

      After the inclusion of 80 children a preliminary analysis will be performed. If 50% or more
      of the children in any of the study arms have reappearing parasitaemia the study will be
      terminated.

      If the parasite clearance time and especially the recrudescence rate is higher for children
      being given paracetamol the current recommendation from the National Malaria Programme should
      be reconsidered. If children treated with paracetamol feel better during the acute illness
      making it more likely for them to have en adequate intake of food and liquid this benefit
      should be considered in the evaluation of the current recommendations.
    
  