
    
      This study is being done to learn about inflammation in Alzheimer's disease so that the
      investigators can find out new ways to treat patients with this disease. Because Alzheimer's
      disease usually causes slow changes to the brain over time, in this study the investigators
      are going to perform different tests and then repeat some of them about two years later.

      Inflammation can be measured using a type of brain scan called a positron emission tomography
      (PET) scan. A PET scan uses very small amounts of a radioactive drug that is injected into a
      vein to create a special picture of the brain. The inflammation PET scan uses a drug called
      ER176. ER176 is an experimental drug but has been used in several human studies before. Once
      in the body, ER176 sticks to areas with lots of inflammation, and the PET scan allows us to
      see these areas.

      Inflammation can also be measured by looking at certain proteins in the spinal fluid. In
      order to measure these proteins in the spinal fluid, we need to perform a lumbar puncture
      (spinal tap). Certain genes inherited from parents influence the amount of inflammation in
      the body. The investigators can study how genes affect inflammation in Alzheimer's disease by
      doing genetic tests on blood. The investigators will also be testing blood for severe acute
      respiratory syndrome (SARS)- CoV-2 (the virus that causes COVID-19) antibodies. The
      investigators want to see if exposure to the virus that causes COVID-19 changes the amount of
      inflammation in the brain or not.

      Along with inflammation, Alzheimer's disease is also associated with the build up of the
      proteins amyloid and tau in the brain. The investigators can measure these proteins using PET
      scans. The amyloid PET scan uses a drug called florbetaben that has been approved by the FDA
      to help diagnose Alzheimer's disease. The tau PET scan uses a drug called MK-6240. Like
      ER176, MK-6240 is experimental but has been used in several human studies before.

      A brain MRI creates a high resolution picture of the brain. The brain MRI helps us get more
      information from the PET scans, and can also tell the investigators the size and appearance
      of different brain structures. When someone has Alzheimer's disease, some of these brain
      structures get smaller or have altered appearance on MRI.
    
  