
    
      Obesity has reached epidemic proportions becoming a major global public health challenge
      since it is associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease,
      stroke, arthritis and some forms of cancer. Therefore, a large number of strategies have been
      investigated in order to induce a negative energy balance and consequently body weight loss
      mainly inducing a low calorie diet and sometimes accompanied by an increase in physical
      activity. However, individual responses to body weight loss interventions vary widely and
      several studies have aimed to identify psychological, behavioral and personal predictors of
      this variability.

      In this context, the hypothesis of the present study is that part of the interindividual
      variability in relation to the success of certain weight loss treatments is based on
      gene-diet interactions. Depending on the composition of the diet and the genotype of each
      individual, it is more or less easy to reduce and maintenance body weight.

      After the recruitment and selection of the study participants, the study will consists of a
      4-month hypocaloric diet ("body weight loss period") followed by a second 6-month period
      ("body weight maintenance period") in which the subjects of the study will continue with the
      diet, but without any energy restriction. The participants will assigned to one of the two
      hypocaloric diets (-30% of the studied requirements for each individual) with different
      macronutrient composition:

        -  Moderately high protein diet: 40% of the energy derived from carbohydrates, 30% of the
           energy derived from protein and 30% of the energy derived from fat.

        -  Low fat diet: 60% of the energy derived from carbohydrates, 30% of the energy derived
           from protein and 30% of the energy derived from fat.

      A group of normal weight individuals (n 12) will be recruited in order to compare the
      different parameters obtained in the obese subjects with those of normal population. They
      will be not subjected to any intervention.
    
  