
    
      The Rakai Health Sciences Program (RHSP), Uganda, proposes an implementation science
      community- randomized controlled trial (CRCT) of a novel intervention to newly in-migrated
      individuals ("Welcome Incoming Neighbor" [WIN]), to optimize in-migrated individuals' rapid
      linkage to combination HIV prevention (CHP) services. RHSP data show that within the first 36
      months after in-migration, compared to residents, HIV-negative in-migrants are at increased
      risk of HIV acquisition and HIV+ in-migrants underutilize antiretroviral therapy (ART)
      increasing the risk of onward transmission. The theory-based WIN intervention includes
      community sensitization and community-based WIN scouts (WINs). WINs will conduct active
      community surveillance to rapidly identify and welcome in-migrants, provide the in-migrants
      with information about the availability of CHP and high rates of use by residents (to
      "normalize" uptake), utilize a motivational interviewing approach to encourage CHP adoption,
      refer in-migrants to free services, and follow-up in-migrants to assess and further encourage
      engagement in CHP. Specific Aims: Aim 1: To randomize 40 individually matched communities in
      a 1:1 ratio to the WIN intervention or control arm. In-migrants aged 15-49 in each arm will
      undergo a baseline and 2 follow-up surveys at ~18-month intervals. Study end points are CHP
      coverage rates, HIV incidence in initially HIV-negative in-migrants (n ~3,800 py per arm),
      and viral load suppression in HIV+ (n ~740 per arm). Aim 2a: To use a mixed methods approach
      (in-depth interviews, process & survey data) and RE-AIM (Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption,
      Implementation, Maintenance) to (i) guide interim intervention adaptation as necessary; (ii)
      interpret trial results; and, (iii) translate the research into future action. Aim 2b: To
      conduct cost studies to provide information on affordability and sustainability. Innovation
      and Impact: This novel intervention will rapidly engage a vulnerable priority population of
      in-migrants, to optimize CHP and HIV impact in rural Uganda.
    
  