
    
      Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is primarily designed to synchronize the mechanical
      activity of the heart. While CRT is beneficial in average, a sizable proportion of patients
      do not clearly benefit from (respond to) CRT. Whether routinely optimizing the timing between
      the atria and ventricles (AV timing) and the timing between the left and right ventricles (VV
      timing) will significantly increase the likelihood of patients benefiting from (responding
      to) CRT is unknown.

      The combination of simple and reliable measures of functional capacity (specific activity
      score [SAS] and 6-minute walk distance) with echocardiographic measures of left ventricular
      (LV) volume and ejection fraction (EF) is a practical way of defining response to CRT.

      Based on surveys, most patients receiving CRT devices do not have formal optimization of AV
      and VV timing. This is largely because the usefulness of this is questionable and significant
      resources are required to perform detailed echo measurements.

      A method for estimating optimal sensed AV (sAV), paced AV (pAV), and VV timing using
      intra-cardiac electrograms (I-EGM) has been developed (QuickOptTM) and offers a quick, simple
      and inexpensive means to optimize both CRT timing. However, the utility of QuickOptTM
      optimization is unproven.

      Primary hypothesis. QuickOpt facilitated serial optimization of sAV, pAV, and VV timing in
      the initial 9 months following successful CRT will increase the rate of clinical response and
      structural remodeling at 12 months compared to usual care. Clinical response will be defined
      as a reduction in SAS of > 1 class or a 25% or larger improvement in 6 minute hall walk
      distance at 12 months versus baseline. Structural remodeling will be defined as a 15% or
      greater reduction in left LV end systolic volume or ≥ 5% absolute improvement in echo-derived
      LV EF at 12 months versus baseline.

      Methods. Initially a sub-study of FREEDOM (NCT00418314). Now an independent trial.
      Double-blind randomized comparison of serial QuickOpt optimization of sAV, pAV, and VV timing
      (QuickOpt) versus usual care (Usual) in patients with highly symptomatic heart failure
      undergoing CRT implantation. Stratification by etiology of LV dysfunction will be undertaken.
      Serial optimization of sAV, pAV, and VV timing will be performed in the QuickOptTM group
      immediately post-randomization, and at 3, 6, and 9 months post-randomization. Final outcome
      will be assessed at 12 months post-randomization.

      Statistical aspects. 450 patients (225 / group) will provide 85% power to detect a 15%
      absolute improvement in the rate of response to CRT with QuickOptTM versus usual care. The
      proportion of responders will be compared using a Mantel-Haenszel stratified analysis
      adjusted for lead position (anterior versus non-anterior) and using an intention-to-treat
      analysis.

      Overview. Up to 50 sites in Canada, Europe, Asia and the United States will enroll patients
      over 36 months. Countries presently enrolling patients include: Canada, the United States,
      Switzerland, Italy, Belgium, Denmark, Austria, France, Spain, the United Kingdom, the
      Netherlands, China, Hong Kong and Japan.
    
  