
    
      EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

      Background: In patients who have had a myocardial infarction (MI) and coronary disease,
      guidelines recommend cardiac rehabilitation services and the long-term use of cardiac
      medications to reduce the risk of recurrent cardiovascular events. Adherence to these
      recommendations substantially reduces morbidity and mortality post-MI. However, for a variety
      of patient, provider, and system-level reasons, adherence to cardiac medications declines to
      approximately 50% by 12 months. Likewise, only 30-40% of patients participate in cardiac
      rehabilitation. Thus, interventions to increase secondary prevention treatment adherence are
      urgently needed.

      The Cardiac Care Network of Ontario (CCN) holds a registry of all patients in the province
      who have a coronary angiography. The registry has been used to identify gaps in care and to
      plan health system strategies for high-risk patients. More recently, a pilot trial was
      conducted in Hamilton by the trial team using data in the registry to send recurrent postal
      reminders regarding the importance of treatment adherence to patients, their pharmacists, and
      family physicians. A similar program is underway in Ottawa using automated phone calls with
      interactive voice response and nurse follow up. These interventions both have the potential
      to address known determinants of adherence. The CCN, Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care,
      Health Quality Ontario, and other stakeholders across Ontario are interested in evaluating
      the comparative effectiveness and costs of these interventions.

      Research Questions: The research objectives were formed by the decision makers' need to
      evaluate whether and in what format to sustain and/or scale-up post-MI educational reminder
      interventions:

      i. Can educational reminders delivered via post and/or using interactive voice response with
      personalized telephone follow up improve secondary prevention treatment adherence post-MI?

      ii. How do different approaches to improve adherence to these recommendations compare in
      terms of clinical effectiveness and costs?

      iii. Which subgroups are more/less likely to respond to reminders?

      Research Approach: This is a pragmatic, randomized controlled trial with blinded outcome
      assessment. Patients in cardiac centres throughout Ontario who undergo a coronary angiography
      will be provided a letter of information explaining the study appended to the standard CCN
      letter of information. CCN will identify eligible patients (those with substantial coronary
      artery disease who survive their initial hospitalization post-MI) and provide the patient
      list back to the cardiac centre. A representative at the centre will securely send this list
      to the Population Health Research Institute in Hamilton. Patients will be randomized by the
      Population Health Research Institute team to one of three arms:

        1. - Usual care, with no standardized educational materials or reminders

        2. - Postal letters sent from Population Health Research Institute on behalf of each
           hospital's interventional cardiology team to the patient approximately 4, 8, 20, 32, and
           44 weeks post-MI, with an insert for the family physician and pharmacist at
           approximately 4 and 8 weeks post-MI.

        3. - Postal letters as above plus interactive voice response phone calls to the patient
           delivered approximately 2 weeks after the letters, as well as personalized telephone
           follow up by trained lay health workers for patients identified by the interactive voice
           response system as non-adherent.

      Patient self-report and administrative data will be used to assess outcomes 12 months
      post-MI. Analyses will be by intention to treat. The primary outcome is adherence to
      guideline-recommended treatments. Secondary outcomes include health services utilization
      (including outpatient visits to interventional cardiology), recurrent cardiovascular events,
      and mortality. During the trial, a theory-informed process questionnaire will be administered
      to a random sub-sample. An economic evaluation will be conducted from the perspective of the
      public health care payer.

      Implications: This project has the potential to lead to improvements in care for patients at
      high cardiovascular risk as well as provide generalizable insights regarding how to optimize
      interventions to improve adherence. Further, it has the potential to inform how other health
      databases could be used to improve health system performance.
    
  