
    
      Study Procedures:

      Certain types of light may cause cells to give off a tiny amount of light (called
      fluorescence). Researchers have learned that cancer cells and normal cells reflect light and
      give off fluorescence differently. Researchers want to find out if different kinds of light
      can be used to discover areas of the mouth that may have abnormal or cancerous cells.

      If you agree to take part in this study, a researcher may use up to 3 types of imaging
      instruments to take pictures and readings of several areas in your mouth.

        -  VELScope is an FDA approved handheld camera device that takes images of the mouth with
           different colors of light. The VELScope shines blue light into the mouth, and pictures
           are taken using a camera that is attached to the device.

        -  Widefield Fluorescence Imaging uses a non-contact imaging device similar to the
           VELScope. It shines different colors of light and then takes pictures of the inside of
           the mouth using a digital camera.

        -  Point Spectroscopy System uses a probe (about the size of a tip of a pen) that is gently
           placed on several areas of the mouth. Different colors of light are directed through
           optic fibers to the lining of the mouth, and the probe collects the light that returns
           from the tissue and sends the information to a computer.

      Researchers will record whether the doctors find any areas within your mouth that may not
      appear completely normal. They will collect tissue samples of these abnormal areas using a
      brush biopsy. To perform an oral brush biopsy, the research will press a small brush against
      an area inside your mouth, and turn it 5-10 times. The areas that could be biopsied include
      your gums, tongue, the roof of your mouth, the bottom of your mouth, or the inside of your
      cheeks. Any cells collected from the inside of your mouth will be placed on slides to be
      studied by the study team.

      The samples being collected will only be used for this testing, and no leftover samples will
      be kept by the research staff.

      These procedures should take about 20 minutes total.

      This is an investigational study. The VELScope is an FDA approved device and is commercially
      available. Wide-field and point spectroscopy systems are not FDA approved and are only
      authorized for research. Up to 500 participants will take part in this multicenter study. Up
      to 250 will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  