
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of dasatinib when given immediately
           following ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide phosphate (D-ICE) as a re-induction
           regimen in young patients with metastatic or recurrent malignant solid tumors. (Phase I)

        -  To describe and define the toxicities of D-ICE in these patients. (Phase I)

        -  To determine the safety and feasibility of prolonged administration of single-agent
           dasatinib following completion of 2-6 courses of D-ICE in these patients. (Phase I)

        -  To estimate the overall survival, progression-free survival, and time to progression in
           patients treated with D-ICE at the MTD followed by single-agent dasatinib. (Phase II)

        -  To estimate the response rate to two courses of D-ICE when given at the MTD in these
           patients. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  To determine the phosphotyrosine state of SRC family kinases and related signaling
           pathways, including FAK, STAT3, VEGFR, AKT, EGFR, KIT, EPHA2, and PDGFR, in
           paraffin-embedded tumor samples as measured by immunohistochemistry prior to and during
           treatment with dasatinib.

        -  To assess gene expression profiling in fresh frozen tissue samples as measured by
           microarray analysis (Affymetrix GeneChips) at baseline to identify molecular signatures
           that may predict response to dasatinib.

        -  To correlate biomarkers and molecular signatures with dasatinib dosage, toxicity, and
           antitumor activity.

        -  To evaluate the effect of dasatinib on phosphorylation of SRC family kinases in
           peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples as a surrogate marker of response prior to
           treatment with dasatinib, at days 14-21 or when WBC ≥ 500/μL, during each treatment
           course, at the time of local control, and at the time of progression.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of dasatinib followed by a
      phase II study. Patients enrolled in phase II are stratified according to disease.

      Patients receive D-ICE comprising oral dasatinib twice daily on days 5-21, ifosfamide IV over
      1 hour and etoposide phosphate IV over 1 hour on days 1-5, and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on
      days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo radiotherapy and/or surgery
      (consolidation therapy) after 2, 4, or 6 courses of D-ICE. After completion of consolidation
      therapy, patients receive oral dasatinib twice daily for up to 6 months in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Tumor tissue and peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) samples are collected periodically
      for correlative laboratory studies. PBMCs are analyzed by western blotting for total and
      phospho-SRC, phospho-FAK, and other relevant biomarkers. Tumor tissue samples are analyzed by
      IHC for total and phospho-SRC, phospho-FAK, phospho-STAT3, phospho-KIT, and phospho-PDGFR,
      EPHA2, and VEGF. Tumor tissue samples are also analyzed by microarray gene expression
      profiling to define a potential molecular signature or gene expression pattern that may
      predict response to dasatinib.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.
    
  