
    
      Cardiac function during exercise Cardiac output is a function of stroke volume (the volume of
      blood ejected with each beat) and heart rate. During exercise cardiac output must rise to
      supply exercising muscles. This occurs by an increase in both heart rate and stroke volume.
      Limitations to heart rate rise (chronotropic incompetence (CI)) or stroke volume increases
      (contractility) or a combination of both might contribute to lower cardiac output during
      exercise.

      Increases in contractility during exercise are under two major influences:
      depolarization-rate dependent (heart rate dependent), and catecholamine-dependent. Normal
      increases in contractility during exercise require both to be functioning normally. As
      mentioned, the catecholamine system is chronically overactive in CHF such that there is
      down-regulation of receptors making the sympathetic system less sensitive and responsive. The
      depolarization-rate dependent (catecholamine-independent) mechanism, whereby increases in
      heart rate lead to increases in the force of contraction known as the Treppe phenomenon, or
      the force frequency relationship (FFR), was described by Bowditch in the late 19th century,
      and is thought to be impaired in CHF such that contractility in heart failure does not rise
      normally with increases in heart rate and in fact reduces once heart rate rises above a
      threshold.

      How to determine force-frequency relationship in humans

      The investigators have established a reliable, reproducible and non-invasive method by which
      to assess the FFR in patients with pacemaker devices. The investigators subsequently
      demonstrated that optimizing heart rate rise to within the range for optimal contractility is
      associated with acute improvements in exercise capacity. The FFR assessment protocol is
      described below.

      This study will have two phases:

      For the first stage, 50 patients undergoing cardiac resynchronisation therapy will be
      invited, to participate in an observational, double-blind, randomised cross-over study
      exploring the acute effects of multi-point pacing (MPP) on the force frequency relationship
      and exercise capacity at around 6 weeks and 6 months following the implant. The plan is not
      to explore whether MPP improves remodeling following a CRT implant so MPP will be programmed
      off during the first 6 months after implantation.

      At the end of the first six months, if there are promising results from the first stage,
      participants will then randomly be allocated to MPP on or off in a double-blind parallel
      group study. After a further 6 months (12 months after the initial implant) they will return
      for a single visit during which they will have an echocardiogram and exercise test.

      Six weeks following device implant (phase 1)

      At the first visit, participants will undergo a pacemaker check, a review of medications and
      other medical history. They will sign a consent form. They will then undergo a resting
      echocardiogram.

      Following this, their pacemaker will be randomly programmed to MPP or usual pacing.
      Programming will be performed by a secondary (unblinded) cardiac physiologist, who will also
      be responsible for watching the electrocardiogram during each test. Patients and the primary
      cardiac physiologist undertaking the echocardiogram will be unaware of allocation. Images
      will be collected at rest following which atrial pacing will be initiated in the DDD-mode at
      50 beats/min (or the next highest 'round figure' above the baseline heart rate). After four
      minutes, images will be recorded, and the pacing rate will then be increased in a stepwise
      20-beat interval with images recorded after every four minutes. This step-wise increase will
      be repeated until the maximum predicted heart rate as per the calculation by Astrand
      (220-age) is reached. At this point peak data will be collected and pacing will then return
      to baseline settings. Throughout this assessment, at each stage a blood pressure will be
      recorded to allow the calculation of the force frequency relationship. Five minutes after the
      end of atrial pacing, a final set of images and a blood pressure will be recorded. Angina
      pectoris at any point during these tests will be an indication that the test needs to be
      stopped and the heart rate will be allowed to return to normal.

      This assessment will be undertaken twice during this first visit, once with MPP on and once
      with MPP off in random order.

      Following these echocardiographic assessments (which will occur at rest on the echo couch),
      patients will undergo a peak walk test on the treadmill during which peak oxygen consumption
      (a cardiopulmonary exercise test) will be assessed. Prior to this test, the pacemaker heart
      rate programming will be optimised in line with previous data, and MPP will be either
      activated or left off in random order with allocation carried out in a double-blind fashion.
      Participants will be invited back at one week (7 weeks after the implant procedure) for a
      second exercise test for the second arm (MPP off or on).

      Images will be stored for offline analysis and governance purposes. Pacemaker devices will be
      set to usual programming modes at the end of each visit.

      Six months after the device implant:

      At around 6 months after the initial implant, the above protocol will be repeated with two
      echocardiograms and one exercise test at the first visit and one exercise test one week
      later. At one of these 6-month visits, patients will be asked to complete two quality of
      questionnaires (Minnestoa Living with Heart Failure and the EQ5D-5L).

      Long term assessment (phase 2):

      At six months, patients will be invited to continue into a second stage during which MPP will
      be randomly programmed on or left off. This will be a double-blind, randomised, parallel
      cohort study. Participants will come back at a further 6 months (12 months after implant) for
      a final visit which will include echocardiography and a treadmill test and also complete the
      two quality of life questionnaires. At this point, unless there is clear evidence of benefit
      of MPP, we will decide to turn off this programming mode in those that were randomised to
      'MPP-on', or on in those randomised to 'MPP-off'. This will be based upon individual
      assessment until the results of the entire study are known.

      Data analysis plan A measure of contractility will be collected at each heart rate interval.
      These can be plotted against heart rate for each patient to achieve three novel variables per
      patient (peak contractility, heart rate for peak contractility and the slope of the FFR). The
      study aims to determine whether these three variables change over time following CRT
      implantation, and whether they are influenced by MPP.

      These comparison projects and the randomised placebo-controlled trial are exploratory and
      feasibility studies respectively. The sample size for the former will be reviewed after the
      first 10 patients are enrolled.
    
  