
    
      In the rehabilitation of patients with a tetraplegia, FES is a common used method to improve
      the function of the arms and hands. The effects of FES also gain in importance considering
      the procedure of reconstructive arm and/or hand surgery in tetraplegic patients. The
      functioning of arm and hand muscles can be improved by surgically inverting intact muscles.
      Therefore, strengthening of the donor and recipient muscles with FES seems to be reasonable.
      So far it is not established if systematic training with FES before and after reconstructive
      hand and arm surgery could additionally improve the outcome in terms of strength, motor
      learning and function. However, clinical observations show a possible positive effect of FES.

      The aim of the present randomized controlled study is to evaluate the use of FES before and
      after a reconstructive arm and/or hand surgery in order to increase the strength of the donor
      and recipient muscles, and thus, improving the result regarding strength and functionality.

      A total of 30 tetraplegic patients who are planned to have a reconstructive arm and/or hand
      surgery at the Swiss Paraplegic Centre will be included into the study. The participating
      subjects will be randomized into two groups: a control and an intervention group.

      The control group (15 patients) will receive defined standardized physio- and occupational
      therapy after the surgery. The intervention group (15 patients) will receive a combination of
      standardized physio- and occupational therapy and FES, before and after surgery. The
      standardized therapy will be supplemented with FES for 3 months, 3 x 30min per week.

      To verify the effects of FES on muscular strength and functionality of the arms and hands,
      several assessments will be conducted at 4 different time points (T1: 12 weeks before surgery
      // T2: just before surgery // T3: 4 weeks post-surgery // T4: 16 weeks post-surgery). The
      course of the voluntary muscular strength and the strength generated by FES of both, the
      donor and the recipient muscle will be measured. In addition, the change in muscle volume in
      forearm and upper arm will be assessed by ultrasound. Furthermore, a standardized test to
      check several grasping action will be performed and there will also be a manual testing of
      the muscles in arms and hands.

      Statistical analysis of these assessments enable an estimation of the benefit and effect of
      FES as an additional therapy in the context of reconstructive arm and/or hand surgery for
      tetraplegic patients.
    
  