
    
      Main objective :

      Assess the performance (in terms of sensitivity) of guided punction by echoendoscopy in the
      characterization of hypermetabolic mediastinal lymph nodes in PET, in a context of New cancer
      or cancer recurrence.

      Conduct of the study :

      When a patient has had a PET scan showing a hypermetabolic or mediastinal lymph nodes in the
      lower, middle or posterior, his case is presented in a multidisciplinary meeting (PCR # 1),
      with definition of diagnostic strategy:

      Approved indication is achieve a biopsy surgically to have a histological documentation of
      mediastinal lymph nodes with obvious impact on treatment decisions.

      We distinguish two groups of patients based on the feasibility of the surgical procedure:

        1. Group A biopsy is surgically feasible

        2. Group B: biopsy by surgery can not be performed (against medical contraindications or
           anesthetics) at that moment, definition of therapeutic strategy that was decided in the
           absence of histological documentation:

             -  Surgery outset

             -  Chemotherapy or other oncological treatment

             -  Supports non-oncological if benign disease suspected

             -  No treatment.

      EUS is performed by oesophageal for two patient groups for the two groups of patients (within
      a maximum period of six weeks after the PET scan), under general anesthesia and endoscopic
      control.

      According the pathological findings, the therapeutic strategy is defined in a second PCR (PCR
      # 2), to assess the impact of the puncture:

        -  Surgery outset

        -  Chemotherapy or other oncological treatment

        -  Supports non-oncological when benign pathology documented

        -  No treatment

        -  Selecting another surgical diagnostic procedure (non-contributory income).

      A patient monitoring will be conducted for 12 months. The clinical and radiological data
      carried over the standard of care of the patient will be collected. Achieving a
      thoracoabdominopelvic scanner (TAP) at 1 year to characterize the evolution of the disease
      marks the end of the study for the patient.

      For the patients who have had a negative biopsy, monitoring will involve a scanner TAP 6
      month and 12 month then consultation with the oncologist.
    
  