
    
      Single centre, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, 4-way crossover study with four
      single-dose treatment periods. The washout period between doses was 5 days or more.

      Procedures:

      Screening: Subjects will be screened for eligibility within 28 and 7 days of first admission.
      Written informed consent will be obtained before any study procedure is performed. The
      screening will consist of: medical history; physical examination, vital signs; complete
      neurological examination; 12-lead ECG; hematology, coagulation, plasma biochemistry and
      urinalysis tests; HIV, hepatitis B and hepatitis C serology; drugs of abuse and alcohol
      screen; urine pregnancy test in women of childbearing potential; and review of the selection
      criteria. The results of screening must be known to the investigator prior to the subject's
      first admission.

      Treatment periods: In each of the four consecutive treatment periods, eligible subjects will
      be admitted to the UFH on the day prior to receiving the study medication for: vital signs;
      medical history and physical examination updates; 12-lead ECG; hematology and plasma
      biochemistry; drugs of abuse and alcohol screen; and urine pregnancy test in women of
      childbearing potential. On the first admission the subjects will have a review of the
      selection criteria and will be randomized to one of the treatment sequences. On the morning
      of the dosing day, subjects will receive a dose of BIA 3-202 / Placebo concomitantly with a
      dose of Sinemet CR 200/50 in fasting conditions (at least 8 hours) and will remain in the UFH
      until at least 24 h post-dose; then, they will be discharged and will return for the next
      period or the follow-up visit. At given time-points between pre-dose and discharge, subjects
      will be submitted to vital signs recording, brief neurological examinations, 12-lead ECG, and
      blood sampling for plasma drug assays and erythrocyte S-COMT activity. At discharge, vital
      signs and ECG will be recorded, and hematology and plasma biochemistry tests will be
      performed.

      Follow-up: A follow-up visit will occur approximately 7-10 days after discharge of the last
      treatment period or early discontinuation for: medical history and physical examination
      updates; vital signs; 12-lead ECG; hematology, plasma biochemistry and urinalysis tests; and
      pregnancy test in women of childbearing potential.
    
  