
    
      Preliminary phase:

      Current status of the subject.

      During this phase will be an updated systematic search research topic. The literature search
      in databases such as MEDLINE, SCOPUS, CINAHL, WoS (Web Of Science) among others.

      Data Collection: The source for the collection of primary data is through a personal
      interview with the participants and through the primer health of pregnant and/or medical
      history.

      Interview on the first visit:

        -  Collect socioeconomic and health data about participants: age, parity, weight, BMI,
           smoking habits, drug use, profession/occupation, education level, physical activity
           pattern prior to pregnancy.

        -  Degree of overall health perception.

        -  Assess the risks according to the guide of the American College of Obstetricians and
           Gynecologists.

        -  Obtaining informed when agreeing to participate in the study consent.

        -  Give information pack about the exercises that the investigators will perform well as
           controls to be made in each session, and general rules to practice any physical
           activity.

      Execution:

      Classes are held in the morning hours preferable between 10 and 11 o'clock in the morning
      after a caloric intake and adequate hydration.

      Every participant should carry your water bottle during each session that will take place, as
      well as adequate clothing, in which bathing suit, hat, glasses and proper footwear is
      included to prevent falls.

      Before each class dynamics to follow and the signs that will make the exercise should stop,
      every participant should know how to take her own pulse at the level of the carotid artery
      may recall, because at different times of the central activity will take frequency heart, as
      a general rule must be able to hold a conversation without much difficulty while performing
      the exercise, and during the performance of this should properly hydrated according to the
      needs of each one in particular.

        1. Warm up: The warm-up exercise will take place in a small vessel, where the water depth
           is around the thighs.

           The session starts with the upper body and decreasing order to heat the lower body.

        2. Central part of the activity. It is be held in the large vessel, exercise intensity will
           increase in order to keep within the limits for an exercise of moderate, use different
           devices support to carry it out and exercises of strength, endurance and pelvic
           elasticity are included.

           Assistive devices that will use floating elements that will help us reduce the intensity
           of exercise providing flotation and will serve as support material to work specific
           parts. These devices are floating tables expanded polystyrene foam boys pull soft
           polyethylene and flexible floating bars and playful elements, such as balls, rings, ...
           spades.

        3. Phase cool down. In this phase the participants will seek to return to calm, will be
           done in the small vessel having 3-4 ° C more than the large glass. exercises to
           progressively reducing the intensity and ending with relaxation exercises will be
           conducted .

      The exercises are flexibility the investigators will not keep avoiding positions that strain
      the joints due to the state of gestation, those areas that have been previously exercised not
      to exceed the natural movement will stretch.

      Once found befallen birth one review and extraction of data on birth process will take place
      and will take a final interview with the participant to collect data that will be obtained
      during the postpartum period such as type of feed received by the newborn, and value the
      existence of postpartum depression with the Edinburgh test.

      Concluded the postpartum period. Women begin a program of recovery postpartum 12 weeks, 3
      times a week in sessions of one hour. They perform warm-up exercises, a central part of Low
      Pressure Fitness exercises and end with stretching exercises.
    
  