
    
      It is well documented that professional dancing increases the risk for, or strongly
      associates to, mental health issues like eating disorders, anxiety, and compulsive-obsessive
      disorders. As much as the international sport society has acknowledged the challenges on ED
      in sport, the same do not apply to dance. The point prevalence of ED in the general european
      population is about 0.3-4.0%, with a corresponding prevalence amongst professional dancers of
      12.0-26.5%. Furthermore, the highest risk for ED among dance discipline is found to be within
      ballet. There are no reports on prevalence in Norwegian dancers; however, the Norwegian
      National Ballet's house reports a lifetime prevalence of 50% amongst ballet dancers. Previous
      studies have identified low knowledge and practice on performance nutrition and weight
      regulation strategies among dancers and their teachers. Findings indicates high risk of low
      energy availability, implying a high risk for the many associated negative effects on
      physical and mental health and performance capacity. Additionally, studies finds high levels
      of body dissatisfaction, body weight concern, perfectionism and low self-esteem, and also
      high prevalence of anxiety and depression.

      Several intervention studies finds positive effect on body dissatisfaction, disordered eating
      behaviour, nutritional intake in sport athletes, and also in ballet dancers in the US and
      Canada. Nevertheless, so far there haven't been any intervention in Norwegian dancers.

      The objective with this study is to explore mental health in professional dancers and their
      knowledge on recovery strategies and nutritional needs, and to implement and evaluate the
      effect of an intervention designed to improve these aspects. A group of performance art
      students serves as control to the intervention effect. Additionally this study evaluates the
      knowledge of these issues amongst dancers and how to deal with such issues, in dance
      teachers, and aims to implement and evaluate the effect of an intervention designed to
      improve the knowledge on these aspects.
    
  