
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Endotoxin (or lipopolysaccharide [LPS]) is a potent inflammatory stimulant which is found in
      ambient air in occupational settings. Asthma in the workplace is an increasingly significant
      problem. Asthma is characterized by airway inflammation and increased reactivity to both
      allergic and non-allergic stimuli. LPS is known to induced airway inflammation in normal
      subjects and to enhance airway reactivity in asthmatics. Additionally, both alveolar
      macrophages and mononuclear cells from asthmatics secrete higher amounts of cytokines
      (interleukins 1 and 8 [IL-1, IL-8] and granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor
      [GM-CSF] ) than those from normals. Thus, it is likely that LPS enhances allergen-induced
      inflammation and that allergic asthmatics are more sensitive to the effects of LPS.
      Preliminary data show that exposure to low levels (250 ng/m3) of LPS at risk for four hours
      enhances both immediate responsiveness to inhaled allergen and allergen-induced eosinophils
      as observed in induced sputum. In the nasal airways of allergics, a single dose of 1,000
      nanograms of LPS enhances polymorphonuclear leukocyte influx associated with allergen
      challenge. This latter finding also correlates well with baseline IL-8 and ECP levels,
      suggesting that constitutive airway inflammation enhances response to these stimuli.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The effect of endotoxin LPS (5,000 nanograms) is compared on airway inflammation and
      methacholine response and lung function in normals and asthmatics; the effect of LPS (500
      nanograms) is compared on allergen-induced reactivity and inflammatory cell influx following
      LPS exposure (5,000 nanograms) in asthmatics, likely as a result of decreasing baseline
      inflammation. To examine potential cellular mediation of the effect of LPS in asthma,
      cytokine secretion of mononuclear cells to LPS of subjects responding to LPS (or those in
      whom LPS enhance response to allergen) is compared to those who did not respond. In vitro
      monocyte and in vivo airway responses of asthmatics who are responsive and non-responsive is
      compared to baseline sputum and nasal lavage fluid IL-8 and ECP to determine if either in
      vitro monocyte responses or IL-8 and ECP in readily obtained airway fluids may serve as
      biomarkers of LPS responsiveness and might be used as a marker for a LPS-response phenotype
      in humans for future mechanistic and intervention studies. Finally, practical data on the
      effect of LPS in asthmatics (at levels found in typical work settings) and the ability of
      standard anti-inflammatory therapy to protect asthmatic workers unavoidable exposed to LPS
      will be obtained.

      The study was renewed in 2001 and continues through December, 2005.
    
  