
    
      The bacterium Staphylococcus aureus frequently colonizes the human skin and mucous membranes.
      Longitudinal studies usually divide S. aureus carriers into either persistent or intermittent
      carriers, but because the number of samplings, the follow-up periods and the study
      populations differ between studies, the designation of carrier state is inconsistent. It has
      been estimated that around 20 % of a population are persistent carriers, 60 % are
      intermittent carriers and 20 % are non-carriers. S. aureus is an opportunistic pathogen that
      can become invasive and cause a large spectrum of infections. S. aureus is frequently the
      cause of skin and soft tissue infections e.g. wounds, furuncles and abscesses, and can also
      cause urinary tract infections and pneumonia. If it enters the bloodstream, it can lead to
      metastatic infections e.g. endocarditis, arthritis, osteomyelitis and meningitis.
      Furthermore, S. aureus is a common pathogen in surgical site infections and in infections
      related to foreign bodies, such as catheters and prostheses.

      Antibiotic resistance in bacteria is an increasing challenge worldwide and is also seen in S.
      aureus. The first methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) were seen in 1961 just
      one year after the antibiotic methicillin was introduced. For several decades MRSA was mainly
      a hospital-associated bacterium, but since the mid 1990's it has become increasingly
      prevalent in the community where it often affects children and younger adults. MRSA can cause
      the same types of infections as the methicillin susceptible S. aureus, but often only
      colonizes the mucosa. When colonization is confirmed, the person is called a carrier of MRSA
      and there is a risk of both a wide spectrum of infections and spread of MRSA to others. The
      Danish Health Authority has published a National guideline on how to prevent the spread of
      MRSA and keep the prevalence of MRSA low in Denmark, especially in the health care setting.
      The finding of MRSA both in samples from clinical infections and in screening samples for
      MRSA carriage is notifiable and has to be reported to the Danish Patient Safety Authority and
      Statens Serum Institut, in order to monitor the number of MRSA positive persons in Denmark,
      potential outbreaks and risk factors for MRSA acquisition. Furthermore, the guideline
      recommends that MRSA carriers and their household members undergo a five day topical
      decolonization treatment consisting of nasal mupirocin ointment 2 % three times daily in the
      nostrils (mupirocin is an antibiotic usually active against MRSA) and chlorhexidine body wash
      4 % once daily. Unfortunately, many patients are still MRSA carriers after completing the
      treatment and especially throat carriers are difficult to clear.

      MRSA carriers have routinely been treated since 2009. Our current guideline recommends adding
      antibiotics to the standard regimen, clindamycin being our first line choice, on the second
      or third eradication attempt if the patient is a throat carrier and the isolate is
      clindamycin susceptible. To our knowledge, the only randomized, controlled trial including
      clindamycin for treatment of MRSA carriage, is a Swedish study that showed a significant
      effect of standard treatment plus the antibiotic rifampicin in combination with either
      clindamycin or sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim compared to standard treatment alone in
      long-term MRSA carriers. As most of our patients are healthy individuals without infections,
      adding systemic antibiotics to the decolonization treatment must be considered thoroughly.
      There is a risk of side effects in the individual patient and prudent use of antibiotics in
      the era of a rising incidence of antimicrobial resistance is crucial to avoid selection of
      further resistance. Our group has recently published a retrospective study describing the
      MRSA treatment data of 164 patients treated in 2013. The study confirmed that throat carriers
      had a higher treatment failure rate but adding clindamycin to the first eradication attempt
      did not significantly increase the success rate. However, as there had been no randomization
      of patients the scientific evidence is low and the fact that there are no published studies
      using clindamycin as the only antibiotic for MRSA throat carriers, implies the need for a
      randomized trial on this subject.

      Aim To investigate whether a significantly higher number of MRSA throat carriers become MRSA
      free when adding the oral antibiotic clindamycin to the standard regimen.

      Primary endpoint: MRSA negative swabs at 1 month Secondary endpoint: MRSA negative swabs
      after 6 months

      Methods The study is a randomized double blinded placebo-controlled study, including patients
      ≥18 years old that have tested MRSA positive in their throat after completing one standard
      topical decolonization treatment.

      Recruitment of study subjects Patients are recruited from the Capital Region via MRSA
      KnowledgeCenter Hvidovre Hospital or MRSA team Herlev Hospital.

      Patients have since their first positive MRSA result an active connection to the MRSA
      KnowledgeCenter Hvidovre Hospital / MRSA team Herlev Hospital either through the hygiene
      specialist nurses or doctors. Patients often call for support, guidance and treatment plans,
      and routine letters are often sent out to patients regarding their treatment, control swap
      results and more. When the department's nurses or doctors have written or oral contact with a
      patient that could be a possible candidate for the trial, the possibility of participating in
      the trial will be mentioned and investigator's contact details will be given.

      The patient can contact the investigator by phone or email. After first contact with the
      investigator, and receiving information about the trial, the patient will have a minimum of
      48 hours to decide whether he/she is interested in learning more about the project. Patients
      that respond positively will be invited to a personal meeting at either Hvidovre Hospital or
      Herlev Hospital, where oral information about the trial and possible side effects will be
      given to the patient. The meeting will occur in a private and undisturbed room with the door
      closed. The patient can bring a friend or relative at the meeting if desired. Patients will
      be offered 24 hours to provide oral and written informed consent in order to secure
      sufficient time for reflection on study participation. If a patient needs more time to
      consider entering the trial, more time will be given. Before signing the informed consent
      form, the investigator will secure that the patient has read and understood the written study
      information. Every possible study subject that has a personal meeting with the investigator,
      will be registered in REDcap, a secure web application for managing online databases.

      When oral and written consent has been obtained, the subject will receive a randomized
      eradication package as described below, as well as a diary to fill out during the study from
      day 1 to 14, asking about compliance and adverse events.

      Patient data Patient data will be pseudo-anonymized as each patient will receive a project
      number. The investigator will on another file in a locked drawer (investigator site file), as
      well as on a secured electronic file, only accessible for investigators, have access to the
      real identification of the patient (the CPR number).

      Once included in the trial, one eCRF is created for each patient for collection of trial
      data. This will include the following data:

      Project number, date of birth, age, sex, height, weight, relevant medical history/current
      medication, sites and dates of MRSA positive samples, prior MRSA decolonization treatments,
      household composition and household members MRSA carrier state, typing and resistance data of
      the MRSA strain, body mass index, laboratory and investigational results. For sexually active
      female subjects in the reproductive age, we also record the use of contraceptives.

      The CRFs will be stored in the secure web application for managing online databases 'REDCap'
      which is designed for non-commercial clinical research. Obtained data will be transferred
      manually by investigators or appointed research nurses to the CRFs.

      The eCRF does not contain information on the specific treatment the patient is randomized to
      as the randomization is done by the pharmacist.

      The treatment The subject will receive a randomized eradication package, consisting of
      mupirocin nasal ointment 2 %, Chlorhexidine Bodywash 4 % and either placebo capsules 2
      capsules three times daily for 10 days or clindamycin 300 mg capsules 2 capsules three times
      daily for 10 days. Placebo and clindamycin are manufactured to look exactly alike by Glostrup
      pharmacy, who is also in charge of the randomization/blinding of the packages.

      An emergency unblinding procedure will be established to allow investigators the option to
      withdraw the subject from the trial at any given time, in case of an emergency. This could be
      if a subject experiences serious adverse events, that could be caused by the active
      treatment. The pharmacist has created individual sealed and securely closed envelopes for
      each included subject ID available. The investigator can at any time, 24 hours a day, in case
      of an emergency unblind a subject, to reveal which treatment has been given. The sponsor will
      be notified within 24 hours.

      Besides the oral treatment, the patient follows the standard treatment guidelines for MRSA
      decolonization.

      After the treatment Thirty to sixty days after end of treatment, the subjects will routinely
      have MRSA control swabs taken by their GP according to the National MRSA guidelines. Subjects
      will be reminded about this screening test when entering the trial. If control swabs haven't
      been received within 6 weeks after completing the treatment, an electronic reminder will be
      send. The swabs are routine samples that will be handled as regular MRSA control samples in
      the clinical microbiology laboratory at either Hvidovre hospital or Herlev hospital.

      Swab results If the patient is MRSA positive one month after the treatment, no further
      screening samples will be needed for this project. The patient will leave the trial, and if
      additional treatment is considered by the doctors responsible for the treatment outside the
      trial, the randomization will be unblinded in order to plan the most optimal treatment,
      without revealing the investigator about the investigation medicine given prior to the drop
      out.

      If MRSA negative at one month, no unblinding will take place as no new treatment will be
      planned. The subject will have new control swabs taken at the GP six to eight months after
      completing the treatment. If negative swabs at 6-8 months, the patient is declared MRSA free
      according to the National MRSA Guidelines.

      Power calculation Anticipation is 30% better eradication success rate in the group receiving
      standard treatment plus clindamycin compared to the group treated with standard treatment and
      placebo. Power calculation shows that 31 patients are needed in each group, power being set
      at 80 %, and significance level at 0.05 %. It is our goal to include 40 patients in each
      group, as 9 patients in each group is expected to either drop out or be non-compliant to the
      treatment.

      The number of consumed tablets will be reported in the eCFR, to monitor consumption.

      The returned capsules, if any, will be returned to the Glostrup pharmacy, for correct
      destruction.

      The relevance of this trial is high. Hundreds of healthy MRSA carriers have been treated with
      clindamycin in the last decade without a strong scientific evidence of a better effect than
      standard treatment. It is very relevant to know, whether adding clindamycin to the treatment
      of throat carriers is superior to the standard treatment. The outcome of this trial will help
      us understand the most effective way to clear throat carriers of MRSA.
    
  