
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the efficacy of dexamethasone with vs without whole-brain radiotherapy in
           combination with optimal supportive care, in terms of patient assessed quality adjusted
           life years, in patients with inoperable brain metastases secondary to non-small cell
           lung cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Assess the Karnofsky performance status of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Assess the symptoms of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the feasibility of assessing and measuring caregiver concerns.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of
      2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (experimental): Patients receive dexamethasone*. Patients receive optimal
           supportive care (OSC) including a prescription of a proton pump inhibitor while on
           dexamethasone, parallel nursing support, access to additional specialists (e.g.,
           pain-relief service, palliative care team, medical social worker, or physiotherapist),
           and open access to follow-up in a specialist clinic. OSC may also include analgesics,
           bronchodilators, and other supportive treatment as needed.

        -  Arm II (control): Patients receive dexamethasone* and OSC as in arm I. Patients also
           undergo whole-brain radiotherapy once daily for 5 days in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Patients who are receiving prednisolone at randomization need to convert to
      dexamethasone immediately.

      All patients undergo telephone assessment, including quality of life assessment, once a week
      for 12 weeks and then once every 4 weeks thereafter. Consenting caregivers complete
      questionnaire over the telephone once a week to assess the impact of the patient's disease
      and treatment on the caregiver's quality of life.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: At least 1,000 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  