
    
      Bullous pemphigoid (BP) is the most common autoimmune bullous dermatosis. It mainly affects
      the elderly, and its cutaneous manifestations are extremely varied. Since the publication of
      the first case of PB associated with sulfasalazine in 1970, several drugs (spironolactone,
      furosemide, chloroquine, beta-blockers and various antibiotics) have been reported for their
      potential link with the development of PB. Recently, cases of PB associated with dipeptidyl
      peptidase-IV (DPP4) inhibitors, also known as gliptins, have been reported. DPP4 inhibitors
      are oral antidiabetic agents prescribed to patients with type 2 diabetes, as monotherapy, in
      combination with other oral antidiabetic agents or with insulin.

      Problem raised:

      In recent years, an increasing number of cases have been published, describing the potential
      role of gliptins in PB induction. All these clinical cases and pharmacovigilance analyzes
      tend to show an increased risk of developing BP in case of gliptin exposure, but this
      hypothesis has not yet been confirmed by a quality controlled study.

      Goal:

      The main objective is to evaluate the risk of developing a PB under DPP4 inhibitor treatment,
      comparing cases of diabetic patients with BP, to matched diabetic controls for sex and age,
      from French departments. Endocrinology (Marseille La Conception) and Dermatologie (Marseille
      North, Marseille La Timone) and Swiss (Bern), in a retrospective study from 1 January 2014 to
      31 July 2016.

      Material and methods:

      The study will be conducted in three university departments of Dermatology (Marseille North,
      Marseille La Timone, Bern), using databases of clinical and histological records. The
      investigators will perform a retrospective 1: 2 case-control study comparing cases with type
      2 diabetes and BP to matched diabetic controls for sex and age, randomly drawn from French
      endocrinology departments (Marseille La Conception ) and Switzerland (Bern), between January
      1, 2014 and July 31, 2016. The investigators will compare gliptin exposure in the
      case-control group versus the control group, adjusting for potential confounding bias using
      models. logistic regression.

      Criteria for inclusion:

        -  Case: Patients from three university departments of Dermatology (Marseille North,
           Marseille La Timone, Bern) with type 2 diabetes, and a diagnosis of PB diagnosed for the
           first time between January 1, 2014 and July 31, 2016. The diagnosis of PB is based on
           compatible clinical presentation, compatible histology, positive direct
           immunofluorescence (IFD), and in some cases positive indirect immunofluorescence (IFI)
           and / or the presence of autoantibodies (BP180 and / or BP230) by ELISA.

        -  Witnesses: Patients from two university departments of Endocrinology (Marseille La
           Conception and Bern) with type 2 diabetes, and matched 1: 2 to cases for sex and age.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Case: Patients with another bullous dermatosis, not meeting the inclusion criteria.
           Patients biopsied before consultation in University Hospital, or patients seen in
           private dermatology practices.

        -  Witnesses: Patients suffering at the time of inclusion of a chronic dermatosis, in
           particular of a bullous dermatosis.
    
  