
    
      many patients do not respond to antidepressant or could not tolerate the adverse events.
      Hence, many patients are looking for medical alternatives. Those alternatives include
      psychotherapy, ECT, and TMS. The direct cost of those treatments is relatively high compare
      to antidepressants. However, the indirect costs including hospitalizations, physician visit,
      ER visits, pharmacy claims, labs and adverse events management may increase the overall costs
      and burden of illness for the health system. This study aims to evaluate the efficacy of the
      Deep TMS compare to TAU and the different in indirect costs of treating depression with Deep
      TMS compare to the TAU.

      The current study is a prospective semi-naturalistic, randomized study in which depressed
      patient who failed to respond to at least one medication or couldn't tolerate at least two
      antidepressants and are seeking for alternative treatment will be offered to join an open
      label study. Patients eligible for the study will be asked to sign the informed consent. Than
      patients will be randomized to either Deep TMS treatment or TAU. The Deep TMS study group
      will receive the TMS treatment protocol as was cleared by the FDA. The TAU study group will
      be treated by their primary care physician / psychiatrist according to the usual treatment
      recommend to the patient's clinical status. Patient may continue its current treatment (with
      / without medications) or switch to a new treatment. However, treatment should be stable for
      at least 30 days prior to baseline visit except of Fluoxetine in which 45 days are required.
      Patients will be followed at 4 weeks and 6 month following baseline visit. The deep TMS
      treatment includes 4 weeks of acute daily treatment (20 treatments) following by 12 weeks of
      biweekly maintenance treatment. The purpose of the study is to explore the efficacy of the
      Deep TMS treatment compare to TAU and to investigate the differences in resource utilization
      between the study groups. The study population will be based on the FDA cleared patient
      population for the Deep TMS treatment. Safety will be assessed by monitoring of adverse
      events Other assessment scales will be used during the course of the study. Efficacy will be
      assessed using the Hamilton Depression Rating Score (HDRS), the self-reported questionnaires
      the QIDS-SR and the PHQ-9. Quality of life will be assessed by the Q-Les-Q questionnaire.
      Disability will be assessed by the Sheehan Disability Scale.
    
  