
    
      DMD is an X-linked disorder in which the sarcolemmal protein dystrophin is effectively
      absent. Males with DMD typically die in the third and fourth decades of life of
      cardiopulmonary disease. Mouse models of DMD, autopsy data, and in vivo human studies using
      magnetic resonance-based late gadolinium enhancement imaging (LGE) have shown that
      progressive myocardial damage is well underway before left ventricular ejection fraction (LV
      EF) becomes abnormal.

      Exertional symptoms and signs of myocardial disease are typically absent as skeletal muscle
      disease progressively limits functional capacity in affected boys. Thus, cardiac involvement
      can go undetected until LV dysfunction and myocardial fibrosis are advanced. While
      echocardiography remains a useful tool to evaluate LV dysfunction, CMR with LGE is
      advantageous for DMD patients since it identifies myocardial injury before decline in EF is
      apparent by echocardiography. Further, greater reproducibility affords efficient sample sizes
      for cardiomyopathy clinical trials in patients with rare diseases. CMR's increasing
      availability at DMD clinical centers has afforded earlier cardiomyopathy detection, and has
      helped refine current management to typically include agents such as angiotensin converting
      enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) once damage is evident. This strategy, however, may not be
      sufficient, with prior studies showing decline in systolic function with or without ACEI or
      angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) therapy.

      The investigators previously tested mineralocorticoid receptor antagonism (MRA) added to ACEI
      while EF was still normal in a mouse model that mimics the myocardial damage seen in DMD
      patients. This combination significantly reduced myocardial injury and improved (made more
      negative) LV circumferential strain (Ecc), a sensitive and early marker of LV systolic
      dysfunction. Additionally, preliminary findings from a recently completed clinical trial
      suggests efficacy of eplerenone vs. placebo, while further preclinical data suggests greater
      benefit without concomitant steroid use. Thus, a non-inferiority trial comparing MRAs is
      needed.
    
  