
    
      Background Information

      This research project evaluates the efficacy of the RECAP Mental Health + Academic Program, a
      two-year multi-component intervention for special education students in behavioral
      classrooms. The program has been shown to reduce students' emotional and behavioral problems
      and remediate academic deficits, particularly with regard to reading skills, in order to
      enhance academic and behavioral functioning and to facilitate special education students'
      appropriate transition and reintegration into the mainstream educational setting.

      Using an educational and instructional approach that is familiar to school staff and
      students, RECAP helps teachers and parents to assist children in the development of
      behavioral and emotional skills that facilitate children's ability to learn and to solve
      problems adaptively. Many of the techniques and strategies used in RECAP are familiar to
      teachers, as RECAP represents an integration of basic behavioral principles. Its unique
      strength lies in its consistent and integrated framework, which provides a common language
      for students, teachers, and parents to talk about behavioral expectations and positive skills
      for children to learn and apply in everyday situations. Moreover, the RECAP program focuses
      on helping students resolve the behavioral and emotional problems that interfere with their
      own learning as well as the learning of other students in the classroom (e.g., due to lost
      instructional time via classroom disruption). In addition to this mental health curriculum,
      the intervention includes a reading intervention component that has been shown to
      significantly improve the academic progress of students with emotional and behavioral
      problems. In addition to the obvious fundamental need for direct remediation of this academic
      skills deficit that is common among these students, the reading intervention is designed to
      prepare special education students to participate in the academic instruction of the general
      education classroom at a functionally adaptive level.

      Participating schools are randomly assigned to either receive the RECAP program or serve as a
      comparison school (services as usual). Student outcomes will be evaluated in the fall and
      spring of two school years, using behavioral observation, academic testing, and teacher-,
      parent-, and child-reports of psychopathology and social skills.
    
  