
    
      Implementation of a translational research project is part of the Cancer Plan 2014-2019 and
      its axis 5 "Advancing clinical and translational research in oncology", and more precisely
      Action 5.1.

      The national health strategy launched by the Minister of Health and the Minister of Research
      will allow a better integration between research, innovation, medicine and care for the
      benefit of patients and society.

      Moreover, knowledge of mechanisms involved in the phenomena of tumor invasion, metastatic
      dissemination, resistance to treatment and companion testing is crucial for the emergence of
      new biomarkers and therapeutic innovation.

      However, the study of the earliest phases of tumorigenesis as well as of the advanced stages
      of the disease are currently limited by the low availability of blood and tissue samples
      combined with quality and reliable clinical data.

      To meet these demands, the research must then integrate databases creation open to
      researchers and the ongoing evaluation of the impact of projects on the health of cancer
      patients.

      Integrated research associated with quality biological research is the guarantee of medical
      progress.

      The multidisciplinary structure around collections of biological resources will enable the
      various actors to harmonize not only the collection but also the sharing of their data with a
      view to making them available for medico-scientific projects at a regional and national
      dimension. The Clinical Biological Database (BCB) should be used to identify and characterize
      new molecular markers for better diagnosis and / or treatment. It should also permit to
      optimize the collection of all this information, their integration and their transversal
      exploitation by different research disciplines (epidemiological, fundamental, translational,
      clinical).

      The BCB is a tool:

        -  for research in analytical and public health epidemiology, biological research and for
           the development of data useful for clinical research and therapeutic trials;

        -  to help scientists understand and explain phenomena ranging from the interaction of
           molecules to the whole metabolism of the organism in normal and pathological situations;

        -  to identify potential strategies for prevention, diagnosis, management and analysis of
           cancer subtypes.

      The creation of a broad clinical and biological prospective base dedicated to different types
      of cancer is essential for the development of such projects
    
  