
    
      Background: Obesity has reached epidemic proportions, and often has serious adverse health
      consequences. The VA has deployed a "MOVE! Weight Management Program" nationally in the
      general patient population. Since individuals with serious mental illness (SMI) often have
      cognitive deficits, specialized psychoeducational interventions are needed in this
      population. Specialized psychoeducational interventions for weight have been developed and
      studied in populations with SMI. This evidence-based practice has been adapted for use in VA,
      resulting in a "MOVE! SMI" intervention. However, it has proven to be quite difficult to
      disseminate this intervention. Patients with SMI often have limited transportation options,
      and may not want to participate in groups. Also, in-person MOVE! SMI requires substantial
      time from mental health clinicians. This clinician time has been difficult to deploy or is
      not available at many clinic locations. It is likely that these barriers can be addressed
      with a computerized, web-based version of MOVE! . Specialized web-based approaches have been
      studied and found to be successful in people with SMI, and can deliver content that is
      intensive and engaging with minimal requirements for staff time.

      Objectives: The VA Network 5 and 22 Mental Illness Research, Education, and Clinical Centers
      (MIRECCs) developed a web-based system that provides computerized counseling regarding diet
      to individuals with SMI. The proposed project expanded this system. This project's objectives
      are to: 1) develop a comprehensive web-based system that delivers MOVE! using design features
      that meet the needs of individuals with mental illness; 2) evaluate the effectiveness, in
      patients with serious mental illness, of web-based MOVE! compared with in-person MOVE! and a
      control group; and, 3) characterize, from the patient's perspective, the strengths,
      weaknesses, and barriers to the use of in-person and web-based MOVE!.

      Methods: This is a prospective, randomized, controlled trial in patients with SMI who are
      obese and receiving treatment with medications that often have weight gain as a major
      side-effect. Participants are assigned to in-person MOVE! SMI, web-based MOVE! SMI with
      support from peer coaches, or a comparison group. Research assessments occur at 0, 3, 6, 9
      and 12 months. Changes in outcomes are compared over time between the three groups.
      Comparative effectiveness is evaluated at 6 months. A secondary objective is to evaluate the
      extent to which gains are maintained at 9 and 12 months.

      Status: The project team developed the needed materials, methods, and informatics systems.
      Patients were enrolled, and study enrollment and interventions are complete. Follow up
      interviews are complete and the interventions have been evaluated.
    
  