
    
      Methods

      Objective: To investigate the effects of intraoperative phlebotomies on intraoperative
      bleeding, perioperative transfusions and mortality among patients who underwent a liver
      transplantation.

      Study design and participants:

      All successive adult patients who underwent a liver transplantation between July 2008 and
      January 2021 at the Centre hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal (CHUM) will be included in
      the study. Because phlebotomies are mostly performed in patients with a near normal renal
      function, patients who were under renal replacement therapy prior to surgery as well as those
      who had a glomerular filtration rate below 30 mL/h (based on MDRD formula) will be excluded.

      Exposure:

      The exposure of interest will be the performance of an intraoperative phlebotomies.
      Intraoperative phlebotomies are performed at the beginning of liver transplant surgery to
      reduce portal and hepatic venous pressure and thus reduce bleeding and the need for
      transfusions. After graft reperfusion, retrieved blood is reinjected to patients to optimize
      volemia and cardiac output. Intraoperative phlebotomy is thus a manipulable well-defined
      exposure amenable to causal analysis by consistency.

      Covariables:

      Many variables are associated with bleeding in liver transplantation. Most of them are also
      associated with our exposure of interest and are cofounding factors. Phlebotomies will be
      more often performed in non-anemic cirrhotic patients with high portal and central venous
      pressure, but less often in patients with severe acute disease with end-organ damage such as
      renal failure. Thus, patients who received a phlebotomy have different baseline prognostic
      characteristics than those who do not receive as phlebotomy. To control for such confounding,
      a sufficient set of variables based on a directed acyclic graph (DAG) constructed using
      published data and knowledge of the clinical practice (see figure 1) will be included. Since
      MELD score is a very robust marker of liver disease severity, it will increase in most
      situations of worsening liver disease (such as acute-n-chronic liver failure) and adjust for
      all such situations. Since an observational study from the CHUM suggested that intraoperative
      bleeding and transfusions have increased since recipients are prioritized by the MELD score,
      the calendar year as a covariable will be added, although it is not expected that phlebotomy
      practices have significantly changed over time.

      Data management:

      Data for patients who received their transplantation between 2008 and 2017 is already
      available in a dataset used for previous analyses (CHUM Research Ethic Board (REB) approval
      #17.036). Data from patients who received a transplantation between January 2018 and January
      2021 will be extracted from patients' chart after REB approval or from the dataset used for
      another already approved study (CHUM REB #17.251). Data from all these patients will be
      merged in a common dataset, cleaned and analyzed.

      Data analyses:

      Main analyses:

      The patient cohort based on the exposure category will be described. Frequencies and
      proportions for categorical variables and mean with standard deviation for continuous
      variables (or median with quartiles for skewed distributions) will be summarized. Crude
      outcome incidence without any relative risk (table 2) will also be presented. For analytical
      purposes, intraoperative bleeding will be used as a continuous variable and because many
      patients do not receive any perioperative RBC transfusions, perioperative RBC transfusions
      between "no transfusion" and "any transfusion" will be dichotomized.

      A causal analysis will be conducted based on a balancing score, the propensity score. No
      previous sample size calculation was computed as a convenience sample of all transplanted
      patients that meet the inclusion criteria will be used. By excluding patients with at least
      moderate renal failure prior to surgery (almost only untreated patients), a cohort with more
      treated than untreated patients will be obtained. Treated patients are also the ones for whom
      clinicians believed a phlebotomy was helpful based on measured covariables (and potential
      unmeasured ones ("confounding by indication bias")). Also, many untreated patients may not be
      at risk of receiving the intervention (positivity) and not overlap treated patients. Thus, an
      average treatment effect in the treated (ATT) by the inverse probability of treatment
      weighting (IPTW) will be estimated.

      To do so, a propensity score (π_i) for the exposure (intraoperative phlebotomies) based on
      all identified and measured previously mentioned confounders will be computed. Quadratic
      terms for continuous variables (for more flexibility) and an interaction term between the
      MELD score and the central venous pressure (since more severe disease usually have higher
      cardiac filling pressure), important drivers of the exposure, will be included. The overlap
      of the propensity score between the treated patients and their untreated counterparts will be
      evaluated. In case many treated patients do not overlap with any untreated ones, the
      specifications of the propensity score model further (remove quadratic terms for example)
      will be modified to further restrict the population of interest. The calculated propensity
      score to compute weights will be used and create an untreated pseudo-population comparable to
      the treated ones (conditional exchangeability); Weights for treated patients and weights will
      be used for untreated patients. In case extreme weighs are estimated, truncation (between 1%
      and 5% percentiles of the propensity score distribution depending on overlap effect) will be
      used to minimize variance and effect of near violations of practical positivity. The
      population of interest may be further restriced, if deemed necessary. The pseudo-population
      will be described using weighted descriptive statistics and the balancing effect of the
      weights will be verified. The causal marginal effect on bleeding will be estimated using a
      weighted mean difference and the causal marginal effect of transfusions using a weighted risk
      difference. Survival up to 1 year will be reported using a marginal structural model using a
      weighted proportional hazard Cox model and express a causal marginal hazard ratio. Results
      will be expressed with non-parametric bootstrap percentile 95% confidence intervals.

      Senstivity analyses:

      IPTW analyses may be more sensitive to misspecification of the propensity score model as well
      as have a higher estimated variance. Thus, a sensitivity analysis to estimate ATT for all
      outcomes will be conducted using a propensity score based matching analysis. This analysis
      will use a 1:2 (1 treated and 2 untreated) greedy matching using a caliper (0.2 linear
      propensity score standard deviation). For matching, balancing between groups by comparing
      covariables' central tendency measurement and variance will be explored, including quadratic
      terms for continuous variables, as well as q-q plots. Distribution homogeneity between groups
      will also be assessed using Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests. The matching specifications (caliper,
      matching ratio) may bemodified if group balancing is not satisfactory. However, the
      propensity score specifications will not be modified, to maintain consistency across
      analyses. Once balancing is considered appropriate to estimate an ATT, the causal effects
      will be estimated by using the Abadie-Imbens estimator. The Abadie-Imbens variance will be
      used to compute 95% confidence intervals. R software (R Core Team, 2020, version 4.0.3) will
      be used, as well as the Matching, survival, survey and tableone packages. IPTW analyses and
      bootstrap will be computed manually.

      Influence analysis:

      The effect of phlebotomies is considered to be mechanistically mediated by reducing portal
      pressure and splanchnic congestion. The effect of the intervention should thus be stronger in
      patients with cirrhosis. Thus, an influence analysis will be conducted by conduction the
      primary analysis (IPTW and bleeding) only in patients transplanted for cirrhosis by excluding
      retransplantations and transplantation for acute liver failure.
    
  