
    
      This study began as an efficacy study of interferon alpha-2a in patients with hairy cell
      leukemia. It was observed that most patients responded with interferon, but that very few
      complete responses were being obtained. Studies being done elsewhere confirmed the low
      complete remission rate. Once interferon was stopped, nearly uniform disease progression
      requiring reinstitution of therapy was observed. There appears to be very few if any patients
      who will not require further therapy after receiving 12 or 18 months of continuous interferon
      treatment. Because of these findings, and in order to evaluate the safety and efficacy of
      long-term recombinant interferon-alpha (IFN-Alpha) in patients with hairy cell leukemia, we
      opted to administer interferon continuously to patients who were initially responsive to this
      drug. Of the 53 evaluable patients (of the 56 entered on this study), there was one complete
      remission, 41 partial remissions, 1 minor response, 9 patients with stable disease and only 1
      patient with disease progression. Fourteen patients continue to receive interferon without
      interruption with a median duration of continuous interferon treatment of 9.2 years.
      Thirty-four patients discontinued interferon for a variety of reasons, the most common being
      the development of acquired interferon resistance in association with interferon antibodies.
      The resistance to interferon was manifested early, in the first 18 months of treatment,
      except in two cases. An important finding in this study is the continued slow, but
      significant, hematologic improvement in absolute granulocyte and platelet counts beyond 18
      months of therapy, thereby indicating that prolonged treatment results in continued benefit
      rather than the production of antibodies with subsequent development of interferon
      resistance. Although it is clear from this study that hairy cell leukemia can be controlled
      in the long-term with interferon, longer follow-up will be necessary to determine if
      continuous therapy with interferon is better than intermittent therapy. The optimal therapy
      for hairy cell leukemia remains open to discussion. Although early reports suggested that
      2-chlorodeoxyadenosine was curative, additional studies with longer periods of follow up
      suggest that as many as 30% of patients will relapse. This study provides the only instance
      where continuous long term treatment with interferon has been evaluated. This provides an
      opportunity to evaluate the long term toxicity of chronic interferon therapy, the long term
      efficacy of this treatment and to evaluate the potential benefits of long term interferon in
      preventing second malignancies, a complication noted in about 15% of patients treated in
      other fashions.

      After their initial clinical evaluation, patients were given 3 million units of recombinant
      IFN-Alpha subcutaneously daily for 4 to 6 months. In responding patients, maintenance therapy
      was given at a dose of 3 million units subcutaneously 3 times per week. Responding patients
      have continued on therapy indefinitely.
    
  