
    
      Background - previous studies have provided robust evidence on the link between intensive
      therapy and increased frequency of hypoglycaemia in people with type 1 diabetes. Despite type
      2 diabetes comprising the majority of cases of diabetes, the overall frequency of
      hypoglycaemia in this group has not been as carefully documented as in type 1 diabetes,
      particularly in relation to the clinical use of individual therapies in primary care.

      Recent prospective studies suggest that hypoglycaemia occurs more frequently than was
      previously thought for people with type 2 diabetes, particularly those treated with insulin
      and sulphonylureas. An increasingly elderly population, and earlier initiation of insulin and
      other newer therapies and treatment combinations, may influence the risk and severity of
      hypoglycaemic episodes.

      The overall aim is to undertake research that provides robust data on the frequency and
      severity of hypoglycaemia in people with type 2 diabetes managed in primary care, and assess
      and explore associated risk factors.

      PROSPECTIVE STUDY Aims - to prospectively evaluate the self-reported frequency and severity
      of hypoglycaemia in people with type 2 diabetes managed in primary care (stratified by
      participant treatment regime); to investigate the associated clinical and demographic
      predictors of hypoglycaemia.

      Methods - we will undertake a prospective, observational cohort study. Firstly, general
      practices will be approached to participate in the study, with an aim of recruiting around 20
      practices throughout the UK. All recruited sites will receive relevant study training for the
      purposes of recruiting participants and collecting/recording research data. Participating
      general practices will then identify potentially eligible individuals on their practice
      register; individuals will be invited via a study invitation pack sent in the post or given
      in person when they attend the practice. Individuals expressing an interest will be invited
      to attend an appointment at their general practice where informed consent will be obtained
      and baseline data collected (demographic, bio-medical and self-completion questionnaires).
      Participants will be provided with relevant study materials (glucose monitoring diaries,
      hypoglycaemia recording forms, and a blood glucose meter and strips) and asked to measure
      their blood glucose and record any episodes of hypoglycaemia, over a period of 12-months.
      Repeat biomedical and self-completion questionnaire data will be collected at 12-months
      follow-up.

      The overall sample size for the prospective study is 422, based on recruiting a quota of
      participants on the following treatment regimens: 1) metformin only (n=62); 2) sulphonylurea
      based (n=140); 3) insulin based (n=140); and 4) incretin based (Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP4)
      or Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1)), (n=80). Practices will be asked to continue recruitment
      until targets are met for each of the treatment groups.

      CROSS SECTIONAL STUDY Aim - to provide data on the prevalence of hypoglycaemia in people with
      type 2 diabetes who are managed in primary care and explore associated risk factors.

      Methods - approach for participation will be made when potential volunteers attend for a
      planned appointment for diabetes care (e.g. diabetes annual review, diabetic retinopathy
      screening), through poster advertisement at the site. Their healthcare professional will also
      explain that there is a researcher at the clinic who is recruiting individuals with type 2
      diabetes to take part in a research study. The researcher will then approach potential
      volunteers to provide a brief verbal explanation of the study, followed by a written
      participant information sheet for them to read. Subsequently, for individuals who volunteer
      to participate, they will be asked to sign a consent form and then given a questionnaire to
      self-complete (at their appointment or take home and post back to the research team). In
      addition, a researcher will obtain biomedical data from participants' medical records; no
      data will be collected until at least 48 hours has passed from the time informed consent was
      obtained, to allow time for participants who may change their mind about taking part.

      The anticipated recruitment target for the cross-sectional study is to recruit up to 2000
      participants.
    
  