
    
      Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) is one of the most common and distressing
      side-effects among cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. Despite steady progresses in
      antiemetic prophylaxis and treatment during the past decades, approximately half of cancer
      patients receiving moderately to highly emetogenic chemotherapy still experience significant
      nausea and vomiting. Considering the facts that CINV is difficult to be completely controlled
      by antiemetics along, healthcare professionals has explored the role of non-pharmacological
      interventions as adjunctive therapy for controlling CINV. Among which, auricular therapy (AT)
      is a promising approach but the evidence has still not been concluded.

      The aim of this study is to test the feasibility of a randomized controlled trial using
      auricular acupressure protocol for managing nausea and vomiting in female breast cancer
      patients undergoing chemotherapy. The objectives of this study will be: (1) to pilot the
      methodological procedure of the randomized controlled trial using a standard auricular
      acupressure protocol for controlling CINV; (2) to determine the recruitment rate and
      attrition rate during the whole study period; (3) to determine the feasibility of the study
      questionnaires and auricular acupressure protocol to the study participants; (4) to identify
      potential adverse events associated with auricular acupressure; (5) to preliminarily examine
      the effects of auricular acupressure on CINV and QoL in female breast cancer patients
      receiving chemotherapy; (6) to explore patients' experience in completing the trial and
      receiving the intervention; and (7) to refine the study protocol for a future multicenter,
      large-scale randomized controlled trial.

      A three-parallel-arm, placebo-controlled randomized pilot study will be adopted. One hundred
      and fourteen breast cancer patients scheduled to receive the first cycle of chemotherapy will
      be recruited from three provincial hospitals in Fuzhou, China, and will be randomly assigned
      to one of the three groups: the true AT group, the sham AT group or the standard care group.
      Participants in the true AT group will receive standard anti-emetic medications plus a 5-day
      auricular acupressure at the specific ear acupoints, participants in the sham AT group will
      receive standard anti-emetic medications plus a 5-day auricular acupressure at the same
      acupoints as in the true AT group without any acupoint stimulation, while participants in the
      standard care group will only be provided with the standard anti-emetic medications. The
      feasibility outcomes will be the recruitment rate and consent rate during the recruitment
      stage, the attrition rate during the whole study period, feasibility of the study
      questionnaires and auricular acupressure protocol to the study participants, and AT-related
      adverse events. The future main study outcomes will also be measured including acuteCINV,
      delayed CINV, anticipatory CINV, and quality of life. After completing the pilot clinical
      trial, a nested qualitative interview will be conducted to explore participants' experience
      in completing the trial and receiving the intervention.
    
  