
    
      Background and Significance:

      The concept of malnutrition and its' effects on the outcomes of surgical patients was first
      reported in 1936. A study revealed that malnourished patients going through ulcer surgery had
      a 33 percent mortality rate when compared with 3.5 percent in well-nourished individuals.
      According to the American Society of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition (ASPEN) guidelines,
      malnutrition is defined as 'an acute, subacute or chronic state of nutrition, in which
      varying degrees of overnutrition or undernutrition with or without inflammatory activity have
      led to a change in body composition and diminished function'.

      Acute malnutrition is present in 25 to 54% of hospitalized patients at admission.
      Malnutrition has a direct association with increased morbidity, mortality, length of stay
      (LOS), increased readmissions and cost of care. A prospective study of 500 patients,
      including 200 surgical patients, demonstrated that patients lost an average of 5.4 percent of
      their body weight during their hospital stay. Also, the stress of surgery or trauma creates a
      hypermetabolic state with an increased Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) while raising protein and
      energy requirements.

      Furthermore, during illness, the metabolic demand, as well as recovery time, are increased.
      This situation could increase the risk of malnutrition or shift it from at risk of
      malnutrition to mild to moderate or even severe cases, resulting in a further increase in
      subsequent recovery time. The aforementioned condition is more evident in major surgical
      candidates because of metabolic stress leading to a general lack of desire to eat, malaise,
      fatigue and oftentimes depression interrupting normal eating processes and food intake while
      disturbing digestion and absorption. This condition results in skeletal muscle loss and usage
      of internal amino acids for endogenous glucose production (Gluconeogenesis). With the loss of
      skeletal muscle, protein and energy availability is lowered throughout the body. Muscle loss
      is also associated with delayed recovery from illness after surgery, slow wound healing and
      higher healthcare costs.

      Measuring metabolic demand Given the increased caloric demand in a hypermetabolic state, the
      patient requires increased energy. Determining the exact amount of energy required has proven
      to be a moving target. Indirect calorimetry (IC), which is based on measurements of oxygen
      and carbon dioxide production (see attachment), has been shown to be the gold standard for
      Resting Energy Expenditure (REE) measurement in critically ill patients. However, this method
      is often underutilized due to staff shortage, equipment costs, and lack of knowledge and
      interpretation. Instead, predictive equations, such as the Mifflin St. Jeor, are used when
      other more precise methods, such as IC, are not available. These predictive equations are
      less precise, as they may not account for the increased demand due to the hypermetabolic
      state of the patient undergoing major surgeries, whose metabolic demand can increase as much
      as 150-200% above the Resting Energy Expenditure (REE). Therefore, the risk of inadequate
      energy intake is increased in these patients.

      Screening and diagnosis of malnutrition

      A number of well-known tools such as the Mini Nutrition Assessment (MNA), Graz Malnutrition
      Screening (GMS), Malnutrition Universal Screening Tool (MUST), Malnutrition Screening Tool
      (MST) and Subjective Global Assessment (SGA) are available to identify malnutrition. Although
      these tools have been validated, they can be limiting as they are self-directed and
      malnourished patients rarely receive adequate nutritional assessment and treatment prior to
      surgery. Instead, a recent expert consensus suggests that a diagnosis of malnutrition
      requires that the patient exhibit two or more of the six Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition's
      (ASPEN) criteria for the diagnosis of malnutrition:

        -  Insufficient energy intake

        -  Weight loss

        -  Loss of muscle mass

        -  Loss of subcutaneous fat

        -  Localized or generalized fluid accumulation that may sometimes mask weight loss

        -  Diminished functional status as measured by hand grip strength Additionally, serum
           proteins such as albumin, prealbumin (PAB) and C-Reactive Protein (CRP) have been widely
           used by physicians as a marker for nutritional status. They provide a quantitative
           measure to indirectly evaluate malnutrition and its severity in patients undergoing
           surgery. Because of the overlap of malnutrition with chronic and acute inflammation, it
           can be challenging to predict, as well as identify, malnutrition. Acute inflammation
           seen in many chronic diseases could lead to hypermetabolism, rendering the patient in a
           hypercatabolic state.

      Malnutrition intervention Available data demonstrates that early nutrition intervention, such
      as adequate energy and protein to prevent loss of skeletal muscle, weight and subcutaneous
      fat, can reduce complication rates, length of hospital stay (LOS), readmission rates,
      mortality, and cost of care in malnourished patients undergoing major surgeries such as
      gastrointestinal (GI) surgeries.

      Studies suggest dietary leucine or its metabolite β-hydroxy β-methylbutyrate (HMB) can
      improve skeletal muscle mass and function, as well as whole-body health and well-being of
      animals and humans.

      Supplementation with HMB has been extensively studied in elder patients and athletes. He X
      and colleagues displayed that the effect of HMB is through increasing gene expression of
      peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma co-activator 1-alpha (PGC-1α), which is a
      master regulator of mitochondrial metabolism (See HMB information sheet, attached). However,
      no study has verified the effect of HMB on patients undergoing major surgeries.

      HMB has been widely used in several over-the-counter products and supplements to improve
      muscle function and increase lean body mass. One supplement containing HMB is Ensure Enlive.
      This supplement is listed as the Abbott Company's most advanced nutrition shake and contains
      high protein plus HMB. This supplement is designed to help reconstruct muscles from the
      inside, with an all-in-one blend to support muscle, bone, heart immune, and digestive tract
      health. It is specifically designed to help patients undergoing metabolic stress including
      severe illness, injury, and surgery (See Ensure Enlive information sheet, attached).

      The advantage of combining HMB with high protein nutrition supplement (Ensure Enlive) could
      translate to the theory that, HMB is executed by increasing transcriptional level of protein
      synthase, while other high protein or amino acids like Glutamine or Arginine supplements only
      provide protein-amino acids pool for patients while body's preferred fuel during metabolic
      stress is endogenous protein, rather than exogenous diet.

      Hypotheses:

      The investigators hypothesize that patients receiving high protein nutritional
      supplementation with HMB (Ensure Enlive) will have meaningful improvements in surgical
      outcomes rather than if they receive HMB only. Also, by comparing different methods of
      malnutrition designation, the investigators are hypothesizing that by conduction of this
      study, the investigators will have a better understanding of malnutrition and its
      consequences in the Central Valley of California. Furthermore, the investigators are planning
      to improve patient outcomes and significantly reduce the health care costs of the Valley by
      proper nutritional supplementation.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Determine patients' nutritional status before and after major surgeries by baseline and
           subsequent nutritional assessments

        2. Determine the Resting Energy Expenditure (REE) in different phases of pre- and
           postoperative periods using indirect calorimetry

        3. Determine if at-risk for malnutrition is a major growing problem in the Central Valley
           for patients undergoing major surgeries due to lack of screening tools by monitoring and
           evaluating the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and the ASPEN recommendations for
           diagnostic characteristics for adults at risk for malnutrition in routine clinical
           practice including:

             -  Insufficient energy intake

             -  Weight Loss

             -  Loss of muscle mass

             -  Loss of subcutaneous fat

             -  Localized or generalized fluid accumulation that may sometimes mask weight loss

             -  Diminished functional status as measured by hand grip strength The presence of two
                or more are necessary for the diagnosis of at risk for malnutrition

        4. Compare serum protein markers and their ratios in order to correlate them with ASPEN's
           and The Academy criteria for nutritional status quantification

        5. Demonstrate the important role of leucine or its metabolite β-hydroxy β-methylbutyrate
           (HMB) supplementation with or without high protein nutrition supplement in patients
           undergoing major surgeries.

        6. Also, this is a unique opportunity for Fresno State Food Science and Nutrition,
           Nutrition and Dietetic undergraduate students to develop their skills and experience in
           clinical practice and research. In this study, our undergraduate students will initiate
           a full nutrition assessment analysis including all the 5 domains including client
           history (CH), Anthropometric Measurements (AD), biochemical data, medical tests, and
           procedures (BD), nutrition-focused/physical findings (PD) and Food/Nutrition-Related
           History (FH), nutrition education session and also check the 6 criteria for
           malnutrition, under the guidance of the researchers and registered dietitians, with the
           use of intact protocols and standards of comparison.
    
  