
    
      Skeletal muscle mito ATP production in young people are stimulated by insulin when infused
      with a mixture of amino acids while clamping blood glucose at the basal level. Our
      preliminary results indicate that this effect on mito ATP production is directly related to
      amino acid levels. Recent publications indicated that infusion of insulin with amino acids
      specifically stimulate muscle mitochondrial protein synthesis with no effect on synthesis or
      contractile proteins or sarcoplasmic proteins. The recent publications also indicated that
      intracellular amino acid anabolic sensors are stimulated by amino acids. It appears that
      BCAA, especially leucine has a specific effect in stimulating intracellular signaling or
      translation of mRNA to protein synthesis. It has been shown that amino acids, especially
      leucine, stimulate protein synthesis by activation of the mTOR pathway in mTOR phosphorylates
      p70S6 kinase which in turn phosphorylates the ribosomal S6 protein, resulting in increased
      activity of the protein synthesis complex. Activated mTOR also phosphorylates eIF4E-BP1 and
      activates the protein synthesis initiation complex. It is the abundance of specific mRNAase
      that determines synthesis of which specific proteins are promoted. Our preliminary data
      supports that amino acids selectively promotes muscle mitochondrial protein synthesis by
      enhancing the abundance of transcripts of genes that encode mitochondrial proteins.
      Administration of an amino acid mixture, specifically BCAA, is proposed as a stimulant of
      muscle mitochondrial ATP production. Secondary measurements will be performed to understand
      the underlying mechanism of enhanced muscle ATP production. These results are likely to
      contribute to our understanding of the basic mechanisms of the regulation of mitochondrial
      biogenesis in humans which will have potential future application.

      This is a cross-sectional study between young and old. The study will use the new proteomic
      techniques established in our laboratory to profile and quantify mitochondrial protein
      synthesis in the participants. The combination of metabolic labeling with stable isotope and
      measuring synthesis rates of specific mito proteins by tandem mass spectrometry will
      determine whether actual stimulation by BCAA occurs differentially in young and elderly.
    
  