
    
      Background:

      Increasing evidence indicates that activation of stem cell gene expression is a common
      mechanism by which environmental carcinogens mediate initiation and progression of thoracic
      malignancies. Similar mechanisms appear to contribute to extra-thoracic malignancies that
      metastasize to the chest. Utilization of pharmacologic agents, which target gene regulatory
      networks mediating "stemness" may be novel strategies for treatment of these neoplasms.
      Recent studies performed in the Thoracic Epigenetics

      Laboratory, NCI, demonstrate that under exposure conditions potentially achievable in
      clinical settings, mithramycin diminishes stem cell gene expression and markedly inhibits
      growth of lung and esophageal cancer and malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) cells in vitro
      and in vivo. These findings add to other recent preclinical studies demonstrating impressive
      anti-tumor activity of mithramycin in epithelial malignancies and sarcomas that frequently
      metastasize to the thorax.

      Primary Objectives:

        -  Phase I component: To determine pharmacokinetics, toxicities, and maximum tolerated dose
           (MTD) of mithramycin administered as a continuous 24h infusion in patients with primary
           thoracic malignancies or carcinomas, sarcomas or germ cell tumors metastatic to the
           chest.

        -  Phase II component: To determine objective response rates (CR+PR) of mithramycin
           administered as 24h intravenous infusions in patients with primary thoracic malignancies
           or carcinomas, sarcomas or germ cell tumors metastatic to the chest.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with measurable inoperable, histologically confirmed lung and esophageal
           carcinomas, thymic neoplasms, germ cell tumors, malignant pleural mesotheliomas or chest
           wall sarcomas, as well as patients with gastric, colorectal or renal cancers and
           sarcomas metastatic to the thorax are eligible.

        -  Patients with favorable germline SNPs in ABCB4, ABCB11, RALBP or CYP8B1 that are
           associated with resistance to mithramycin-induced hepatotoxicity.

        -  Patients must have had or refused first-line standard therapy for their malignancies.

        -  Patients must be 18 years or older with an ECOG performance status of 0 - 2, without
           evidence of unstable or decompensated myocardial disease. Patients must have adequate
           pulmonary reserve evidenced by FEV1 and DLCO equal to or greater than 30% predicted;
           Oxygen saturation >= 92% on room air. ABG will be drawn if clinically indicated.

        -  Patients must have a platelet count greater than or equal to 100,000, an ANC equal to or
           greater than 1500 without transfusion or cytokine support, a normal PT/PTT, and adequate
           hepatic function as evidenced by a total bilirubin of < 1.5 x upper limits of normal
           (ULN) and AST/ALT <= 3 X ULN.

        -  Serum creatinine within normal institutional limits or creatinine clearance >= 60
           mL/min/1.73 m^2 for patients with creatinine levels above institutional normal.

      Design:

        -  Single arm Phase I dose escalation to define pharmacokinetics, toxicities and MTD.

        -  Patient cohorts will receive 24h infusions of mithramycin targeting total doses
           previously administered during 7 daily six hour infusions at 30-50 mcg/kg.

        -  The 24h infusions will be administered every 14 days (1 cycle). Four cycles will
           constitute one course of therapy.

        -  Pharmacokinetics and toxicity assessment to define MTD will be assessed during Cycle 1
           of the first course of therapy.

        -  Due to uncertainties regarding potential cumulative toxicities, no intra-patient dose
           escalation will be allowed.

        -  Once MTD has been defined, patients will be enrolled into two cohorts (primary thoracic
           malignancy vs neoplasm of non-thoracic origin metastatic to the chest) to determine
           clinical response rates at the MTD, using a Simon Optimal Two Stage Design for Phase II
           Clinical Trials targeting an objective response rate (RECIST) of 30%.

        -  Following each course of therapy, patients will undergo restaging studies. Patients
           exhibiting objective response to therapy or stable disease by RECIST criteria will be
           offered an additional course of therapy.

        -  Patients exhibiting disease progression will be removed from study.

        -  Biopsies of index lesions will be obtained at baseline and on Day 4 of the first cycle
           of therapy for analysis of pharmacodynamic endpoints. Optional tumor biopsies may be
           requested at the completion of Course 1 (4 cycles) and in patients exhibiting objective
           responses.
    
  