
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Among the dose levels tested, to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and
      recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of ruxolitinib phosphate (ruxolitinib), when given as part
      of reduced intensity allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT), in patients with
      myelofibrosis.

      II. To determine if the addition of ruxolitinib is safe by evaluation of toxicities
      including: type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and duration.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize and evaluate hematologic recovery, donor cell engraftment and immune
      reconstitution by cell count and flow cytometry of lymphocyte subsets.

      II. To estimate the cumulative incidence of acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) and
      non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 100-days post transplant.

      III. To estimate the cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD at 1- and 2-years post transplant.

      IV. To estimate the probabilities of overall and progression-free survival (OS/PFS) at 1- and
      2-years post transplant.

      V. To characterize changes in aGVHD biomarkers (Reg-3 alpha, soluble tumor necrosis factor
      receptor I [sTNF RI], IL2R alpha), janus associated kinases (JAK)-regulated pro-inflammatory
      cytokines (i.e. IL-6, TNF alpha, CRP, beta 2microglobulin) and STAT3 phosphorylation
      (downstream of JAK signaling) over time and by aGVHD status/grade.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ruxolitinib phosphate.

      PREPARATIVE REGIMEN: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) on days -9 to
      -5, melphalan IV over 20 minutes on day -4, and ruxolitinib phosphate orally (PO) twice daily
      (BID) on days -3 to 30 with a taper for 2-3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive tacrolimus IV continuously beginning on day -3 and convert
      to PO daily when the patient is able to tolerate and absorb oral medications. Patients also
      receive sirolimus PO daily beginning on day -3. Treatment continues in the absence of GVHD.

      STEM CELL TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo allogeneic HCT on day 0.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2 years.
    
  