
    
      There is increasing concern regarding adolescent suicide in Latin America. Recent mental
      health policies foster the development and implementation of preventive interventions for
      suicide. Such initiatives, however, have been scarcely developed, even in countries with
      solid mental health services, such as Chile. The use of information and communication
      technologies (ICT) might contribute to create accessible, engaging, and innovative platforms
      to promote well-being and support for adolescents with mental health needs and suicide risk.
      Promising evidence from high-income countries has already shown the potential benefits of
      ICT-based programs but further research is needed, especially in settings with restrained
      resources. Providing local evidence is crucial for persuading policy makers and other
      stakeholders, and it will prove crucial in order to widely disseminate and scale up the
      program, if it is found to be effective.

      A cluster randomized controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate an ICT-based program will be
      conducted to prevent suicide and enhance mental health among adolescents in Chile.
      Four-hundred high-school students will be recruited from 6 public schools in two regions of
      Chile. Study procedures will be as follows: 1) design of the intervention model and creation
      of prototype; 2) selection and randomization of the participating schools; 3) implementation
      of the 3-month intervention and evaluation at baseline, post-intervention period, and a
      2-month follow-up.

      The ICT-based program utilizes a web-based platform and a mobile application to cultivate a
      virtual community to promote mental health protective factors, such as self-esteem and
      self-expression, and prevent adolescent suicide. To overcome the frequent barriers to help
      seeking, the program will provide rapid direct access to quality, evidence-based information
      and real-time assistance from a mental health professional; encourage habits that improve
      emotional and physical health; facilitate self-monitoring of mental health and personal
      progress; and promote social integration and participation in community-based activities. The
      program is based on the principles of peer support and inclusivity, and as such, its name is
      "Project Clan," in reference to a diverse group of individuals who come together for a common
      purpose in a welcoming environment. The privacy and anonymity of each "Clan member" will be
      respected, so that they feel free to openly express themselves and resolve questions about
      possibly taboo topics related to mental health and suicide. Project Clan includes both
      informational and interactive features, ranging from traditional suicide prevention
      strategies (e.g., a chat with a psychologist, emergency phone hotline, and tips) that seek to
      reduce barriers to access quality, useful, and evidence-based information and rapid
      professional assistance; to components designed to increase interactions between participants
      and promote a sense of belonging and connection with the other Clan members.

      Suicidal ideation is the primary outcome in this study. Secondary outcomes include negative
      psychological outcomes (e.g., stigma, depression, anxiety) as well as a number of protective
      psychological and social factors. Indicators regarding the study implementation process will
      be also gathered. Pertinent study documents (e.g., research protocol, instruments, informed
      consent, and informed assent forms) were approved by the Ethics Committee for Human Subjects
      Research of the Faculty of Medicine, Universidad de Chile.
    
  