
    
      Generalized social anxiety disorder (GSAD) is one of the most common psychiatric disorders,
      and often causes significant distress and dysfunction in affected individuals. Although
      currently available treatments for GSAD are effective, most individuals have residual
      symptoms after initial psychosocial or psychopharmacologic intervention. Further treatment is
      necessary for such individuals, but sufficient research has not been done to guide clinicians
      on what the safest and most effective next step may be. This study will compare the
      effectiveness of either combining clonazepam or placebo with sertraline or completely
      switching to venlafaxine in treating GSAD in individuals who have not responded to treatment
      with sertraline. This study will also examine predictors of treatment response, including
      factors such as age at disease onset, duration of illness, comorbidities, and genes that
      influence serotonin and catecholamine metabolism.

      Participants in this double-blind study will first partake in an initial 10-week phase in
      which they will be treated with sertraline. Participants who do not respond to sertraline
      treatment will proceed to phase two of the study, in which they will be randomly assigned to
      one of three treatment groups. One group will receive both sertraline and clonazepam, another
      group will receive both sertraline and placebo, and the third group will receive only
      venlafaxine. All treatments will continue for 12 weeks. Sertraline and venlafaxine are both
      FDA-approved for the treatment of GSAD. Clonazepam is widely used for the treatment of
      anxiety, but is not FDA-approved for the treatment of GSAD. All participants will attend
      weekly study visits at Weeks 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10. Participants who continue into phase two
      will attend weekly study visits at Weeks 11-14, 16, 18, 20, and 22. Symptom remission rates
      and post-treatment social phobia severity will be assessed at Week 22.
    
  