
    
      Sudden hearing loss is an ENT emergence occurring within 72 hours, with sensorineural hearing
      loss of more than 30 dB on three consecutive frequencies. The incidence of this disease was
      5-20 / 100000. The etiology of this disease has not been fully elucidated. In addition, viral
      infections, tumors, autoimmune diseases and vascular insufficiency have been suggested as
      etiologic factors by different researchers. There is no definitive routine treatment modality
      in the world because the etiology is not fully established. However, corticosteroid treatment
      is a well-accepted agent for the treatment of internal ear damage. In recent years, studies
      have shown that ischemia has an important place in etiology and hyperbaric oxygen therapy has
      become one of the routine treatment protocols. Another important point in terms of the
      prognosis of the disease is that spontaneous recovery of sudden hearing loss in 30-70% of the
      patients is observed in different studies.

      Ischemia-modified albumin is a compound used as a marker of oxidative stress and used to
      determine the severity of cardiac ischemia.

      In this study, the levels of ischemia-modified albumin levels in patients with SSHL and
      healthy control patients will be measured and their effectiveness in revealing the etiology
      of SSHL will be investigated. The difference between ischemia-modified albumin between
      patients and healthy control subjects will be evaluated. The number of patients and control
      groups shall be 30 individuals.

      The evaluation of the hearing of the patients with hearing loss will be performed by the
      Otorhinolaryngology Department of Yuzuncu Yıl University. The study is planned to be
      performed with a total of 30 patients aged 18-50 years. Those who are diagnosed with SSHL
      will be included in the group and chronic diseases in the ear will be excluded. Thirty
      healthy patients with similar age and gender will be included in the study as the control
      group. The patients in the control group, must have normal hearing levels. The amounts of
      ischemic modified albumin in the study group and in the control group will be measured.
      Hearing levels will be determined at the admission time and 3,7,10th days and 1st month. 5 ml
      of peripheral blood samples taken from both groups of patients will be taken into
      biochemistry tubes. The blood will be centrifuged at 4000 rpm for 5 minutes to separate from
      the serum and plasma. Serum samples obtained will be stored at -20 oC until analysis. The
      selected samples are not hemolyzed and lipemic. Once the target number has been reached, all
      samples will be carefully mixed and then returned to the room temperature (15ına18 oC). It
      will be examined on the same day to avoid any differences between all sera. Statistical
      analysis will be done and interpreted.
    
  