
    
      Colorectal Cancer is most common in western countries. In 2007 in Austria 4462 new colorectal
      cancers were diagnosed. The most common place of metastasis is the liver. Approximately 15%
      of patients have metastasis at time of diagnosis of primary tumor and further 50% will
      develop metastases in the further course of the disease.However only 10-25% of patients are
      candidates for liver resection. New chemotherapeutics, new targeted therapies with monoclonal
      antibodies and better surgical techniques improved response rates, resection rates and
      overall survival. Owing to improved response rates metastases in the liver partially
      respectively completely disappeared, so that these lesions are not more visible in apparative
      diagnostic like CT-scan and MRI.

      The question is now what to do with this patients? In the literature there is no evidence how
      to manage these patients. Conservative management would lead to a reoccurrence of metastases
      in the liver. On the other side surgical management is difficult, because metastases are
      preoperatively and intraoperatively not visible and resection is only possible with the
      removement of greater amounts of healthy tissue.

      The computer tomography-guided wire marking of the metastases in the liver is a possibility
      to overcome these problems. All patients with complete radiologic response of metastases in
      the liver and metastases ≤ 1 cm are included in the study (RECISTE-Criteria). On day of
      surgical procedure patients will brought to interventional radiologist and based on computer
      tomography images before neoadjuvant chemotherapy the lesions will be marked computer
      tomography-guided with a wire(X-Reidy Breast Lesion Localization Needle, Cook Medical). The
      wire is placed percutaneously and under antibiotic prophylaxis. After the marking procedure,
      the patient is brought into the operating room to resect the metastases in the liver.
    
  