
    
      The patients (n = 60) are invited through posters and social networks to recruit a group of
      40 overweight subjects (20% above their ideal weight). The protocol is explained in detail to
      each one, and the patient and two witnesses sign the informed consent. Subjects are assigned
      to one of two groups: group A: high protein diet (HPD) and group B: non-high protein diet
      (NHPD). The NHPD is designed according to Mexican nutrition guidelines according to sex and
      age.

      The main anthropometric and biochemical measurements and diet monitoring are performed in the
      body composition laboratory of the Faculty of Sports Organization (FOD). Four technicians
      (nutritionists) are in charge of taking the measurements and recording the data. The
      principal investigators review the quality of the information and the correct completion of
      the records. Each file will be assigned an identification number. Other nutritionists
      (graduate students) will be in charge of auditing the information according to the protocol
      guidelines. Principal Investigators will resolve any discrepancies between technicians and
      graduate students to ensure data recording, deletion, or reevaluation.

      Each patient is asked for a prior medical examination before entering the study. The data
      from the external medical practitioner are compared with those provided by the patient for
      the present study.

      The main anthropometric variables are measured with the international ISAK methodology. The
      DXA equipment is calibrated daily, and the result is analyzed and analyzed by a researcher
      who evaluates whether the measurement is reliable.

      The data is recorded in printed formats that are immediately scanned to maintain readability.
      Later, they are recorded in an Excel sheet with the patient's identification number. In each
      measurement session, the database is analyzed for abnormal, extreme or unlikely data. Two
      independent researchers are responsible for reviewing the database every day.

      Each patient is cared for by a nutrition student who accompanies him in the basic needs,
      clothing and transfers to the measurement equipment. At the end of the evaluation, patients
      receive a complimentary meal and free transportation home.

      Patients are monitored through WhatsApp to verify the presence of adverse events with the
      diet. Also, for any questions with the procedures. All procedures are recorded in paper and
      electronic form. In addition, they are given an additional number in case of medical
      emergency or consultation with a nutritionist.

      The sample size will be limited in the first stage to 30 patients. Measurements and
      preliminary analysis will be obtained at 0, day four and day fifteen. The last two
      measurements will be taken on day 42 and until the subjects reach their ideal body weight.

      In the case of missing data or defective quality record, subjects will be removed.

      Regarding the statistical analysis, multiple linear regression will be used, where the groups
      and measurements will be compared on the different measurement days. As covariates,
      covariates will be incorporated as initial values, age, sex, BMI, among others, will be
      adjusted. Descriptive statistics will be added.
    
  