
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial of women undergoing vaginal hysterectomy with minimally
      invasive sacrocolpopexy. Eligible patients will be approached for study participation after
      they have decided to proceed with the vaginal hysterectomy with minimally invasive
      sacrocolpopexy. After enrollment, demographics including age, race, prolapse stage, and
      medical history will be collected. Before vaginal hysterectomy with minimally invasive
      sacrocolpopexy in the OR, they will be randomized to the group that will be read healing
      statements or to the group without healing statements. Women randomized to the healing
      statement group will have the following statements read to them by a trained research staff
      member, using Peggy Huddleston's technique. Before the patient is placed under general
      anesthesia, the study staff member will repeat 5 times:

      "Following this operation, [the participant] will feel very comfortable and [the participant]
      will heal very well"

      Toward the end of the surgery, the study staff member will say 5 times:

      "The operation has gone very well." "Following the operation, [the participant] will be
      hungry. [The participant] will be thirsty and urinate easily."

      Prior to reading these statements to the patient, the research staff member will listen to a
      previously recorded audio sample of how the statements should be read with regard to tone of
      voice and attitude.

      Patients will then fill out the VAS pain scale 6 and 24 hours after surgery. Pain medication
      use, dosage, type of medication will be assessed by examining electronic medical records.
      Time to pass void trial and time to first bowel movement will be recorded on paper and
      brought to the patient's 2-week follow up visit. Nausea will be assessed 6 and 24 hours after
      surgery using the Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting (PONV) Intensity Scale. Patients will be
      given standard post-operative instructions for a vaginal hysterectomy with minimally invasive
      sacrocolpopexy, and be told to come to the clinic in 2 weeks for a follow up visit. During
      this time, the will be told to keep a daily diary of pain medication use including name,
      dosage, and amount taken. At the 2-week visit, the patient will fill out another VAS pain
      scale and PFDI-20 and their pain medication diaries will be collected. The patient's overall
      sense of recovery will be assessed using the PGI. Once the data is collected, statistical
      analysis will be performed.
    
  