
    
      A randomized clinical trial in the city of Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, was conducted
      during the school year of 2007 (March to December 2007). The trial had a factorial design
      based on two different interventions: 1) nutritional counseling and 2) home-based exercise.
      The present study focused on the effects of exercise intervention.

      Of the 36 public schools spread over five different areas, we selected 20 schools from three
      areas with similar demographic and socio-economic profiles. Because of the small number of
      male cooks (n=5), we included only women who were neither pregnant nor breastfeeding. Cooks
      on sick leave or those working in other capacities were excluded. A total of 101 cooks were
      eligible, and six refused to participate in the study.

      All participants received information about the goals of the study and signed a document
      indicating informed consent. The study was approved by the institutional review board of the
      State University of Rio de Janeiro.

      School cooks enrolled in the present study were public servants and work in periods of eight
      hours, five days per week, in three different shifts (morning, afternoon and night). They are
      responsible to prepare all meals served at school and cleaning up, and schools do not have
      any machine to help them to perform their tasks. They eat at least one meal at school.

      Sample size As previously reported13), the sample size was calculated assuming an individual
      reduction of 10% in sugar consumption (3.4 grams) with a power of 80% and a 5% significance
      level. Anticipating a rate of participation agreement around 80%, the total sample size was
      estimated to be 80 school cooks. For this purpose, 20 schools employing a total of 130 school
      cooks were randomized.

      Intervention Nutritional and exercise counseling were given during the school year of 2007
      (eight months). The nutritional counseling group received information focused on decreasing
      the amount of sugar used in school meals, as well as their own sugar intake. They
      participated in three nutritional education meetings regarding sugar intake and food label.
      All activities were realized at school and required about 20 minutes. In addition, they
      participated in a contest to create reduced-sugar recipes and banners, and magnets promoting
      the reduction of sugar intake were also provided. All school cooks, from both the control and
      nutritional counseling groups, participated in three discussion sessions about healthy
      eating.

      The exercise intervention group received received a booklet on physical exercises, consisted
      of stretching and aerobic exercises that could be practiced at home at least three times per
      week for 40 minutes (per session) at low-to-moderate intensity (available at www.nebin.org).
      The exercise sessions were divided into three parts: 1) A warm-up routine consisting of
      gentle body movement and stretching exercises (5 minutes); 2) An aerobic cycle performed in a
      circuit with continuous movements involving large arm and leg muscles, as well as exercises
      using a ball, ropes, stair climbing, and standing up from a chair (balls and ropes were given
      to the participants) (30 minutes); and 3) a cool-down period, in which the same initial
      stretching exercises were performed (5 minutes). The participants were encouraged to engage
      in exercise of low-to-moderate intensity with low impact at least three times a week during
      the eight months. In the first week, women were advised to perform only a 20-minute session,
      increasing gradually (10 minutes/session/week) up to 40 minutes per session. Each session
      comprised activities with balls, ropes, stairs and chair. Additionally, they were advised to
      reduce the exercise intensity if they felt any discomfort (e.g., if they were experiencing
      breathlessness or muscle aches). School cooks allocated to control group received only
      general information for physical activity and did not received the booklet.

      Measurements The anthropometric variables were collected at three different times (baseline,
      4 and 8 months), while individual food intake, based on a previously validated food frequency
      questionnaire14), and fasting blood samples were collected at baseline and after 8 months.

      Height was measured to the nearest 0.5 cm with a wall-mounted stadiometer, and body weight
      was measured using the same calibrated digital scale (Tanita, BC 533 Inner Scan) for all
      participants. Circumference measurements were taken at the largest girth of the hip and
      smallest girth of the waist. All anthropometric measurements were performed according to
      standard techniques15).

      Blood samples were collected in the morning after 10 hours of fasting. Plasma lipids and
      glucose were measured using GoldAnalisa kits. The LDL and VLDL cholesterol concentrations
      were calculated according to the Friedewald equation16) based on the triacylglycerol
      measurements.

      Physical activity energy expenditure at baseline was evaluated in a sub-sample of 30
      participants using an accelerometer (Actical® physical activity monitor, Mini Mitter, Bend,
      OR, USA). The accelerometer was programmed according to the manufacturer's instructions by
      entering the height, weight, age and sex of each subject. The subjects were instructed to
      place the accelerometers at their waists and wear them continuously for two consecutive days,
      except during activities in which contact with water could occur (e.g., during a bath).

      Data analysis The characteristics of school cooks were expressed as means with standard
      deviations, and we compared the two intervention groups at baseline by using Student's
      t-test. The effects of nutritional counselling and home-based exercise on weight and
      circumference were evaluated through repeated random regression (RRR) analysis using PROC
      MIXED in SAS (version 9.1; SAS Institute Inc, Cary, NC). The analysis for the effects of
      exercise intervention was adjusted for dietary intervention while the analysis for the
      effects of nutritional counselling was adjusted for exercise intervention. The RRR is an
      intention-to-treat analysis because it includes all observations of each one of the subjects
      regardless of loss to follow-up or complies with instructions. The term of interest was
      treatment X time interaction, which estimates the rate of change in the outcomes over time.
      Residual plots of all models were examined, and their distribution did not show major
      deviations from regression assumptions. Changes in plasma lipids and glucose (samples of
      which were taken twice) between the groups were determined by Student's t-test.
    
  