
    
      A prospective study showed that a mild reduction in AT levels (70%-80%) was associated with
      the recurrence of no incentive VTE. Subsequent studies defined mild AT deficiency as less
      than the 5th percentile of the normal range to further verify that mild AT deficiency is a
      risk factor for VTE recurrence. Many retrospective studies have also shown that the
      activities of AT-Ⅲ, PC and PS are related to the occurrence and recurrence of VTE and DVT.
      Taking the lower limit of the normal reference value as the criterion for judging the lack of
      anticoagulant protein activity, Zhu Tienan et al. found that the lack of activity of AT, PC,
      and PS in normal people were 1.15%, 1.49%, and 2.29%, respectively. Fang Biqian et al. found
      277 cases of VTE. Among the cases found that the lack of activity of AT, PC, and PS were
      16.00%, 17.45%, and 17.09%, respectively. That is, the lack of activity of the three
      anticoagulant proteins in VTE patients was about 10 times higher than that of normal people.
      Chinese scholars from Taiwan, Hong Kong and Shanghai also found that the total lack of three
      anticoagulant proteins of AT-Ⅲ, PC and PS exceeds 15% in Western countries, suggesting that
      the etiological composition of venous thromboembolism in the Chinese population may be
      similar to that of Western countries. Different, reflecting that anticoagulant protein
      deficiency plays an important role in the pathogenesis of VTE patients in China. Compared
      with factor V Leiden mutation and prothrombin 20210A mutation, the most common thrombosis in
      Asian population is antithrombin Ⅲ (AT-Ⅲ), protein C (protein C, PC) and protein S (protein
      S, PS), etc. Defects of anticoagulant protein. When the hypercoagulable state caused by
      anticoagulant protein deficiency is induced by certain risk factors for thrombosis, such as
      pregnancy, oral contraceptives, fractures, long-term immobilization, etc., it can lead to the
      occurrence of VTE. When PICC is implanted in patients with AT-Ⅲ, PC and PS activity defects,
      whether PICC indwelling will become a predisposing factor of thrombosis is not yet known.

      It has been reported that the severity of CVC-related thrombosis in patients with AT-Ⅲ
      deficiency after CVC catheterization is higher than that of the normal group. Nowak-Göttl et
      al. showed that PC and PS genetic defects are related to catheterization in children
      Thrombosis plays an important role. In 2016, a systematic review showed that the risk of DVT
      related to more than one anticoagulant defect increased by 3.20 times. PC defects can
      increase the incidence of CVC-related DVT in children. Our preliminary study of this subject
      found that the lack of anticoagulant protein in PICC-RVT patients was higher than that in
      non-PICC-RVT patients.
    
  