
    
      High level of serum cholesterol is a risk factor for atherosclerotic complications, including
      atherosclerotic aortic valve disease. Over 50 years dietary plant sterols have been used to
      inhibit intestinal cholesterol absorption and to decrease its levels in serum. Daily human
      diet contains numerous different plant sterols, of which sitosterol and campesterol are the
      most abundant ones. Few epidemiologic studies suggest that sitosterol and campesterol may
      also be involved in formation of atherosclerotic changes in human arteries. The saturated
      forms of sitosterol and campesterol, i.e., the plant stanols (mainly sitostanol and
      campestanol) are beneficial with this respect. As part of daily diet, the plant stanols
      decrease absorption of both cholesterol and plant sterols, and thus, are putatively even more
      effective in prevention of atherosclerosis than the respective plant sterols.

      Our double-blind controlled intervention study unravels influence of dietary plant sterols
      and stanols on the structure and the sterol composition of the human aortic valve.

      50-60 patients, who will undergo aortic valve surgery, will be asked to volunteer our study.
      The patients will be randomized into three groups: (A) a group consuming margarine containing
      daily 2 grams plant stanols, (E) a group consuming margarine containing daily 2 grams of
      plant sterols, (C) a control group consuming margarine without any plant sterols or stanols.
      The dietary intervention will last for 4 to 8 weeks from the randomization to the operation.

      Serum samples for analyses of serum lipids, lipoproteins and sterols will be collected at the
      randomization and at the operation. The atherosclerotic aortic valve will be examined with
      respect to its composition of cholesterol, other sterols and stanols.

      The aim of our study is to elucidate the effects of dietary consumption of plant sterols and
      stanols on the sterol composition and structure of the atherosclerotic disease-affected
      aortic valve in human patients.
    
  