
    
      Population: patients with metabolic syndrome; Intervention: Galantamine; Comparation:
      Placebo; Outcomes (primary): proinflammatory cytokines levels.

      Description:

      Patients with criteria of Metabolic Syndrome (with the 2005 revised NCEP ATP III criteria)
      will be randomized to 2 groups: use of galantamina (30 patients) or placebo (30 patients) in
      the following sequency:

      I) 4 weeks of treatment with 8 mg of galantamine or placedo (oral ingestion capsules);

      II) 8 weeks of treatment with 16 mg of galantamine or placebo (oral ingestion capsules).

      Participants will receive a diary to record any symptoms that may present and will be
      instructed to bring it at each study visit.

      Before randomization all participants will go through the following procedures:

        -  Clinical and neurological evaluation;

        -  Blood sample analysis of cytokines, oxidative stress and biochemical parameters;

        -  Multidetector computed tomographic (MDCT) scan of abdomen (visceral - abdominal and
           epicardial fat) and thorax (calcium score);

        -  blood pressure recording for hemodynamic evaluation and assessment of heart rate
           variability

        -  24h ambulatory blood pressure measurement

      These procedures will be repeated at the end of the protocol.

      This is a randomized controlled trial study. Blinding status: Patients, investigators, and
      outcome assessors.

      All participants were outpatients.

      The invitation to participate in the study and all the details of the protocol will be
      explained.

      Once the patients have the criteria for inclusion, they receive the cards with capsules
      containing placebo or galantamine according to continuous numerical order provided by the
      pharmacy that prepared and randomized such substances (numbered containers).

      Drug and placebo will be manipulated and encapsulated in identical packaging at the Central
      Pharmacy of School of Medicine, University of São Paulo.

      We will use simple randomisation using a randomisation table created by computer software -
      graphpad Software- quickcalcs.
    
  