
    
      Background and objective: Periodontal disease is caused by periodontal pathogens that
      colonize the dental plaque and the subsequent host-microbial interactions. The recent years
      have witnessed a rapid increase in the usage of Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of
      Radiation (Laser) in dentistry for the treatment of periodontal diseases. The additive
      therapeutic effects when a photoactivated dye such as methylene blue is used in conjunction
      with Laser is well documented. Indocyanine green (ICG), a tri-carbocyanine that belongs to
      family of cyanine dyes is widely used in the fields of Ophthalmology and Cardiac imaging.
      Recent in vitro studies have reported its efficacy in killing potent periodontal pathogens
      like A. actinomycetemcomitans and P. gingivalis when combined with 810 nm diode laser. The
      present study aims at evaluating the effects of ICG as an adjunct to non-surgical treatment
      of chronic periodontitis in biofilm environment of human periodontal pockets in terms of
      immediate reduction in percentage of viable bacteria and at the same to quantitatively assess
      host tissue injury. Methods: The study included 30 patients diagnosed with chronic
      periodontitis. Three sites from three different quadrants were selected and assigned to three
      groups namely, SRP group - scaling and root planing, LASER group - scaling and root planing
      with application of 810 nm diode laser and ICG group - scaling and root planing with
      application of 810 nm diode laser and ICG at a concentration of 5 mg/mL. Primary parameters
      included estimation of decrease in percentage of viable bacteria at baseline, immediate post
      treatment and end of 1 week and Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels at baseline and end of 1
      week. Secondary parameters included site-specific measures of plaque, gingivitis, pocket
      depth (PD) and clinical attachment loss (CAL) at specific time intervals.
    
  