
    
      The goal of these studies is to enable persons paralyzed by spinal cord injury (SCI) to drive
      powered wheelchairs and interact with computers by acting through an interface that maximizes
      the effectiveness of their residual motor function. This is called a "body-machine interface"
      because it maps the motions of the upper-body (arms and shoulders) to the space of device
      control signals in an optimal way. In this way, paralyzed persons that cannot operate a
      joystick controller because of lack of hand mobility can effectively use their whole upper
      body as virtual joystick device. An important characteristic of the proposed approach is that
      it is based on the possibility to control a computer or a wheelchair by bodily movements
      through an interactive learning process, in which the interface adapts itself to the
      subject's mobility and the subject learns to act through the interface. This study aims at
      developing and testing the customization of this interface to a group of SCI participants
      with tetraplegia, resulting from high-level cervical injury. The proposed research is
      organized in three specific aims:

      (Aim 1) To develop new functional capabilities in persons with spinal cord injury by
      customizing a body-machine interface to their individual upper body mobility. After fitting
      the interface to the residual movements of each subject, participants will practice computer
      games aimed at training two classes of control actions: operating a virtual joystick and
      operating a virtual keyboard. This study will test the ability of the subjects to perform
      skilled maneuvers with a simulated wheelchair.

      (Aim 2.) To test the hypothesis that practicing the upper-body control of personalized
      interfaces results in significant physical and psychological benefits after spinal-cord
      injury. A study will evaluate and quantify the impact of the practicing functional upper-body
      motions on the mobility of the shoulder and arms by conventional clinical methods and by
      measuring the subjects' ability to generate coordinated upper body movements and to apply
      isometric forces. Other studies under this aim will evaluate the effects of operating the
      body-machine interface on musculoskeletal pain and on the mood and mental state of the
      participants.

      (Aim 3) To train spinal-cord injury survivors to skillfully operate a powered wheelchair
      using their enhanced upper body motor skills and customized interface parameters. Finally,
      the last study will test the hypothesis that the skills learned through practice in the
      virtual environment are retained for the control of an actual powered wheelchair. After
      reaching stable performance in the simulated wheelchair, subjects will practice the control
      of the physical wheelchair in safe a testing environment.

      (Aim 4.) To understand how extensive practice with a body machine interface affects the
      cortical representation of the trained limbs. A study will evaluate and quantify the impact
      of the practicing functional upper-body motions on corticospinal excitability as a correlate
      to sensorimotor skill learning. Participants will meet the inclusion criteria for both the
      main study and satisfy the additional optional criteria. Participant will practice upper-body
      movements using the body-machine interface. The study will evaluate the evolution of
      corticospinal excitability in related areas of the motor cortex during the training compared
      to the baseline and after a follow-up period.

      If successful, this study will lead to effective operation of a highly customized interface
      that adapts to the residual motor capability of its users. Physical and psychological
      benefits are expected to derive from the sustained and coordinated activity associated with
      the use of this body-machine interface
    
  