
    
      Intravenous thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (IV t-PA) has
      been the only proven therapy for acute ischemic stroke (AIS) for almost 20 years. Since
      December 2014 a new era in acute stroke treatment has begun: randomized controlled studies
      have consistently shown that endovascular clot retrieval in addition to best medical
      treatment (± IV t-PA) improves outcome in acute anterior circulation stroke patients with
      proximal vessel occlusion compared to best medical treatment alone. Whether pre-treatment
      with IV t-PA prior to endovascular clot retrieval is beneficial has now become a matter of
      debate. A pooled analysis of 5 RCTs (MR CLEAN, SWIFT-PRIME, EXTEND IA, ESCAPE and REVASCAT)
      suggested that the treatment effect size of MT does not differ between patients receiving
      intravenous thrombolysis (IVT) and those treated with MT alone (p interaction: 0.4311).
      Besides post-hoc RCT analyses, there are a myriad of observational studies reporting on rates
      of successful reperfusion and functional outcome stratified according to IV t-PA pretreatment
      status. There is evidence that reperfusion rates after IV t-PA in patients with occlusions of
      the internal carotid artery and the main stem of the middle cerebral artery are low, but may
      reach more than 80% after mechanical thrombectomy (MT). Therefore the most important factor
      for vessel recanalization, which is linked with favorable outcome, is MT.

      No randomized controlled trial has ever assessed whether direct MT in patients with AIS is
      equally effective as MT in combination with IV t-PA (bridging thrombolysis). In a
      patient-level pooled analysis of five randomized controlled studies (HERMES collaboration)
      similar rates of functional independence and mortality at 90 days were observed between
      patients who received IV t-PA+MT and those who received direct MT. However, patients in the
      direct MT group had contraindications for IV t-PA. Two larger studies based on registries
      compared the outcome of patients after bridging thrombolysis with direct MT in patients
      eligible for IV t-PA. In both studies, the outcome of patients after bridging thrombolysis
      and direct MT was similar. For these reasons the investigators hypothesize that immediate and
      direct MT is not inferior and might even be superior to bridging thrombolysis in patients
      directly referred to a stroke center with rapid access to endovascular procedures.

      In this trial all commercially available stent-retriever revascularization devices
      manufactured by Medtronic (e.g. Solitaire™) will be used as tool for direct MT. The
      investigators aim to provide conclusive information on the efficacy and safety of direct MT,
      in comparison with bridging thrombolysis.

      If direct MT in patients with AIS would not be inferior to bridging thrombolysis, the
      organization of acute stroke management would change essentially. Direct MT would then be the
      therapy of choice in stroke centers with endovascular facilities. Furthermore, this trial
      could have an impact on healthcare guidelines and costs. However, this trial does not address
      the question, whether patients arriving in stroke units with no endovascular facilities
      should be pre-treated with IV t-PA or whether they should directly be referred to stroke
      centers with endovascular facilities.
    
  