
    
      This is a randomized prospective study utilizing Video Directly Observed Therapy (VDOT),
      which is a novel means of remotely observing patients ingesting medications using videos sent
      from the patients' smartphone application. The VDOT mobile phone application called
      SureAdhere was developed and found to be feasible and acceptable for monitoring daily
      treatment of active tuberculosis in San Diego, CA (R21-AI088326; PI: R. Garfein). For testing
      the feasibility, acceptance and effectiveness of VDOT application (app) SureAdhere among
      depression patients, we will conduct a two-arm randomized controlled trial for which a
      maximum of 100 patients will be recruited (50 patients in study group; 50 patients in control
      group). Informed consent will be obtained prior to the start of study
      activities.Randomization will be performed using a computer generated randomization program
      assigning a random group to each consecutive study participant. This will be performed prior
      to the study and stored in a list with participant numbers. Those assigned to the control
      group will receive care as usual. Those assigned to study group will receive assistance in
      installing the SureAdhere app on their own smartphone. If they did not own a smartphone, a
      loaned smartphone with internet service plan and preinstalled SureAdhere mobile phone
      application will be provided to them if available. The SureAdhere app is programmed to send
      encrypted, time/date stamped videos to a HIPAA-compliant server. The study group subjects
      will receive a pin for their individualized log-in through a text message on their phone.
      They will be trained on how to use the application to send videos through a training video
      and handouts provided to them. Study staff will be available to answer any questions or
      concerns about the SureAdhere app. In case of technical issues, study staff will gather
      information about the concerns and then get input from the customer support team at
      SureAdhere, Inc. to resolve the issues. The study group subjects will receive individualized
      text reminders on their phone prior to each dose of their depression medicine. They will be
      requested to use the VDOT smartphone app to make a video recording of each medication dose
      ingested during the 3 month study period following their first visit. Research staff will
      regularly monitor videos using a password protected website and document each medication
      dose. Outcomes data will be obtained through self-report questionnaires at three time points:
      baseline, about 6 weeks and about 3 months and from the patient medical records. The baseline
      questionnaire will be conducted after the informed consent and will collect information about
      demographic characteristics (i.e. date of birth, sex, race, ethnicity, type of residence-
      house vs apartment own vs rent, type of insurance), medication adherence (using ASK-20
      Medication Adherence questionnaire) and depression symptoms (using Patient Health
      Questionnaire-9). Both these validated survey tools are available for public use. The
      follow-up questionnaires sent to the subjects will obtain additional information regarding
      technology acceptance from the participants in the study group only. From all subjects, the
      follow-up questionnaires will gather information about medication adherence and depression
      symptoms. Patient medical records and VDOT video review will be used to obtain an objective
      measure of medication adherence, comorbidities (Elixhauser co-morbidity score) and clinical
      outcomes.
    
  