
    
      Background: In traumatic brain injury, axonal damage is a major pathophysiological process
      and may be a primary cause of adverse neurological outcomes. However, traumatic axonal injury
      and its effects on brain functional connectivity are very difficult to directly detect and
      quantify in living patients. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) appears to have great promise
      with regard to detecting axonal injury. Resting-state fMRI correlation analysis likewise may
      be a powerful and broadly applicable method for investigating brain functional connectivity.
      In our preliminary studies, these two techniques have been successfully used together in
      several civilian TBI patients. They appear to synergistically cross validate each other;
      disrupted functional connectivity underlying focal neurological deficits were revealed using
      resting-state fMRI correlation analysis while DTI demonstrated the axonal injury responsible
      for the disruptions. Conventional MRI and CT entirely failed to explain many of these
      deficits. This cross validation is important as it adds confidence to the interpretation of
      the results. Without resting-state fMRI correlation analysis, the consequences of apparent
      axonal injury on DTI for the functional connectivity of the brain may not be clear; the
      axonal injury could be in white matter tracts that are redundant, or not severe enough to be
      functionally important. Without DTI, the cause of a disruption in connectivity seen using
      resting-state fMRI correlation analysis will likewise not always be known; processes other
      than traumatic axonal injury could be responsible. Both of these advanced techniques along
      with a full conventional MRI can be performed on standard clinical MRI scanners in
      approximately 45 minutes per patient. Apart from in our preliminary studies, resting-state
      fMRI and DTI have not been used together to investigate traumatic brain injury.

      Objective/Hypothesis: The objective of this proposal is to test these two advanced MRI
      methods, DTI and resting-state fMRI, in active-duty military blast-related TBI patients
      acutely after injury and correlate findings with TBI-related clinical outcomes 6-12 months
      later. These methods may add clinically useful predictive information following traumatic
      brain injury that could be of assistance in standardizing diagnostic criteria for TBI, making
      return-to-duty triage decisions, guiding post-injury rehabilitation, and developing novel
      therapeutics. The overarching hypothesis guiding this project is that traumatic axonal injury
      is a principal cause of impaired brain function following blast-related TBI. Specific
      hypotheses to be tested are:

        1. DTI and resting-state fMRI correlation analysis will noninvasively reveal abnormalities
           that are not present on CT or conventional MRI acutely following blast-related TBI.

        2. Specific patterns of acute axonal injury (on DTI) causing disruption of brain functional
           connectivity (on resting-state fMRI correlation analysis) will predict specific
           neurological, neuropsychological, and psychiatric deficits and disorders.

        3. The overall burden of acute axonal injury and disrupted brain functional connectivity
           will strongly predict overall 6-12 month clinical outcome.

      Specific Aims: 1) to obtain DTI, resting-state fMRI and conventional MRI scans acutely after
      blast-related TBI in active-duty military personnel presenting to Landstuhl Regional Medical
      Center (LRMC).

      2) to collect detailed clinical information on TBI-related outcomes 6-12 months after
      injuries.

      3) to extensively analyze the acute imaging predictors and correlates of 6-12 month clinical
      outcomes.

      Study Design: We propose a prospective, observational study of 80 active duty military
      personnel who have sustained blast-related TBI. Initial scans will be performed within 4 days
      of injury at LRMC. Follow-up will occur monthly by telephone and in person at Washington
      University 6-12 months after injury. Clinical information on TBI outcomes collected will
      include global outcome assessments, neuropsychological testing for memory, attention and
      executive function deficits, motor performance measures, and clinician administered rating
      scales for depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. Controls will include 1) an
      additional group of 20 active duty military personnel with other injuries, but who have not
      had TBI, and 2) age, gender and education-based norms for standardized test and assessment
      results. Repeat DTI, resting-state fMRI, and conventional MRI will be performed to track the
      evolution of the injuries. Analysis approaches will include prespecified hypotheses based on
      known brain anatomical-clinical correlations and several exploratory approaches, as the
      structural bases for many post-traumatic neurological and neuropsychological deficits are not
      well understood. Non-parametric correlational statistical methods and rigorous correction for
      multiple comparisons will be employed. Expert collaborators and logistics coordinators will
      be or have already been recruited. Confidentiality and privacy will be tightly controlled.
    
  