
    
      Currently, the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia still remains a therapeutic challenge.
      Patients received traditional chemotherapy have a low remission rate, poor prognosis and
      short survival period for patients. New treatment strategies are needed in find out a better
      chemotherapy regimen.

      Azacitidine (AZA) was listed to methylation of drugs in China in 2018, is currently the only
      approved drug for use in acute myeloid leukemia to methylation of drugs, in the NCCN
      guidelines. New combinations based on the azacitidine are currently undergoing, and the
      preliminary results brought new hope to the treatment of AML.

      The homoharringtonie was extracted from tricuspid plants of China. As a protein synthesis
      inhibitor, homoharringtonie plays a major role in the G1 / G2 phase in cells. In addition, it
      could induce AML cell lines and primary myeloid leukemia cell apoptosis, and the effect was
      dose dependent. Meanwhile it could also induce leukemia cells to differentiate into normal
      state, eventually controlled the progression of the disease.

      Combination with azacitidine may become a new option.This study intends to apply azacitidine
      in combination with homoharringtonie for treating AML patients, aiming to improve the
      efficacy, reducing adverse reactions and improve the living qualities of patients.

      Patients of denovo or relapsed AML(age≥60y) will receive AZA+HAG (homoharringtonie,
      cytarabine, G-CSF) regiment as induction therapy. After complete remission(CR), maintenance
      therapy with AZA+lenalidomide/AZA will be used every 4-6 weeks until progression or total of
      12cycles.

      Patients of denovo or relapsed AML(age<60y) will receive AZA +HIA(homoharringtonie,
      Idarubicin, cytarabine) or AZA+HDA(homoharringtonie, daunorubicin, cytarabine) regiments as
      introduction therapy., After CR, post-remission therapy will follow with NCCN guidelines.

      The investigators choose historical AML patients receiving tranditional chemotherapy as a
      control group, to validate the efficacy and safety profiles.
    
  