
    
      Introduction:

      Substance use disorder is still one of the major health hazards and an expanding field of
      research in all its aspects.

      An estimated quarter of a billion people, or around 5 per cent of the global adult
      population, used drugs at least once in 2015. Even more worrisome is the fact that about 29.5
      million of those drug users, or 0.6 per cent of the global adult population, suffer from drug
      use disorders. This means that their drug use is harmful to the point that they may
      experience drug dependence and require treatment.

      The magnitude of the harm caused by drug use is underlined by the estimated 28 million years
      of "healthy" life (disability-adjusted life years (DALYs)) lost worldwide in 2015 as a result
      of premature death and disability caused by drug use.

      Of those years lost, 17 million were attributable solely to drug use disorders across all
      drug types. DALYs attributable to morbidity and mortality resulting from all causes of drug
      use have increased overall in the past decade.

      Yet, with fewer than one in six persons with drug use disorders provided with treatment each
      year, the availability of and access to science-based services for the treatment of drug use
      disorders and related conditions remain limited.

      Decision making is a complex multidimensional process involving motivation and drive, giving
      subjective value to different options, identifying and choosing alternatives based on the
      values and preferences, assessing consequences of our choices, taking risk, and seeking
      reward. A recent model by Redish et al. of the genesis of decision making posits that
      decisions represent the outcome of three interacting systems: planning, habit, and a
      situation-recognition systems. Furthermore, challenges or vulnerabilities to these systems
      are proposed to be associated with the natural course of addiction and to provide potential
      for therapeutic intervention. Several brain structures, including dorsolateral prefrontal
      cortex (DLPFC), anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC),
      ventral striatum, amygdala and insula are involved in decision making process.

      Cognitive control is essential to the ability to flexibly direct our behavior in response to
      constantly changing environment and tasks and includes but is not limited to: working memory,
      response inhibition, conflict monitoring, error detection, and task-switching. A considerable
      body of research on the prefrontal cortex (PFC) has helped characterize the regional
      specificity of various cognitive functions.

      The individual differences in decision-making, including decision-making style, risk-prone
      attitude, impulsivity, and personality, can influence decision-making in different
      situations. Risky decision-making involves evaluating the tradeoff between perceived risks
      and returns.

      Prospect theory claims that people consider outcomes as gains or losses, relative to a
      reference point, suggesting that people favor risk aversion in the gain domain and favor
      risk-seeking in the loss domain. Based on this, it follows logically that people with
      addictive behavior will make more risky decisions in loss domain than normal population.
      Brevers et al. reported that subjects with alcohol dependence make more risky choices in the
      gain domain than did a group of controls. However, Yao et al. have found no difference in
      risky choices made in the gain domain but demonstrated more risky choices in disadvantage
      trials in the loss domain in people with IGD.

      Decision-making can be viewed in terms of somatic markers hypothesis as a complex process
      that sometimes involves a conflict between a primary inducer (the natural or conditioned
      stimulus), and a secondary inducer (thoughts related to this stimulus).

      Hypothesis:

      People with drug addiction will show higher impulsivity and risky decision making styles than
      normal population.

      Aim of the work:

      To study the decision making styles and impulsivity among people with different psychoactive
      substance addiction.

      Studying the change in the volume of prefrontal cortex in relation to drug addiction.

      Studying the relation between drug impulsivity, decision making patterns and brain volume.

      Methodology:

      20 participants with drug addiction diagnosed by DSM-5 criteria will be recruited and
      included in the study.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Age above 18 years.

        -  Clearly consenting to participate in the study.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Intoxication or withdrawal state.

        -  Comorbid Axis I psychiatric disorder.

      Ethical considerations:

        -  The protocol and study design of this thesis will be applied for approval by an ethical
           committee.

        -  An informed consent will be obtained and signed from the subjects to participate in the
           study.

        -  Confidentiality will be maintained during the whole study.

      Study Design:

      A descriptive study.

      Assessment tools:

      Each participant in this group will have the following:

        1. Addiction severity index 4th version for assessment of addiction pattern.

        2. UPPS-P Impulsive Behavior Scale (Lynam et al. 2006) The UPPS-P impulsivity scale is a
           59-item inventory designed to measure five distinct personality pathways to impulsive
           behavior: Negative Urgency, Lack of Perseverance, Lack of Premeditation, Sensation
           Seeking, and Positive Urgency .

        3. Iowa gambling task computerized version: The task involved drawing one card per trial
           from one of four decks (labeled as A, B, C, and D). Each deck contained 40 cards in a
           ﬁxed sequence which is unknown to participants at the start of the task. Next,
           participants are asked to select cards from the four decks to gain as much money as
           possible. The task ends when the 100th card is drawn, although subjects do not know this
           in advance. The immediate monetary gain for each draw from deck A or B is higher the
           gain from deck C or D. However, money loss can occur and the risk is higher in highly
           paying groups (A and B) than the low paying groups.

        4. MRI brain examination:

             -  Voxel based morphometry through analysis of 3D T1 weighted sequence in order to
                assess total intracranial volume.

             -  Resting state functional MRI.
    
  