
    
      Obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS) is a common disorder in school-aged children with an
      estimated prevalence of 1-4%. The main etiology is adeno-amygdala hypertrophy.
      Adenoamygdalectomy, which involves the removal of tonsils and adenoids, is a common
      procedure. In the majority of cases, it allows the healing of OSAS. The surgical indication
      is currently based on clinical arguments sensitized by the calculation of a severity score
      (Spruyt and Gozal score). However, this procedure is not without complications: pneumopathy
      (for 1.5% of procedures), blood transfusion for haemorrhage (1/400 to 1/2 500), death due to
      haemorrhage (1/35 000 to 1/50 000).

      Currently there is no indication to perform a preoperative sleep recording for this surgery.
      This recording will only be made in case of associated comorbidities (obesity, craniofacial
      malformations, neurological disorders...).

      The current growth and diffusion of smartphones in the population provides a simple technical
      means of video recording the child's sleep. More and more parents come to an ENT consultation
      with a video recording of their child's sleep on a smartphone. The current recommendations
      say to take these data into account without any study having evaluated the value of such
      records. The video recording of a snoring child's sleep has already been evaluated by Sivan
      et al in 1996. This study finds a good correlation between polysomnographic recording and a
      method of rating video recordings of sleep in children with adeno-amygdala hypertrophy
      without associated comorbidities.

      The aim of this study is therefore to evaluate the value of this video recording on
      smartphone made by the parents by comparing it to ventilatory polygraphy (PV) on the one hand
      and to the clinical evaluation method (clinical examination + SHS score) on the other hand.
      If our hypothesis is correct, smartphone video recording could be an additional tool to the
      clinical diagnosis of OSA in children with adeno-amygdala hypertrophy.
    
  