
    
      The overall objective of the proposed research is to test the effectiveness of a parenting
      program (Incredible Years® School Age Basic & Advanced Parent Training Program, IYP) on
      Filipino parents recruited from multiple community-based settings and its impact on
      trajectories of parenting practices, parenting stress, and child problem behavior.

      Evidence-based parenting interventions provided in early childhood have proven to be
      effective in preventing the onset and escalation of child mental health disorders. IYP is one
      of the best-studied and most highly regarded parent training programs. As a result of pilot
      studies funded by a NIH K23 and a NCATS KL2 award, the investigators have identified IYP as a
      community-identified solution for preventing behavioral health disparities, demonstrated IYP
      efficacy in improving parenting practices and parenting stress in Filipino parents, and child
      problem behavior.

      This population was chosen because: 1) Filipinos are the second largest immigrant population
      in the U.S. with the highest concentration living in Los Angeles; 2) Filipinos are exposed to
      multiple adversities, including immigration stress and relocation, loss of social status, and
      lower self-esteem due to discrimination, placing young children at risk for future behavioral
      and mental health problems; 3) U.S.-born Filipino youth exhibit higher rates of mental health
      problems than non-Hispanic whites and attain significantly lower levels of education than
      their foreign-born counterparts and other U.S.-born Asian American populations; and 4)
      Filipinos are less likely than non-Hispanic whites to participate in mental health and
      preventive care interventions.

      The proposed study will be a randomized controlled trial involving 180 parents of children
      aged 8-12 years old. Parents will be randomly chosen to receive either a) an online 12 - week
      parenting intervention called the Incredible Years (intervention group) or b) AAP bright
      future handouts with general parenting advice (control group). The control group will be
      offered the Incredible Years after a 3-month wait list period.

      Findings will contribute to the scientific literature on preventive and early intervention
      programs for children at high risk for future behavioral problems. The data will also provide
      important information to understand the processes underlying how IYP affects parenting
      practices and subsequent child problem behavior among Filipino families. The importance of
      this research rests on its potential to prevent behavioral health disparities in this
      understudied and high-risk population.
    
  