
    
      Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) often presents at an advanced stage, and harbours an
      unfavourable prognosis. Standard of care includes complete or optimal debulking surgery and
      chemotherapy, however, most patients experience recurrent disease. Recurrences are often
      treated with additional chemotherapy, and for selected patients, treatment with PARP
      inhibitors may be an option. Patients with platinum sensitive recurrent epithelial ovarian
      cancer (EOC) and a germ-line or somatic BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation, who are in response to
      platinum based chemotherapy are currently eligible for maintenance treatment with the Poly
      (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor olaparib after chemotherapy. Germline (11-15%) or
      somatically acquired (6-7%) BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations lead to deficiency in homologous
      recombination (HR) and subsequent less effective DNA repair. PARP inhibitors are most
      effective in HR deficient tumors. There are clear indications that besides BRCA1 or BRCA2
      mutated EOC, there is an additional group of EOC (~15-30%) having deficiencies in HR (i.e.
      BRCAness) that might benefit from treatment with PARP inhibitors (Mukhopadhyay, Cancer Res
      2012; Konstantinopolos, Cancer Discovery 2015; Telli, Clin Cancer Res 2016). Assessment of HR
      in high grade EOC might therefore serve as a better predictive biomarker and allow the
      identification of a larger group of patients that could benefit most from platinum based
      chemotherapy and maintenance treatment with a PARP inhibitor. We recently developed a robust
      ex vivo functional assay (RAD51 assay;) to test HR in viable tumor tissue (Naipal, Clin.
      Cancer Res., 2014). It is still unknown however, whether the outcome of the RAD51 assay
      reliably predicts the sensitivity to platinum-based chemotherapy or PARP inhibitors. In the
      proposed study, we will therefore evaluate whether the RAD51 assay predicts sensitivity to
      therapy with olaparib, in patients with recurrent EOC. With the RAD51 assay we aim to
      identify a larger number of patients who will benefit from treatment with the PARP inhibitor
      olaparib than patients with a germline or somatic BRCA mutation only. Furthermore, we aim to
      identify molecular markers (including genomic markers) that are associated with the outcome
      of the RAD51 assay. Finally, we will explore whether these molecular markers can be measured
      in liquid biopsies by analysing ctDNA.
    
  