
    
      Overall Objective The aim of this study is compare outcomes of women with suspected
      postpartum aHUS, stratified by treatment with Eculizumab. Specifically, assess the maternal
      characteristics, clinical presentation, disease course, treatment strategy, and short and
      long--term complications among a cohort of women with suspected postpartum aHUS, with
      analyses stratified by Eculizumab exposure.

      Aim 1 Hypothesis: Women with suspected postpartum aHUS treated with Eculizumab have a
      decreased length of hospital stay and a decreased incidence of adverse maternal outcomes when
      compared to those women with postpartum aHUS not treated with Eculizumab.

      Aim 2 Hypothesis: Women with postpartum aHUS treated with Eculizumab have low rates of
      adverse maternal or neonatal events when followed up to 6 months after delivery.

      METHODOLOGY Study Type: Retrospective cohort study Study population: Postpartum patients
      meeting diagnostic criteria for pregnancy associated aHUS between January 2009 and May 2016
      in Colombia. This study cohort will be stratified into two groups: 1) women with suspected
      postpartum aHUS treated with Eculizumab and; 2) women meeting diagnostic criteria for
      postpartum aHUS that did not receive treatment with Eculizumab. The investigators chose a
      start date of 2009 because this was the year that Eculizumab was approved by the National
      Institute of Food and Drug Monitoring (INVIMA) for use in Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria
      (PNH). Eculizumab was subsequently approved for use in aHUS in 2011.In addition, in the same
      period of time will identify a cohort of women diagnosed with pregnancy associated with HUS
      in Colombia who did not receive treatment with Eculizumabse.

      Unit of analysis: The medical data of patients who meet the inclusion criteria for the study,
      ie, postpartum aHUS are summarized. For the group of women treated with Eculizumab, and who
      continue to receive such therapy on an outpatient basis after hospital discharge, the
      investigators will abstract follow up data up to 6 months postpartum. For missing data that
      is not readily available in the medical chart the investigators will utilize research
      assistants, or members of the study team, to contact study subjects or the treating provider
      to obtain additional information.

      Will be assessed sample size requirements necessary to determine a significant difference in
      survival or end--stage renal disease between groups (primary outcomes), with 80% power and
      alpha=0.05 (see tables below). Mortality from aHUS without Eculizumab in Colombia is
      estimated at 30% based in previous reports. The investigators estimate out treatment cohort
      of aHUS cases treated with Eculizumab to be at least Ten patients. Thus, the investigators
      have sufficient power to detect a significant increase in overall survival if it is 80% or
      greater in the treatment arm. Rate of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) with aHUS is estimated
      at 70% in Colombia. The investigators have sufficient to detect a significant decrease in
      ESRD with Eculizumab if the rate is 15% or lower.

      The study will consist of three steps:

      Step 1: Identification of study cohort Activity 1: This project will be submitted to Alexion
      Pharma SAS in Colombia, in order to obtain approval and access to information on all patients
      in their database who received treatment with Eculizumab after being diagnosed with
      postpartum aHUS regardless of outcome. Alexion is the only authorized distributor of
      Eculizumab by the National Institute of Food and Drug Monitoring (INVIMA).

      Activity 2: Obtaining informed consent from all patients meeting criteria for postpartum
      aHUS, regardless of Eculizumab treatment, to access data from medical records or directly via
      interviews with study subjects or their representatives.

      Activity 3: Written and verbal communication to the various medical providers involved in the
      care of the identified patient cohort. For this study, were defined as those providers who
      made the initial and / or final diagnosis of pregnancy associated aHUS and who were
      responsible for treatment of the patient.

      Step 2: Review of information and data collection:

      Activity 1: Review all information obtained from the medical records of all subjects meeting
      inclusion criteria by the investigators. A database will then be constructed and populated
      with the information obtained.

      Activity 2: Data Verification A second researcher will conduct a verification of the
      information included in the database, to assess quality control of the data entered.

      Stage 3: Analysis of results Activity 1: To describe clinical and sociodemographic
      characteristics, disease course, and treatment approach in patients with postpartum aHUS.

      Activity 2: To assess adverse maternal outcomes among women with postpartum aHUS, stratified
      by treatment with Eculizumab. Short term outcomes will be assessed from the time of diagnosis
      to the time of hospital discharge.

      Activity 3: To determine the rate of delayed adverse maternal and neonatal events in women
      with postpartum aHUS treated with Eculizumab, and who are followed up to 6 months after
      delivery.

      The database in an excel spreadsheet format will be used to conduct descriptive analysis of
      the demographic variables and subject characteristics. Correlations of outcomes will be made
      with timing of initiation of Eculizumab after delivery, dose received.

      Clinical variables Demographic characteristics, Obstetric history, Characteristics of current
      pregnancy Clinical criteria (At time of presentation, diagnosis, and after treatment)
      Laboratory test (if possible) (At presentation, diagnosis, and throughout treatment course)
      Treatments Eculizumab treatment Maternal outcomes Neonatal outcomes

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS Throughout the study period the investigators will ensure the
      confidentiality of information collected, the accuracy of the results obtained, and above all
      the investigators respect the ights of all patients involved. All copies of signed consent
      forms and medical records retrieved will be stored in a locked cabinet in the principal
      investigators office.

      This research study is classified as "safe", according to Article 11 of resolution 8430 of
      1993 by the Ministry of Health of Colombia.

      The data collected during the study will be used solely for research purposes and all
      appropriate measures will be taken to keep information confidential. Prior to proceeding this
      project will be approved by the Ethic Committee of the hospital ESE Divina Misericordia from
      Magangué, Colombia (see attached in appendix the Spanish version in PDF format), and will be
      submitted to the institutional review board of Oregon Health & Science University.

      This study fits within the ethical guidelines of the Helsinki statement and the ethical
      principles of the World Medical Association. As stated prior, all the information collected
      for this investigation will be confidential and the results will be published only in
      journals with academic and scientific interest, preserving the accuracy of the data as well
      as the findings and results.

      Alexion Pharma SAS in Colombia will provide the information of patients who received
      Eculizumab for treatment of atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome in the postpartum period.
      After obtaining patient consent the investigators will then access their medical record
      information and ensure all information is collected in a secure database.

      Alexion Pharma SAS in Colombia is the only authorized distributor of Eculizumab by the
      National Institute of Food and Drug Monitoring (INVIMA). Alexion Pharma SAS will receive a
      copy of the analysis and report which will be published in an independent manner by the
      investigators.

      This protocol complies with the ethical requirements for human research outlined by the
      American Medical Association such as its scientific value, describing the impact generated
      using Eculizumab, a monoclonal antibody, on the natural history and progression of aHUS
      during pregnancy and/or the postpartum period and therefore, to raise future clinical
      research in terms of reduction of morbidity and mortality related to this disease.

      Finally, only patients who have given their informed consent will be included in the study.
    
  