
    
      This parallel clinical trial was approved by the local Research Ethics Committee, and all
      subjects gave written informed consent to participate. Between August 2014 and July 2016, all
      adult patients with treatment-naive PDR and a best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) better than
      20/800 evaluated at our facility were invited to participate in the study.

      During the recruitment phase, twenty-three consecutive patients who met the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria were enrolled into the study. At baseline visit, each patient underwent
      detailed ophthalmologic assessment including BCVA measurement according to standardized ETDRS
      refraction protocols using modified ETDRS cards 1, 2 and R; applanation tonometry; slit-lamp
      biomicroscopy examination under mydriasis (including classification of crystalline lens
      opacity status using the Lens Opacities Classification System - LOCS III) (13); and indirect
      funduscopic examination. Digital ocular stereoscopic fundus photographs (TRC-50DX - IMAGEnet;
      Topcon, Tokyo, Japan), wide field fluorescein angiography and spectral domain optical
      coherence tomography (SD-OCT) (HRA-OCT, Heidelberg, Germany) were also performed.

      Randomization and treatment groups

      Patients were randomly assigned using a computer-generated sequence, to one of the following
      two treatment groups:

      ETDRS-PRP Group: patients were treated in two sessions (week 0 and week 2) of 800-900 shots,
      for a total of 1600-1800 shots with a shot duration of 100 ms and power modulated in order to
      generate moderately white spots on the retina.

      ISQ-RP Group: patients were treated with single-spot targeted retinal photocoagulation
      directed toward areas of retinal nonperfusion detected by fluorescein angiography. In this
      group, laser treatment was also performed in two sessions (week 0 and 2), with a shot
      duration of 100 ms, but spots were placed 1/2 burn apart and power modulated in order to
      generate moderately white spots on the retina.

      For both groups, retinal photocoagulation was performed with single-spot full-scatter PRP
      using Purepoint green diode laser (Alcon, Fortworth, Texas) with an Ocular Mainster PRP 165
      lens with a dynamic field of view of 180 degrees, and a 200 micron spot size (which produces
      a 392 micron spot size on the retina). Intravitreal injection of 0.5 mg (0.05 ml) ranibizumab
      (Lucentis®) (IVR) were performed 180 minutes after the first laser session (week 0) by a
      single retina specialist.

      Intravitreal injection Intravitreal injections were performed in a clinic setting 180 minutes
      after retinal photocoagulation with a disposable syringe with a BD Ultra-FineTM 29G ½"
      needle, via the pars plana 3.5 mm posterior to the limbus, using topical anesthesia. After
      the procedure, optic nerve perfusion was assessed by indirect binocular ophthalmoscopy, with
      paracenthesis of the anterior chamber considered in cases of poor perfusion. After injection,
      patients were instructed to use antibiotic eyedrops (0.5% moxifloxacin), according to drug
      label, one drop every 4 hours for one week, in the eye which received the intravitreal
      injection.

      Ophthalmologic evaluations Comprehensive ophthalmic evaluations, including ETDRS BCVA and
      central subfield macular thickness (CSFT) measured by SD-OCT as described elsewhere (15) were
      performed at baseline and every 4 weeks through week 48.

      Area of fluorescein leakage from active new vessels (FLA) was measured by wide field
      fluorescein angiography at baseline and at weeks 4, 8, 12, 24, 36 and 48 using fluorescein
      angiography pictures taken 2.0 to 3.0 minutes after the injection of fluorescein dye. Local
      and systemic adverse effects, including changes in intraocular pressure and in crystalline
      lens status, were monitored throughout the study.

      Retreatment criteria At follow-up visits from week 12 to 48, patients were treated quarterly
      with an IVR (0.5 mg in 0.05 ml) if FA demonstrated the presence of actively leaking retinal
      neovascularization. From weeks 4 to 48, patients could receive monthly IVR if SD-OCT
      demonstrated a CSFT of more than 300 µm.

      ERG protocol Full-field ERG was performed at baseline, and 12, 24 and 48 weeks after
      treatment (ColorDome and Espion E2 - Diagnosys LLC, Middleton, MA, USA). ERG was executed in
      accordance to ISCEV standard [20] using DTL as positive electrodes. Skin electrodes (Red-Dot
      - 3M) were placed on each temporal orbital rim to serve as references, and on forehead as
      ground. A- and b-wave amplitude and implicit time were evaluated.

      After 30 min dark adaptation, a series of flashes with increasing luminance was used as light
      stimuli: 0.003, 0.01 (rod ERG), 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1.0, 3.0 (combined rod-cone ERG) and 10
      cd.s/m2. Oscillatory potentials were filtered out of combined rod-cone ERG, using an off-line
      fast-Fourrier algorithm set as a band-pass frequency filter (75 - 300 Hz) as previously
      described [21], and area under the curve (OP-AUC) between a- and b-wave implicit time was
      calculated.

      Thereafter, patients were light adapted for 10 min, and photopic ERG measurements were also
      performed a series of increasing stimuli luminance: 0.1, 0.3, 1.0, 3.0 (cone ERG), 10.0 and
      30.0 cd.s/m2, followed by the 30 Hz flicker (background during photopic stimulation = 30
      cd/m2).

      Sample size

      The sample size estimation was based on the standard deviation of fluorescein leakage area of
      a previous study where PRP plus ranibizumab was used for proliferative diabetic retinopathy
      treatment (11). Considering this previous study, with a sample size of 15 patients per group,
      there is an 80% power to detect a mean difference of 2 mm2 between both groups.

      Statistics Baseline data were compared using one-way analysis of variance followed by
      Tukey-Kramer testing for multiple mean comparisons, while group comparisons during follow-up
      were performed using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with "group", "time" and "group cross
      time" as effects, followed by Tukey HSD testing. Calculations were performed using JMP 10.0
      (SAS). The significance level was set at p<0.05.
    
  