
    
      This is a multicenter open-label phase II study.

      Primary objective:

      To evaluate the efficacy of vismodegib in patients with relapsed/refractory B-cell lymphoma
      and CLL as measured by the best overall response rate (ORR) during the treatment period.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To evaluate the tolerability and the safety of vismodegib in patients with
           relapsed/refractory B-cell lymphoma and CLL

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of vismodegib in patients with relapsed/refractory B-cell
           lymphoma and CLL by measuring the overall (OR) and complete response (CR) rate during
           the study period, the maximum tumor shrinkage, the duration of response, the
           progression-free survival (PFS) and the overall survival (OS).

        -  To examine the expression of GLI-1 and other Hedgehog (Hh) signalling components in the
           tumor specimens before and during treatment with vismodegib and corresponding efficacy
           in patients.

           44 patients will be included in the study equally distributed into 4 cohorts according
           to their histological subtype:

        -  Cohort 1: 11 patients with Diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCL)

        -  Cohort 2: 11 patients with "indolent" lymphomas (iNHL): Follicular (FL), mantle cell
           (MCL) and marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (LPL)/ Waldenstrom
           macroglobulinemia (WM), small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL)

        -  Cohort 3: 11 patients with Primary central nervous system lymphomas (PCNSL)

        -  Cohort 4: 11 patients with Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).

      After 28 days screening period (Baseline), each patient will be treated by Vismodegib 150 mg
      per os during for a maximum of 12 months until disease progression, unacceptable toxicities,
      patient consent withdrawal, death, reasons deemed by the treating physician or study
      termination by the Sponsor.

      Tumour assessment (clinical examination, laboratory tests, abdominal and chest CT scan (for
      PCNSL only at baseline), +/- PET scan for DLBCL, +/- brain MRI and CSF examination and
      ophthalmic examination for PCNSL, +/- bone marrow examination (except for PCNSL) will be
      performed at baseline, and then every 2 months during the first 6 months of treatment, and
      every 3 months thereafter until disease progression or up to 6 months after study treatment
      stop.

      Response to treatment will be assessed also by Pharmacodynamic study in tumor samples by
      immunohistochimic and qPCR analysis at baseline and after one month of treatment with
      vismodegib.

      Pharmacokinetic studies (before and after 1 month of treatment) will also be performed.

      After study treatment discontinuation, the patients will be followed up every 3 months until
      disease progression or up to 6 months (after 1 year treatement).
    
  