
    
      This clinical trial is a study that uses two antibodies called 'Isatuximab' and 'Cemiplemab'
      as a rescue anticancer therapy for patients with relapsed or refractory'NK/T cell lymphoma'.

      Cemiplimab is an antibody against the PD1 protein of cytotoxic T cells. By inhibiting the
      binding of the PDL1 protein expressed on the surface of tumor cells, cancer cells use the
      PDL1 protein expressed on the surface of their cells to the tumor immune function It works to
      prevent getting involved.

      When the interaction between PD1 and PDL1 protein is suppressed in this way, T cells in
      human's body attack and kill cancer cells, and cancer cells are killed through this process.

      To date, immuno-cancer drugs that inhibit the interaction of PD1 and PDL1 proteins have
      already been developed other than Cemiplimab, and have proven excellent therapeutic effects
      in lung cancer and Hodgkin's lymphoma.

      Therefore, the investigators have started this clinical trial because Cemiplimab, one of the
      immuno-cancer drugs, is expected to be effective in the 'NK/T cell lymphoma' that you have
      been diagnosed with. However, the effect of Cemiplimab in the disease has not yet been
      proven, and a research report has recently been published that other anticancer drugs that
      inhibit the PD1 protein may be effective in'extralymphatic NK/T cell lymphoma'.

      However, this is not conclusive because it is a study involving a small number of patients.

      However, if this clinical trial proves that cemiplimab is effective in 'NK/T cell lymphoma',
      it could contribute to the development of new treatments for this disease. In addition, all
      of the previous studies have studied the therapeutic effect using only a single antibody that
      inhibits the PD1 protein, but in this study, an antibody against the CD38 antigen called
      isatuximab is used together. The CD38 antigen is expressed in several hematocrit cells, and
      in multiple myeloma, antibodies to CD38 are already used as standard treatments for relapsed
      or refractory diseases. However, the high frequency of expression of CD38 antigen on the
      surface of tumor cells of NK/T cell lymphoma is expected as a therapeutic target, but its
      therapeutic effect has not yet been proven. Istuximab used in this study is an antibody
      targeting CD38, and can be expected to kill tumor cells expressing CD38, so when administered
      in combination with cemiplimab, its therapeutic effect can be increased. In this study,
      patients diagnosed and treated as'NK/T cell lymphoma' but did not reach cure and the disease
      worsened, or patients who experienced a cure but later recurred. The investigators want to
      evaluate the effectiveness.

      Through this, the goal is to improve the prognosis by discovering a new treatment that is
      ultimately effective for the treatment of relapsed or refractory 'NK/T cell lymphoma.'
    
  