
    
      Diagnostics of VAP relies on two complementary strategies: meeting pre-defined clinical
      criteria and evidence of pathogens in the lower respiratory tract. Mere reliance on clinical
      symptoms, such as radiologic evidence, systemic signs of inflammation and indices of
      compromised pulmonary function reportedly lead to misdiagnosis. Current diagnostic procedures
      recommend gathering of evidence for new or progressive lung infiltrates from serial chest
      radiographies, together with co-existing clinical signs of impaired respiratory function.
      Microbiological confirmation of pathogen presence requires examination of airway secretions
      collected by invasive bronchoalveolar lavage which demands specific technical skills and
      staff training. Although verification of causal pathogens is essential for the introduction
      of targeted antibiotic therapy, the procedure is time-consuming and qualitative in reportedly
      less than 30 % of the cases. Furthermore, the currently adopted diagnostic approaches are
      based on sporadic information sampling and do not support continuous monitoring and
      evaluation of the effect of therapeutic interventions. All above-listed flaws and
      shortcomings emphasize the need for rapid, reliable and non-invasive recognition of VAP,
      preferably in a setting that would permit continuous bedside monitoring and timely
      introduction of targeted drug therapy.

      The study objective consists in sequential collection of exhaled breath condensates (EBC) in
      ICU patients receiving invasive ventilation. The EBC samples will be subjected to
      determination of volatile organic compound (VOC) profiles by Stimulated Raman Spectroscopy
      (SRS) which, upon individual matching to routinely collected clinical parameters, may become
      putative biomarkers for the early recognition of VAP. Evidence has accumulated in support of
      the assumption that certain metabolites in EBC might display significant profile differences
      as to their size, hydrophobicity and electrical charge. Identification of VAP-specific
      profiles of VOC will provide the basis for the generation of a data base enabling the
      construction and standardization of a bedside device for continuous real-time point-of-care
      monitoring of VAP hazard in patients on invasive ventilation.
    
  