
    
      This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational
      drug and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug to use for
      further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

      There is currently no clinical data on the effects of ABL001 in combination with dasatinib
      and prednisone among adults with Ph+ B-ALL or CML in lymphoid blast crisis. However, there is
      data on the use of ABL001 in combination with dasatinib (without steroids) in patients with
      relapsed Ph+ B-ALL and Ph+ chronic myeloid leukemia (CML).

      Dasatinib (Sprycel®) is currently approved for the treatment in newly diagnosed adults with
      Ph+ CML in chronic phase (CP), adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast
      phase Ph+ CML with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy including imatinib, adults with
      Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL) with resistance or
      intolerance to prior therapy.

      ABL001 is a newly discovered compound. This drug has been used in laboratory experiments and
      information from those experiments suggest that this drug may have beneficial effects in
      people who have CML or Ph+ ALL, both of which are a certain type of cancer of the blood
      cells. The reason for this study is to learn whether ABL001 is safe and can have possible
      benefits for people with Ph+ ALL who are also being treated with dasatinib and prednisone,
      two drugs which are commonly used to treat Ph+ ALL. All participants in this study will
      receive all three drugs.

      Prednisone and dasatinib are both FDA approved and standard of care for participants with
      your disease. They are not considered investigational on this study. However, ABL001 is being
      tested in combination with these drugs.

      Biomarker testing will also be included in this study. Biomarkers are important biological
      "indicators" of whether a drug is working which can be measured from bone marrow and blood
      samples.

      In addition, blood and bone marrow samples may be tested to try to learn more about the
      cancer, and to understand how the drug may be working in cancer.
    
  