
    
      NKA is made from expanded autologous selected renal cells obtained from each individual
      subject's kidney biopsy. To manufacture NKA, biopsy tissue from each enrolled subject will be
      sent to Twin City Bio LLC, in whose facilities renal cells will be expanded and SRC selected.
      SRC will be formulated in a gelatin-based hydrogel at a concentration of 100 x 106 cells/mL,
      packaged in a 10 mL syringe, and shipped to the clinical site.

      Based on preclinical data, the dose of NKA will be 3 x 106 cells/g estimated kidney weight
      (gKWest). Since the concentration of SRC per mL of NKA is 100 x 106 cells/mL, the dosing
      volume will be 3.0 mL for each 100 g of kidney weight.

      Subjects will be randomized (1:1) to the Active Treatment Group or the Deferred Treatment
      Group following renal biopsy. Subjects in the Active Treatment Group will receive their first
      NKA injection as soon as the NKA product is manufactured and shipped to the clinical site.
      After 6 months (+4 weeks), a second injection will be given, as appropriate. In contrast,
      subjects in the "Deferred Treatment Group" will undergo a period of observation after renal
      biopsy. During this time, they will receive contemporaneous, standard-of-care therapy for CKD
      while undergoing follow-up evaluations every 3 months similar to subjects in the Active
      Treatment Group. After 12 months , subjects from the Deferred Treatment Group will receive a
      series of up to two NKA injections given 6 months (+4 weeks) apart, as appropriate.
      Consequently, the study design includes a randomized control group receiving standard-of-care
      treatment for the first 12 months and a randomized, active treatment group receiving up to
      two NKA injections and follow-up evaluations during the same period of time. In addition,
      each subject's baseline rate of renal decline, based on adequate historical, clinical data
      obtained 18 months prior to NKA injection, will serve as a comparator for monitoring the rate
      of progression of renal insufficiency over time.

      The rate of progression of renal insufficiency for the Active Treatment Group (assessed via
      serial measurements of eGFR pre-randomization through 24 months after the last NKA injection)
      will be compared against that of the Deferred Treatment Group (ie, contemporaneous control
      group). In addition, each subject's baseline rate of eGFR decline (derived from adequate
      historical, clinical data) will be compared against the individual subject's rate of eGFR
      decline through 24 months following the final NKA treatment. The rate of progression of renal
      insufficiency from subjects (if any) who received a single NKA injection may be compared
      against that from subjects who received two NKA injections.

      Subjects will complete the KDQOL survey, which is a kidney-specific measure of health-related
      quality of life (ie, Kidney Disease and Quality of Life™ [KDQOL™-36] Version 1) and the
      EQ-5D-5L. Scores from the Active Treatment Group will be compared against scores from the
      Deferred Treatment Group. Subjects from the Deferred Treatment Group will comprise the
      contemporaneous control group for the analysis of KDQOL scores. In addition, each subject's
      baseline scores will be compared against the individual subject's KDQOL scores obtained
      through 24 months after the last NKA injection. Additionally, KDQOL scores from subjects who
      received a single NKA injection may be compared against scores from subjects who received two
      injections.
    
  