
    
      Postoperative complications occur in up to 50% of patients and major surgery is associated
      with a 20 to 40% reduction in physiological and functional capacity. The elderly have surgery
      4 times more often than the rest of the population, thus in the future a major proportion of
      patients presenting for surgery will be older than 65 years. Elderly patients have more
      postoperative complications, a longer convalescence and higher surgical morbidity and
      mortality. The number and severity of complications are closely related to preoperative
      functional capacity, nutritional state, psychological state, and smoking behavior. Another
      population most probably to benefit from such a program are cancer patients with decreased
      functional health after cancer treatment. Cancer prehabilitation affords an opportunity for
      the patient to improve functional status while waiting to begin treatment. This is a patient
      group expected to grow in the future.

      This is a single-center, multidisciplinary, 2 arms (standard, n=350 vs intervention i.e.
      prehabilitation, n=350), randomised controlled trial (RCT).

      The prehabilitation program is composed of 4 elements: exercise training, nutritional
      intervention, correction of anaemia and smoking cessation.

      This monocentric, randomised controlled trial is to the investigators knowledge the first
      implementation of a multimodal, multidisciplinary prehabilitation approach using knowledge
      from different specialties to lower complications and to increase cost effectiveness after
      major surgery in elderly, morbid patients.

      The primary outcome is measured by the comprehensive complication index (CCI). Secondary
      outcomes are physical parameters measured by cardio-pulmonary exercise testing (CPET),
      6-minute-walking-test (6MWT), grip test and stair climb test. Further outcomes are smoking
      behavior, haemoglobin concentration, days at home at 30 days (DAH30) and quality of recovery
      9 (QoR9).
    
  