
    
      Hypothesis:

      An overriding pro-inflammatory immune response underlies AKI in humans which contributes to
      dysfunction of non-renal organs

      Principal research question:

      Is AKI in humans associated with a predominantly pro-inflammatory immune response?

      Secondary research questions:

        1. Does AKI affect the phenotypic characterisation and function of neutrophils?

        2. Does severity of AKI lead to differences in phenotypic characterisation and function of
           neutrophils?

        3. What are the differences in cytokine profiles between AKI patients with and without
           systemic inflammation?

        4. What are the differences in cytokine profiles between AKI patients with systemic
           inflammation and patients with systemic inflammation without AKI?

        5. Is there a correlation between microRNA levels in patients with AKI and degree of AKI,
           renal recovery and patient outcome?

      Study design:

      Observational non-interventional study

      Study population:

      30 patients with AKI stage II or III * and systemic inflammation without sepsis 30 patients
      with AKI stage II or III * and no systemic inflammation 30 patients with systemic
      inflammation and normal renal function 30 patients after major surgery who do not have an
      infection, SIRS or AKI

      * AKI will be defined by the KDIGO criteria

      Primary outcome Detection of measurable phenotypic characteristics and function of leukocytes
      that are specific of patients with AKI.

      Secondary outcomes:

        1. Differences in phenotypic characterisation and function of neutrophils between patients
           with AKI stage II and III.

        2. Differences in phenotypic characterisation and function of neutrophils between patients
           with and without AKI.

        3. Differences in cytokine profiles between patients with AKI and systemic inflammation and
           patients with AKI without systemic inflammation

        4. Differences in cytokine profiles between AKI patients with systemic inflammation and
           patients with systemic inflammation without AKI

        5. Correlation between microRNA levels in patients with AKI and renal recovery

        6. Correlation between microRNA levels in patients with AKI and patient outcome

        7. Differences in cytokine profiles between AKI patients without systemic inflammation and
           patients without AKI and without systemic inflammation / infection.

      Statistical analysis:

      For the analysis of laboratory variables that describe the immunological phenotype, standard
      statistical methods will be applied. 1) When the normal distribution assumption is met,
      groups will be compared using ANOVA and the corresponding contrasts for group by group
      comparisons; 2) In the absence of normality or for ordinal variables, Kruskal Wallis will be
      applied for multi-group comparisons, and Wilcoxon for two-groups analysis. We will apply
      multiple testing correction via Benjamini-Hochberg FDR control.

      For the analysis of miRNA array data, we will first follow the protocol quality control
      measures appropriate for the platform of choice, and subsequently will carry out statistical
      analysis using the SAMr and LIMMA packages from Bioconductor, via the R software. Similarly,
      for the analysis of PCR data, the package HTqPCR from bioconductor will be used for quality
      control. Depending on the distribution of the final data, either non-parametric statistics,
      or a moderated t-test will be applied for statistical comparisons, with the corresponding
      multiple testing corrections as above.
    
  