
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) for haploidentical, matched or
      mismatched, related or unrelated reduce intensity allogenic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (allo HSCT) in relapsed multiple myeloma (MM) patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine 2 year overall survival (OS). II. To determine the cumulative incidence of
      grade II-IV acute-graft-versushost-disease (aGVHD) at day 100 and 180.

      III. To determine the 100 days, 1 year and 2 year cumulative incidence of treatment-related
      mortality (TRM).

      IV. To assess one-year GVHD-free relapse-free survival (GRFS). V. To determine the cumulative
      incidence of chronic graft-versus-hostdisease (cGVHD) Va. To assess overall and best response
      rates 100 days after allo HCT, 3 months, 6 months and every 6 months thereafter until end of
      daratumumab maintenance.

      VI. To determine rate of relapse after allo HSCT followed by maintenance. VII. To determine
      rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity using next generation sequencing (Food and
      Drug Administration [FDA] approved) in patients achieving a very good partial response (VGPR)
      or better.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine immune reconstitution pattern on days +30, +100, +180 and +365 following allo
      HSCT.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive fludarabine intravenously (IV) on days -5 to -2 and melphalan IV on days -3
      to -2, then undergo stem cell transplantation on day 0. Patients receive cyclophosphamide on
      days 3 and 4, tacrolimus orally (PO) or twice daily (BID) or IV starting on day 5, and
      mycophenolate mofetil IV or PO three times daily (TID) on days 5 to 35. Patients also receive
      daratumumab IV starting between day 90-150 for up to 1 year. Treatment continues in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 2 years
      post stem cell transplantation.
    
  