
    
      Nonspecific neck pain is one of the main reasons for outpatient physiotherapy consultation
      and, due to its multifactorial origin, there are numerous approaches without a consensus on
      the effectiveness of the different treatments. The most recent systematic reviews show
      significant evidence about the efficacy of the combination of Manual Therapy (MT) and
      exercise on pain, muscle elasticity, posture, and functionality in patients suffering from
      neck pain.

      During muscle evaluation, it is common to find painful pressure points that are not
      spontaneously. These asymptomatic areas, painful when pressed, appear as areas with loss of
      elasticity, when evaluated with quantitative elastography (shear wave), which influences
      their contractile capacity and their ability to develop strength, together with the
      inhibition caused by the pain. The accumulation of cytotoxic and nociceptive substances,
      derived from the excess activity, could be the cause of the shortening of muscle fibers, so
      an increase in vascularity could help improve their drainage and normalize their elasticity
      and functionality.

      Radial shock waves have been shown to be effective in angiogenesis, increasing vascularity
      and oxygen saturation of treated areas, so it could be a useful tool to help solve this
      problem.

      This study aims to determine the effectiveness of radial shock waves to locate and treat the
      areas of loss of elasticity, found during muscle evaluation, combined with a MT and exercise
      protocol, compared to the manual therapy and exercise protocol itself. To do this,
      participants will be randomly assigned into 2 groups, one will be applied only the manual
      therapy and exercise protocol and the other the same protocol, plus shock wave therapy. The
      data collected will be compared between the two groups. An intention-to-treat statistical
      analysis will be performed.

      Objective:

      To determine the influence of the application of radial pressure waves together with the
      usual Physiotherapy treatment on the elasticity of muscle tissue, pain, the amplitude and
      harmony of cervical movements, strength, and quality of life in people with nonspecific neck
      pain

      Methods:

      The research will begin at the end of February 2021 and will be carried out in the
      biomechanics and movement analysis laboratory of the San Juan de Dios School of Nursing and
      Physiotherapy, Comillas Pontifical University, and at the Cimeg Madrid facilities.

      A preliminary pilot study will be carried out with 10 volunteers with nonspecific neck pain,
      in order to calculate the sample size appropriate to the proposed objectives.

      Participants will be randomly assigned using sealed envelopes to one of the two groups.

      Group 1 will perform a conventional treatment protocol of physical therapy based on manual
      therapy and therapeutic exercise, for 4 weeks. Participants will go to the facilities, once a
      week, to get 1 session of manual therapy treatment, based on the Maitland Concept, on the
      cervical and thoracic spine. Besides this, they will perform 3 sessions a week of home-based
      cervical therapeutic exercise.

      Group 2 will perform the same treatment protocol as Group 1, and in addition, will get a
      radial pressure waves session in the pressure sore spots, found in the muscle evaluation.

      Muscle Elasticity, Pain Pressure Threshold, Cervical Pain, Active Range of Motion, the
      harmony of movement, Shoulder lift strength, Quality of life, Disability, and Kinesiophobia
      will be measured before and after treatment (at 4 weeks), at one month, and at three months
      after the start of the study. while demographic variables (Number of sore spots, Age, Sex,
      Dominance, Height, Weight, Body Mass Index (BMI), Educational level, Work Activity, and
      Sports Activity) will only be measured at the baseline.

      .
    
  