
    
      Subjects eligible to participate in the study must provide written informed consent (IC)
      before randomization or any study- specific procedures.

      The study consists of 2 parts (PART A and PART B) as described below:

      PART A: was completed in March 2020 and was an open-label, randomized, multicenter design to
      evaluate the feasibility of administration of inhaled flecainide in two dosing regimens.

      Subjects are randomized at a 1:1 ratio to a single (N = 10) or repeat (N = 10) dose regimen.

      After completion of the 60 mg dose cohort and review of safety/tolerability and PK data,
      additional subjects were enrolled in an additional repeat dose regimen (90 mg eTLD, N= up to
      30 subjects. An additional dose cohort of 120 mg was added to Part A which utilized a
      different concentration of flecainide (75 mg/mL) and formulation (FlecIH-103). The final dose
      of 120 mg was selected as the dose to continue evaluating in Part B.

      PART B: is an open-label, multicenter design to confirm the safety (including tolerability)
      and efficacy of the optimal inhaled flecainide dose determined from Part A (120 mg, using the
      FlecIH-103 inhalation solution).

      Randomization, for the initial 20 patients in Part A was stratified by duration of the
      presenting AF episode (≥ 1 h up to ≤ 24 hours; > 24h up to ≤ 48h).

      Once study regimen is allocated, the subject will self-administer the study treatment and
      inhalation regimen.

      If at 60 minutes after initiation of dosing, no conversion to SR is observed, the
      Investigator may offer the subject another appropriate therapy. Discharge is left up to the
      discretion of the treating physician but no less than 240 min after initiation of dosing.
      Heart rhythm will be confirmed with event recorder in follow up.

      An independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) is responsible for monitoring safety
      during the study.
    
  