
    
      *Procedures During Screening Process:

      This study will involve recruitment of individuals who have experienced a severe stroke as
      well as patients with similar neurological weakness from the inpatient setting, outpatient
      clinics, as well as day rehabilitation sites through The Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago
      and Northwestern Memorial Hospital.

      Members of the research team will perform the initial screening of potential subjects. These
      clinicians will determine study eligibility based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria
      provided by Ekso Bionics in accordance with the medical recommendations of Dr. Todd Kuiken.

      Potential subjects will be asked questions regarding their medical history and current level
      of function. If the subject meets the criteria, researchers will then provide the subject
      with a consent form. The researchers will discuss the objectives, study protocol, and the
      risks and benefits of the study with each subject. The subjects will be given time to review
      the form and ask any questions about the study.

      Once each subject has provided informed consent, he or she will undergo a screening process
      to assess joint range of motion, muscular strength (via manual muscle test), and any
      spasticity present (via Modified Ashworth Scale). These measures will be used to determine
      subject qualification based on inclusion and exclusion criteria. Vital signs (including heart
      rate, blood pressure and oxygen saturation) will be assessed at baseline, after each session,
      and during sessions as needed based on subject's signs and symptoms. Oxygen saturation and
      heart rate will be monitored using a pulse oximeter. Blood pressure will be assessed with a
      manual blood pressure cuff and stethoscope.

      *Procedures During Treatment:

      Sessions will begin with donning the Ekso device to ensure a proper fit. A physical therapist
      will check the subject for proper alignment of joints with the device and check for areas of
      increased pressure between the device and body. If necessary, additional padding will be
      added to ensure safety and comfort or the device configuration will be modified. During the
      initial sessions, skin checks will be more frequent as padding is customized, after which
      they will occur at the end of each session.

      After the pre-session measures, the participant will be attached to a suspension device
      (Guldman overhead lift) and guarded by facility clinical/Ekso Bionics staff to ensure
      participant safety. Each participant will undergo measurement, sizing, and donning of the
      Ekso device in addition to skill training. Each participant will then be instructed in proper
      use of the Ekso device and progressed through a series of weight shifting, balance, and
      walking skill sets. Participants will be scheduled for an initial screening session and up to
      26 follow-up training sessions and assessments after the 9th, 18th, and 26th session. A
      follow-up assessment will also take place 3 months after the 26th training session. The
      amount of sessions provided will be dependent upon compatibility with device, ability to
      tolerate device use, and ability to safely ambulate using the device. A participant will
      continue with each phase of the study as deemed appropriate by research staff:

        -  Phase 1 (1-9 training sessions): Each subject will be instructed in regards to optimal
           postural alignment and weight shifting strategies to walk more efficiently in the
           device. The subject will complete balance and weight shifting tasks to improve standing
           balance and initiation of stepping in the device. Each subject will participate in 90
           minute gait training sessions with an emphasis multi-directional weigh shifting,
           balance, and initial walking tasks in the device.

        -  Phase 2 (10-18 training sessions): Each subject will continue with gait training in the
           Ekso device utilizing training protocols developed to achieve progression with walking
           from maximum-assist, tethered walking towards a greater level of independence including
           non-tethered walking in the device. An assessment of gait speed, among other functional
           measures, will take place during the 18th session. Each subject's gait speed will
           determine the type of training that he or she will receive during the sessions 19-26.

        -  Phase 3 (19-26 training sessions): Subjects with a walking speed <.4m/sec will continue
           with Ekso device gait training for 4 weeks at a rate of 2 sessions per week. Subjects
           with a walking speed of >.4m/sec will continue with traditional physical therapy
           treatment for 4 weeks at a rate of 2 sessions per week. Both types of training sessions
           will focus on improving overall balance, walking distance, walking speed, & confidence
           with over ground walking.
    
  