
    
      The following data/materials will be collected for this registry study:

      Clinical Data: Demographic data, date of diagnosis, pathology, radiological imaging at
      diagnosis and relapse, signs and symptoms at diagnosis, molecular and biological data,
      staging details including sites of disease, detailed treatment data (e.g. types and dates of
      surgeries/interventional therapy (if any), medical/systemic therapy, radiotherapy), response
      to treatment, dates of progression, types of progression (local or metastatic), and follow-up
      data. The demographic and clinical data collected are abstracted and entered into an
      electronic data system secured by password protection (see section 4.3.3). Collection of
      existing molecular and/or genomic data or analysis that has been performed will also be
      included.

      Research Specimens:

      Tissue (fresh/frozen/FFPE) will be requested for all enrolled patients and sent for central
      review to study pathologist. Then tissue will be stored at CCHMC and future research testing
      may be conducted on this tissue.

      Optional research specimens:

      Pending consent specification of family/patient, and resources, specimens may be sent
      directly to collaborating laboratories to proceed with tumor modeling and drug testing, or
      other translational research with PI or designee via an IRB approved project.

        -  Tumor Modeling (Fresh, frozen,): Prospectively collect or retain left-over tumor tissue
           samples and normal tissue (background kidney) as available, for research purposes.

        -  Blood: prospectively collected at time of enrollment and at time of relapse

        -  Urine: prospectively collected at time of enrollment and at time of relapse

      Registry clinical data will be correlated with biological/bioinformatic and genomic data.
      Data stored in the Registry may be used to provide statistical data for scientific
      presentations and for preparation of peer-reviewed manuscripts. For such purposes all data
      will be de-identified. Beyond tumor model development and new agent drug testing (if selected
      in the consent process), data and specimens will be released for IRB approved research
      proposals upon approval from the TFE RCC Steering Committee.
    
  