
    
      Dental anxiety is a well-known, common dilemma affecting many adults, observed more
      frequently in children and women. It is an emotional apprehensive state which is
      multifactorial and the origin is most commonly attributed to the anticipation of the painful
      stimulus that may arise during treatment. It has been suggested that environmental factors
      contribute to dental stress. Although quite trivial, the environment of a waiting room as
      well as the time spent waiting are parameters that can cause pre- treatment stress.
      Therefore, the waiting room must be considered an important first port for dealing with the
      individual's pre-treatment dental anxiety. Evidence in literature suggest that waiting room
      ambience plays a significant role in reducing the patient anxiety, for example images,
      audio-visual effects like the lighting, music and/or videos, presence of natural light,
      suitable reading material, aquariums have shown positive results. Beneficial effects of the
      presence of animals on the reduction of stress have also been reported in literature, and
      especially fish have shown a positive effect on the psychological well-being and stress
      levels; higher relaxation, less anxiety and better mood was reported by participants after a
      period of observing live fish.

        -  The primary null hypothesis is that there will be no effect of an aquarium present in
           the waiting area on the pre-treatment anxiety and stress levels of participants
           receiving dental care.

        -  The secondary hypothesis is that there will be no effect of an aquarium present in the
           waiting area on the stress and anxiety levels of the reception staff.

        -  The tertiary hypothesis for this study is that the treating dentist will not perceive
           any difference in the stress and anxiety levels of the participants after observing the
           aquarium in the waiting area.

        -  Patients ≥18 years, who are able to sign a consent form are included. The participants
           are subjected to a specific clinic waiting area ambience (1- no aquarium, 2- presence of
           aquarium with no fish, and 3- aquarium with fish) for their period of waiting before
           their intended dental visit and their stress and anxiety levels are measured. Heart
           rate, blood pressure will be measured and other upon their arrival into the dental
           clinic waiting area. Three measurements will be taken and then after 20 minutes of
           waiting another three measurements of the same will be made in order to see if the
           presence of an aquarium gave a decrease. Anxiety will be measured using a six-item
           State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI-6) questionnaire and the mood of the participants
           were assessed for valence and arousal, using the feeling scale, and the felt arousal
           scale. The data from the three different settings will be compared and statistically
           analysed to investigate if an aquarium has an impact, and in that case how.
    
  