
    
      Oral mucositis (OM) is one of the most debilitating adverse effects in cancer patients
      treated with chemotherapy or radiation (RT). Currently, there are no effective therapies or
      prevention for mucositis, while several clinical studies have suggested that professional
      oral care could effectively reduce the severity of Radiation Therapy or chemotherapy-induced
      oral mucositis. Palliative treatment, rather than preventive or curative measures, remains
      the standard of care. Evidence-based guidelines do not provide consistent recommendations for
      the prevention, treatment and management of oral mucositis.

      The investigators hypothesize that a monitored regimen of professional oral hygiene prevents
      harmful ecological shifts in the oral cavity, improve oral health and reduce the duration and
      severity of Oral Mucositis in cancer patients, consequently improving their overall quality
      of life during treatment. Moreover, the investigators hypothesize that the weekly oral
      hygiene regimen performed by an oral health professional is more effective in treating and
      preventing mucositis than current standard-of-care treatments.

      The principal investigator of this project has developed a novel oral care regimen protocol
      for the treatment of oral mucositis. The "Oral Mucosa Deterging and Periodontal Debridement"
      (OMDP) protocol consists of a regimen of frequent professional oral prophylaxis including
      tooth cleaning, tooth polishing and flossing, and the debridement of the periodontium and
      deterging of the oral mucosa. This is an intervention that is implemented prior to and
      maintained throughout the entire cycle of the radiation or chemoradiation. Co-adjuvant
      treatments such as intense fluoride treatments, oral hygiene instructions and palliative
      mouth-rinses are also part of the protocol. The hypothesis is that repeated professional
      prophylaxis of the oral cavity would protect the healthy oral tissue against infection and
      inflammation often associated with severe cases of mucositis, and consequently reduces
      mucositis incidence and duration.

      Participants in this study would attend approximately 9 study visits over the course of 16-18
      weeks, depending on their specific cancer treatment plan. Study participants will be
      randomized to receive either the oral health protocol, which they will receive on a weekly
      basis, or standard of care oral hygiene instructions and tooth brushing, preformed on a
      bi-weekly basis.
    
  