
    
      Hypothesis: It is hypothesized that advanced subject-specific musculoskeletal modelling in
      combination with mobile monitoring technology as embedded in the iPhone and Apple Watch allow
      for accurate prediction of changes in muscle strength and muscle size in the lower limbs
      following an 8-week strength training intervention of key muscle-tendon groups associated
      with knee joint stability.

      Primary Objective: Prediction of changes in muscle strength in the lower limbs due to
      different strength training volumes by means of the advanced computational modelling,
      biomechanical analysis and mobile monitoring technology. Of particular interest is the
      prediction of 1RM and the prediction of the ratio between hamstrings and quadriceps strength
      (H:Q ratio) compared against isokinetic strength tests as gold standard. Research has clearly
      shown that the quantification of 1RM is fundamentally important when it comes to the design
      of safe and efficient resistance training programs.

      Secondary Objective: Assessment of changes in muscle size in the lower limbs due to different
      strength training volumes using the HMF technique. Of particular interest is the prediction
      of muscle volume using the HMF technique compared against data from MRI as gold standard, as
      well as the prediction of adaptation in hamstrings and quadriceps CSA due to the strength
      training intervention using HMF versus data from ultrasound, respectively.

      Key baseline factors that will likely influence the primary and secondary endpoints are
      strength training experience and gender. The sample size and population group are specified
      to allow the analysis of gender-specific differences on study results. Thereby, the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria and study protocol, including a training-related questionnaire,
      are defined to minimize the bias of training experience.

      Project design This project in sports science is designed as a confirmatory qualitative study
      in applied research involving healthy participants. The rationale of this project is to
      predict changes in muscle strength and muscle size due to strength training using
      computational modelling and mobile monitoring technology. In particular, the investigators
      will advance novel approaches in subject-specific anatomically-based modelling and mobile
      monitoring, which have previously tested in the research setting, and are now being applied
      to an intervention study in healthy volunteers to predict adaptations in muscle strength and
      muscle size in relation to strength training volume.

      Study design: The specifics of the strength training intervention are carefully designed
      based on the current state of research in the field, and in line with strength training
      recommendations in musculoskeletal health, fitness and rehabilitation. In particular, the
      investigators will conduct an 8-week strength training intervention program of the key
      muscle-tendon groups associated with knee joint stability (hamstrings, quadriceps and triceps
      surae), with the study group (n=36, with 18F and 18M) being randomly allocated to different
      levels of training volume (Group#1: no training, Group#2: 1 training per week, Group#3: 3
      trainings per week) with the same number of subjects and gender distribution in each group.
      Each participant will perform the strength training self-directedly in their chosen
      training-specific setting. Clear guidelines for warm-up, type and conduct of exercises will
      be given to all participants. The strength exercises are standard exercises for strengthening
      knee extension and flexion: squats, leg press, back extensions, heel raises, and single joint
      exercises.

      Study parameters: Anthropometric parameters include body height, body weight, segmental
      circumferences, somatotype, body shape, muscle CSA and muscle volume of the lower limbs.
      Anthropometric parameters will be assessed by means of HMF fitting in combination with data
      from 3D body scanning and anthropometric measurements according to ISAK standards. Changes in
      CSA of the hamstrings and quadriceps will be compared between HMF and data from ultrasound
      before and after strength training intervention. Strength- and training-specific parameters
      include joint motion, joint acceleration, total joint moments, repetition count, 1RM and H:Q
      ratio. Strength- and training-specific parameters will be assessed by means of biomechanical
      analysis using data from optical motion capture and the iOS Strength Control app, and
      compared against data from isokinetic strength tests as gold standard. Additionally, data
      from MRI of the lower limbs will be acquired in a sub-group of 12 participants (6F, 6M).

      PROJECT POPULATION AND STUDY PROCEDURES

      Project population: The project population are healthy adult subjects who are all
      participating in their own strength training program on a regular weekly basis. The primary
      objective is to predict changes in muscle strength (i.e. primary outcome parameters: 1RM and
      H:Q ratio) following different training volumes of key muscle groups associated with knee
      joint stability. A power analysis was conducted using statistikguru.de to assess the required
      sample size for the primary outcome parameter, 1RM. Based on the power analysis, the
      investigators aim for a total of n=36 complete data sets (n=12 per study group of the
      strength training intervention), with a sub-group of n=12 participants additionally scheduled
      for MRI of the lower limbs at baseline.

      The MRI-based assessment of muscle volume for validation of the HMF technique is analyzed
      independently from the strength training intervention. Thereby, the accuracy of the HMF
      technique is dependent on the initial generic musculoskeletal model that is used for model
      fitting, as well as the available subject-specific skin surface and anthropometric data.

      All participants have to confirm their voluntary participation with a written informed
      consent before being submitted to any study procedure.
    
  