
    
      The project investigates patients with left bundle branch block (LBBB) which describes a
      specific block in the electrical conduction system, where the electrical impulses must follow
      a detour, with the result that different parts of the heart-muscle do not contract at the
      same time. This condition is called left ventricular dyssynchrony. LBBB can be found in
      people who are otherwise completely healthy and need not have any practical consequences. In
      others LBBB is present in patients with different heart diseases such as after myocardial
      infarctions or other diseases involving the heart-muscle. Patients with implanted pacemakers
      have a similar failure in the conduction system. Both conditions can increase the risk for
      development of heart-failure and cardiovascular death. Dyssynchrony can be treated with a
      special pacemaker (cardiac resynchronisation therapy, CRT) in addition to regular medical
      treatment. The therapy is well established and has shown to reduce morbidity and mortality
      and even reverse heart-failure in some patients completely. However, the patients in need and
      responding to CRT treatment is still not optimally defined. New echocardiographic parameters
      based on strain imaging such as regional myocardial work are able quantify the degree of
      dyssynchrony and give new insights into the interplay of activation delay through the LBBB
      and loading conditions and weakness of the myocardium due to other diseases. These new and
      complex measures can be integrated with clinical information by machine learning (ML) as a
      promising tools for accurate patient selection for CRT. The project aims to find markers on
      ultrasound improved by ML based selection to distinguish those patients who have problems
      associated with the branch block from those who remain stable. This will facilitate both, an
      optimized patient selection for CRT treatment and follow-up schedule for those who have a
      stable condition.
    
  