
    
      Poor graft function (PGF) remains a life-threatening complication that occurs in 5-27% of
      patients following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT), and is
      associated with morbidity and mortality related to infections or hemorrhagic complications.

      PGF is defined below: (1) with two or three cytopenic lines (hemoglobin ≤70 g/L, neutrophil
      count ≤0.5×109/L, platelet count ≤20×109/L) with transfusion requirements; (2) with
      hypoplastic bone marrow and full donor chimerism; (3) without relapse or severe graft versus
      host diseases(GVHD) or active infectious diseases, or drug-related myelosuppression; (4) last
      at least for 14 conductive days. Primary PGF refers to those who did not achieve
      hematopoietic engraftment at day +28 post-transplant, while secondary PGF(sPGF)was defined as
      PGF after full engraftment.The underlying pathogenesis of PGF remains unclear. Therapeutic
      approaches for PGF include (1) growth factors, including granulocyte colony-stimulating
      factor (G-CSF), erythropoietin (EPO)- stimulating factors and thrombopoietin(TPO) mimetics;
      (2) second allo-HSCT; (3) infusion of additional mobilized cells from the original donor
      (modified DLI); (4) Cluster of differentiation 34（CD34）positive selected and T cell-depleted
      stem cell boost(SCB) without conditioning. and (5) mesenchymal stem cell(MSC) transfusion.
      However, second allo-HSCT and infusion of additional unmanipulated stem cells are associated
      with high rate of GVHD and treatment-related mortality (TRM). Up to now, there is no standard
      treatment recommended for PGF patients.

      Eltrombopag is a kind of thrombopoietin receptor (TPO-R) agonists which can act as a
      stimulator of bone marrow progenitor cells.It has been approved by FDA for the treatment of
      immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) and by European Union for severe aplasia anemia (SAA).
      Furthermore, there are also increasing amount of clinical trials using Eltrombopag for the
      treatment of thrombocytopenia post HSCT and very severe aplasia anemia(VSAA) which already
      had promising results. Due to the similarity in symptoms of PGF and AA, we suggested that if
      eltrombopag could be beneficial in patients with sPGF post allo-HSCT.

      In this single-center open study,20 cases with sPGF post- transplant will be enrolled.The
      starting dose will be 25mg daily for 3 days to see if the drug is tolerable and then
      increasing to 50mg for another week. Maintenance dosage is 50mg or 75 mg per day dependent on
      patients' status and doctors' opinion.Patients may stop medicine when they achieve persistent
      complete response for 2 weeks.If patients only get partial response or no response after 8
      weeks of therapy they may either stop eltrombopag or continue the drug considering doctor's
      advice. Once a patient suffer severe adverse events,patients should discontinue the drug
      immediately and get supporting measures.
    
  