
    
      Hypothesis; H1: Telephone support for breastfeeding follow-up affects the development of
      physiological jaundice.

      H2: Telephone support for breastfeeding monitoring affects exclusive breastfeeding for the
      first six months.

      H3: Telephone support for breastfeeding follow-up affects infantile colic. H4: Telephone
      support for breastfeeding follow-up affects maternal breastfeeding self-efficacy.

      H5: Telephone support for breastfeeding follow-up affects breastfeeding success of mothers.

      Social media communication is planned to be completed at the 36th or older gestational week,
      who will have her first or second birth.

      Inclusion Criteria - Having/had a new birth between the ages of 18-45 - Having his 1st or 2nd
      birth - Agreeing to participate in the study voluntarily and obtaining consent form - Having
      given birth to a healthy baby above 36 weeks of gestation - Planning to breastfeed - The baby
      does not need intensive care and does not develop any postpartum complications - The baby
      does not have a vision and hearing problem, does not have a disease that may prevent
      breastfeeding - The baby does not have a physical and psychological deficit - The baby does
      not have a disease or an anatomical problem that will prevent breastfeeding - Mother's
      ability to continue monitoring on the phone and to have a phone that can provide monitoring
      and video chat. No blood incompatibility between mother and baby.

      Exclusion Criteria - Refusal to participate in the study - Failure to continue monitoring by
      phone - Mother's illiteracy - Development of pathological jaundice in the baby

      Block randomization will be applied according to maternal age, the number of births, baby
      gender, and birth week. Age (3 groups) X number of births (2 groups) X baby gender (2 groups)
      X gestational week (2 groups) = 24 blocks

      Through social media, women between the ages of 18-45, who will have their first or second
      birth at their 36th or older gestational week will be included in the study. The woman in the
      control and study groups will be given breastfeeding and baby care training with the help of
      the training booklet by video calling.

      Socio-Demographic Data Collection Form, Baby Monitoring Form, Infantile Colic Scale,
      Breastfeeding Self-Efficacy Scale-Short Form, and LATCH Breastfeeding Diagnostic Scale will
      be used.

        -  A socio-demographic data collection form will be filled, and the LATCH Breastfeeding
           Diagnostic Scale will be applied to the woman in the control and study groups on the day
           the mother gives birth, by making a video call by phone during breastfeeding.

        -  The women in the study group will be provided with a video call every day for the first
           week after their discharge from the hospital, to provide consultancy to the mother on
           the matters she needs and to be recorded in the Baby Monitoring Form. The general
           appearance of the baby, observation during sucking, jaundice, drowsiness, reluctance to
           suck will be observed. The consultancy will be provided to the mother on these issues.

        -  No additional intervention or routine call will be made to mothers in the control group.
           The researcher's phone will be given to the mothers in both groups and the incoming
           calls and their content will be recorded.

        -  In the following weeks, the consultancy will continue to be given to the working group
           by making a video talk one week apart. The control group will be called to fill in the
           scales for monitoring purposes.
    
  