
    
      There have been no randomised controlled trials from UK settings reporting either the effect
      or the costs of an intensive, individualised case- and self-management intervention for
      patients with COPD. Given new evidence from other countries (discussed above), we propose
      that a combined case- and self-management (henceforth referred to as "supported
      self-management") intervention is most likely to produce measurable benefits from this
      socially and physically disadvantaged group of patients. Supported self-management involves:

        1. Individualised self-management education, delivered in the patient's own home at
           fortnightly intervals over a two-month period with monthly telephone follow-up. This
           component of the intervention is based on an intervention shown to be effective in
           Canada. It is based on the principle of empowering patients to manage their COPD
           themselves more effectively by improving disease understanding and symptom monitoring,
           and improving patients' confidence to carry out appropriate action, such as altering
           therapy early on in the evolution of an exacerbation or initiating contact with a named
           professional for telephone advice, a home visit or further hospital care (case
           management) as and when required. We believe home visits are critical to the success of
           this intervention as this group of breathless and disabled patients often default from
           clinics and rehabilitation attendance on account of exacerbations or breathlessness.

        2. To maintain the impact of self-management training, a named nurse will visit the patient
           at (a maximum interval of) six-weeks to reinforce self-management messages; this nurse
           will also be contactable by the patient, as required, prompting an earlier home visit,
           or GP or hospital attendance as appropriate.

      This supported self-management approach (intervention group) will be compared with standard
      care (control group).

      Aim: To address, via a prospective randomised controlled trial in Glasgow, whether supported
      self-management, in addition to usual care, in patients with moderate to severe COPD has a
      measurable benefit on patient morbidity and mortality compared to usual care.
    
  