
    
      Recent advances in continuous glucose monitors (CGMs) and availability of commercial CGM
      products to patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes has made the use of CGM more widespread
      (1). CGMs work by placing a probe underneath the skin of a patient, into the interstitial
      space. The probe is an electroenzymatic sensor which uses glucose oxidase to break down
      glucose to create hydrogen peroxidase and other elements. Hydrogen peroxidase then interacts
      with a base metal layer of the sensor and is oxidized, which results in release of electrons
      which creates a current. The current is proportional to the glucose concentration. The
      current is measured by the probe and transmits a calculated glucose concentration to a
      receiving device (2). Substances that are widely distributed in body water, and thereby
      present in the interstitial space, potentially affect this technology. Acetaminophen and
      aspirin are substances that are have been known to affect the accuracy of these devices (3);
      however, more recently developed CGMs such as the Dexcom G6, were able to demonstrate no
      interference by acetaminophen (4). Patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) who are on
      intermittent hemodialysis (iHD) or peritoneal dialysis (PD) undergo fluid shifts between the
      interstitial fluid and intravascular space during dialysis treatments. They are also often
      uremic and have metabolic acidosis (5). These fluid shifts, uremia, acidosis, and volume
      overload (increase in interstitial fluid volume due to ESRD) have the potential to impact the
      performance of the most advanced and commercially available CGMs; however, use of CGM in
      these patients has not yet been studied (3). Moderate to severe CKD is associated with both
      increase in insulin resistance and decrease in insulin clearance, which results in often
      unpredictable and labile glucose concentrations and increased risk of hypoglycemia in these
      patients (6). Use of CGM, and potentially hybrid closed loop insulin delivery systems that
      are dependent on accurate continuous glucose monitoring, has the potential to improve glucose
      control and quality of life in these patients (7). This study team feels that this study will
      be valuable in collecting preliminary data needed with the goal of validating the use of CGM
      in this patient population.OBJECTIVE: The specific aim is to conduct a pilot study to
      evaluate the accuracy of continuous glucose monitors (CGM) in End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD)
      patients on intermittent hemodialysis (iHD). Accuracy will be assessed by calculating the
      mean absolute relative difference (MARD) between CGM values and concurrent finger stick or
      capillary blood glucose (CBG) in these patients during hemodialysis, and on non-dialysis
      days.
    
  