
    
      Ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) is a major etiology of organ injury and dysfunction that
      occurs during transplantation. In renal transplantation, the clinical manifestation of IRI is
      delayed graft function (DGF), typically defined as a recipient requiring dialysis within the
      first week after transplant. At present, there are no directed treatments for IRI associated
      with kidney transplantation and resultant DGF, other than supportive care with dialysis. This
      represents an unmet clinical need. While dialysis enables the support of patients until DGF
      resolves, DGF is associated with increased medical costs, increased length of hospital stay,
      increased rates of readmission to the hospital after transplantation, increased rates of
      rejection, and decreased graft survival. Therapies to reduce IRI might alleviate clinical
      complications associated with DGF, reduce costs associated with transplantation, and ease
      organ shortages by facilitating use of more marginal organs.

      Despite acceptance of gender disparities in IRI tolerance in animal systems, attempts to
      utilize hormonal manipulation in humans to achieve improved IRI tolerance have not been
      undertaken. In an effort to design such a translation, the investigators investigated if
      similar gender disparities exist in humans who have undergone kidney transplantation. After
      review of the United Network for Organ Sharing database, the investigators established that
      male recipient gender was highly associated with DGF. Then, the investigators demonstrated
      that manipulation of the pre-ischemic environment with short-term estrogen supplementation in
      female mice provides protection from renal IRI. As a logical next stop, the investigators
      propose hormonal manipulation with perioperative administration of intravenous conjugated
      estrogens as a novel therapeutic strategy to reduce the effect of IRI in female humans
      undergoing kidney transplantation. The investigators have designed an investigational new
      drug (IND) late phase I/early phase II prospective, single center, double blind, randomized,
      placebo-controlled trial to test the safety, feasibility, and efficacy of this therapy. If
      the administration of peri-operative intravenous administration has a positive impact on the
      rate of recovery of GFR after renal transplant and the inherent IRI, then this therapy would
      represent the first treatment for IRI and ultimately might reduce the incidence of DGF.
      Because DGF after kidney transplantation is associated with inferior transplant outcomes and
      increased costs,2 a therapy that mitigates the effect of IRI and consequently reduces the
      incidence of DGF not only might alleviate these complications but could also ease organ
      shortages by facilitating the use of more marginal organs. Moreover, if estrogen therapy does
      mitigate IRI in the setting of renal transplantation, it could be applied to other causes of
      renal IRI including supra-celiac clamping in trauma or vascular surgery or the use of
      cardiopulmonary bypass in cardiac surgery. Female adult subjects with a diagnosis of end
      stage renal disease who are dialysis dependent at the time of deceased donor renal
      transplantation and meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be eligible for
      participation in this study.
    
  