
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a major cause of morbidity and the 4th
      leading cause of mortality in the world. Acute exacerbation of COPD usually presents with
      more sputum production leading to worsening airflow obstruction. During an exacerbation, high
      flow nasal cannula (HFNC) has shown to reduce blood carbon dioxide level and respiratory
      rate. However, studies investigating other effects of HFNC in this setting are lacking. To
      investigators' knowledge, this is the first study investigating effects of HFNC on sputum
      clearance in COPD patients.

      Patients with a diagnosis of acute exacerbation of COPD who are receiving oxygen therapy via
      conventional nasal cannula or are on room air will be randomized into high flow nasal cannula
      (HFNC) or conventional flow nasal oxygen (CFNO) group for 24 hours. HFNC group will receive
      heated (approximately 37 ⁰C) and humidified (100% relative humidity) oxygenated gas delivered
      at high flow at 50L/min. CFNO group will receive ambient temperate and non-humidified
      oxygenated gas delivered at flow of up to 8L/min (standard care). Sputum sample will be
      collected at time = 0 hours (baseline), 4 +/- 1 hours, 8 +/- 2 hours and 24 +/- 2 hours.
      Visual analogue score (VAS) regarding cough severity and Breathlessness, Cough and Sputum
      Scale (BCSS) regarding cough frequency and ease will be obtained at time = 0 and 24 hours.

      Primary outcomes of the study are the difference in clearability and wettability of sputum
      sample. Clearability is measured by the distance sputum sample travels in an artificial
      trachea after a simulated cough. The longer the displacement, the more the clearability.
      Wetability is measured by determining the contact angle the sputum sample makes on a glass
      surface. The smaller the contact angle, the more the wettability. Secondary outcomes include
      subjective assessment of cough using VAS and BCSS scales, as well as need for escalation of
      care.
    
  