
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Physicians' Health Study was a randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled primary
      prevention trial designed to test whether 325 mg aspirin every other day reduced risks of
      cardiovascular disease and whether 50 mg beta-carotene on alternate days decreased cancer
      incidence among 22,071 male U.S. physicians, aged 40-84 years in 1982. Compliance with study
      pills, the use of non-study aspirin and platelet active drugs, specific side effects of
      aspirin, the incidence of conditions indicating aspirin use, and study outcomes were assessed
      at six month intervals during the first year and annually thereafter. The blinded aspirin
      component of the trial was terminated early and participants were unblinded on January 25,
      1988, due to the emergence of a statistically extreme benefit of aspirin on both fatal and
      nonfatal myocardial infarction, as well as the extraordinarily low cardiovascular mortality
      rates among study participants.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Separate dose-response relationships were estimated in the aspirin and in the placebo group
      to determine whether compliance in the placebo group was associated with lower risk, as had
      been found in some previous trials. Rates of cardiovascular endpoints in the placebo group
      relative to the aspirin group were adjusted for time-varying compliance with study tablets,
      and the use of non-study aspirin and platelet active drugs. In addition, baseline
      characteristics of the population and longitudinal assessment of side-effects and new
      conditions suggesting aspirin therapy were used as predictors of compliance in taking study
      pills separately in the aspirin and placebo groups. Similar longitudinal analyses determined
      predictors of the use of non-study aspirin and platelet active drugs. The analyses were
      intended to supplement the already published intent-to-treat analyses. They provided
      observational evidence concerning dose of aspirin and the risks of major cardiovascular
      endpoints. Examining modification of the aspirin effect in reducing risk of myocardial
      infarction according to level of compliance aided in the generalizability of results to less
      motivated populations. Evaluating determinants of good study compliance should be of benefit
      to future large scale clinical trials.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  