
    
      The management of patients with suspected Non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTEACS)
      can be time-consuming and expensive. Often patients need to be hospitalized for precautionary
      medical treatment and serial Troponin testing until further decisions can be made.

      Copeptin, a 39 amino acid glycopeptide, is the C-terminal portion of Pro-Vasopressin. It is
      co-secreted from the posterior pituitary gland together with Vasopressin and mirrors the
      amount of Vasopressin in the circulation. Vasopressin is primarily known as Anti-Diuretic
      Hormone (ADH), which acts in the kidney to regulate the body's retention of water and in high
      concentration causes arterial vasoconstriction.

      Vasopressin is, as a central hormone, also a crucial part of the
      hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis, which responds to severe, life-threatening "stress
      inputs"; its levels reflect the body's individual stress level.Vasopressin itself has a
      half-life of 5-10 minutes and is therefore difficult to measure in-vivo. Copeptin is secreted
      stoichiometrically with Vasopressin, it remains stable for days after blood withdrawal and
      can therefore easily be measured. Copeptin has been studied as a diagnostic and prognostic
      marker since 2006. In acute myocardial infarction Copeptin levels have been shown to increase
      early after the onset of symptoms (0-4 hours) and start decreasing after 4-5 hours.

      In acute myocardial infarction (AMI) Copeptin levels increase early after the onset of
      symptoms. In patients with suspected ACS Copeptin levels were significantly higher in
      patients with AMI than in patients with other diagnoses. Copeptin in conjunction with
      Troponin T was particularly useful as a rule-out marker of AMI.

      This is a randomized controlled diagnostic trial to quantify the benefit of integrating
      Copeptin into the management process of patients with NSTEACS and a negative baseline
      Troponin I test result in the Chest Pain Unit (CPU). Patient management will depend on
      Copeptin rather than serial Troponin results. Patients will be randomized in either a
      standard group (management according to current guidelines on managing patients with ACS,
      Copeptin will be tested, but result will not be revealed to treating personnel) or an
      interventional group (Copeptin testing, further management dependent on Copeptin result).

      In this interventional group, patients with a negative baseline Copeptin will be discharged
      into the ambulant care of co-operating resident cardiologists. Patients with a positive
      Copeptin result will be treated as by standard care (like patients in the control group).

      The investigators will assess the efficacy and safety of the new process as compared to the
      standard process. Secondary endpoints will assess patient satisfaction and length of hospital
      stay. This study design will not only assess the diagnostic use but also the clinical
      relevance of Copeptin testing in the ED/CPU.

      Consecutive N-STEACS patients of the Chest Pain Unit with a negative Troponin I at admission
      will be invited to participate. Troponin I is tested as part of the standard management of
      patients with suspected acute coronary syndrome on a point of care test device (POCT).

      Patients who give their written informed consent will then be randomized into one of two
      study arms (experimental and standard management) where further management depends on their
      Copeptin result at admission.
    
  