
    
      Oxidative stress reflects an imbalance in the redox system in favor of the activity of
      reactive oxygen species and other free radicals. It is also dependent upon the biological
      system's ability to detoxify these oxidative compounds through the application of
      antioxidants and other reductants. Disturbances in the normal redox state can cause adverse
      effects on cells including protein oxidation, lipid peroxidation, and DNA fragmentation.

      Male infertility has been associated with oxidative stress. Higher levels of reactive oxygen
      species (ROS) have been found in semen from men with low sperm count and motility, and poor
      sperm morphology, suggesting an imbalance in the redox system and an opportunity to use
      oxidative stress as a biomarker for semen quality. While several methods are available for
      measuring oxidative stress, they are not being implemented routinely in semen analysis likely
      because they are arduous and typically reflect only one side of the redox balance- oxidant
      activity.

      A quick and all-inclusive measure of oxidative stress that could be used in a diagnostic
      setting (academic, hospital, clinical or reference laboratory) is the measure of static
      oxidation reduction potential (sORP) ; sORP reflects an integrated measure of the redox
      balance taking into account the activity of all oxidants (i.e. ROS, reactive nitrogen
      species, transition metal ions) and all antioxidants (i.e. small molecule antioxidants like
      ascorbate and enzymatic antioxidants like glutathione). Because sORP values are an integrated
      measures of both sides of the redox balance, sORP levels could be an identifying
      characteristic of semen quality.

      The MiOXSYS System measures the redox balance by measuring sORP values. The MiOXSYS test
      results is used in conjunction with the established WHO semen analysis parameters. Previous
      studies suggest that increases in sORP are associated with lower sperm numbers, fewer motile
      sperm, and more abnormal sperm morphologies. The advantage of the MiOXSYS System is that sORP
      measures take into account both the oxidant and antioxidant sides of the redox balance,
      providing a rapid measure of oxidative stress, all with no sample preparation.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the performance of the MiOXSYS System as it
      measures sORP in semen samples with various degrees of semen quality. The MiOXSYS System is
      comprised of the MiOXSYS Analyzer and disposable, single-use MiOXSYS Sensors. Thirty
      microliters (30 uL) of neat semen is required for each test. sORP results from each semen
      sample will be compared to their corresponding results on the WHO semen analysis parameters
      (5th Edition Laboratory Manual for the Examination and Processing of Human Semen [2010]),
      which is the current methods for assessing semen quality.
    
  