
    
      Specific immunotherapy (SIT) has been used in the treatment of allergic disease for over one
      hundred years. SIT for environmental allergies consists of allergen extracts that have been
      traditionally administered by subcutaneous or sublingual routes to both children and adults.
      In the United States, subcutaneous immunotherapy (SCIT) is currently the only FDA-approved
      route of administration for allergenic extracts. In recent years, a novel method of
      administering allergen immunotherapy, intralymphatic immunotherapy (ILIT), has been
      developed, which has shown to be safer, more efficacious, and less painful than traditional
      SCIT. ILIT can dramatically decrease treatment time from 3 - 5 years to 8 weeks. It has only
      been studied in European adults. The aim of this project is to study efficacy and safety of
      intralymphatic immunotherapy in adolescents and young adults with allergic
      rhinoconjunctivitis, using currently available allergen extracts. Patients with clinical
      history suspicious for rhinitis with or without conjunctivitis, correlating with positive
      allergy skin and/or blood tests to grass pollen, will be randomized to either placebo (normal
      saline) or treatment (Center-Al grass pollen extract) arms. A total of 3 injections over
      eight weeks will be administered intralymphatically. A third arm will include an
      observational group of grass-allergic subjects already receiving SCIT for 1 year. Primary
      outcome will be comparison of a safety score between arms 1 and 2. We will follow adverse
      events, as well as serum markers for Th2 and Th1 phenotypes, and objective respiratory
      measures (spirometry and FeNO) in those with asthma. Visits will occur at baseline for
      screening/enrollment, on day 0/week4/week 8 for injections (injection visit for arms 1 and 2
      only), and for follow-up at 12 weeks and near end of grass pollen season. A substudy will
      evaluate participants one-year after completing ILIT injections by obtaining repeat serum
      biomarker levels and interval change in medical history. Results could help in dramatically
      decreasing treatment time, as well as increasing safety of allergen immunotherapy.
    
  