
    
      Main Study:

      Women will be randomized to receive single oral doses of azithromycin 500 mg, doxycycline 200
      mg, metronidazole 500 mg, or placebo. Computer-generated randomization will be used to assign
      participants to one of the four treatment arms. Women receiving placebo will receive
      antibiotic prophylaxis after completion of the study.

      Both the participants and the investigators will be blinded as to the treatment group. This
      will be accomplished by placing the study medication inside opaque gelatin capsules. We will
      randomize participants by assigning them to the next of the sequentially numbered sealed
      opaque study packets, containing the gelatin capsules with study medication inside. A second
      envelope will be opened after completion of all study procedure and will only say if the
      participant received placebo, so that additional antibiotics can be given.

      Participants will swallow the appropriate medication approximately 30-60 minutes prior to the
      surgical abortion (15-90 minutes range is acceptable). Study population will be all eligible
      patients undergoing surgical abortion in the first trimester at Washington Hospital Center
      and Planned Parenthood Metropolitan Washington. We will assess pain and side effects via
      written questionnaire at three different time points throughout the day, once at time of
      consent, before and after the procedure. Patients will be contacted within 1-2 weeks for
      follow-up and again pain and side effects will be assessed, as well.

      Sub-study:

      Forty (n=40) women will be recruited to undergo immediate post-procedure endometrial
      sampling. Sub-study patients will have a blood sample collected via venipuncture before
      leaving the procedure room, as well. No testing will be performed for participants receiving
      placebo.

      The primary objective is to determine if the side effects associated with individual
      medications are more similar to placebo than the others.

      The sub-study aims to explore our ability to identify bacteria within the uterine cavity. The
      objective is to assess the feasibility of identifying bacteria within the uterus after
      abortion.
    
  