
    
      Background and rationale: Autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT): High-dose chemotherapy
      (HDCT) followed by ASCT is considered the treatment of choice for relapsed/refractory
      lymphomas. On the basis of the results of the PARMA study group trial, high-dose chemotherapy
      followed by ASCT has become the standard of care for patients with relapsed, chemo-sensitive
      aggressive lymphoma , and it is the treatment of choice in patients relapsing with diffuse
      large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCL), mantle cell lymphomas (MCL), follicular lymphoma (FL) or
      Hodgkin's disease (HD). Worldwide, about 11'000 patients are treated with ASCT per year
      because of relapsing lymphoma. The BEAM chemotherapy regimen is the most frequently used
      conditioning regimen before ASCT since more than thirty years.

      Although HDCT with ASCT is a curative strategy for some patients with aggressive non-Hodgkin
      lymphoma (NHL), relapse or progression after ASCT is the major limitation of this procedure.
      Together with previously described factors that affect outcome after ASCT - such as
      prognostic score index, clinical response to induction or salvage chemotherapy, and the
      number of chemotherapy regimens received before ASCT - graft contamination with residual
      lymphoma cells is a major factor for disease relapse.

      Graft contamination: Contamination of autologous graft by residual lymphoma cells has been
      demonstrated using several techniques including flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry or
      molecular methods. Subsequent studies have suggested that contamination with lymphoma cells
      contributes to relapse after ASCT using mobilized stem cells. A better outcome in syngenic
      transplantation in NHL compared with ASCT suggested the potential clinical benefit of purging
      the stem cell graft used for SCT.

      Graft purging: The strategies implemented to remove lymphoma cells from harvested peripheral
      stem cells include complement-mediated use of lymphoma-directed antibodies, immunomagnetic
      beads, immunotoxins, or chemotherapeutic agents, as well as oncolytic viruses. Among them,
      CD34+ cell selection is an alternative and theoretically attractive strategy for tumor cell
      removal in lymphomas that do not express the CD34+ antigen. Various technologies have been
      used for positive selection of CD34+ cells, including immunomagnetic bead separation,
      avidin-biotin immunoaffinity systems, fluorescence-activated cell sorting, and
      magnetic-activated cell sorting (MACS). The feasibility and safety of CD34+ purified
      progenitor cell reinfusion after high-dose chemotherapy have also been demonstrated.

      Clinical use of purged autologous grafts: Despite the theoretical advantage of using a purged
      graft in the ASCT setting, the standard procedure for ASCT involves the use of non-selected
      grafts. Whether the use of ex vivo purged grafts with CD34+ cell selection translates into
      improved long-term treatment outcome remains controversial. Noteworthy, not a single
      randomized study has been reported so far directly comparing in a prospective manner purged
      and unpurged grafts in ASCT. Thus, a randomized prospective direct comparison between these
      two procedures is long awaited and an unmet clinical need with presumably immediate impact on
      daily practice of ASCT.

      Own experience with purged grafts: the investigator's institution has a long-standing
      experience with CD34+ cell selection applying the CliniMACS device (Miltenyi Biotec, Bergisch
      Gladbach, Germany). The investigator recently summarized the data in a retrospective analysis
      of advanced stage lymphoma patients comparing 31 patients with CD34+ cell selection versus 31
      patients without selection (including 32 MCL and 30 DLBCL patients). Remarkably, the
      investigator found that the 5-year OS for selected versus not selected ASCT patients was 87%
      and 53% (p=0.004), and the 5-year PFS was 62% and 38% (p=0.031), respectively. These
      retrospective data suggest that using selected autografts for ASCT in advanced stage MCL and
      DLBCL is associated with significantly longer OS and PFS without increased toxicity,
      infectious complications or impaired engraftment. Finally, the investigator propose that
      these data provide the rationale for initiating a prospective randomized study on the use of
      CD34+ cell selection of grafts used for ASCT in patients with advanced-stage aggressive
      lymphomas.
    
  