
    
      If you agree to participate in this study, you will be asked to undergo some screening tests
      or procedures to confirm that you are eligible. Many of these tests and procedures are likely
      to be part of regular cancer care and may be done even if it turns out that you do not take
      part in the research study. If you have had some of these tests or procedures recently, they
      may or may not have to be repeated. The screening will include the following: a medical
      history, physical examination, biopsy of your tumor, anal and groin exam, archival tumor
      tissue, CT or PET-CT, MRI, blood tests and a serum pregnancy test. If these tests show that
      you are eligible to participate in the research study, you will begin the study treatment. If
      you do not meet the eligibility criteria, you will not be able to participate in this
      research study.

      Proton Radiation will be delivered daily for 5-6 weeks, depending on the dose prescribed by
      your physician. Treatment is delivered (Monday-Friday) for 5 days (no weekends or holidays).
      Each treatment will require that you lie on a table for 25-30 minutes.

      You will receive radiation therapy as an outpatient at the Massachusetts General Hospital.

      You will start receiving chemotherapy within 5 days of starting radiation treatment. The day
      you start chemotherapy will be considered Day 1.

      You will receive Mitomycin-C on Days 1 and 29 of chemotherapy. Mitomycin-C will be delivered
      via IV infusion over a period of 10-30 minutes.

      You will receive 5-fluorouracil on Day 1 and 29 of chemotherapy. You will be fitted with an
      ambulatory infusion pump that will administer 5-FU via IV infusion continuously over a period
      of 96 hours. The infusion pump will be about the size of a paperback book that can fit into a
      front-pack or "fanny-pack" around your waist. This pump will be connected to your body. The
      nurses in the infusion room will start the pump and disconnect it after 4 days.

      At your 6 and 12 week follow up visits, a physical examination and the tests and procedures
      you receive will tell your study doctor whether your disease has gotten better, worse or
      stayed the same.

      If your cancer has gotten better, you will continue to be monitored at your follow up visits.

      If your cancer is suspected to have gotten worse, you will need to have a biopsy to confirm.
      If the biopsy is negative, you will need to come back for re-evaluation at 16 weeks (about 4
      months) after completing radiation therapy.

      If the biopsy confirms that your cancer has gotten worse, your doctor will recommend that you
      have surgery for the removal of your tumor.

      If your cancer has stayed the same, your doctor will recommend that you have additional
      procedures done to develop a plan for treatment.

      After you complete radiation therapy, you will be followed for up to 5 years.
    
  