
    
      Plaque accumulation on tooth and gingival surfaces is a causative factor for oral diseases
      such as demineralization, dental caries, gingivitis, and periodontitis. 1 Thus, the
      maintenance of an adequate level of plaque control by the individual through his or her daily
      oral hygiene is vital to prevent and control periodontal disease which can result in tooth
      mobility and tooth loss. 2 Tooth brushing and flossing have been the cornerstone of oral
      hygiene and health.2 However, the high incidence and prevalence of gum problems in both the
      developed and developing countries show these mechanical routines are not enough. 1 Studies
      demonstrate that poor oral hygiene is widespread with about 60% of plaque found on the
      surfaces of the teeth after brushing.3 Furthermore, many patients find it difficult to comply
      with this daily regimen of brushing and flossing. 2 This may be due to the lack of
      manipulative skills, lack of motivation and compliance. 2 According to an overview of the
      challenges in dental public health in Malaysia by Allan Kah, he stated that only 26% of
      15-19-year-old and only 5% of 35-44-year-olds have been reported to have healthy periodontal
      tissues. 4 Studies such as the one done by Deliargyris, showed that periodontal disease was
      associated with the enhanced systemic inflammatory response with various mediators. Thus, it
      may contribute to systemic diseases. For example, periodontal disease has been linked to
      atherosclerosis via an increased level of serum C-reactive protein, a marker for inflammation
      and a high-risk factor for coronary artery disease.5 Hence, there is a need to increase
      education and improve brushing technique. This can be done by improving oral hygiene products
      by incorporating a plaque disclosing dye in the toothpaste.1 The ability to see plaque while
      brushing will enhance patient's awareness and encourage them to be more thorough when
      performing oral hygiene. 1 Previous studies done by the Department of Orthodontics,
      University of Illinois have shown that using a toothpaste with a plaque indicating dye such
      as PlaqueHD® to disclose plaque while brushing resulted in more than four times as much
      plaque elimination between visits (51.3% reduction, p = 0.015) than participants using only
      the placebo toothpaste (8.3% reduction, p=0.189). 1 However, one of the limitations of the
      product used in that study is the high cost of the toothpaste and the difficulty in obtaining
      the toothpaste in South East Asia.Hence, the present study aims to assess the efficacy of a
      plaque disclosing toothpaste that is easily available and affordable which was developed with
      the Health Promotion Board of Singapore, named Shoplaq® in reducing dental plaque.
    
  