
    
      Over the recent years , breast cancer remains the most common cancer in women in the world .
      With nearly 107 Million new Cases diagnosed in 2012 (second most common cancer over all) .
      this represent about 12 % of all new cancer cases and 25 % of all cancers in women . By
      contrast the mortality rate has declined dramatically since the introduction of adjuvant
      systemic therapy & radiation therapy, which are now used extensively for their established
      benefit in local (radiotherapy ) ,survival without metastasis (chemotherapy) and overall
      survival of both of them . However , the optimal sequence of chemotherapy & radiotherapy
      remain controversial three sequence were investigated:

        1. Delivering all radiotherapy first .

        2. A " Sandwich " approach .

        3. Delivering all chemotherapy first . Observational studies have suggested that delaying
           initiation of chemotherapy increase the incidence of distant metastasis & delaying the
           initiation therapy more than 6 months after breast cancer diagnosis might increase risk
           of local regional recurrence . Concurrent chemoradiation therapy has an advantage of
           shortening the duration of therapy , allowing radiotherapy & chemotherapy to start
           temporally and potentially improving local control via radiation sensitizing effect of
           chemotherapy.The feasibility of concurrent radiotherapy with taxane, which constitute a
           standard treatment used as adjuvant therapy has been evaluated in stage II,III breast
           cancer. Taxane Promote stabilization of microtubules causing cell cycle arrest in G2/M
           junction and serve as radio sensitizing agents.In a prospective study using Paclitaxel &
           radiotherapy concurrently Paclitaxel given every 3 weeks for 4 cycles the authors
           concluded that Concurrent chemoradiation therapy improve local control with acceptable
           toxicity.
    
  