
    
      Bipolar disorder is one of the world's most disabling conditions, robbing sufferers of years
      of healthy functioning. The presence of bipolar disorder is not limited to any nation, race,
      age, gender, or socioeconomic status, and has a lifetime prevalence of 1% across all
      populations. While there do not appear to be disparities in who is at risk for bipolar
      disorder, there are marked disparities in who is likely to be diagnosed and treated. The
      average person with bipolar disorder waits ten years before receiving the correct diagnosis
      (National Depression and Manic-Depression Association, 2000). Once a diagnosis of bipolar
      disorder is made, there are equally marked disparities in treatment outcome.

      Also known as manic-depressive illness, bipolar disorder is a recurrent and chronic mental
      condition associated with substantial morbidity and mortality. The stigma associated with
      open recognition of this disorder decreases the likelihood of accurate diagnosis and
      treatment. Considering the impact of this disorder on the most vulnerable populations (youth,
      elderly, rural populations, and minorities), the challenge is to understand and reverse the
      current public health crisis. This crisis has created an enormous financial burden on the
      health, welfare, and disability systems. At the same time, it reduces the likelihood of
      economic and social productivity that can be achieved by potentially productive individuals.

      The primary objective of the study is to test an intervention to reduce health disparities
      related to bipolar disorder, a vastly more destructive and difficult to treat condition than
      previously realized. The outcomes of interest include accurate and timely diagnosis, adequacy
      of prescribed treatment, retention in treatment, suicidality, and a range of treatment
      benefits including health-related quality of life, employment, treatment satisfaction,
      medication adherence, utilization of lower levels of intervention (e.g., outpatients versus
      partial or inpatient care), and reduction of substance use, medical morbidity and mortality.
      Particular attention has been paid to the collection of service utilization data to track key
      health care and social services. Costs for medical and psychiatric treatment, medications,
      inpatient, rehabilitation, and emergency room services are being ascertained for cost
      assessment, and patients' mood functioning is being tracked to assess the overall
      effectiveness of the interventions. The study is also using state-of-the-art assessments of
      phenotypic clinical variables to develop clinically meaningful predictors of treatment
      response across the age spectrum and across diverse racial groups.

      To characterize more precisely the phenotypic complexity of this disorder, we have developed
      a spectrum model of psychiatric illness using a broader conceptualization of mood disorders
      and an integrated view of common comorbidities, anchored in the Mood and Anxiety Spectrum
      Assessments (Cassano et al. 1997; Cassano et al in press). This refined description of
      patient variability (or phenotypes) should lead to improved understanding of the variability
      in treatment outcomes among patients suffering from bipolar disorder and eventually to
      creating appropriate first-line treatments for patients who present with specific clinical
      phenotypes.

      Careful consideration of biological phenotypes, as represented in population
      pharmacokinetics, turns a second line of attack on the problem of tailoring treatments to
      patients' specific needs. A key correlate of treatment response that has never been examined
      in bipolar disorder is consistent and adequate medication exposure. Essential to
      understanding variability in treatment response is being able to distinguish true
      non-responders from those who never received adequate exposure to drug. Consistency of drug
      exposure can be determined using a combination of electronic monitoring of drug-taking and
      population pharmacokinetic analysis.
    
  