
    
      A speckle-contrast imaging camera uses a low-power laser to check brain activity. The imaging
      camera uses reflected red light to take a special kind of picture of the amount of blood
      flowing in your brain, and the amount of oxygen in your blood. This is the first time this
      device has been used in brain surgery.

      While "asleep" under anesthesia during an already scheduled surgery, the neurosurgeon will
      position the microscope to take pictures of the surgery area. The pictures will be taken
      after the brain is exposed, but before the rest of the surgery takes place. Researchers will
      shine the red light onto the brain during your surgery. The light will then be seen by the
      camera.

      "Cortical mapping" will done, which is an established procedure used to detect important
      areas of the brain. Usually, a nerve in the wrist is stimulated with a very small shock of
      electricity and a response is detected in the brain by an electrode placed on the surface.
      The electrical shock administered is not dangerous or painful. It will be given while
      "asleep." For the experimental procedure used in this study, the same stimulation will be
      used, but the impulse detection will be performed using the speckle-contrast imaging camera.
      Researchers hope to see if the change in blood flow gives the same information as if the
      electrode was placed on the brain and used to detect the electricity. Doing both procedures
      is expected to take no more than 20 minutes. During this time, continual monitoring done by
      the surgeon and operating room staff.

      Your participation in this study will end when the surgery is finished.

      The results of this study will not be used by the surgeon during your surgery or any future
      treatments. These measurements are being done for research only and will not be used by the
      surgeon to make any decisions about your surgery.

      This is an investigational study. This device is investigational and has not been approved by
      the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), but it has been declared safe by the National
      Institutes of Health. Up to 10 patients will take part in the study. All will be enrolled at
      M. D. Anderson.
    
  