
    
      -  Colonoscopy is the current standard method for diagnosing colon cancer and polyps, and
           also can be used for therapeutic interventions such as polypectomy. Diagnostic accuracy
           and therapeutic safety of the procedure depends on the quality of the colonic cleansing.
           Inadequate bowel preparation may result in missed precancerous lesions, longer
           colonoscopy time, lower cecal intubation rates and increased electrocautery risks. It
           also causes further costs because the colonoscopy has to be re-scheduled or alternative
           examinations have to be planned.

        -  Although polyethylene glycol (PEG) and sodium phosphate (NaP) are the main cleansing
           solutions in current practice, they tend to be poorly tolerated. The need to intake a
           large volume of fluid and unpleasant, salty taste of PEG reduce patient compliance. To
           overcome these limitations, split-dose administration of PEG has been shown effective
           and more patient-friendly. Unfortunately, PEG solutions have not been available in some
           countries due to marketing problems, as in Turkey. The potential risks for clinically
           significant alterations in serum electrolyte levels and hemodynamic instability in
           patients with renal failure, congestive heart failure, uncontrolled hypertension and
           ascites limits the usage of NaP. Moreover, European Society of Gastrointestinal
           Endoscopy (ESGE) suggests that oral NaP can only be advised in selected cases such as
           patients unable to tolerate other agents or only individuals to be at low risk of
           NaP-related side-effects. Unfortunately, 20% of patients who consumed PEG or NaP did not
           have satisfactory bowel cleansing. Because of the limitations of NaP and unavailability
           of PEG solutions, senna is still the main colonoscopy preparation in some countries..

        -  The ideal colonoscopy preparation would not only reliably empty the colon, but also not
           cause any patient discomfort. However, none of the preparations currently meet all of
           these criteria. Thus, numerous clinical trials have assessed prokinetic and spasmolytic
           agents, ascorbic acid, olive oil, orange and pineapple juice to attempt to improve the
           effectiveness and tolerance of colonoscopic preparation regimens. Among these
           preparations, no additive effect was demonstrated for prokinetic and spasmolytic agents,
           while authors determined more patient satisfaction and colon cleansing for the rest.

        -  Senna alkaloids have a direct effect on intestinal mucosa, increasing the colonic
           motility, enhancing colonic transit, and inhibiting water and electrolyte secretion.
           Although senna were used effectively alone in the past, they have been replaced by PEG
           and NaP solutions. Senna have a good-taste and are well-tolerated, inexpensive and have
           fewer adverse effects, yet, their efficacy is controversial.

        -  Apricot (Prunus armeniaca L.) has an important place in human nutrition and can be used
           as fresh or dried. Also, traditionally dried apricots have been used for many years in
           Mediterranean countries as a remedy for constipation because of their high-fiber content
           . Furthermore, apricots contain sorbitol (4,6g/100g) which has a laxative effect and
           used for treating constipation in the elderly.

        -  Although these fruits are already in our life, to investigators knowledge, there is no
           study examining the effects of apricot juice for precolonoscopic preparation. Therefore,
           the investigators conducted this study to establish whether adding stewed apricot juice
           to senna promotes bowel cleansing as well as patient comfort.
    
  