
    
      Clinical responses to dopamine (DA) antagonists from patients with developmental stuttering
      suggest that the pathophysiology of this disorder may involve an abnormality of central DA
      systems. This hypothesis has never been tested using methods that measure both pre- and
      postsynaptic dopaminergic mechanisms within the CNS. A new PET technique permits evaluation
      of these mechanisms in human subjects. 11C raclopride, a relatively selective D2 receptor
      antagonist, is used to estimate postsynaptic DA receptor binding potential following
      establishment of equilibrium conditions. A low dose bolus of amphetamine is then used to
      release DA from the presynaptic neuron and displace the ligand from postsynaptic binding
      sites, in order to estimate the size of the releasable presynaptic DA pool. We propose to use
      this technique in individuals with developmental stuttering and control subjects to test the
      hypothesis that stuttering is due to dopaminergic hyperactivity within the CNS. The cause of
      this hyperactivity is hypothesized to be due to an increase in either the postsynaptic
      binding potential or the size of the releasable presynaptic dopamine vesicular pool (in which
      case postsynaptic receptors may be down regulated). Our studies should help conjoin and
      modify this pathophysiological model. If low dose amphetamine can be used to demonstrate a
      difference between people who stutter and controls, a second study will be conducted to see
      if stuttering behavior per se has a measurable effect on DA release that differs from the
      effect of similar speech tasks in control subjects. Lastly, in a third study, DA
      releasability will be measured in those recovered from stuttering and those not affected by
      stuttering but are part of families who have many members that stutter. The culmination of
      these studies is to attempt isolation of a DA marker that can be used as a phenotyping tool
      in genetic studies of stuttering.
    
  