
    
      The primary goal of the study is to assess the safety and efficacy of middle meningeal artery
      embolization in treating patients presenting with subdural haematoma. Previous studies and
      trial in other countries have shown promising results. This study aims to serve as the pilot
      clinical study of the procedure in Hong Kong and setting the ground work for a future
      multi-centre randomised trial.

      Patients presenting with subdural haematoma will be assessed clinically and radiologically.
      Patients' demographic information, clinical information, and past medical history will be
      recorded for the purpose of the study. Symptomatic patients will undergo haematoma removal
      either by burr-hole drainage or craniotomy. They will undergo a series of CT-scans before and
      after treatment to assess the characteristics of the haematoma (size, side, site, composition
      of the haematoma, etc). Patients will then be divided into the embolization group and the
      control group. Patients with residual or recurrent haematoma (higher than 10mm thickness of
      haematoma at any dimension) following prior surgical evacuation of haematoma will be admitted
      to the Embolization Group and undergo embolization of MMA. Serial CT scans will be taken at
      times of presentation of the residual or recurrent haematoma, 1-day, 1-week, 1-month,
      3-month, and 6-month following embolization. Size of haematoma will be measured for
      comparison to the Control Group. Clinical examinations will be done at the same setting. For
      the control group, after the initial treatment of haematoma removal, they will be monitored
      clinically for signs of neurological deficits, presentation of symptoms. They remain in
      control group should they refuse entering the MMA embolization group. They will have the same
      clinical and radiological follow-up as the embolization group.

      MMA embolization will be performed with a liquid embolization agent with local anaesthesia.
      Selective angiography will be performed before embolization to select MMA branch targets and
      detect potentially dangerous collateral vessels. If no dangerous collaterals are found, MMA
      branches supplying to the dura of convexity will be targeted and embolized according to
      findings of the selective angiography using a liquid embolization agent. If dangerous
      collaterals are identified, the microcatheter will be advanced more distally or the
      collaterals will be coiled prior to embolization. Procedure will be concluded once the flow
      stasis of MMA is confirmed. Embolization is considered successful if all MMA targets are
      embolized without procedural complications.

      Patients with existing use of antiplatelet or anticoagulation medication will not undergo
      medication reversal for the embolization procedure.

      Patients will be discharged following treatment based on the results of the post-operative
      assessments.
    
  