
    
      The design was a multi-site 8-month randomized, controlled clinical trial with the patient as
      the unit of randomization. The Institutional Review Board at the Medical University of South
      Carolina approved the study. The setting included 9 pharmacies within a medium-sized grocery
      store chain in South Carolina. The 9 pharmacies were selected to ensure an adequate sample
      size and sufficient representation by patients with respect to geographic region (urban,
      suburban, and rural), race/ethnicity, and socioeconomic background. Individual pharmacy staff
      were informed by their district manager (P.P.) that they were required to participate in the
      project. Beginning January 16, 2006 and continuing through August 29, 2006, all patients who
      were at least 7 days overdue for a qualified prescription were identified on a weekly basis
      (i.e. every Monday morning) using the centralized computer database. Patients identified as
      being overdue for a qualified medication were assigned a unique study identification number
      and randomized using a simple randomization technique operationalized within a Microsoft®
      Access® database. The randomization was based on a permuted block design with a block size of
      3, with each patient thus having a one-third chance of being placed in any one of the 3
      treatment arms.After eligible patients were identified and randomized each week, there were 3
      different protocols followed, depending on the assigned treatment arm. The 3 treatment arms
      included 1) pharmacist contact with the patient via telephone, 2) pharmacist contact with the
      prescribing physician via facsimile, and 3) usual care.There were a total of 3,048 patients
      into arms 1 (n=1018), 2 (n=1016), and 3 (n= 1014). The study was designed to detect
      relatively small differences in the outcomes of interest. Baseline comparisons across
      treatment arms in the characteristics of patients and medications were made using t-tests and
      chi-square tests, as appropriate. For the analyses of study outcomes, an intent-to-treat
      approach was used. Statistical models were constructed to compare outcomes among the 3
      treatment arms, after first examining whether significant interaction between treatment arm
      and medication disease classification was present. For the analyses of secondary outcomes,
      all of which were binary in nature, multivariable logistic regression models were used, with
      treatment arm as the key independent variable of interest, adjusting for the same covariates
      used in the primary analyses.
    
  