
    
      Ribociclib (formerly LEE011) is an orally bioavailable, highly selective small molecule
      inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6 (CDK4/6). Ribociclib has been approved by the
      United States Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA) and the European Commission as an
      initial endocrine-based therapy for the treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone
      receptor (HR)-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative advanced or
      metastatic breast cancer in combination with an aromatase inhibitor based on a randomized,
      double-blind, placebo-controlled, international clinical trial (MONALEESA-2). Additional
      marketing authorizations are under review by health authorities. Additional phase III
      clinical trials for the treatment of hormone receptor positive (HR+) breast cancer patients,
      as well as several other phase I or II clinical studies are being conducted.

      Letrozole is a highly potent, orally active non-steroidal competitive inhibitor of the
      aromatase enzyme system. It effectively inhibits the conversion of androgens to estrogens
      both in vitro and in vivo. It is indicated both as first-line treatment of postmenopausal
      women with hormone receptor positive or hormone receptor unknown locally advanced or
      metastatic breast cancer as well as for the treatment of advanced breast cancer in
      postmenopausal women with disease progression following antiestrogen therapy.

      Based on encouraging results in women with advanced hormone-receptor-positive breast cancer,
      a clinical trial for women with recurrent low-grade serous carcinoma is warranted.
      Furthermore, such a trial would have great appeal to women with recurrent low-grade serous
      carcinoma, a cohort with limited therapeutic options. Although low-grade serous carcinoma is
      a rather uncommon histologic subtype, prolonged overall survival results in a relatively high
      prevalence.
    
  