
    
      A planned sample size of 12 will be recruited into the study. This study will require one
      initial screening visit, one pre-study visit, and 1 study visit. The study will take 1-2
      weeks per subject to complete.

      The initial screening visit will provide subject informed consent document and determine
      subject eligibility through height and weight measurements, vital signs, blood glucose test
      (finger prick), and completion of a survey related to general eating, health, and exercise
      habits.

      If willing and eligible to participate, a 3-day food record (2 weekdays and 1 weekend day)
      will be instructed at initial screening visit and collected at a pre-study visit to assess
      subjects' baseline dietary intake pattern. After reviewing baseline food records, subjects
      will be instructed to avoid any berry products throughout the study and follow a strictly
      limited polyphenolic diet for 3 days prior to the study visit, while maintaining their usual
      diet pattern and physical activity. Prior to 10-hr study visit, a dinner meal will be
      provided the day before the study visit to control the second meal effect from the food and
      beverage intake of the night before the study visit.

      Subject will arrive at the study visit fasted for at least 10 hours, well hydrated and
      rested. Each study visit will require blood draws throughout the visit. After pre-study
      procedures (height, weight, waist circumferences, vital sign, and blood glucose measurements)
      , a registered nurse will place a catheter in subject's arm for the purpose of multiple blood
      sample collections and take the initial blood draw at fasting. Thereafter, blood sample
      collection will occur every 1 hour for the next 10 hours. During the 10-hr study visit,
      subject will drink one of 3 identical placebo drinks at fasting (right after fasting blood
      draw), 2nd placebo drink with the breakfast meal (2 hrs after fasting blood draw) and the 3rd
      placebo drink at 2 hours after the breakfast meal (4 hrs after fasting blood draw).

      Premenopausal female subjects will be studied during the follicular phase of their menstrual
      cycle because food intake tends to be more stable during the follicular phase (days 1-13)
      than during the luteal phase (days 14-28) when the rise in progesterone levels decrease
      satiety often resulting in increased intake.
    
  