
    
      It is a randomized controlled trial. HIV-infected adults were recruited from a
      community-based Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) for HIV patient services.They were
      randomized into exercise group or control group by drawing lots which contained equal number
      of orange balls (exercise) and white balls (control)

      The participants in exercise group performed an 8-week, 2 times/week supervised exercise
      program in the community day center of the recruiting NGO. Exercise sessions were organized
      in a group of 2 to 3 participants. The exercises were supervised by a registered
      physiotherapist to ensure exercise safety and quality. Exercise intensity was moderate. We
      monitored the heart rate of participants during exercise and maintained around 50% to 70% of
      maximum heart rate. Blood pressure and oxygen saturation were also checked for safety
      purposes. The mode of exercise was combined aerobic and resistance training. It involved
      upper and lower limbs cycling, treadmill walking, multi-gym strengthening, stepper exercise,
      dumb bell and squatting exercise. The duration for each exercise session was around 45
      minutes. Duration and intensity of exercises were adjusted depending on the tolerance and
      physical capacity of each participant. In the control group, participants were not given any
      supervised exercises. They were advised to continue their routine daily activities and self
      exercises. Control group participants were allowed to join into the same training program
      after the research had finished.

      Outcomes were measured for both groups at baseline and after 8 weeks in the same community
      day center. A research assistant who was blinded for the participants grouping was
      responsible for data collection. Physical health parameters included grip strength, 30
      seconds chair stand and 6 minutes-walk test. Health related quality of life was measured by
      Short Form-36 questionnaire (SF-36). Subjective improvement was taken in form of Likert
      scale, from -100% to +100% with 10% interval in each possible response.

      At the end of the program, all participants from exercise group were interviewed individually
      by principle investigator to allow feedbacks.
    
  