
    
      This study will investigate if non-ischemic heart preservation (NIHP) with the XVIVO heart
      preservation devices could improve clinical outcome of patients receiving hearts after use of
      the technology compared to after use of standard cold ischemic preservation. This will be
      investigated in a European multicentre randomized controlled clinical trial. For technical
      reasons, blinding to the involved clinical personnel is not possible, however, biopsies will
      be blinded to study pathologists. The trial will include 202 recipients that have been
      randomized through their heart donor. The primary outcome of the study is a clinically
      relevant composite including graft survival, primary graft dysfunction, rejection and use of
      circulatory mechanical support, within 30 days and also including Cardiac Allograft
      Vasculopathy within 12 months. As secondary outcomes, molecular markers related to cardiac
      injury CKMB, ProBNP and TNI will be investigated as well as markers of the inflammatory
      response. Safety aspects such as effect on other organs and machine defects will also be
      monitored. The study population is adults, listed for heart transplantation and donors
      accepted as heart donors according to standard hospital procedures. Specific recipient
      exclusion criteria related to pre-transplant ECMO support, patients undergoing pre-transplant
      desensitization protocol, patients with Grown-Up Congenital Heart Disease, patients with
      severe kidney or liver dysfunction, patients with septicaemia, and patients diagnosed with
      Systemic Lupus Erythematous, sarcoidosis or amyloidosis are excluded. Cardiac death donors
      and donors with previous sternotomy are excluded. The study hypothesis is that NIHP better
      preserves the endothelium and myocyte function of the heart resulting in improved short- and
      medium-term recipient outcome, without inducing any new significant risks to the retrieved
      heart or the recipient. This is believed to be accomplished through continuous oxygenation of
      the heart via perfusion of the coronary arteries using an optimized preservation solution,
      mimicking the normal environment for the endothelium.
    
  