
    
      Participants will be randomized to receive the intervention or recollection (control) arm.
      They will be randomized by a random-number generator and will be assigned a condition after
      receiving baseline questionnaires. The RA/blinded assessor will be blind to the study
      condition. The interventionist and subjects will not be blind to the study condition.

      Baseline assessments: After consent and eligibility rule outs, subjects will receive baseline
      questionnaires to assess hopelessness (BHS46), suicidality (CHRT47), depression (QIDS-SR48),
      and positive states (LOT-R,43 GQ-6,44 PANAS45). Then, subjects will be randomized via random
      number generator to receive the control or intervention condition.

      After completing baseline questionnaires and receiving randomization, subjects in both groups
      will have a 20 minute initial in-hospital session ("week #1"), within a week of anticipated
      discharge, in which the interventionist will provide a treatment manual specific to their
      condition, review the rationale for the initial exercise, and assign the exercise. The next
      day, the exercise will be reviewed and an exercise assigned for the next week. Immediately
      after completing the exercise, subjects will rate (on a Likert scale of 1-5) ease of exercise
      completion, overall utility, and initial impact on hopelessness/optimism, to assess immediate
      effects.

      After discharge from the hospital, subjects will have five 20 minute weekly phone sessions
      ("weeks #2-6") with a different exercise used each week (assigned in the same order to all
      subjects). The phone sessions will include: (a) review of the prior week's exercise
      (including subject ratings of ease and impact as in week #1), (b) discussion of the rationale
      and assignment of the next week's exercise via a guided review of the study manual, and (c)
      completion of the Clinical Status questions and the Clinical Global Improvement scale (CGI)
      to monitor symptoms and improvement. Sessions will be audiotaped and random sessions reviewed
      by our PP consultant to ensure fidelity to the intervention (and that other techniques, e.g.,
      Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, are not used).

      Positive psychology (intervention condition)

      Exercises. These were selected based on their superior performance in our pre-pilot study and
      others' work:

        -  Gratitude for positive events: Subjects recall three events, small or large, in the
           preceding week that were associated with satisfaction, happiness, pride, or other
           positive states.

        -  Gratitude letter: Subjects write a letter of gratitude thanking a person for an act of
           kindness; subject may, at their discretion, share the letter with the other person.

        -  Performing acts of kindness: Subjects are instructed to complete three acts of kindness
           in one day. The acts can be small or large, planned or spontaneous, but must be
           expressly completed to be kind to another.

        -  Using personal strengths: Subjects undergo a brief assessment of personal strengths,
           then find a new way to use that strength in the next 24 hours.

        -  Enjoyable and meaningful activities: Subjects complete a series of self-selected
           activities that vary between those that bring immediate boosts in mood and those that
           are more deeply meaningful.

        -  Repetition of an exercise previously done.

      Recollection (control condition) The recollection condition was selected because it has been
      used in a prior study by our team of a phone-based positive psychology intervention and it
      was found to be feasible and well-accepted. Each week, subjects will record recent life
      events in a manual without describing emotions associated with the events. The nature,
      setting, or type of events to be recorded will differ each week to provide variety and
      maintain subjects' interest. This will be described as an intervention that may assist with
      organization and hone recall of important life events. Also, as an attentional control, it
      has a parallel structure to the experimental arm with a treatment manual, weekly exercises,
      and weekly calls to review exercises.

      Follow-up 6 and 12 week phone call. After completion of the intervention (6 weeks), and then
      at 12 weeks, a blinded study research assistant (RA) will call subjects at 6 and 12 weeks to
      repeat measures of hopelessness (BHS), suicidality (CHRT), depression (QIDS-SR) and positive
      states (e.g., GQ-6, PANAS, LOT-R). Subjects will also be asked to rate their overall
      satisfaction with the treatment they received for their cardiac condition (outside of this
      study) over the last 6 and 12 weeks on a scale of 1 (excellent) to 5 (poor). We will record
      specific times that subjects would prefer to be called (and not to be called) for future
      follow-ups, to reduce intrusion on subjects' lives. We will also send a postcard to subjects
      reminding them of their upcoming study phone call. The blinded assessor will make 2 follow-up
      phone calls (at 6 and 12 weeks) to gather information about outcomes. If subjects would
      rather complete the questions in written form rather than over the phone, we will send them a
      written packet at the time of each follow-up.
    
  