
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is an increasing health concern worldwide, with an estimated
      prevalence of 11% in the Norwegian population. Progression of CKD and development of
      end-stage kidney disease is closely related to the extent and progression of renal fibrosis.
      Traditionally the assessment of renal fibrosis is made by renal biopsy, which in addition to
      diagnostics also evaluates the degree of renal fibrosis.

      However, the evaluation of fibrosis from a renal biopsy is limited by the risk of
      complications. Due to its invasive nature, clinicians often reserve a biopsy for situations
      where the anticipated yield will have therapeutic value. This means the fibrotic burden is
      often not assessed, and information on scar burden and kidney-prognosis is lost. Furthermore,
      we know that fibrosis may be unequally distributed throughout the kidney. Since a biopsy only
      samples a small portion of kidney tissue, it is inherently susceptible to sampling bias.

      In contrast, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) techniques can assess whole organ fibrotic
      burden. Since it is a non-invasive procedure, MRI can evaluate renal fibrosis in patients not
      eligible for renal biopsy. Moreover, it can be performed at several time-points for temporal
      renal fibrosis assessments. Recent developments in MRI techniques have made it possible to
      assess renal fibrosis with MRI. These techniques rely on the different biological properties
      of fibrotic and non-fibrotic tissues, including reduced microcirculation, restriction of
      water motion and reduced oxygenation. From several MRI biomarkers currently available, five
      show particular promise in quantifying degree of renal fibrosis: Diffusion weighted MRI,
      T1-mapping and T2-mapping, T1-rho and arterial-spin labelling. A recently developed MRI-patch
      which combines these five techniques, makes it possible to perform a MRI-scan with
      simultaneous measurements whilst not prolonging examination time for the patient. We
      hypothesize that combining these MRI-techniques will give additional information, and thus
      provide a better correlation to histological-assessed fibrosis than any technique alone.

      Markers of renal ageing may also predict development of renal fibrosis as accelerated renal
      ageing trough p16INK4a pathway activation, leading to cellular senescence, is involved in the
      development of renal fibrosis in CKD. Senescent cells are characterized by irreversible
      growth arrest and express a pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic senescent-associated secretory
      phenotype (SASP). This biochemical foot print can be detected by immunohistochemistry. We aim
      to assess the correlation between degree of renal fibrosis and markers of renal ageing, as
      well as to what extent decline in kidney function can be predicted by change in markers of
      renal ageing.

      This study will be one of the first to evaluate correlation between multiparametric MRI and
      morphometric estimates of renal fibrosis. We will study whether activation of pathways
      involved in renal ageing are associated with progressive renal fibrosis and deterioration of
      renal function. Finally, we will evaluate the utility of temporal measurements of renal
      fibrosis for prediction of renal function deterioration with a non-invasive method.
    
  