
    
      Approximately 3% to 4% of the U.S. adult population has undiagnosed diabetes and the
      prevalence is likely to be substantially higher among people with risk factors for diabetes.
      Of note, many patients at the time of diagnosis of diabetes already have diabetic
      complications. This indicates that there is a period of "asymptomatic" diabetes during which
      hyperglycemia and other risk factors are present and complications are developing. This
      substantial delay in clinical diagnosis of diabetes involves a period of about 10-12 years
      that elapses between onset of diabetes and its diagnosis. Early diagnosis of diabetes, with
      treatment aiming at strict control of blood glucose levels, is important in preventing or
      mitigating its clinical complications and improving health outcomes.

      Oral findings may offer an unrealized opportunity for the identification of affected
      individuals unaware of their condition. Previous research suggests that oral healthcare
      professionals have the opportunity to identify unrecognized diabetes and pre-diabetes in
      dental patients and refer them to a physician for further evaluation and care.

      Based on these findings, efforts to identify dental patients' risk of having undiagnosed
      pre-diabetes or diabetes, using a new diagnostic blood test as the outcome (HPLC HbA1c),
      continue. In addition, a subgroup of study subjects identified as potentially pre-diabetic or
      diabetic are randomly assigned to either a group 1/basic-standard intervention arm or to a
      group 2/enhanced intervention arm. The investigators seek to determine if a
      post-identification intervention leads to a greater likelihood of study participants
      identified as potentially pre-diabetic or diabetic visiting their physician regarding their
      blood test results and to improved health outcomes. Results of this pilot study have the
      potential to set in motion far ranging, changes in the practice of dentistry, leading to the
      advancement of a new paradigm in dental practice that calls for the adoption of a more
      holistic approach to patient care.
    
  