
    
      Investigators will randomly assign infants lying on flat (zero degree) beds to be cared for
      either in a supine FM or a supine rFL head position throughout the first 168 HOL.
      Investigators will mount a sign on the incubator indicating the assigned head position to be
      maintained during the first 168 HOL. The goal is to keep the neonates' heads in their
      assigned positions throughout the first 168 HOL unless a medical indication required a change
      in position. The left flat lateral head position will be the back-up position whenever the
      medical conditions of the study neonates preclude maintaining the assigned head positions.
      The bedside nurse will check the correctness of the infants' head positions every 4 hours by
      using the built-in spirit (bubble) level of the open-bed incubators and an L-shaped ruler.
      Investigators are going to use an elbow connector of HUDSON RCI circuit (adult circuit) in a
      case SENSORMEDICS will be required for neonates in FM group. Investigators will watch and
      record pressure ulcers or technical difficulties arising from using high-frequency
      ventilation (HFV) in the infants in FM position. After their first 168 HOL, the study infants
      will be given routine nursing care provided in their NICU, including a change in head
      position every 6-12 hours or as needed on a slightly elevated bed. For obvious reasons, the
      medical team will be unmasked to the assigned head position. It will be left for the
      physician discretion for controversial/diversity issue (s) in neonatal care but it will be
      recorded.

      Timing of HUS examinations

        1. All study neonates will have two screening head ultrasounds (HUS) as follows:

             1. Within first 12 HOL.

             2. At about 168 HOL.

        2. Otherwise, investigators will carry HUS according to established IVH diagnosis
           guidelines:

             1. As early as a clinical suspicion of IVH is raised.

             2. When IVH is detected, then a follow up HUS is repeated within 5-7 days later.

      Diagnosis of IVH:

      Ultrasound technicians or physicians who have been trained to perform HUS will perform a
      standard set of HUS views through the anterior fontanel with a high-quality modern real-time
      portable ultrasound machine with appropriate transducers. They will capture at least six
      coronal and five sagittal planes. Investigators will send a similar digital format copy of
      these images and earlier images (if any) to the three study pediatric radiologists who will
      be blinded to the head position assignments. They independently will report the absence or
      presence, lateralization (right, left or bilateral), extension, and grade of IVH according to
      Papile's grading criteria. They will send their reports to the principal investigator via
      email. If their reports are inconsistent, then diagnosis and grading of IVH will be based on
      the majority or the consensus among them if majority cannot be reached.

      Analysis strategy for withdrawal, drop outs, and protocol violations as both of the following
      when appropriate:

        1. Intention to treat analysis.

        2. Per protocol analysis: Including only neonates who will have normal first 12 hours of
           life HUS, complete the study or develop IVH during the study period, and have their
           heads kept in the assigned head positions throughout study period (first 168 HOL)or
           until time of IVH diagnosis.
    
  