
    
      The vaccine being tested in this study is Takeda's Tetravalent Dengue Vaccine Candidate
      (TDV). TDV is being tested to protect people against dengue fever and to look at long-term
      safety results. This study will look at the success rate of TDV in preventing dengue fever
      (vaccine efficacy) and long-term side effects of the vaccine.

      The study will be conducted in 5 parts. Part 1 will evaluate vaccine efficacy (VE) and will
      last a minimum of 15 months. Part 2 will be for an additional 6 months to evaluate VE. Part 3
      will evaluate long-term safety by following participants for side effects and will last an
      additional 3 years. Part 4 will evaluate safety for 13 months post-booster vaccination. Part
      5 will be the long-term safety follow-up for 1 year after completion of Part 4. Participants
      may be enrolled into a dry-run to commence and test febrile surveillance methodology; this
      dry-run part may be up to 10 months prior to receiving study injection, however, will not be
      applicable to all trials sites or participants.

      Approximately 20,100 participants will be enrolled into the study and randomly assigned (by
      chance) to one of the two treatment groups-which will remain undisclosed to the participants
      and study doctors during the study (unless there is an urgent medical need):

        -  TDV 0.5 mL subcutaneous injection

        -  Placebo (dummy inactive subcutaneous injection) - this is a solution that looks like the
           study drug but has no active ingredient

      All participants will receive a single injection of TDV or placebo on Day 1, Day 90.
      Participation in a booster phase will be offered to approximately 10,500 participants to
      receive (TDV or placebo) on Day 1b (Day 1 in booster phase). A subset of participants will be
      asked to record any local symptoms at the injection site (Pain, Erythema and Swelling) in a
      diary card for 7 days after each injection. The same subset of participants will also be
      asked to record any systemic symptoms (child <6 years: fever, irritability/fussiness,
      drowsiness, loss of appetite and child ≥6 years: fever, headache, asthenia, malaise and
      myalgia) in a diary card for 14 days after each injection.

      This multi-center trial will be conducted worldwide. The overall time to participate in this
      study is approximately 7 years excluding the dry-run. Participants will make multiple visits
      to the clinic and will be contacted at least every week for the entire study duration.
    
  