
    
      RATIONALE. Although soy protein has approved health claims in Canada and the US and is
      recognized by major cardiovascular clinical practice guidelines for the reduction of
      cholesterol and risk of coronary heart disease (CHD), these claims are based almost
      exclusively on evidence from foods containing isolated soy protein (ISP). The role of other
      non-ISP food sources of soy protein (e.g Tofu, tempeh, edamame) in these effects is unclear.
      The role of food form and matrix (e.g soy beverage versus meat analogue) on the effects of
      ISP is also unclear. As national dietary guidelines and clinical practice guidelines for
      nutrition therapy shift from a focus on single nutrients to a focus on foods and dietary
      patterns, it is important to understand whether non-ISP food sources of soy protein and ISP
      food sources with different food matrices produce the same reductions in LDL-cholesterol and
      CHD risk. We are not aware of any systematic reviews and meta-analyses of randomized
      controlled trials that have addressed this important question.

      OBJECTIVES. To conduct a systematic review of the effect of soy protein with prespecified
      analyses by food source on established lipid targets in individuals with and without
      dyslipidemia and assess the certainty of the evidence using the Grading of Recommendations
      Assessment Development and Evaluation (GRADE) system. A sub-objective is to conduct a
      targeted systematic review and meta-analysis of the effect of exclusively ISP on established
      lipid targets in individuals with and without dyslipidemia for use in the development of
      Health Claims submissions in Australia and New Zealand by co-investigator, Dr. Alan Barclay.

      DESIGN. The systematic review and meta-analyses will be conducted according to the Cochrane
      Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions and reported according to the Preferred
      Reporting items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA).

      DATA SOURCES. Medline, Embase, and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
      (Clinical Trials; CENTRAL) will be searched using appropriate search terms supplemented by
      manual searches of references of included studies.

      STUDY SELECTION. We will include randomized controlled trials of ≥3-weeks (based on the FDA
      minimum follow-up requirement) assessing the effect of soy protein food sources compared with
      a suitable non-soy-containing control on lipids.

      DATA EXTRACTION. Two or more investigators will independently extract relevant data. Authors
      will be contacted for additional information and any missing data will be computed/imputed
      using standard formulae.

      RISK OF BIAS. Two or more investigators will independently assess risk of bias using the
      Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool.

      OUTCOMES. The primary outcome will be LDL-C and secondary outcomes will be other established
      therapeutic lipid targets: HDL-C, TG, non-HDL-D and apo B.

      DATA SYNTHESIS. Data will be pooled using the Generic Inverse Variance method with
      prespecified analyses by food source. Separate pooled analyses will be conducted for ISP to
      meet the subobjective of assessing the effect of ISP. Random effects models will be used with
      paired analyses applied to crossover designs. Heterogeneity will be assessed (Cochran Q
      statistic) and quantified (I2 statistic). Sources of heterogeneity will be explored by
      sensitivity analyses and a priori subgroup analyses (dose, comparator, follow-up, baseline
      levels, design, body weight change, saturated fat intake, and risk of bias). Meta-regression
      will assess the significance of subgroup analyses. Linear and nonlinear dose-response
      analyses will be assessed by generalized least squares trend (GLST) estimation models and
      spline curve modelling (MKSPLINE procedure), respectively. Publication bias will be assessed
      by inspection of funnel plots and the Egger and Begg tests. Adjustment for evidence of funnel
      plot asymmetry or small study effects will be conducted by the Duval and Tweedie
      trim-and-fill method.

      GRADE ASSESSMENT. To assess the certainty of the evidence, we will use the GRADE system, an
      evidence-based grading system adopted by >100 organizations
      (http://www.gradeworkinggroup.org/). It grades the evidence as high, moderate, low or very
      low quality based on the study design and a series of downgrades (risk of bias, imprecision,
      inconsistency, indirectness, publication bias) and upgrades (large magnitude of the effect,
      dose-response gradient, and attenuation by confounding). We will follow the GRADE handbook
      (https://gdt.gradepro.org/app/handbook/handbook.html) and use the GRADEpro GDT (gradepro.org)
      software.

      KNOWLEDGE TRANSLATION PLAN. We will follow the Ottawa model of Research for knowledge
      translation. The results will be disseminated through interactive presentations at local,
      national, and international scientific meetings and publication in high impact journals.
      Target audiences will include public health and clinical communities with an interest in
      nutrition and cardiovascular disease. Feedback will be incorporated and used to improve
      public health messages and key areas for future research will be defined. The PIs will
      network among opinion leaders to increase awareness and participate directly in the
      development of future guidelines.

      SIGNIFICANCE. The proposed project will reinforce the role of the all soy protein food
      sources (not just ISP-containing food sources) for cholesterol and CHD risk reduction,
      strengthening the evidence-base for health claims and guidelines development in the U.S.,
      Canada, Europe, and beyond and improving health outcomes, by educating healthcare providers
      and patients, stimulating industry innovation, and guiding future research design.
    
  