
    
      Using standard surgical procedures, the surgeon will proceed with the planned laparoscopic
      surgery. All procedures will be done by straight laparoscopic technique according to standard
      of care. At the completion of the procedure, and under laparoscopic control, patients will
      have a TAP block placed by the attending surgeon. The clinical research nurse involved in the
      research will prep the solution to be injected and the surgeon will be blinded as to whether
      the patient will be receiving normal saline or Marcaine in the TAP blocks. The block will be
      administered between the costal margin and iliac crest in the anterior axillary line. A Braun
      Stimuplex A insulated needle (80 mm 21 gauge) with 0.5 mL/kg solution (max of 30 ml) is
      passed through the skin, and then continued until two distinct "pops" are felt, which
      indicates the needle piercing each of the two fascial layers. The needle is then deemed to be
      in the inter-muscular plane between internal oblique and transversus abdominis muscles
      respectively, to target the spinal nerves in this plane. The laparoscope will be visualizing
      for the needle tip to ensure that it does not penetrate the peritoneum or inject
      pre-peritoneally. The local anesthetic is infiltrated in two separate injections into the
      same plane on each side. If a sub-peritoneal bleb is seen to be raised by the laparoscope,
      then the needle will be withdrawn slightly. Two thirds of the solution is injected, and the
      needle is withdrawn 5 mm and the remaining solution is injected. If injecting in the correct
      plane, then a smooth raised area of fluid, covered by transversus will be seen via the
      laparoscope. This procedure is repeated on the patients other side, to complete a bilateral
      block. Depending on their randomization, patients will receive one of the following
      solutions:

      Group A: Represents the control group and will receive 0.5 ml/kg of 0.9% normal saline for a
      maximum of 30 ml.

      Group B: Represents the experimental group and will receive 0.5 ml/kg of 0.25% Marcaine
      (bupivacaine) for a maximum of 30 ml.
    
  