
    
      This study will enroll 130 pregnant patients undergoing C-section or fetal surgery with EXIT
      (Ex Utero Intrapartum Treatment) procedures under epidural or general anesthesia with low
      (0.75 MAC) or high (2.5 MAC) concentrations of desflurane. Patients will be recruited from
      both the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania (100 C Section) and Children's Hospital
      of Philadelphia (30 EXIT procedure).

      The standard of care protocol for patients undergoing anesthesia for these cases will be
      followed throughout the surgery. These include monitoring and management of blood pressure,
      heart rate and rhythm, ventilation, oxygenation, temperature, and fluid status. Management of
      these parameters will be at the discretion of the clinical team. The choice of the anesthetic
      technique will also be at the discretion of the clinical team. Typical anesthetic management
      includes the following:

      C-section under epidural anesthesia: induction and maintenance with 1.5% lidocaine, sodium
      bicarbonate and 1:200,000 epinephrine

      C-section under general anesthesia: induction with propofol 2 mg/kg and succinylcholine 2
      mg/kg intravenously; maintenance with desflurane 4.5-5%

      EXIT procedure under general anesthesia: induction with propofol 2 mg/kg and succinylcholine
      2 mg/kg intravenously; maintenance with desflurane 15-18%

        1. After the baby is delivered, and the umbilicus is cut, two ml of blood will be taken
           from the umbilical vein and artery on the placenta side. A portion of the blood will be
           used for the blood gas and the remainder will be used for the S100B study assay.

        2. 5 ml of blood will be taken from the mother via the existing intravenous catheter.

        3. 5 ml of amniotic fluid will be obtained at hysterotomy and will be used for the S100B
           study assay.

      All subjects will receive standard of care post operative clinical care and monitoring.
    
  