
    
      In the UK, current NICE (National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence) guidance
      stratifies hypertension treatment according to age and self-defined ethnicity (SDE).
      Different initial monotherapies are recommended for all those aged over 55 years, and for
      younger black compared to white individuals. However, there is no recommended stratification
      for combination therapy. The evidence based supporting the current guidance on SDE
      stratification is limited, and there is a specific lack of data from UK based populations.

      Stratification based on SDE has a number of limitations and an alternative approach is
      stratification based on ancestry informative markers (AIM). There are genetic polymorphisms,
      which show substantially different frequencies between populations from different
      geographical regions, and can predict geographical ancestry with remarkable accuracy. AIM are
      thus more likely to capture the genetic component of variation in drug response in ethnically
      diverse population.

      Metabolomic profiling of plasma and urine may provide complementary information to AIM, as
      differences between individuals will reflect both genetic and environmental influences. To
      address these issues the investigators intend to compare the variation in response to
      antihypertensive drug treatments in three SDE cohorts, and relate this to variation in AIM
      and metabolomic profiles. Our objective is to test the validity of current NICE guidance on
      antihypertensives stratification based on SDE, to provide evidence about SDE stratification
      for dual therapy, and to examine whether more effective personalisation of antihypertensive
      treatment, can be achieved using AIM and/or metabolomic profiling.

      An assessment of patient stratification based on AIM phenotypes against SDE will enable the
      selection of optimal and more effective choices of anti-hypertensive treatments from
      currently existing first line drugs (and combinations of) and ultimately reduce the attrition
      of antihypertensive therapies.

      Output from the trial will provide the first perspective evidence for best treatment choice
      according to SDE for white, black and asian populations in the UK. This should reduce the
      number of consultations; time required to achieve optimal blood pressure control and the
      contribution to between hypertension control in the UK.

      Patients in the trial will be enrolled on a monotherapy or dual therapy regime depending on
      their history of hypertension. The monotherapy group of patients will enter a randomised,
      open-label, three-treatment three-period cross over trial.

      The dual therapy group of patients will enter a randomised, open-label, four-treatment
      four-period cross over trial.

      Randomisation, for each crossover design, will be stratified by three SDE groups.

      The duration for individual participants will be approximately 24 (monotherapy) or 32 weeks
      (dual therapy)

      The hypertensive medication used in this trial are:

      Amlodipine 5 or 10mg, Chlortalidone 25mg, Amiloride 10mg, Lisinopril 10 or 20mg,

      Participants on the dual therapy treatment arm will have a total of 11 visits including
      screening/enrolment (visit 1) and baseline visit (visit 2)

      Participants on the monotherapy treatment arm will have a total of 9 visits including
      screening/enrolment (visit 1) and baseline visit (visit 2)

      A total number of 1320 participants will be enrolled in the study across participating sites,
      so that approximately 660 participants in each therapy regime (approximately 220 participants
      per ethnic group) complete the trial.
    
  