
    
      Usually, "heart failure" refers to myocardial insufficiency of the left ventricle. In
      patients with congenital heart defects, predominantly the right ventricle and secondarily the
      right atrium and the pulmonary vasculature are affected. Due to advancing treatment options
      and the resulting higher life expectancy of patients with congenital heart defects, the
      number of these patients is increasing steadily. As, for these patients, right ventricular
      failure often is the factor limiting quality of life and life-span, evidence based drug
      treatment is both clinically important and of relevance with respect to health policy and
      health economics.

      Concerning left ventricular failure, large controlled and randomised studies in the past
      years have provided evidence that treatment with beta-adrenergic blockers improves the
      systolic left ventricular function and decreases mortality in cases of left ventricular
      failure. These therapeutic achievements corroborated the hypothesis that stimulation of the
      neurohumoral, particularly the noradrenergic, system is a pathophysiological mechanism
      significant for the development of left ventricular failure.

      Large studies demonstrated that brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) is a sensitive biomarker for
      activation of the noradrenergic system. Plasma levels of BNP closely correlate with the
      severity of left ventricular failure, qualifying BNP also as a marker of success/failure of
      treatment.

      If right ventricular dysfunction also involves stimulation of the neurohumoral axis, it is
      conceivable that BNP in this condition also is a sensitive biomarker for activation of the
      noradregergic system. Under this condition BNP levels might also serve as a predictive marker
      for clinical outcome and success/failure of therapy as well.

      The objective of the present investigation is to assess the predictive value of BNP as a
      biomarker for right ventricular function, clinical symptoms and/or the patients' quality of
      life. For this purpose, blood levels of neurohumoral markers are measured and tested for
      statistical correlation with exercise tolerance and right ventricular function, as assessed
      by imaging methods. A sample of healthy volunteers serves as a control group.
    
  