
    
      The failure of obesity treatments to sustain weight reduction is widely recognized. The
      central hypotheses of these studies are that: 1) Energy and neuroendocrine homeostatic
      systems are altered during the maintenance of a reduced body weight in a manner that favors
      weight regain; 2) These changes occur because weight-reduced individuals are in a state of
      relative leptin deficiency due to loss of body fat; and 3) Therefore these changes
      accompanying the maintenance of a reduced body weight will be reversed if circulating leptin
      concentrations are restored to those that were present prior to weight reduction. Maintenance
      of a reduced body weight is associated with integrated autonomic and neuroendocrine changes
      that reduce energy expenditure and increase food intake in a manner that is similar to that
      seen in rodents and humans who are deficient in, or resistant to, the adipocyte-derived
      hormone leptin.

      Systemic leptin administration to leptin-deficient rodents and humans reverses the metabolic
      (hypometabolism, hyperphagia), autonomic (increased parasympathetic and decreased sympathetic
      nervous system tone), and neuroendocrine changes that characterize the leptin-deficient
      state. The proposed studies focus on the neuroendocrine, autonomic, and metabolic changes
      that characterize the reduced-obese individual, and the effects on these phenotypes of
      restoration of circulating concentrations of leptin to levels present prior to weight loss.

      Healthy lean and overweight subjects are admitted to the General Clinical Research Center at
      Columbia University Medical College and placed on a liquid formula diet. Calories are
      adjusted until weight is stable and then subjects undergo testing of neuroendocrine,
      autonomic, and metabolic function. All subjects undergo an in-patient 10% weight reduction.
      Subjects are studied in a single blind placebo control design in which they are studied at
      usual weight and while maintaining a 10% reduced weight. At either usual weight or reduced
      state subjects undergo a single blind crossover placebo/control study in which they receive
      placebo, leptin injections while on an isocaloric diet either at usual weight or following a
      10% weight loss.

      During each of these study periods, subjects will undergo detailed evaluation of 1) energy
      expenditure; 2) autonomic nervous system tone (serial blockade of sympathetic and
      parasympathetic inputs, heart rate variability analyses, and urinary catecholamine
      excretion); 3) hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid, -adrenal and -gonadal, axis function; 4)
      adipose tissue gene expression; 5) other molecules (e.g., adiponectin, ghrelin, PYY) that may
      influence neuroendocrine and metabolic function. The results of these studies will further
      delineate the physiology of body weight regulation and of leptin.
    
  