
    
      Maintaining volume control is crucial in all renal replacement therapy modalities. Fluid
      overload is associated with increased mortality both in hemodialysis patients and peritoneal
      dialysis (PD) patients although peritoneal dialysis has the advantage of better preservation
      of residual renal function compared to hemodialysis. Many methods have been used to fine tune
      the volume status of patients including physical examination, chest radiography, blood
      pressure, laboratory parameters, echocardiography, bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA),
      ultrasound for lung.

      Symptoms of hypervolemia are mainly paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, orthopnea, edema, dyspnea
      on exertion. On physical examination, hypertension or hypotension, third heart sound, jugular
      venous distension, rales, edema can be seen. Pulmonary venous congestion, cardiomegaly,
      interstitial edema, alveolar edema, pleural effusion can be seen on chest radiographies.

      Level of N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) increases upon stretching of
      cardiac myocytes. This is accepted as a reflection of volume status. There are a few studies
      in which NT-proBNP was found as a useful marker for hypervolemia both in hemodialysis and
      peritoneal dialysis population.

      Vascular endothelial growth factor-C (VEGF-C) is an osmosensitive gene product secreted by
      macrophages through activation of tonicity-responsive enhancer binding protein found in
      mononuclear phagocyte system cells infiltrating the interstitium. The result is hypertonic
      sodium accumulation in the skin which is accepted as a buffer mechanism maintaining blood
      pressure homeostasis. Serum VEGF-C levels had been found as a promising marker of
      hypervolemia in a hemodialysis patient cohort by a recent study.

      Echocardiography has been used extensively in dialysis patients in which a number of
      parameters have been measured. Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) is another non-invasive
      bedside method for the evaluation of volume status.

      Lung ultrasound (LUS) is a technique that has become popular in nephrology recently. "B
      lines" or "lung comets" are the reverberation artifacts arising from the pleural line. They
      are produced due to thickened subpleural interlobular septa by edema.

      The gold standard for volume assessment is isotope dilution and neutron activation analysis
      methods which are only limited to research activities. The best widely accepted,
      non-invasive, practical, easy to access method has not been decided yet. Moreover evidence is
      quite scarce for the peritoneal dialysis than hemodialysis or normal renal functioning group.
      Lung ultrasound is the most recent promising method for volume control.

      The investigators aimed to define lung ultrasound findings in our peritoneal dialysis cohort
      and its relation with other volumetric parameters.
    
  