
    
      Rationale: Previous studies have demonstrated the anti-tumor efficacy of gemcitabine and
      trastuzumab against metastatic breast cancer when given alone and in combination. Yet,
      research indicates that the two drugs given together work more effectively than either alone.
      Laboratory studies testing the combination of trastuzumab and cisplatin have shown
      synergistic anti-tumor activity with the two drugs. In addition, clinical studies suggest a
      high level of anti-tumor activity with the combination of gemcitabine and cisplatin.
      Researchers are testing the triple drug combination of gemcitabine, trastuzumab, and
      cisplatin in the current study to evaluate the potential for enhanced responsiveness in
      patients with Her-2/neu overexpressing breast cancer as well as comparing it to the double
      drug combination of gemcitabine and trastuzumab.

      Purpose: This study will measure patient responses and compare the efficacy of a double drug
      combination (gemcitabine and trastuzumab) with a triple drug combination (gemcitabine,
      trastuzumab, and cisplatin) in patients with metastatic breast cancer. Side effects will be
      carefully assessed in patients.

      Treatment: Patients in this study will receive one of two treatment combinations. A computer
      will randomly assign patients to a treatment group. Group one will be given gemcitabine and
      trastuzumab. Gemcitabine will be given to patients on days 1 and 8, and trastuzumab on days
      1, 8, and 15. Group two will receive gemcitabine, trastuzumab, and cisplatin. Gemcitabine and
      cisplatin will both be administered on days 1 and 8, and trastuzumab on days 1, 8, and 15.
      Each treatment cycle (for both groups) will last a total of 21 days. All study drugs will be
      administered through intravenous infusions. Several tests and exams will be given throughout
      the study to closely monitor patients. Thorough patient exams will be given at the beginning
      of each treatment cycle. Imaging tests will be done every two cycles for the first eight
      cycles and then every three cycles until study completion. Study treatment will be
      discontinued due to disease growth or unacceptable side effects.
    
  