
    
      The EPAD project has been established to overcome the major hurdles hampering drug
      development for secondary prevention of AD dementia, by conducting the EPAD LCS (fed mainly
      from existing Parent Cohorts (PC) across Europe) in alignment with the adaptive design EPAD
      PoC trial. Both EPAD LCS and EPAD PoC trial will be run in an exclusive network of highly
      selected, expert Trial Delivery Centres (TDC) that will be selected on the basis of strictly
      applied criteria to ensure the highest possible data quality, successful recruitment and
      adherence to the EPAD principles.

      While interventions must start early in the course of AD, accurate disease models covering
      the entire course of AD before dementia onset are lacking. Estimating with reasonable
      confidence an individual's overall probability of developing AD dementia over a defined time
      period must take into account multiple dimensions simultaneously (e.g. cognition, biomarkers,
      traditional risk factors - genetic and environmental). This will allow any given individual
      to be placed somewhere on a probability spectrum from negligible probability to high
      probability. Because individuals with similar overall probability may have very different
      contributions from various components in each dimension, flexible algorithms are needed
      instead of simple cut-offs to identify a probability-spectrum population adequate for both
      disease modelling and for providing a sufficient number of potential trial participants
      (especially in adaptive trials with multiple arms testing drugs with different mechanisms of
      action).

      EPAD LCS is designed to address the dual need for development of accurate longitudinal models
      for AD covering the entire disease course, and development of adequate infrastructure for
      facilitating identification of research participants and clinical trial recruitment. EPAD LCS
      will have a probability-spectrum population selected mostly from already existing PCs across
      Europe to facilitate fast recruitment. Different types of PCs will be considered (e.g. memory
      clinic-based, population-based). Due to the variety of PCs, some EPAD LCS research
      participants will be e.g. memory clinic patients without dementia, while others will be e.g.
      participants without dementia from the general population. The variety of PC settings will
      ensure that the EPAD LCS probability-spectrum population can cover the entire continuum of
      probability for AD dementia development. Regular EPAD LCS follow-up with clinical, cognitive
      and biomarker assessments will provide a well-phenotyped probability-spectrum population,
      generating high-quality data for updating disease models, for easier identification of
      individuals suitable for trial inclusion, and for use as trial run-in data and reference for
      evaluating intervention efficacy.

      The flow of research participants from the population at large to the trial is divided into
      the following stages: firstly, EPAD will engage existing PCs from across Europe who may have
      eligible research participants for the EPAD LCS. The next step is drawing research
      participants from the PCs into the EPAD LCS to maintain a suitable population of
      approximately 6,000 research participants. Recruitment will be complemented with research
      participants who are recruited from a clinical setting by their referring clinician. To
      enable access to the EPAD LCS for these potential participants, the referring clinician will
      check if they match the flexible algorithm. Finally, research participants in the EPAD LCS
      who fulfil trial inclusion criteria (approximately 1,500 research participants), will be
      invited to enter the EPAD PoC (PoC) trial for evaluation of treatment for secondary
      prevention of AD dementia. This trial is a standing, adaptive, PoC trial that could involve
      multiple arms running concurrently. Successful graduation through PoC into phase 3
      confirmatory trials of single or combinatorial interventions will be based on success against
      an intermediary, target specific biomarker and then success against a cognitive measure.

      Once recruitment is completed, at any given time there should be approx. 6,000 research
      participants in the EPAD LCS and approx. 1,500 in the EPAD PoC, hence the need to replenish
      each from PCs as participants are lost through attrition. EPAD LCS will initially run until
      the end of December 2019, and extension of consent will be sought after 4 years.
    
  