
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety of postradiotherapy high-dose consolidation chemotherapy with
           peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) support in patients with high-risk primitive
           neuroectodermal tumors.

        -  Determine the safety of delaying radiotherapy by approximately one month in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of thiotepa in these patients.

        -  Determine the toxic effects of intensive chemotherapy with PBSC support in these
           patients.

        -  Assess the time to hematopoietic recovery after PBSC infusion when intensive
           chemotherapy is used after craniospinal radiotherapy in these patients.

        -  Determine the overall and event-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of thiotepa during consolidation therapy.

        -  Induction: Within 31 days of initial surgery, patients receive induction therapy
           comprising vincristine IV on day 0, cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days 0 and 1,
           and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day 2 and continuing for at
           least 7-10 days. Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are then collected.

        -  Chemoradiotherapy: After blood cell counts recover, and within 28 days of starting
           induction, patients begin chemoradiotherapy. Patients receive vincristine IV once weekly
           for 8 doses. Radiotherapy is administered 5 days a week, for 6 weeks, beginning within
           the same week as the start of vincristine.

        -  Consolidation: Therapy begins 4-6 weeks after the last radiation treatment in the
           absence of disease progression. The first and third course are the same and comprise
           vincristine IV on day 0, carboplatin IV over 1 hour on days 0 and 1, thiotepa IV over 3
           hours on days 2-4, and G-CSF SC daily beginning on day 7. PBSC are reinfused on day 7.
           The second course comprises vincristine IV on day 0, carboplatin IV over 1 hour on days
           0 and 1, cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days 2 and 3, and G-CSF SC daily beginning
           on day 5. PBSC are reinfused on day 5. Each course lasts 21 days.

      For consolidation therapy, cohorts of 6-12 patients each receive escalating doses of thiotepa
      until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which
      no more than 2 of 12 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24-56 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  