
    
      Insomnia affects more than half of the US population. Epidemiological data indicate that
      between 36% and 56% of American adults report occasional insomnia, while 9% to 17% report
      chronic or severe problems with insomnia. This condition is most prevalent in the elderly.
      Elderly insomnia sufferers may experience more difficulty staying asleep than younger adults;
      increasing wakefulness during the sleep period and resulting in the opportunity to get out of
      bed.

      Elderly individuals with insomnia are at risk of falling when they get out of bed during the
      sleep period. It is not known if this risk merely is the result of being out of bed, or if
      insomnia or some other physiological processes (eg, postural hypotension) contribute. This
      risk is significant because falling may result in severe injuries, including hip fractures,
      for which morbidity and mortality statistics are remarkable. Approximately one-third of those
      who sustain a hip fracture are placed in long-term care facilities. Of those patients
      hospitalized due to a hip fracture, 15% die while in the hospital and 33% die within one year
      of sustaining the fracture.

      One important concern regarding the risk of falling in elderly patients with insomnia relates
      to the commonly accepted pharmacological treatments of insomnia. Although normal control of
      the sleep-wake cycle is exerted by the suprachiasmatic nucleus via melatonin receptor
      subtypes 1 and 2 receptors, current pharmacologic treatments for insomnia mainly involve
      GABAergic (gamma aminobutyric acid) mechanisms: most currently prescribed sleep agents are
      benzodiazepine receptor agonists, which bind to the benzodiazepine receptor site of the gamma
      aminobutyric acid receptor complex. Gamma aminobutyric acid is the major inhibitory
      transmitter in the central nervous system and its receptors are distributed widely throughout
      the brain. In addition to sleep, benzodiazepine receptor agonists can cause a wide range of
      ancillary effects not directly related to sleep, depending on the precise subset of gamma
      aminobutyric acid receptors activated. These include sedative, anxiolytic, muscle-relaxant,
      and amnesic effects. Drugs that act at this receptor complex, specifically the
      benzodiazepines, have deleterious effects on body sway.

      Ramelteon is marketed in the United States as Rozerem for the treatment of insomnia
      characterized by difficulty with sleep initiation. It's mechanism of action is based on the
      agonism of melatonin receptor subtype 1 and 2.

      This study will investigate the effects of ramelteon on balance, mobility and memory
      impairment awakening in the middle of the night following bedtime dosing. Participation in
      this study is anticipated to be about 1 to 1.5 months.
    
  