
    
      Several mental disorders can be classified as psychotic disorders, such as schizophrenia and
      manic depression. Psychosis is a defining feature of psychotic disorders, and is
      characterized by delusions and hallucinations that result in extreme impairment of a person's
      ability to think clearly. First-episode psychosis refers to the first time someone
      experiences psychotic symptoms or a psychotic episode. The symptoms can be disturbing and
      unfamiliar to those who have not previously experienced them. The person experiencing
      first-episode psychosis may not understand what is happening, and may become confused and
      distressed. Psychosis is treatable, however, and most people recover. Standard treatment for
      psychosis entails a combination of behavioral therapy and drug therapy. GRIP is a
      comprehensive psychosocial intervention for people recovering from an initial episode of
      non-affective psychosis. The purpose of GRIP is to improve occupational functioning after
      first-episode psychosis and promote goal pursuit and effective illness self-management. This
      study will determine the effectiveness of GRIP in enhancing the clinical benefit of routine
      treatment for individuals recovering from their first episodes of psychosis.

      Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to receive either treatment as usual
      (TAU) or TAU plus GRIP. Participants receiving TAU will meet with their case-manager and
      health care providers on an as-needed basis. Participants assigned to receive TAU plus GRIP
      will attend therapy sessions weekly for up to 36 weeks, in addition to routine appointments.
      GRIP includes four phases, each of which focuses on one of the following topics: engagement
      and wellness management; substance use; persistent symptoms; and functional recovery.
      Assessments of social functioning, psychotic symptoms, attitudes toward treatment, substance
      use, and hospital readmission rate will be assessed at baseline, mid-treatment,
      post-treatment, and at the follow-up visit 3 months post-treatment.
    
  