
    
      Baseline surveys:

      Baseline surveys will be administered. In this first evaluation, sociodemographic information
      and clinical information such as diagnosis, pattern of antipsychotic treatment, number of
      suicide attempts or associated illnesses will be collected.

      Furthermore, some structured questionnaires will be administered, including: Clinical Global
      Impression Scale (CGI), Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF), Positive and Negative
      Syndrome Scale (PANSS), Premorbid Adjustment Scale (PAS), Simplified Medication Adherence
      Questionnaire (SMAQ), Drug Attitude Inventory (DAI-10) and Beck Cognitive Insight Scale
      (BCIS).

      ReMindCare app measures:

      Patients will generate the following data by using the app:

        1. Data generated through responses to daily and weekly app questionnaires: Answers to
           these questionnaires are presented following a Likert scale (1 to 5) as follows: 1=Not
           at all, 2=Slightly, 3=Somewhat, 4=Very, 5=Extremely. Responses will be collected and
           analyzed.

        2. Quantity of "Urgent clinic consultation" request made for every patient.

        3. Quantity of automatic usage alarms.

      Treatment measures:

      Apart from data collected through the use of the app, further information will be collected
      related to modifications into de patient´s treatment or related to his/her health status:

        -  Modifications into antipsychotic treatment.

        -  Number of relapses

        -  Number of visits to hospital urgent care unit.

        -  Number of hospital admissions

      Follow-up measures and satisfaction questionnaire:

      Information collected through the app and variations into clinical data will be analyzed
      among time. First assessment of these data will be conducted after 6 months of patient´s
      enrollment into the study. Subsequent analysis will be conducted yearly.

      Patients will also complete a satisfaction questionnaire after one year using the ReMindCare
      app or before discontinuing the use the app (if this happens before the first year of use of
      the app has come). This app feedback questionnaire is made for the purpose of this research
      and it is based in some previous satisfaction and usability questionnaires such as: User
      Version of the mobile application rating scale (uMars), System Usability Scale (SUS),
      EnLight: Tool for mobile and web-based eHealth interventions and App Quality Evaluation
      (AQEL).
    
  