
    
      RA is a serious and complex disease that taxes patients' coping resources. Patients with RA
      must cope with pain and with major life stresses, including disruptions in their health,
      work, family, and marital functioning.

      Recognition of the morbidity and mortality associated with RA has increased interest in early
      interventions. Rapid disease progression during the first few years of RA taxes patients'
      coping efforts. Those who cope well with the early stages of RA can maintain an active and
      rewarding lifestyle. Those who do not may become depressed, decrease physical activity, and
      develop a sedentary, restricted lifestyle that contributes to long-term disability and
      overdependence on family and friends.

      This study will evaluate the effectiveness of early coping skills training (CST) to enhance
      self-efficacy, prepare patients to cope with future pain, and prevent the development of
      behaviors that may increase long-term psychological distress and physical disability. The
      comprehensive CST intervention combines traditional CST with CST components tailored to
      rheumatoid arthritis patients. It is designed to teach traditional coping skills such as
      attention diversion, cognitive restructuring, and changes in activity to control and decrease
      pain.

      Participants will be randomized to one of three study groups: 1) comprehensive pain coping
      skills training; 2) arthritis education; or 3) standard care. Study participants assigned to
      the comprehensive CST and the arthritis education groups will be asked to attend ten weekly,
      80-minute treatment sessions. These ten sessions will be followed by a series of six biweekly
      follow-up telephone calls.

      Study participants in the arthritis education group will learn about the nature and treatment
      of rheumatoid arthritis as well as the benefits of exercise and joint protection. Study
      participants in the standard care group will continue to receive care from their
      rheumatologists but will not participate in any treatment sessions.

      Measures of pain, disability, pain coping, and self efficacy will be collected during
      evaluation sessions before and after the treatment phase. Participants attend 5 evaluation
      sessions and will be followed for 18 months.
    
  