
    
      The main objective of this study is to determine the effectiveness of a new treatment regime
      that uses a neuroprosthesis for the improvement and recovery of grasping functions in persons
      with spinal cord injuries (SCI). This treatment has been shown to be useful for stroke
      patients with hemiplegic arm in the recovery of reaching and grasping 1, and our preliminary
      work indicates that this may also be the case with SCI patients 3. Further, aside from the
      potential of promoting voluntary grasp in SCI patients, this novel therapeutic approach may
      also impact the way service is currently delivered in SCI rehabilitation settings.

      A neuroprosthesis for grasping is a device that can improve or restore the grasping, holding,
      and releasing functions in persons with SCI 2, 3. The neuroprosthesis applies functional
      electrical stimulation (FES) to artificially generate a muscle contraction by applying short
      current pulses to motor nerves innervating muscles. FES can be applied to individuals with
      incomplete SCI to help them restore functions such as walking and grasping by contracting
      groups of paralyzed muscles in an orchestrated manner 4. FES was originally envisioned as an
      intervention that was 'permanent' in nature. In other words, an individual had to wear/use an
      FES orthotic device at all times if s/he wanted to generate the function that was impaired by
      SCI 4. Our application of the neuroprosthesis for grasping in this proposal presents a
      departure from this standard and established approach of FES application. Rather than having
      people be dependent on the neuroprosthesis to perform their activities of daily living (ADL),
      we plan to use the neuroprosthesis for grasping as a short-term intervention that will help
      SCI individuals recover voluntary grasping function. Hence, we believe that those
      participants who undergo our FES therapy with the neuroprosthesis should be able to perform
      grasping functions without its use once the treatment program is completed.

      Recent innovative advances in FES applications, spearheaded by our team, clearly indicate
      that the short-term, therapeutic intervention of the neuroprosthesis for grasping can enhance
      voluntary function in individuals with SCI 3, 5, 6. These studies also suggest that this
      novel method of applying FES to augment functional improvement has the potential to improve
      overall physical and psychological well being of persons with incomplete SCI. Since 1999, the
      Co-PI of this application, Dr. Milos Popovic and Dejan Popovic's team from the University of
      Belgrade have reported anecdotal evidence that some C5 to C7 SCI individuals who were unable
      to voluntarily grasp, were later able to do so after intensive training with a
      neuroprosthesis for grasping 2, 7, 8, 9. They observed that approximately 20 to 25% of the
      individuals who trained with the FES systems were able to grasp without the assistance of the
      neuroprosthesis once the systems were removed. Although this evidence has been presented in
      several peer-reviewed publications, there have been no comprehensive studies to date that
      have investigated the long-term effects of FES treatment on recovery of the voluntary
      grasping function in persons with SCI. Consequently, this study seeks to 1) investigate
      whether a series of orchestrated FES therapies can be applied to re-train/improve voluntary
      grasping function in acute SCI individuals, and; 2) to determine whether this therapy will
      yield better results than conventional occupational therapy. Specifically, we will recruit
      participants who have C5 to C7 incomplete SCI. These individuals typically can generate weak
      wrist extension but can neither flex, extend, abduct or adduct the fingers, nor flex, extend,
      abduct or adduct the thumb. Our therapy will be used to help these individuals recover some
      or all of these functions.
    
  