
    
      AIM OF THIS STUDY:

      Primary objective: Do HIV-infected individuals mount a protective humoral response following
      vaccination for pandemic influenza A/H1N1 with the monovalent influenza
      A/California/2009(H1N1) MF59-adjuvanted surface-antigen vaccine Focetria® (Novartis).

      Secondary objective: 1) To evaluate the strength of the immune response in HIV-infected
      individuals compared to healthy volunteers. 2) To evaluate whether a second dose,
      administered at least 21 days after the first increases the proportion of HIV-infected
      individuals that have a titer above the threshold associated with protection. 3) To assess
      whether vaccination is associated with an increases in HIV-replication. 4) To assess whether
      very early antibody responses occur, which may may indicate immunological memory, for example
      due to cross reactivity from past influenza infection or vaccination.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      This is not an interventional study. In this single-centre observational study we will
      monitor the immune response in a cohort of people who are to be vaccinated during the
      national vaccination campaign.

      Population: The population base for this study consists of HIV-infected adult outpatients at
      our hospital and of healthy hospital employees. All Dutch and English speaking HIV-infected
      LUMC outpatients above 18 years of age, on a stable antiretroviral regimen or not yet in need
      of treatment, are sent a letter inviting them to take part. Healthy hospital employees are
      invited to take part with a letter, which is handed out upon vaccination. Inclusion is
      possible until three days after the first vaccination. Exclusion criteria are: use of
      systemic immunosuppressive medication, an ongoing infection, recent flu-like symptoms and
      pregnancy. The following characteristics are documented at baseline: age, gender,
      co-morbidity, medication, year of prior influenza vaccinations and year of diagnosis of HIV
      infection. All participants are requested to fill out standardized diary assessing flu-like
      symptoms and use of new medication during the 60 day follow-up.

      Laboratory analysis: Lymphocyte counts are determined at baseline, prior to vaccination. A
      serum sample is taken prior to the first vaccination (day -30 to day 0), prior to the second
      vaccination (day 17-20) and after the second vaccination (day 60). Viral load is determined
      at baseline (day -30 to day 0) and after the second vaccination (day 5-7) in a subgroup of 10
      persons with undetectable viral load at the preceding outpatient visit. Antibody responses
      are detected in duplicate for each sample by means of hemagglutination-inhibition (HI) assays
      according to standard methods at the Erasmus Medical Center in Rotterdam.

      Statistical analysis: No formal sample-size calculation was performed. We intend to include a
      maximum of 100 subjects with HIV and 50 healthy hospital employees. The crude outcome
      estimates will be adjusted for variables that may influence the outcome (age, CD4 lymphocyte
      count, use of HAART, viral load).
    
  