
    
      Study Design We propose a pilot randomized trial evaluating the type of fluid chosen for CIN
      prophylaxis. This study will be conducted at the Health Sciences Centre, St. John's, and the
      University of Alberta Hospital, Edmonton.

      Proposed Interventions:

      Bicarbonate hydration arm. Intravenous sodium bicarbonate (130 mEq per L) in 4.35% dextrose
      at 3.5 ml per Kg over 1 hour pre-contrast, followed by the same solution intravenously at 1
      ml/Kg/hr for 6 hours.

      Hypotonic hydration arm. Intravenous 5% dextrose in water at 3.5 ml per Kg over 1 hour
      pre-contrast followed by 0.9% saline intravenously at 1 ml per Kg per hr for 6 hours.

      In all cases the maximum rate of fluid permitted is that for a body weight of 110 Kg.
      Intra-vascular low-osmolal or iso-osmolal contrast (according to operator or institution
      choice) will be used in the minimal dose needed to complete the required imaging.

      Patient population The patient population for this study will be limited to urban dwellers
      who meet the following inclusion and exclusion criteria. Our rationale for limiting this
      study to urban dwellers is that blood and urine samples for NGAL need to be frozen at -70 for
      shipping, therefore these tests will need to be done at the sites of storage and not in
      peripheral labs.

      Duration of Treatment and Follow up Active treatment is limited to the hours while the
      patient is in the cardiac catheterization laboratory. Patients will be followed up to 7 days
      post intervention. They will be asked to provide urine and/or blood samples collected at
      baseline, pre-catheterization, 2 6, 24, and 48-72 hours post-angiography. They will be
      followed up by telephone at 7 days post intervention to determine if they experienced any
      adverse events related to the procedure or the intervention.

      Measures Baseline Information Baseline measures will include demographic information,
      comorbidity, location, and indications for cardiac procedure, type of procedure to be
      performed. Detailed information about the angiographic procedure will be recorded including
      type and volume of parenteral contrast used. In addition accurate information regarding
      baseline blood pressure, use of medications (specifically ACE inhibitors, angiotensin
      receptor blockers, NSAIDS, and diuretics) will be recorded as well as an evaluation of known
      risk factors for CIN.

      Outcome Measures Blood will be collected for measurement of serum creatinine and cystatin C
      at baseline just prior to fluid administration, and at 6, 24 and 48-72 hours
      post-angiography. Urine samples for measurement of urine pH, osmolality, electrolytes and
      creatinine, and NGAL as well as metabolic profiling will be collected on all patients at
      baseline, pre cardiac catheterization, 6 hours postcardiac catheterization, at the end of the
      hydration period. As the majority of these patients will not have indwelling urinary
      catheters, the urine samples will be collected as close to these time points as possible. A
      table of sample collection timepoints is appended to this application. Assays will be
      performed on stored samples at a single laboratory to ensure assay standardization between
      sites. Duration of hospitalization (if any) will be determined by review of records.

      Data collection Identification of potential participants is feasible by review of data
      collected for pre-admission purposes at each site's catheterization laboratory. Study
      investigators will work collaboratively with the catheterization labs to identify and screen
      potential participants. Following introduction by clinical staff, potential participants will
      be approached by study nurses at each site, either on the day of or the day prior to cardiac
      angiography. The study nurses will obtain consent, collect baseline information and blood and
      urine specimens, and contact the local investigator for randomization. Once each patient has
      been randomized the study nurse will arrange for administration of the study therapies and
      provide the patient with requisitions for follow up blood work. The study investigator will
      contact the patients either in person if hospitalized or by phone if discharged post
      procedure and remind them about specimen collections at each time point.

      Sample Size This study is exploratory in nature and therefore not powered to a specific
      endpoint. Previous studies in this area have demonstrated positive results with sample sizes
      in the order of 50 -100 subjects. We plan to enroll 100 patients in this study.

      Statistical Analysis Analysis will be by intention to treat. P values <0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant. Given that this is a pilot study there will be no
      interim analysis.

        1. Effect of interventions on urinary outcomes The differences between treatment groups
           will be analyzed using a linear regression model. Estimates and corresponding 95%
           confidence intervals will be reported. Additional covariates will be explored. Residual,
           leverage and influence diagnostics will be examined. As metabolic profiling is a
           relatively new technology patients will serve as their own controls and the results will
           be reported as paired t tests, describing changes in metabolism associated with
           radiocontrast administration. Attempts will be made to determine if fluid type
           influences changes in metabolic profiles by comparing treatment arms using linear
           regression techniques.

        2. Relationship of changes in NGAL to serum creatinine and cystatin C Diagnostic statistics
           (such as sensitivity, specificity, ROC curve) will also be explored for change in NGAL
           level at 24 hours using a common definition of CIN as the reference standard (a 44umol/L
           or 25% rise in serum creatinine at 72 hours post contrast). Additionally, different time
           points (4 and 48 hours) for NGAL level will be considered.

      Data management Dr. Barrett and Dr. Pannu will oversee the data management for this study.
      Blood and urine will be collected and stored at -70C locally at both participating centers,
      which each have appropriate storage facilities
    
  