
    
      Research Methods Study Design This study is an experimental one arm study post test only.
      Estimated Study Time Research estimated time would be 24 months, from May 2014 to May 2016.
      Sample Gaining Procedure This research is a pilot study. Samples are obtained consecutively
      from all source population that meet the criteria. The number of samples from each
      mesenchymal stem cell ( adipose, bone marrow and umbilical cord) source are three. Each
      samples derived from three different donors that met the inclusion criteria. For the
      implanation, the subjects are five from each intervention. Yet regarding the limited funding
      source and time, we will recruit one subject for each kind of MSC.

      Subject Criteria Inclusion criteria for MSC donor

      Bone marrow donor :

      Male/female aged 19-30 year without any comorbiditites (Diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular and
      any other autoimmune disease), HIV test Hepatitis B test and Hepatitis C test are negaitve,
      no fungal and bacterial contamination in the bone marrow. Subjects are willing to be
      aspiratied in the iliac crest in order to get the bone marrow.

      Adipose donor :

      Adipose tissue are gained from liposuction or open reduction internal fixation procedure.
      Samples of adipose are free from HIV, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C and free from fungal and
      bacterial contamination.

      Umbilical cord donor :

      Umbilical cord are form elective seccio caecaria from a fullterm mother without any
      complications and free from HIV, hepatitis B, hepatitis C and no fungal and bacterial
      contamination.

      Recipient inclusion criteria Critical bone defect patients aged 6-55 who are willing to
      undergo surgical intervention.

      Recipient exclusion criteria Patients with pathological fracture caused by malignancy,
      immunocompromised ( HIV AIDS, Diabetes mellitus, active Hepatitis), in a immunosuppresant
      therapy ( chemotherapy or steroids).

      Drop out criteria Patients are ruled out from this study if he/she stated to do so in the
      time this research are held or she/he undergoes any other threatment that are not related to
      this study. Patient who does not show any clinical improvement in three consecutive months is
      categorized as failed to threat. All drop out and failed to threat patient could get other
      threatment.

      Informed Consent All subjects must fill and sign in the informed consent letters.

      Research Protocol Mesenchymal stem cell taking method Bone Marrow taking Patient is lying
      down in supine position, anesthetized locally. Aseptic and antiseptic are done in the illiac
      crest location. Aspiration needle is inserted 450 to horizon in illiac crest. Hub is released
      and a 10 cc syringe that contain heparin is connected to te needle. We aspirated about 50 cc
      bone marrow from each subject.

      Umbilical cord taking Right after the delivering the baby, the umbilical cord are cut and
      kept in a sterile bowl containing 0.9% NaCl in 40 until the sample is proceed.

      Adipose taking Adipose tissue are derived from liposuction or open reduction internal
      fixation procedure. It is kept in a sterile bowl containing NaCL 0.9% in 40 C. Processing of
      the sample is done within 8 hours after sample are taken.

      Cryopreservation and re activation. All the samples are taken to culture laboratory in
      integrated service of stem cell medical technology Cipto mangunkusumo hospita.this laboratory
      is GMP (good manufacturing Product) certified. The samples ate cultured in appropriated
      medium until it reach confluence and harvested. The cells then undergo caracterisation test
      by flow cyto meter and viability and numbers are counted. Some of the cells then
      cryopreserved while some are directly implanted into patient. The cells are cryopreserved for
      three months and then reactivated. Viability and numbers then are measured. The cells then
      are implanted to non union patient.

      Specimen sterility Sterility tests are done three times to ensure there is no fungal and
      bacterial contamination.

      HA-CaSO4 and MSC For every centimeter of defect, 10 millions cells and 50 pellet HA-CaSO4 are
      needed. The diluted MSC then mix with the HA-CaSO4 and incubated 5 minutes before implanted.

      Intervention Surgical intervention is needed to assemble the fixation device in the long
      bone. During the surgery, pellet HA-CaSO4 are inserted into the defect. After soft tissue are
      closed the rest of the serum is injected into the defect area.

      Observation and follow up Clinical and radiological follow up is done every 4 weeks.
      Observation is done for 12 months or untill the bone unites. Every subject will be followed
      up in the third, sixth, twelfth and twenty forth or until the fixation device is taken off.

      Recipient criteria for non union fracture
    
  