
    
      After the patient is awake and alert after surgery, a study team member will place the Fitbit
      device on participants' wrists. Investigators will then monitor daily steps taken and active
      minutes for the duration of hospitalization, with the option to discontinue if clinically
      required or requested by the patient or provider. Investigators will record the wearable
      biosensor number and subject study number on a secure spreadsheet.

      To supplement Fitbit data, a research coordinator will collect clinical data from chart
      review of the electronic health record (age, gender, race/ethnicity, body mass index,
      comorbid health conditions), and enter the data into a secure spreadsheet.

      Physicians will also be participating in the study by providing data on estimated daily
      ambulation, using a standard formatted scale. Surgeons currently assess daily ambulation in
      the medical record, but assessments are not uniform, which precludes meaningful comparisons
      between providers. Investigators will therefore ask physicians to record daily estimates of
      ambulatory status according to standardized terms that are commonly used in the medical
      record (nonambulatory; out of bed to chair; out of bed to ambulate (QD, BID, TID); and
      ambulating ad lib). Investigators will also collect information on daily ambulation orders as
      entered by the provider team as part of routine practice. This information will be
      ascertained by chart review and entered into the secure spreadsheet along with the additional
      patient data.

      The Fitbit device has a battery life of approximately 7 days, so investigators will plan to
      recharge and download information every 5 days.

      At the time of discharge, a study team member will remove the device and download the
      information from the device to a secure spreadsheet. The wearable biosensor will be reset at
      that time and the information will be erased from its memory. Investigators will also clean
      the wearable biosensors with disinfectant used for durable medical equipment.

      Investigators will also query the medical record for information regarding disposition
      outcomes, including length of stay (from end of surgery to discharge from the hospital) and
      location of disposition (to home, rehab facility, or skilled nursing facility). Investigators
      will then contact the patients by phone after 30 days have elapsed since discharge to inquire
      whether they have been readmitted to the hospital or ER within the 30 days of their discharge
      date.
    
  