
    
      Hemophilia A is a hereditary blood clotting disorder. It is caused by a deficiency or
      abnormality of the blood clotting protein factor VIII. Individuals with hemophilia A are
      unable to form blood clots to stop bleeding and are at risk for experiencing serious and
      life-threatening bleeding episodes. The most common treatment for this disease is intravenous
      replacement of factor VIII. However, between 30 to 40% of individuals eventually develop
      inhibitors, or antibodies, to the replacement factor. In these individuals, the immune system
      recognizes the replacement factor as foreign and attacks it, thereby countering any potential
      benefits of the treatment. Some individuals with severe hemophilia A may undergo immune
      tolerance therapy (ITT), in which they receive replacement factor on a regular basis as a way
      for the body to adjust to the factor and stop inhibitor production. This treatment, however,
      is not always effective for everyone. Preliminary research has shown that rituximab, a
      medication used to treat non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, may be successful in suppressing or
      eliminating the inhibitors that develop. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the
      effectiveness of rituximab at lowering the levels of factor VIII inhibitors in individuals
      with severe hemophilia A.

      This study will enroll individuals with severe hemophilia A. At study entry, participants
      will receive one intravenous dose of factor VIII. Inhibitor levels will be measured with a
      blood test 5 to 7 days following this procedure. If peak inhibitor level is above 5 Bethesda
      units (BU)/mL, 5 to 9 days later participants will begin receiving rituximab intravenously
      once a week for 4 weeks. Blood will be collected at each visit for laboratory testing. Two
      weeks following the last rituximab treatment, participants will have blood drawn for
      inhibitor testing; this testing will occur every 4 weeks through Week 22. If the
      participant's inhibitor level falls below 5 BU/mL, participants will receive a repeat dose of
      factor VIII, and blood will be drawn 5 to 7 days later for inhibitor testing. Follow-up
      visits will occur at Weeks 36, 52, and 100, and will include a physical examination, blood
      collection, and monitoring of bleeding events and infections. Telephone interviews will be
      conduced at Weeks 64, 76, and 88 to monitor bleeding events and infections.
    
  