
    
      DESIGN The study will involve a large, pragmatic, randomised controlled trial of the
      internet-based self-directed E-Couch social anxiety module versus a wait-list control
      condition for the reduction of sub-clinical social anxiety symptoms, among a general
      population sample recruited using direct-to-consumer advertisements on national websites.

      RECRUITMENT Participants in this study will be recruited using advertisements placed on
      websites such as the NHS website. Individuals expressing an interest in the online
      advertisement by clicking on a web link will be directed to a University website containing
      full information on the trial and the opportunity to ask questions of the study team by email
      or telephone. Participants will be advised in the information sheet that they are free to
      withdraw at any time without giving a reason and without it affecting their care.

      CONSENT Interested participants will be asked to indicate their willingness to participate in
      the screening and/or the trial by clicking on Yes in response to the online consent
      questions.

      SCREENING Users who provide their consent will be invited to complete screening questions
      which will determine whether they are eligible for participation in the trial.

      INCLUSION AND EXCLUSION Inclusion criteria for this trial include age 18 years and over,
      resident of England and a score of 13 or more on the SPIN social anxiety measure, and a
      willingness to provide a working email address and mobile phone number (to respond to a
      confirmation email and receive reminders). People who are currently receiving
      therapist-guided treatment for social anxiety disorder will be excluded from participation as
      will those with a self-reported diagnosis of bipolar disorder or schizophrenia.

      MEASURES Following completion of the screening survey eligible participants will be advised
      that they are eligible to participate in the trial and asked to provide their email address
      and mobile phone number. Once these details have been submitted they will be advised that in
      24 hours they will receive an e-mail providing a link to an online baseline survey. The
      e-mail will link to a battery of demographic and self-report mental health measures. Measures
      will be taken at baseline and, for those randomised, at all or most of the follow up points
      including post-intervention, 3-, 6- and 12-months. At each follow-up point both Intervention
      and Control participants will receive notification of follow-up measures by email and by text
      message.

      RANDOMISATION Participants who complete baseline measures within one week of receiving the
      survey link via email, will be randomised using an automated computer algorithm to the
      E-Couch social anxiety tool (Intervention) or to a Wait list control condition. Participants
      will be advised of the condition to which they have been allocated.

      ACCESS TO INTERVENTION Intervention participants will be asked to set a password associated
      with their email address, and provided with access to the Intervention. Intervention
      participants will be encouraged to access and use the self-guided intervention over a period
      of up to 6 weeks (although they can chose to work through the program at their own pace).
      Access will be via secure login on the research trial website, using their email address and
      password.

      INTERVENTION The E-Couch social anxiety module which is based on cognitive behavioural
      therapy principles. This module contains a literacy section and 5 toolkits comprising
      exposure practice, cognitive restructuring (modifying your thinking), attention practice,
      social skills training and relaxation. E-Couch is designed to be completed at the
      participant's own pace. It is free to use, browser-based and widely accessible on a range of
      connected devices.

      CONTROL The Control group will be placed on a wait list to receive the intervention in 12
      months.

      RISKS The risks to the participants are likely to be minimal. The study uses standard
      well-tested measures or tools modified from these measures. Participants are referred to a
      source of help in the Information Sheet in case of distress. The intervention has been
      employed without problems in publically accessible form across the world since 2008.
    
  