
    
      The proposed study is a follow-up study for an ongoing open label trial conducted by the
      Sheppard Pratt-Lieber Research Institute utilizing the catechol-O-methyl-transferase (COMT)
      inhibitor Tolcapone to evaluate its effects on cognition and neuropsychiatric symptoms in
      patients with brain injuries (BI).

      The outcome measures utilized in this study were chosen based on the available data from the
      currently ongoing open-label clinical trial. The proposed study will utilize the same study
      medication at the same dose and frequency. In addition, the length of administration of study
      medication (two weeks) is identical. In the proposed study, investigators will conduct a
      double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial utilizing a crossover design to study the
      effects of two weeks of Tolcapone 200mg administered three times a day (total of 600mg/day)
      on cognitive performance. Physical, emotional, cognitive and social functioning will be
      evaluated through participant and proxy report. The investigators are planning to randomize a
      total of 12 patients with BI.

      The cross-over design requires two 2-week long study periods during which the participant
      receives either Tolcapone two 100mg capsules three times a day (total of 600mg/day) or
      placebo. Participants will be randomly assigned to two sequence groups either starting with
      Tolcapone treatment (T-P group) or placebo (P-T group). Investigators and participants will
      be blind to the study group assignment and hence blind to the treatment (Tolcapone vs.
      placebo) that subjects receive at a given time. The study periods are separated by a "washout
      period" that is at least two weeks and maximally 4 weeks long to reduce the potential for
      carryover effects. Patient reported outcomes will be obtained a total of four times, twice
      prior to the start of each respective study period (Pre-Study Period Visits I & II) as well
      as at the end of each study period (Outcome Measures Visits I & II). Cognitive outcome
      measures will be obtained twice throughout the study, at the end of each respective study
      period (Outcome Measures Visits I & II).
    
  