
    
      The standard-risk AML patients (18-60 years) receiving HLA-identical allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation in Peking University Institute of Hematology will be enrolled in this study
      if their MRD were positive before SCT, in CR1/CR2, remain in CR and MRD negative in the first
      two months after transplantation. The patients in this study will be treated with
      interferon-alpha injection twice a week (3 million units / time, iH) since the third month
      posttransplant. If the patients were well tolerated, the interferon-alpha treatment will
      continue 6 months. All the enrolled patients will undergo MRD monitoring after SCT as the
      same as the routine procedure. Bone marrow examination will be performed at the regular time
      points (+1, 2,3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 12 month) and 8-colour flow cytometry and RQ-PCR-based WT1
      examination will be empolyed to evaluate MRD and disease status. Based on the statistical
      calculation, in order to reduce the incidence of relapse from 40% (previous data) to 15% (the
      cumulative incidence of relapse in pre-MRD- AML patients), total 29 patients will be
      enrolled. The main side effects might related to interferon-alpha include induction of severe
      GVHD, hematological toxicity and Flu - like symptoms. If the patients met the following
      criteria, they will withdraw from the trial: 1）met the combined criteria for positive MRD
      (MRDco+) which was defined as 2 consecutive FCM+ or WT1+ results or both FCM+ and WT1+ in a
      single sample within 1 year after transplantation; 2）hematological relapse; 3) grade III or
      IV acute GVHD, or moderate/ severe chronic GVHD; 4) severe infection; 5) grade IV
      hematological toxicity; 6) organ failure; 7) death; 8) patients refuse to continue the
      interferon-alpha treatment. The main end point of the study is one-year cumulative incidence
      of relapse. the second end points include OS, NRM, DFS, MRD, GVHD, infection and
      hematological toxicity.
    
  