
    
      Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a complex metabolic disease characterised by elevated
      blood sugar. This represents a worldwide concern due to the secondary complications
      associated with type 2 diabetes, which are considered an important cause of early death;
      particularly, given the predicted increase. The cost associated with the treatment and the
      complications associated with diabetes reaches £10 billion every year and it is expected to
      increase. From approximately 425 million (2017) it is projected that 629 million adults will
      be living with diabetes by 2045. Therefore, this matter requires effective interventions
      aimed at improving blood sugar control, reducing the burden on the economy while improving
      the quality of life among T2DMs.

      Insulin, a hormone that is allowing the body to use or store sugar derived from food, is
      manufactured by the β-cells in the pancreas. The progression from pre-diabetes to overt type
      2 diabetes is typically diagnosed at the point of β-cell failure. Several factors are known
      to contribute to β-cell dysfunction such as: obesity (especially abdominal obesity), high
      blood pressure and elevated fats in the blood. Around 80% of the people who have been
      diagnosed with T2DM are either obese or overweight and they have been observed to have
      increased levels of fatty acids in the blood following a meal, which can induce insulin
      resistance. High levels of fatty acids have also been associated with an increased production
      of pro-inflammatory cytokines, which are small proteins that have an effect on organs or
      other cells, contributing to chronic inflammation. High levels of chronic inflammation
      increase the chances of developing metabolic disorders such as T2DM. However, a complete
      picture of this process is still lacking.

      The proposed study will help develop a more complete understanding of the molecules that may
      trigger β-cell failure.

      The identification of these molecules that are implicated in β-cell failure, can lead to the
      development of targeted interventions for those at risk of developing type 2 diabetes and
      potentially preventing habitual hyperglycaemia and type 2 diabetes.
    
  