
    
      Sample: the preclinical phase will be conducted in 20 healthy volunteers enrolled in the
      Faculty of Health Sciences of the University of Malaga. Clinical phase will take place in 12
      subjects admitted to acute hospitalization in 'Costa del Sol' Health Agency and 12 subjects
      admitted to nursing homes in the District of Primary Knowing this information will identify
      different thresholds start in peripheral microcirculation disorders associated with various
      systems of body position and consequent pressure levels. This particular seems a reasonable
      need from baseline parameters allow to further explore specific situations of tissue injury
      and isolate direct and indirect causal factors. It is also necessary to conduct the study in
      subjects from different environments (home, hospital) to determine under real clinical
      practice how these parameters behave and how it can affect common procedures performed in
      clinical practice, such as repositioning or using pressure surfaces. This sample of 24
      subjects was calculated taking into account a change in the capillary flow of 30% between
      baseline and the first hour of exposure to pressure, according to data of Kallman et al. (15)
      with an 80% output and statistical confidence level of 95%. In total, each subject will
      provide a total of 28 hours of measurement.

      Phase 1: Inclusion criteria:Healthy volunteers, between 20 and 65 years old, with no
      cardiovascular, neurological, digestive, endocrine, renal, gynecological, respiratory,
      hematologic, infectious, dermatological, autoimmune or diagnosed musculoskeletal disease or
      functional limitations, with tissue integrity and BMI between 18.5 to 25.9 kg/cm2 without
      scars in the sacred, back-lumbar, trochanteric, heels, elbows and shoulder blades areas.

      Exclusion criteria: The usual consumption for any reason of alpha-beta-blocking agents, or
      alpha-beta agonists, or directly or indirectly vasodilator-vasoconstrictor action drugs of
      any kind, anticoagulants, topical or systemic steroids, presence of pacemakers or implantable
      defibrillator, smoking, high consumption of alcohol (>20g/week), presence of tattoos in the
      areas of measurement, and lower limb amputation

      Phase 2: Inclusion criteria: Patients admitted to acute hospitalization, with risk of skin
      integrity deterioration assessed by Braden scale (punctuation lower than 16) without pressure
      ulcers, who agree to participate in the study. Exclusion criteria: presence infusion of
      vasoactive drugs at the time of the study (dopamine, epinephrine, norepinephrine, dobutamine,
      nitroprusside, nitroglycerin, calcium channel blockers, ACE inhibitors). Regular oral
      treatment of alpha and beta-blockers and/or agonists or calcium channel blockers, nitrates,
      ACE inhibitors, angiotensin, renin inhibitors, diuretics, SSRIs, NSAIDs, will be accepted.
      Also patients with pacemakers and/or implanted defibrillator, fever, anemia with Hb <10g/dl,
      hypotension with systolic blood pressure <80 mmHg, presence of transfusions in the past 4
      weeks, consumption and derivatives of erythropoietin, iron supplements, oral or parenteral
      anticoagulants will be excluded.

      Interventions: Different positions will be applied to subjects in order to measure preipheral
      tissue oxygenation, pressure, and changes in microvascular flow.

      The subject will be placed in each of the standard positions for the experiment: supine
      decubitus (SD) right lateral decubitus (RLD), left lateral decubitus (LLD). SD measurements
      will be made at 0, 30 and 45 degrees of inclination to bed. RLD and LLD positions will be
      evaluated with a body inclination of 30 and 90 degrees, aided by pillows, as is done in
      routine clinical practice. The subjects will lie down on a memory foam mattress for an
      articulated bed, as are commonly used at home, residential or hospital care. Between the
      subject and the mattress will be inserted the pressure measuring surface. Measurements in
      each position will be made during intervals of 0-4 hours in the same position (SD-RLD-LLD) in
      each of the inclinations of the bed (0º, 30°, 45 °) or body (30º, 90º), respectively.

      In case of patients, if the institutional protocol sets repositioning with a frequency of
      less than 4 hours, measurements will be made to the maximum that is set in each protocol.
      Otherwise, the maximum time for each position will be 4 hours.

      Measuring instruments:

      Pressure measurements will be made with the XSENSOR PX100: 64.160.02 (31.2 x 203.2 cm)
      pressure sensor, with 12.7 mm of space resolution of, which has 10,240 measuring points. The
      pressure sensor is composed with two perpendicularly oriented networks of parallel conductive
      strips, which are separated by a fine compressible elastomer. The intersection of two strips
      forms a capacitive node, determined by the surface of intersection of the two strips, and the
      distance separation between them, and with the elastomer. When pressure is applied to the
      node, the elastomer is compressed, the bands approach and capacity increases. This change in
      capacitance is correlated with pressure through a calibration process. The pressure range
      that is able to detect varies between 0.2 to 3.87 psi.

      Tissue perfusion, oxygenation and temperature of the assessed area will be made with the
      system Periflux 5000, composed of 2 units of Laser Doppler Flowmetry (LDF): PeriFlux 5001,
      which includes the laser source; and PeriFlux 5002, which provides temperature and tissue
      oxygenation measurements. The information of both instruments will be collected and
      integrated into a software that allows the simultaneous measurement of all signals. Tissue
      oxygenation will be measured by transcutaneous oximetry (TcpO2), a noninvasive procedure that
      reflects the amount of oxygen diffuses into the capillaries through the epidermis. This
      process depends on the state of respiratory oxygenation, the oxygen carrying capacity of
      blood and the overall circulatory condition. Any deterioration in any of these three members,
      immediately affect the skin tissue perfusion, which allows to evaluate how these factors
      affect the PU risk. It is measured by an electrode that heats the underlying tissue to create
      a local hyperemia that intensifies blood perfusion and, consecuently, oxygen pressure
      increases. The heat dissolves the lipid structure of the keratinized layers of the epidermis,
      allowing the skin permeability to gas diffusion.
    
  