
    
      The new coronavirus (COVID-19) [1] belongs to the new beta coronavirus. Current research
      shows that it has 85% homology with bat SARS-like coronavirus (bat-SL-CoVZC45), but its
      genetic characteristics are similar to SARSr-CoV. There is a clear difference from MERSr-COV.
      Since December 2019, Wuhan City, Hubei Province has successively found multiple cases of
      patients with pneumonia infected by a new type of coronavirus. With the spread of the
      epidemic, as of 12:00 on February 12, 2020, a total of 44726 confirmed cases nationwide
      (Hubei Province) 33,366 cases, accounting for 74.6%), with 1,114 deaths (1068 cases in Hubei
      Province), and a mortality rate of 2.49% (3.20% in Hubei Province).

      In view of the fact that there is currently no effective antiviral therapy, the prevention or
      treatment of lung injury caused by COVID-19 can be an alternative target for current
      treatment. Thalidomide has anti-inflammatory, anti-fibrotic, anti-angiogenesis, and immune
      regulation effects. In the early clinical practice of treating severe A H1N1, it was
      clinically concerned, and combined with hormones and conventional treatment, and achieved
      good results.

      Although the death rate of COVID-19 infected persons is not high, their rapid infectiousness
      and the lack of effective antiviral treatment currently have become the focus of the national
      and international epidemic. Thalidomide has been available for more than sixty years, and has
      been widely used in clinical applications. It has been proved to be safe and effective in
      IPF, severe H1N1 influenza lung injury and paraquat poisoning lung injury, and the mechanism
      of anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrosis is relatively clear. As the current research on
      COVID-19 at home and abroad mainly focuses on the exploration of antiviral efficacy, this
      study intends to find another way to start with host treatment in the case that antiviral is
      difficult to overcome in the short term, in order to control or relieve lung inflammation
      caused by the virus To improve lung function. This study is the first study at home and
      abroad to use immunomodulators to treat patients with COVID-19 infection. It is hoped that
      the patients can get out of the bitter sea as soon as possible and provide effective
      solutions for the country and society.
    
  