
    
      Background: Infants exposed to methadone during pregnancy experience high rates of neonatal
      abstinence syndrome (NAS). Common NAS symptoms (tremulousness, increased muscle tone,
      sweating, excessive crying, vomiting and diarrhea) increase infants' metabolic needs. Another
      frequent NAS symptom, weak and uncoordinated suckling, impairs infants' ability to take in
      adequate calories. These combined problems compromise infant weight gain. The current
      standard of care for opiate-exposed infants requires evidence of poor weight gain or
      excessive weight loss before initiating high-calorie formula. We hypothesize that inadequate
      caloric intake among methadone exposed infants may result in excessive weight loss, slow
      weight regain and exacerbation of NAS. These factors lead to the newborn's requirement for
      higher morphine doses and longer duration of hospitalization. Therefore, methadone exposed
      infants may benefit from early caloric enhancement. A nutritional intervention for
      opiate-exposed infants has not been previously evaluated. This application will provide data
      on adequacy of recruitment, protocol feasibility, performance of selected measures, and
      preliminary estimates of efficacy for a comprehensive R01 submission.

      Specific Aims:

        1. For methadone exposed infants, compare infants randomized to high (24 kcal/oz) versus
           standard (20 kcal/oz) formula for the following outcomes:

             -  Weight loss and gain patterns. The primary dependent measure will be days until the
                infant returns to birth weight. Secondary measures will be maximum percent weight
                loss and days to weight nadir.

             -  NAS severity measured by: a) total length of hospital stay for NAS; b) duration of
                NAS treatment; c) mean Finnegan scores on days 2-10; d) maximum concentration of
                morphine used to treat NAS.

        2. Describe the suck quality at 4-6 days of age among methadone exposed infants. Evaluate
           the association between the infant suck quality and infant weight loss and gain patterns
           and measures of NAS severity.

      Design: Women on methadone will be recruited during pregnancy and will attend a single brief
      visit late in pregnancy. After delivery, infants will be randomized in a double blind trial
      of either high-calorie or standard-calorie formula which will be started at 72 hours after
      birth and be continued through 21 days of age. Infants will be weighed daily and will have
      outpatient study visits at 1 and 3 months. For this pilot study, up to 70 mothers will be
      enrolled over 18 months. This pilot study is needed to establish the feasibility of the study
      methods and to better estimate differences that can be observed between the groups. For the
      primary outcome variable, days until the infant returns to birth weight, discrete survival
      methods will be used.

      Potential Impact: Early caloric enhancement for methadone-exposed infants is inexpensive,
      readily available, easy to implement and could improve outcomes of these high-risk infants.
      High-calorie formula could result in a more normal pattern of weight loss and gain, less
      severe NAS symptoms and shorter hospital stays.
    
  