
    
      NeuroPace, Inc. is sponsoring an investigational device study of the RNS® System, the first
      closed loop responsive brain stimulator designed to treat refractory epilepsy. The RNS®
      System LTT study is an open-label multi-center prospective 7-year clinical investigation
      which follows completion of the RNS® System Pivotal or Feasibility study. Data regarding
      safety and efficacy are collected at 6-month intervals, and data regarding quality of life
      are collected at yearly intervals.

      The study is designed to assess the ongoing safety and to evaluate the long-term efficacy of
      the RNS® System as an adjunctive therapy in reducing the frequency of medically uncontrolled
      and disabling partial onset seizures that start from one or two areas of the brain.

      The RNS® System LTT study will provide additional data on the safety and efficacy of the RNS®
      System for 7 years following a subject's completion of the RNS® System Feasibility or Pivotal
      studies. Data from the RNS® System LTT study will be combined with data collected during the
      RNS® System Feasibility and Pivotal studies, resulting in 9 total years of post-implant
      follow-up data. These data will be used to calculate long-term SAE rate, percent change in
      seizure frequency (from pre-implant baseline), as well as the frequency of sudden unexplained
      death in epilepsy (SUDEP).

      The RNS® Neurostimulator (a pacemaker-like device) and NeuroPace® Leads (tiny wires with
      electrodes) are implanted in the head. The Neurostimulator is a battery powered,
      microprocessor controlled device that detects and stores records of electrographic patterns
      (such as epileptiform, or seizure-like, activity) from the Leads within the brain. When the
      device detects an electrographic pattern, it responds by sending electrical stimulation
      through the Leads to a small part of the patient's brain to interrupt the electrographic
      pattern. This type of treatment is called responsive stimulation, but it is not yet known if
      it will work for the treatment of epilepsy. Direct brain stimulation therapy has already
      received approval in the United States, Europe, Canada, and Australia for the treatment of
      Essential Tremor and Parkinson's disease. Direct brain stimulation is not approved for the
      treatment of epilepsy.
    
  