
    
      Severe traumatic brain injury, especially after a high energy trauma, is characterised with
      focal lesions and diffuse axonal injury, which leads to the dysfunction in the
      cortico-spinal, cortico- cortical connections and reticular activation system. Formatio
      reticularis plays an important role in arousal. Tactile and proprioceptive stimulation with a
      view to improving level of consciousness in coma patients is popular in the western world
      despite insufficient evidence of its effectiveness. Affolter-Bobath-Coombes-concept is the
      most commonly used tool in the rehabilitation of brain damaged patients. This concept is
      based on the theory that tactile, proprioceptive and oral stimulation develops new
      connections in the brain and thereby stimulates consciousness and behaviour. Elliot et al
      shows improvement in level of consciousness due to postural changes from a lying position to
      a standing posture in 8 of 12 patients using Wessex Head Injury Matrix.

      Passive movements result in proprioceptive stimulation; the effect of which is close to that
      achieved by physiological voluntary activity. PET and fMRI studies show that passive
      movements activate several areas in the motor cortex.

      In order to increase afferent cortical input, passive gait training in the body weight
      support robotic gait orthosis could be used in patients with impaired consciousness,
      inability to cooperate and poor balance. This device gives the possibility to establish
      therapeutically correct upright body position and passive legs movement simultaneously.

      To our knowledge there are no studies, which illustrate the effects of passive gait training
      on cortical activity in patients with impaired consciousness due to severe traumatic brain
      injury.

      Our hypothesis is that passive gait training of this group of patients increases arousal,
      which can be shown in an increased EEG (electroencephalogram)-frequency and increased
      conductivity speed of the cognitive P300-component of ERP (Event Related Potentials).

      Comparison(s): EEG- and ERP-activity after a single training session in robotic gait orthosis
      in patients with severe traumatic brain injury, compared to EEG- and ERP-activity after a
      single training session in robotic gait orthosis in healthy persons.
    
  