
    
      Study Design

      This study is to establish the MTD of TSB-9-W1 for mCRC patients with a traditional 3+3 dose
      escalation method.

      Study Structure

      A dose escalation scenario is designed to determine the MTD according to the DLT.

      Dose escalation scale:

      The dose levels of investigation product are planned to be administered for determining MTD
      and DLT.

      Dose escalation scenario:

      Patients will be enrolled in a cohort of 3 patients for each dose level. Dose escalation will
      proceed sequentially from the lowest dose cohort. No intra-subject dose escalation is
      allowed. Each patient's first dose will be at least 3-day apart from the very next patient's
      first dose.

      DLT (except diarrhea) is determined by (NCI-CTCAE) version 4.03 (2010/6/14) defined treatment
      related toxicity ≥ grade 3 and is worsen from the baseline. Any grade ≥ 3 toxicity (except
      for diarrhea) is considered a DLT unless there is a clear alternative explanation as to the
      attribution of the adverse event. Diarrhea event is considered as a DLT if the episode is
      with NCI-CTCAE Grade of 3 and this event lasts > 3 days despite appropriate supportive cares
      or if it is a Grade 4 event. Diarrhea event reaches Grade 4 will trigger the patient to
      withdraw from the study. AEs are evaluated according to the NCI-CTCAE version 4.03 as
      determined by the investigator to be at least possibly related in causality to the IP
      administration.

      DLT is to be observed during the first 6-treatment cycles (1 cycle = 5 days). If none of the
      first 3 patients experience DLT, then dose escalation will proceed for the next cohort of
      patients unless the present dose level is level 5 (1000 mg/day). If 1 of 3 patients develops
      DLT, the cohort will be expanded to 6 patients (another 3 patients to be added subsequently).
      If no more than 1 of the 6 patients experiences DLT, then escalation to the next dose level
      will proceed unless the present dose level is level 5. If more than 1 patient develops DLT in
      any dose cohort, the dose escalation will be withheld and the prior dose level is considered
      as the MTD unless present dose level is level 1 (200 mg/day).

      Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) meeting will be held to review safety data prior to
      each dose escalation

      Cut-off criteria Enrolled patients will be treated until disease progression. This study will
      be ended while either condition below is confirmed.

        1. All patients are Disease Progression (PD) or death or loss of follow up.

        2. Last treated patient receives 9-month treatment.

      Duration of Treatment

      TSB-9-W1 in a 5-day treatment cycle until disease progression or study cut-off.

      Compensation/reward information

      There is no Compensation/reward for subject attend the study.

      Results

      Primary Endpoint:

      MTD and DLTs DCR assessed by RECIST 1.1.
    
  