
    
      Background:

      Diarrhea, defined as passage of loose or watery stool 3 times or more in a 24 hour period, is
      the 2nd leading cause of death in under-five children. It accounts for 531,000 deaths among
      5.9 million globally and 7,140 deaths among 119,000 Bangladeshi under-five deaths in 2015.
      Countries of Africa and South-East Asia, particularly India, Nigeria, Congo, Afghanistan,
      Pakistan, Ethiopia and Bangladesh face around 80% of total diarrhea related death of the
      world. Use of ORS and zinc reduced the number of diarrheal deaths, especially from acute
      diarrhea to 0.8%. However, when diarrhea continued for 14 days or more and which does not
      include recurrent or chronic diarrhea, such as coeliac disease, cystic fibrosis or congenital
      diarrheal disorders, it is known as persistent diarrhea (PD). In low and middle income
      countries 3%-23% of acute diarrheal episodes turn to PD. PD has been responsible for 30-62%,
      diarrhea associated deaths of young children in low- and middle- income countries. And in
      Bangladesh, PD accounted for more than 25% of all diarrhea related deaths among children aged
      1-4 years and 40% of them were found malnourished.An international working group had
      developed and tested an algorithm through a multi country cohort for the treatment of PD
      nearly twenty years ago.However, this stepwise dietary algorithm increases the duration of
      hospital stay. To reduce the osmotic burden frequently children are given 3/4th strength
      diet. Though these diets are iso-osmolar, they provide suboptimal energy to the children.
      Several studies demonstrated the beneficial effect of green banana (GB) (whole green banana
      fruit, Musa paradisiacal sapientum) in the resolution of PD.The anti-diarrheal action of GB
      is postulated to be mediated by its high content of amylase-resistant starch (ARS), which is
      not digested in the small intestine of humans. On reaching the colon, it is fermented by
      resident bacteria into the short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) butyrate, propionate, and acetate.
      In the colon, SCFA stimulate salt and water absorption as well as provide energy and induce a
      trophic effect on the colonic as well as small-bowel mucosa. As 3/4th strength rice suiji is
      not providing sufficient calorie we are proposing to give full-strength rice suji as one
      intervention, and to ascertain the efficacy of GB in children suffering from undernutrition
      and/or co-morbidities we are proposing to give GB mix full strength rice suiji as another
      intervention.

      Study design: This will be an open-labeled randomized controlled clinical trial with three
      treatment arms (3/4th strength rice suji, full strength rice suji with modification and GB
      mixed full strength rice suji). Investigators will prospectively screen, children > 6 to 36
      months of age admitted to the Dhaka hospital of icddr,b, with PD or developed PD during their
      treatment period and failed to respond with milk suji and enroll them for the study.
      Thereafter permuted block randomization technique will be followed to select treatment arms
      for each child.

      Study Area: The study will be conducted at the Dhaka hospital of the International Centre for
      Diarrheal Disease Research, Bangladesh (icddr,b), Dhaka, Bangladesh.This hospital provides
      care and treatment to over 140,000 patients annually of all ages and either sex, among them
      the number of under-five children were 83285. For critically ill patients there is an
      intensive care unit (ICU) facility present within the hospital, equipped with necessary life
      support measures including mechanical ventilators, syringe pump for vasopressor support.

      Clinical management:

      Usually children having PD will be admitted to the longer stay unit of the Dhaka hospital. An
      initial routine investigation will be done by the treating unit to identify the etiology of
      diarrhea whether infectious or noninfectious by doing stool RE and RS; TC, DC, Hb%. If stool
      RE suggestive of invasive diarrhea, appropriate antibiotic will be provided according to
      hospital protocol. During this period, milk suji, a low lactose diet, will be given as a
      routine diet. If child's PD resolved with milk suji, the child will be discharged with common
      health related advices. On day 4 (3 days after milk suji), if PD doesn't resolve, the child
      will be enrolled in the study and randomization will be done. The child will get either of
      the three diets- green banana mixed full strength rise suji, full strength rice suji, or
      3/4th strength rice suji. With any of these diets, a child will be followed for 7 days. If
      there is deterioration of diarrhea (either increased frequency or watery consistency) for 3
      days or condition remains static up to 7 days the child will be declared as treatment
      failure. Because this study duration will be for 7 days, after these one week of management,
      the child will not remain in the study and will receive standard management of the Dhaka
      hospital of icddr,b.

      Sample size:

      With 80 % power and 5% type I error and considering three treatment arms, Investigators need
      40 children in each arm. If 45 children is enrolled in each arm,it will be able to
      accommodate up to 11 % attrition

      So, the total sample size = 45*3= 135
    
  