
    
      Adult patients will be included by consecutive manner from the diagnostic center at the
      Faculty of Dentistry.

      All the patient information and medical history will be obtained from the patient and
      recorded byte principal investigator of this study.

      Dental examinationof permanent fully erupted teeth will be performed by the principal
      investigator of this study, excluding third molars, retained roots, and implants.

      Periodontal examinations will be performed using full-mouth periodontal examination (FMEP)
      methodology.

      Periodontitis is defined here as 1-2 mm clinical attachment loss (CAL)in interproximal area
      in two non-adjacent teeth and Staging involves four categories (stages 1 through 4) and is
      determined after considering several variables including clinical attachment loss, amount and
      percentage of bone loss, probing depth, presence and extent of angular bony defects and
      furcation involvement, tooth mobility, and tooth loss due to periodontitis.

      Grading includes three levels (grade A - low risk, grade B - moderate risk, grade C - high
      risk for progression) and encompasses, in addition to aspects related to periodontitis
      progression, general health status, and other exposures such as smoking or level of metabolic
      control in diabetes.

      Aim of the Study will be explained to the patient, and informed consent will be given to him
      to sign and will be maintained with the rest of the data .

      The evaluated parameters will be: clinical attachment loss (CAL), probing depth (PD),
      bleeding on probing (BOP), gingival recession (GR), plaque index (PI), furcation involvement
      ,tooth mobility and radiographic examination.

      (CAL)will be Measured from the CEJ to the bottom of the gingival sulcus using Williams
      marking probe.

      PD will be measured at six sites per tooth (mesiobuccal,mid-buccal, distobuccal,
      mesiolingual, mid-lingual and distolingual), PD will be measured as the distance from the
      cemento enamel junction (CEJ) to the bottom of the pocket using Williams marking probe.

      GR will be measured as the distance from the CEJ to the free gingival margin, and this
      assessment will be assigned negative sign if the gingival margin is located coronally to the
      CEJ using Williams marking probe.

      BOP gentle probing of the orifice of the gingival crevice. The periodontal probe will be
      inserted 1 to2 mm into the gingival sulcus starting at one interproximal area and moving to
      the other. If bleeding occurs within 10 seconds a positive finding is recorded.

      PI the measurement of the state of oral hygiene by Silness-Löe Plaque index is based on
      recording both soft debris and mineralized deposits on the teeth using Williams marking
      probe. Missing teeth are not substituted.

      0 No plaque

      1 A film of plaque adhering to the free gingival margin and adjacent area of the tooth. The
      plaque may be seen in situ only after application of disclosing solution or by using the
      probe on the tooth surface.

      2 Moderate accumulation of soft deposit s within the gingival pocket, or the tooth and
      gingival margin, which can be seen with the naked eye.

      3 Abundance of soft matter within the gingival pocket and/or on the tooth and gingival
      margin.

      Furcation involvement will be measured according to Glickman,1953 using Naber's Furcation
      Probe.

      Radiographic examination will be performed by periapical radiograph for the most affected
      area to measure the linear measurement of bone loss & calculate the percentage of bone loss.

      According to the Consensus report of workgroup 2 of the 2017 World Workshop on the
      Classification of Periodontal and Peri-Implant Diseases and Conditions :

      In grade A, there is slow rate of progression where the percentage of bone loss divided by
      age is less than 0.25.

      In grade B there is a moderate rate of progression where the percentage of bone loss divided
      by age is from 0.25 to 1.0.

      In grade C there is a rapid rate of progression where the percentage of bone loss divided by
      age is greater than 1.0.
    
  