
    
      CRT as a treatment for heart failure in selected patients has been shown to decrease both
      hospitalizations and mortality as well as improving symptoms and quality of life, and is
      hence supported by guidelines including NICE (United Kingdom National Institute for clinical
      excellence) . It is achieved by placing a lead to pace the epicardial left ventricle (LV) via
      the coronary sinus and a coronary vein. Unfortunately, in 5-8% of patients the LV lead cannot
      be delivered and in 15-20% the lead is placed in a suboptimal position due to the presence of
      left ventricular scarring, phrenic nerve stimulation or adverse coronary vein anatomy. After
      lead delivery, 20-45% of patients undergoing CRT fail to respond to their implant. Suboptimal
      lead position is thought to be one of the most significant causes of non-response.

      In the case of failed lead placement there are no well-established alternatives. The most
      common solution is open-chest surgery using a thoracotomy to place a lead on the epicardial
      surface of the heart, a procedure with considerable morbidity and a risk of death. Given the
      co-morbidity profile of patients suitable for CRT, and their severe heart failure, many
      patients are not fit enough for surgical lead placement. An alternative approach is a
      percutaneous procedure passing the lead through a puncture in the inter-atrial septum and
      across the mitral valve, in order to pace the endocardial surface of the left ventricle. This
      is achieved in a complex and technically-challenging procedure using both femoral and
      subclavian venous access. This approach exposes a long segment of lead to the systemic
      circulation, particularly in the low-pressure, low-flow left atrium, raising the
      thromboembolic risk. It can also worsen mitral regurgitation and exposes the mitral valve to
      a risk of damage and incompetence should lead extraction be required.

      Recent studies have suggested that LV endocardial pacing offers a number of physiological
      advantages over the conventional epicardial approach. The lead can be positioned at any site
      on the endocardial surface, away from scar tissue and the phrenic nerve and at the site of
      maximal haemodynamic improvement, rather than being limited by venous anatomy, thus improving
      response to CRT. There is also evidence that endocardial pacing may of itself improve
      haemodynamics to a greater extent than epicardial pacing, in both animal models and in acute
      haemodynamic studies in humans, and provide a more physiological mechanism of activation,
      which may be less arrhythmogenic. Consistent with this, response to CRT with endocardial
      pacing in patients who had not responded to epicardial CRT has been reported, and response
      rates in previous reports of LV endocardial pacing have been high at approximately 90%.

      Targeting of CRT lead placement is an important factor and multiple techniques have been
      investigated. Targeting of lead placement guided by the site of latest mechanical activation
      assessed with speckle-tracking echocardiography has been shown to increase response and
      improve long-term clinical outcomes. Anatomy limits epicardial lead positioning and the best
      outcomes were obtained in the 60% of patients with a lead able to be placed in the optimal
      site4. Cardiac output monitoring used to guide lead placement maximizes cardiac output
      achieved and increases the frequency of long term improvement in cardiac function. Electrical
      mapping can identify the site of latest electrical activation, although there is not yet
      evidence as to whether guiding lead position with this improves clinical outcomes. No
      comparisons between these techniques have been performed.

      There is little published so far on how to optimize lead positioning for endocardial LV
      leads. Groups have so far used invasive cardiac output monitoring to assess the best position
      for endocardial leads, and have shown that this optimizes cardiac output at the time of
      implant. Despite the best available evidence for guiding conventional LV lead positioning
      supporting speckle-tracking echocardiography, this has not yet been used for guiding
      endocardial lead positioning.

      The investigators propose to investigate a novel LV endocardial pacing technique using a
      puncture through the inter-ventricular septum. This technique has been developed and used in
      Oxford for a small number of patients, with an initial case series soon to be submitted for
      publication. Potential advantages include that the inter-ventricular septum is punctured from
      the same subclavian vein access site through which the other leads are inserted, and that the
      dilated left ventricular cavity provides a large target, reducing complications. Furthermore,
      lead placement and extraction would not risk damage to the mitral valve.

      All patients who have a left ventricular endocardial pacing lead implanted should be
      anticoagulated to minimize the risk of stroke from systemic thromboembolism. It has
      previously been shown that most lead thrombi arise on (right) atrial leads. The
      investigators' study technique would allow LV endocardial pacing with no lead in the left
      atrium, likely reducing thromboembolic stroke risk. It is likely that a significant
      proportion of patients eligible for this study will already be on warfarin due to prior
      atrial fibrillation or other indications.

      Over the last 12 months the investigators have used this novel technique on 6 patients, all
      of whom had an LV lead safely delivered without complication. Having refined the technique,
      this Phase 2 study aims to assess the feasibility and safety of the procedure in a larger
      cohort of patients as well as documenting echocardiographic, biochemical, and functional
      response.

      The population under study would be two groups: firstly, patients with conventional
      indications for CRT who are not able to have lead implantation via the normal coronary sinus
      route due to adverse anatomy revealed during a failed prior attempt; and secondly, patients
      with a successful conventional CRT lead placement who have not responded to the therapy
      (non-responders). Patients with a failed lead implantation would previously either have been
      considered for surgical epicardial lead implantation or left with no CRT device.
      Non-responders are also assessed for surgical lead implantation if they are felt to be likely
      to respond.

      No single technique is known to define optimal lead positioning, and accordingly the
      investigators intend to use multiple techniques to try and optimize lead positioning, both to
      try and find the optimal site for each patient, and to allow for comparisons between them.
      This would include speckle-tracking echocardiography before the procedure, as well as
      electrical mapping of the LV activation pattern and cardiac output monitoring during the
      procedure.
    
  