
    
      A first-degree family history of colorectal cancer (CRC) or adenoma before age 65 is
      associated with a high risk of CRC. For these high-risk subjects, the French 2013
      recommendations advise colonoscopy screening, but participation is insufficient (26-54%).The
      purpose of this project is to propose, through association of multidisciplinary research
      teams (public health, sociology, linguistic), actors on the field (physicians, organized
      screening facilities), and decision makers, relevant and effective interventions in the
      framework of a public health program, enabling increased participation of relatives of
      patients with CRC or adenoma before age 65 in targeted screening for CRC by colonoscopy.

      Description of the intervention: This program, offered in 4 departments is divided into 3
      phases:

        1. Sensitization of doctors to the recommendations. This is a collaborative work with
           clinicians to enable them i) to take ownership of the problem and generic documents used
           in the previous study and ii) to define an intervention logic to encourage them to
           systematically inform subjects with RCC or advanced adenoma before age 65 the increased
           risk related to their 1st degree.

        2. Coordinated transmission of information from the patient's physician to the relative's
           physician under consent of the patient and his/her relatives. Under the terms
           established with the actors in the previous phase, the physician delivers standard
           information to the index patient, presents the generic documents and may adapt the
           procedure to each patient's needs. With support of the coordination team which collects
           the coordinates of 1st degree relatives, the patient's physician transmits the
           information to the relatives and their doctors. The coordination team, during this
           experimental phase, will be the team of Epidemiology, Cancer Registry of Poitiers
           University Hospital, under the responsibility of public health physicians. The
           coordination team contacts each relative on behalf of the index patient's consent,
           acting by delegation of the index patient's physician, informs about the transmission of
           information given to the index patient, requests the agreement of the relative that the
           patient's doctor would contact his/her doctor to inform, under cover of professional
           secrecy, of the medical context.

        3. Personalized information of relatives by a preventive nurse based on validated
           prevention models (individual psychosocial factors associated with screening and
           behavioral stage). At most two years after diagnosis of the index patient, the
           relative's colonoscopy performance status will be ascertained by the coordination team
           in connection with the attending physician. If the relative has had a colonoscopy
           carried out, the coordination team shall document the results and note the date
           scheduled for the following exam. If the relative has not had a colonoscopy carried out,
           he shall then receive a personalized intervention, based on the intervention evaluated
           in the previous study, as a supplement to the action of his/her doctor.

      Qualitative and quantitative evaluations will follow each phase to measure the acceptability,
      coverage, efficiency, to assess transferability of the program. Moreover the program will be
      evaluated by a population survey conducted by the cancer registry that covers the
      geographical area of the experimentation with data collection that identify exhaustively the
      patients with CRC or high-grade adenoma.
    
  