
    
      Despite the clinical benefit associated with dual therapy consisting in aspirin and
      clopidogrel, there are still a considerable number of patients who continue to have
      atherothrombotic events. Several studies have shown a wide interindividual variability in
      response to clopidogrel treatment and patients with poor response have an increased risk of
      recurrent ischemic events. In particular, patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), have
      a high prevalence of suboptimal response to clopidogrel (up to 40%). This impaired response
      to antiplatelet drugs has been consistently associated with a higher risk of adverse ischemic
      outcomes. Different strategies have been suggested to overcome variability in response to
      clopidogrel and improve clinical outcomes in diabetic patients. One of these strategies is
      the use of newer P2Y12 inhibitors, such as ticagrelor, with more potent and consistent
      platelet inhibitory effects compared to clopidogrel. In summary, since patients with T2DM
      continue to have enhanced platelet reactivity despite the administration of commonly used
      dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and standard doses of clopidogrel, newer and more
      potent antiplatelet treatment strategies are warranted in this high-risk population. The
      purpose of the present study is to compare platelet inhibitory effects achieved with
      ticagrelor versus clopidogrel, both on top of aspirin therapy, in patients with type 2 DM and
      stable coronary artery disease (CAD).

      This is a multi-center prospective, open-label, two-sequence, two-period, randomized
      crossover study conducted in T2DM patients between the ages of 18 and 75 years with known
      CAD. Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion to take ticagrelor (180-mg loading dose the
      first day followed by 90-mg maintenance dose) or clopidogrel (600-mg loading dose the first
      day followed by 75-mg daily maintenance dose) for one-week on a background of aspirin therapy
      (100 mg daily). After a 2-4 week washout period, subjects will cross-over treatment regimen.
      The washout periods are included to minimize carryover effects between treatment regimens.
      Patient compliance will be assessed by interview and pill counting.

      Platelet function testing will be performed at the following time-points (repeated in the two
      periods of treatment): baseline, 2 and 24 hours after taking loading dose of the assigned
      drug, and 1 week after initiating the assigned drug.

      All statistical comparisons of platelet function for the primary and secondary endpoints will
      be conducted using linear mixed-effect models with treatment, sequence, period and
      treatment*period (treatment by period interaction in order to test for carryover effects) as
      fixed effects, subject as a random effect and baseline value of the corresponding platelet
      function test as a covariate. A two-tailed p value of less than 0.05 will be considered to
      indicate a statistically significant difference for all the analyses performed.
    
  