
    
      VISMED® is currently marketed in Europe under the CE mark as a viscoelastic lubricant eye
      drop. The proprietary formulation contains a highly purified specific fraction of sodium
      hyaluronate. Sodium hyaluronate is a natural polymer which is also present in the structures
      of the human eye. Its main physical characteristic is viscoelasticity. This means that
      VISMED® has a high viscosity between blinks and a low viscosity during blinking ensuring
      efficient coating of the surface of the eye. It is believed that this protective coating of
      the surface of the eye helps prevent dryness and irritation. Sodium hyaluronate also
      possesses mucoadhesive properties and the ability to entrap water, thus resembling tear mucus
      glycoprotein. This, together with the coating properties of sodium hyaluronate, results in an
      increased pre-corneal residence time and tear film break-up time (BUT) and therefore longer
      lubrication of the eye surface. VISMED® is completely free of preservatives. As a result, it
      is non-irritating to ocular tissues and can be used frequently and for extended periods
      without harming the surface of the eye (e.g. without causing superficial punctate keratitis).
      Some preservatives are known to cause toxic or allergic reactions, the symptoms of which
      include stinging, burning and redness of the eyes. To further maximize patient comfort, the
      pH of VISMED® is adjusted to 7.3, similar to that of the natural tear film.

      Hydrogels of sodium hyaluronate have been used for many years in ophthalmic surgery in Europe
      and the U.S. to maintain the shape of the eye, to cover surgical instruments and to protect
      the corneal endothelium from damage. They have unique physical properties that make them
      ideal for use in the treatment of Dry Eye Syndrome. Therefore, VISMED® represents a new class
      of compound in development for the treatment of dry eye in the US, offering lubricant
      properties which can alleviate the discomfort and reverse ocular damage caused by dry eye
      syndrome.

      This study is being conducted to supplement the body of knowledge gained from studies
      conducted in Europe and regulatory approvals granted there to formalize the safety and
      efficacy of Vismed® to meet FDA requirements for a New Drug Application to market the product
      in the US.
    
  