
    
      STUDY OBJECTIVE The primary objective of this pilot study is to assess the feasibility of an
      RCT of bariatric surgery compared to MWM in patients with morbid obesity and high-risk CVD.
      If we can demonstrate that this trial is feasible, the next step would be to conduct a
      large-scale RCT to evaluate the efficacy of bariatric surgery for the reduction of
      cardiovascular complications in this patient population.

      STUDY AIMS:

        1. To demonstrate that enrolment of high-risk CVD patients into a bariatric surgery RCT is
           feasible.

        2. To show that it is feasible to perform bariatric surgery in >80% of patients in the
           intervention arm within 30 days of randomization.

        3. To obtain preliminary information on the perioperative risks of bariatric surgery in
           patients with high-risk CVD.

      STUDY HYPOTHESES Study enrollment will be feasible at a rate of at least 1.25 patients per
      centre per month. Timely delivery of the intervention is possible, with >80% of patients
      undergoing bariatric surgery within 30 days of randomization. The rate of crossover between
      the control and intervention arms will be low at <2.5% per year. 30-day mortality rates in
      the intervention group will be comparable to that of an age and gender matched cohort without
      CVD who had bariatric surgery at the 2 study sites during the study period.

      DESIGN The present study is a multicentre, open-label, parallel-arm feasibility RCT with
      blinded endpoint assessment (PROBE design) of bariatric surgery compared to MWM in patients
      with morbid obesity and high-risk CVD.

      Individuals who meet study eligibility criteria will be randomized in 1:1 fashion to
      bariatric surgery (intervention arm) or MWM (control arm). Bariatric surgery will consist of
      laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass or sleeve gastrectomy, performed at the discretion of
      the surgeon and according to local standards.
    
  