
    
      Patients having H. pylori-positive chronic gastritis with/without peptic ulcers will be
      recruited. All undergo endoscopy with biopsy before treatment. Four to eight weeks after
      termination of treatment, H. pylori infection status will be examined by endoscopy with
      biopsy or the Carbon 13-urea breath test if the patients refuse the second endoscopy. The
      cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C19 genotype of each participant will be analyzed by the polymerase
      chain reaction-based restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) method. A computed
      generated random numbers sequence will be blocked into three subgroups, say A1, B1 and C1 (or
      A2, B2, and C2).

      If the patients did not receive anti-H. pylori therapy previously, they will be invited to
      enter the first part of study for evaluating the efficacy of 1st-line regimens. If the
      patients had received anti-H. pylori therapy previously, they will be invited to enter the
      second part of study for evaluating the efficacy of rescue regimens. Patients who meet the
      inclusion criteria and do not have any one of the exclusion criteria will be randomized to
      receive one of the following regimens:

        -  for 1st-line regimens: group A1 - high dose dual therapy (rabeprazole 20 mg qid +
           amoxicillin 750 mg qid for 14 days); group B1 - sequential therapy (rabeprazole 20 mg +
           amoxicillin 1000 mg, bid for 5 days, then rabeprazole 20 mg + metronidazole 500 mg +
           clarithromycin 500 mg, bid for next 5 days); group C1 - clarithromycin-based triple
           therapy (rabeprazole 20 mg + amoxicillin 1000 mg + clarithromycin 500 mg, bid for 7
           days).

        -  for rescue regimens: group A2 - high dose dual therapy (as group A1); group B2 -
           sequential therapy (as group B1); group C2 - levofloxacin-based triple therapy
           (rabeprazole 20 mg + amoxicillin 1000 mg + levofloxacin 250 mg, bid for 7 days).

      All patients will be asked to complete a questionnaire and to record symptoms and drug
      consumption daily during the treatment period. Post-treatment, the patients were seen at the
      Outpatients Clinic to investigate patient adherence and adverse effects of treatment.
    
  