
    
      All eligible patients with complaints of difficulty performing sustained reading tasks, such
      as reading books or magazines, will be evaluated for their preference for filter color and
      lighting using the LuxIQ/2.

      Baseline distance visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, and near visual acuity, will be
      evaluated during initial presentation to the clinic as part of usual care using validated
      tests that are routinely performed during a low vision examination. Best-corrected distance
      visual acuity will be determined using the ETDRS (Early Treatment for Diabetic Retinopathy
      Study) chart. Contrast sensitivity will be evaluated using the MARS contrast sensitivity
      chart. Best-corrected near visual acuity will be evaluated using the Lighthouse Continuous
      Text Card. The LuxIQ/2 will be administered 3 times at 15-minute intervals. Lighting
      preferences will be evaluated 3 times using the Ott Lite Cobra. Each subject will be asked to
      choose between their preferred lighting conditions as determined by the OttLite Cobra and the
      LuxIQ/2, i.e each participant ill choose which lighting conditions is preferred for reading.
      The assessment tool (OTTLite Cobra or LuxIQ/2) which is performed first will be randomized
      for each participant. Microperimetry (a type of visual field test) will be conducted on all
      participants using the MAIA microperimeter at the NSU site only.

      For subjects who do not appreciate an improvement in reading ability with a colored filter in
      office, we will obtain their written informed consent to include data collected during the
      clinical examination. For participants who do not appreciate an improvement in reading
      ability with a colored filter, but who appreciate an improvement in reading ability with
      white light as determined by the LuxIQ/2 in comparison to the OttLite Cobra, appropriate
      light bulb and desk lanp will be provided as determined by the LuxIQ/2. For participants who
      prefer the lighting determined using the Ottlite Cobra, they will be provided with an Ottlite
      Cobra desk lamp as well as their preferred settings on the device as determined through the
      in-office evaluation to be used at home. Participants to whom light bulb recommendations were
      provided or the Ottlite Cobra was recommended to improve lighting for their reading tasks,
      will be contacted by a research assistant 1 week after the in office assessment to complete a
      telephone interview which will consist of an Activity inventory questionnaire which will
      inquire about their difficulty performing near tasks using their previous light source as
      well as Ramulu's sustained reading test. The Ramulu sustained reading test will be performed
      twice during the phone interview, once with their previous lighting they were using at home
      before they obtained the new reading lamp (where they do most of their reading) and again
      with their new desk lamp. After 1 month, the research assistant will call the participant to
      repeat the Activity questionnaire inquiring about ability to perform near tasks using the new
      recommended lighting.

      For participants who appreciate an improvement in reading ability with colored reading
      glasses, we will obtain their written informed consent to join the longer-term study.

        -  Reading materials will be provided to participants in an enclosed envelope in office.
           Participants will be asked to refrain from opening envelope until contacted by research
           assistant. Other individuals who decide to participate at a later time after
           contemplating the requirements of the research, will be sent the reading material in the
           mail.

        -  A research assistant will contact subject 1 week after in office assessment to complete
           telephone interview which will consist of the reading domain of the Activity Inventory
           questionnaire and the modified Telephone Interview of Cognitive Status (TICS-M) and
           silent reading test. During the call, subject will be asked to read several pages of a
           short story to themselves, silently using their current reading glasses, not the new
           ones that will be ordered. Subjects will be asked to answer a few questions about the
           stories. This call should take about 30-60 minutes.

        -  Subjects will be provided with new prescription clear reading glasses. After 1 month a
           research assistant will contact participant to repeat the same questionnaires and silent
           reading test using a different short story.

        -  Within a month after the phone questionnaires, the PI will make an appointment to come
           to the subject's home to test near vision and contrast sensitivity and determine
           preference for filter in home environment. At this time, the PI may ask for the new pair
           of clear reading glasses to take them to our optical to tint the lenses to the color
           that is preferred by the subject.

        -  One group will obtain near vision glasses with color filter/tinted lenses immediately,
           while the other group (controls) will continue to wear the clear reading glasses for
           another 4 weeks and will then will crossover to obtain near vision glasses with the
           filter/tinted lenses.

        -  About a month after wearing near reading glasses with the colored lenses, one of our
           research assistants will call participant to repeat the same questionnaires and silent
           reading test again using a different short story. This call should take about 30-45
           minutes.

        -  At the end a low vision optometrist on the research team will contact participants to
           ask some open-ended questions about what the participant thought about using the near
           reading glasses with the colored lenses. This call should take about 15-30 minutes.
    
  