
    
      This randomized pilot study is an important first step in planning a large multi-center
      clinical trial to evaluate medical and laser approaches that could improve the visual outcome
      for patients with diabetic retinopathy. This study will provide preliminary safety data on
      these therapies as well as allow for assessment of the performance of ocular outcomes and
      study design for use in subsequent trials. If there are no safety concerns, the results of
      this pilot will be helpful in the design of a large multicenter clinical trial by providing
      data on estimates of expected treatment effects. A larger trial will proceed regardless of
      whether or not this study identifies statistically significant main effects.

      Using a partial factorial design, this study will compare (1) diode (micropulse) laser
      photocoagulation to mild ETDRS style focal photocoagulation and, (2) treatment with Vitamin
      E, a COX-2 inhibitor (celecoxib), or placebo prior to and following laser photocoagulation.
      The primary safety outcome is a visual acuity drop of 15 letters or more from baseline one
      year following initial laser treatment. The primary efficacy outcome will be reduction of the
      retinal thickening defined as an improvement by at least two steps (on standard fundus
      photos) combined with a 50% reduction in the area of fluorescein leakage one year after the
      initial laser compared to baseline. A secondary outcome will be the change in macular height
      as measured (OCT). These outcomes will be assessed for potential use in future trials.
      Concerns regarding safety and efficacy follow:

      Safety

      Is the risk of visual loss in patients with clinically significant diabetic macular edema
      potentially different across treatment groups?

      Preliminary Assessment of Potential Outcomes

      Is there evidence that any treatment combinations could be effective in reducing retinal
      thickening?

      Is there evidence that Vitamin E may affect the ability of either photocoagulation method to
      reduce retinal thickening, or vice versa?

      Is there evidence that celecoxib may inhibit retinal thickening?

      What are the estimated treatment effects on vision?

      Is the number of laser treatments required to achieve a reduction in retinal thickening
      similar across treatment groups?

      A tertiary objective of this study will be to examine the effects of dramatically reducing
      low-density lipoproteins cholesterol in patients with diabetic macular edema and elevated
      serum lipids. Change vision and retinal thickness will be compared across three groups; (1)
      patients without elevated serum lipids at baseline, (2) patients with elevated lipids at
      baseline and receive standard of care treatment, and (3) patients with elevated lipids at
      baseline and are aggressively treated pharmacologically.
    
  