
    
      Lung transplantation is the only treatment option that augments survival in patients with
      idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Despite several advancements in lung transplantation
      over the past three decades, long-term survival rates have remained low compared to other
      solid organ transplantations. The median survival after lung transplantation is only 5.8
      years. Multiple factors account for the relatively low survival post-transplant, but chronic
      rejection resulting in obliterative bronchiolitis is a predominate cause. Further research is
      needed to develop medical therapeutic interventions that improve survival in IPF patients who
      undergo only single lung transplantation.

      Nintedanib, a novel tyrosine kinase inhibitor, exhibits antifibrotic properties via multiple
      mechanisms including the inhibition of the receptor tyrosine kinases platelet derived growth
      factor (PDGF) receptor, fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor, and vascular endothelial
      growth factor (VEGF) receptor. Several mediators of pulmonary fibrosis including VEGF, FGF,
      and transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) have also been implicated in the pathogenesis of
      bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS), the most common type of chronic lung allograft
      rejection.

      Nintedanib is safe to continue until the time of lung transplantation and has not been shown
      to worsen perioperative outcomes in small case series, single center cohorts and our center's
      personal experience. The current practice in lung transplant medicine is to discontinue
      antifibrotic therapy after lung transplantation in IPF. In IPF patients who undergo single
      lung transplant, nintedanib therapy has the potential to preserve lung function in both the
      native fibrotic lung and the new lung allograft.

      The investigators propose a randomized and placebo-controlled single center pilot trial
      comparing nintedanib therapy plus usual care to usual care only in IPF patients after single
      lung transplant. The investigators hypothesize that in IPF subjects who undergo single lung
      transplantation the administration of nintedanib 150 mg twice daily in addition to usual
      transplant care will result in better preservation of lung function at 24 months.
    
  