
    
      Adenocarcinoma of the endometrium is the fourth most frequent cancer in women. Surgery is the
      treatment of choice in patients with noninvasive or locally advanced disease. The surgical
      technique consists of an exploratory laparotomy, with total hysterectomy, bilateral
      oophorectomy, peritoneal washing, and, in selected high-risk patients, omental and peritoneal
      biopsies and lymphadenectomy. Therefore, preoperative clinical and instrumental staging of
      the local spread of disease, as well as local and distant lymph node involvement, represent a
      critical step in tailoring the extent and the radicalness of surgery.

      The role of angiogenesis in cancer growth and metastasis has been gaining much attention for
      decades. Recent clinical evidence supports this notion. The gradual increase in angiogenesis
      intensity with tumor progression in malignant melanoma has been reported. Abulafia et al.
      observed that increasing angiogenicity from simple hyperplasia, complex hyperplasia, atypical
      hyperplasia, and Stage IA endometrial carcinoma to invasive endometrial carcinoma has been
      found by histopathologic examination. Several articles have reported that transvaginal color
      and pulse Doppler ultrasound may be helpful blood in the evaluation of various gynecologic
      tumors. Besides, our previous studies have also shown that incremental angiogenesis could be
      demonstrated in the tumorigenesis and the possibility of lymph node metastasis in endometrial
      malignancy. Other growth factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), TGF-,
      IL-6, and IL-8 have also been reported to correlate with the angiogenesis and the metastasis
      of endometrial cancer. It seems that tumor angiogenesis of endometrial cancer could be
      utilized as an important parameter to assess the disease severity of the endometrial cancer.

      Determining microvessel density is regarded as a standard procedure to quantitate tumor
      angiogenesis. However, microvessel density always has been assessed retrospectively and in
      vitro. Preoperative prediction of the microvessel density would be of value clinically for
      evaluating severity and progression of disease.

      So, we would like to propose this proposal to focus on the tumor angiogenesis in endometrial
      cancer patients. Endometrial cancer patients who will receive staging surgery will be
      enrolled in this study. Functional MRI, and transvaginal sonography will be undergone before
      the surgery in each patient. The angiogenesis-related growth factors will be evaluated later
      from the surgical specimens. The clinical pathologic items, various angiogenic parameters
      obtained from the MRI and sonography, and angiogenesis-related factors will be compared and
      correlated together. There are several purposes in this study. First, we will evaluate and
      compare tumor angiogenesis surveyed from functional MRI and power Doppler sonography in
      endometrial cancer patients who receive surgery. Second, we will evaluate whether tumor
      angiogenesis could be a marker to predict the disease severity of endometrial cancer. Third,
      we will elucidate the role of functional MRI in endometrial cancer.

      Endometrial cancer patients with histopathologic proof who are arranged to receive staging
      surgery are eligible. All patients will undergo surgery, including total abdominal
      hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, and pelvic and/or para-aortic lymph node
      dissection or sampling. Surgical specimens will be evaluated for tumor size, histologic
      grading, depth of myometrial invasion, and presence of lymphovascular emboli and lymph node
      metastasis. Stage will be determined using the International Federation of Gynecology and
      Obstetrics classification. Tumors of histologic types other than adenocarcinoma and
      adenoacanthoma will be excluded. The carcinomas were classified using a three-grade system:
      grade 1 carcinomas showed glandular formation in more than 95% of the tumor, grade 2
      carcinomas showed a solid growth pattern in 5-50%, and grade 3 carcinomas showed a solid
      pattern in more than 50%. All of the patients who will be enrolled into this study need to
      sign the consent form and the study protocol will be under the approval of the Institutional
      Review Board of the patient's hospital.
    
  