
    
      Lymphedema is a lifetime condition which tends to worsen over time, affecting roughly 21% of
      of treated breast cancer patients. An initial intensive rehabilitative treatment is usually
      prescribed to reduce the lymphedema, followed by a maintenance program using compression
      sleeves (Standard Care). However, compression sleeves are prescribed for daytime use only due
      to the potential tourniquet effect of the sleeve rolling up or bunching during the night.

      Compression Bandages (short stretch, low elasticity) can be used at night but proper
      application takes 20-30 minutes, require skill to apply properly and are costly. Various
      types of night-compression system garments (NCSGs) have been designed as alternatives to
      Compression Bandages (CB).

      The objectives of this study are to determine:

        1. Whether the addition of night-time compression (using CB or NCSG) to standard care
           (daytime compression only) improves control of arm lymphedema.

        2. Whether the use of NCSGs result in better outcomes in quality of life, sleep, treatment
           compliance and patient independence than use of Compression Bandages.

      The hypotheses are that:

        1. Standard care plus the addition of NCSG will provide statistically significant
           improvement in management of arm lymphedema volume compared to standard care alone at 12
           weeks.

        2. Standard care plus the addition of Compression Bandages will provide statistically
           significant improved management of arm lymphedema volume compared to standard care alone
           at 12 weeks.

        3. Standard care plus the addition of NCSG will provide statistically significant benefit
           in quality of life, sleep and self-efficacy over standard care plus Compression
           Bandaging at 12 weeks.

      Group 1: Standard care weeks 1 - 12 Group 2: Standard care plus night-time Compression
      Bandaging weeks 1 - 12 Group 3: Standard care plus night-time use of NCSG weeks 1 - 12

      All three groups will adopt NCSG use after the 12 week assessments have been done (weeks 13 -
      24).

      Sample size = 40 participants per group, for a total of 120 patients at three sites.

      Participants will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to Standard, CB or NCSG using a secure
      central randomization service administered by the Clinical Trials Unit of the Cross Cancer
      Institute. Women enrolled in the study will be stratified by accruing site and by lymphedema
      severity (i.e. mild versus moderate lymphedema as per the classification criteria of the
      International Society of Lymphology).

      Arm volume (by Perometer) and arm fluid (by Bioimpedance analysis) will be measured and
      compared to that of the unaffected arm. BIA measures the impedance of flow from a low
      alternating electrical current that is applied to the body through a skin electrode. BIA
      records impedance values for each limb and provides an index that correlates with
      quantitative measurements of volume increase in limb size seen in the arm with lymphedema.
      This measurement will provide information on extracellular fluid changes that complements the
      data on arm lymphedema volume. An Independent Assessor unaware of treatment allocation
      (blinded) will perform the measurements of arm volume using the perometer, bioimpedance
      analysis, and body weight at baseline, 6, 12, 18 and 24 weeks. The duration of the primary
      intervention will be 12 weeks. Following the 12-week intervention period, participants in the
      CB and standard care groups will be measured for a NCSG.

      The follow-up period after the intervention (weeks 13 to 24) will follow a longitudinal
      observational design and provide an opportunity to examine factors related to long-term
      adherence to night-time compression. Lymphedema specific questionnaires and subject diary
      will be completed at 6, 12, 18 and 24 weeks to assess subject's Quality of Life, sleep
      disturbance, self-efficacy and treatment adherence.
    
  