
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the feasibility of radiochemotherapy comprising oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and
           leucovorin calcium (FOLFOX regimen) vs fluorouracil and cisplatin (Herskovic regimen) in
           patients with inoperable esophageal cancer. (Phase II)

        -  To assess the endoscopic complete response rate in patients treated with these regimens.
           (Phase II)

        -  To compare the event-free survival of patients treated with these regimens. (Phase III)

      Secondary

        -  To assess the toxicity profile of these regimens using the NCI CTC v2.0 criteria. (Phase
           II)

        -  To compare the overall survival, endoscopic complete response rate, incidence of grade
           3-4 toxicities, and time to treatment failure in patients treated with these regimens.
           (Phase III)

        -  To evaluate the quality of life of these patients using EORTC QLQ-C30 (version 3) and a
           validated disease-specific module EORTC QLQ-OES18. (Phase III)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to histological type
      (adenocarcinoma or adenosquamous carcinoma vs squamous cell carcinoma), pretreatment weight
      loss within the past 6 months (grade 1 [< 10%] vs grade 2 [≥ 10%]), ECOG performance status
      (0 vs 1 vs 2), and participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (modified FOLFOX 4 regimen): Patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5
           weeks. Beginning concurrently with radiotherapy, patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2
           hours and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously
           over 46 hours on days 1 and 2. Treatment with chemotherapy repeats every 2 weeks for up
           to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (Herskovic regimen): Patients undergo radiotherapy as in arm I. Patients also
           receive cisplatin IV continuously over 24 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV
           continuously over 96 hours on days 1-4 of weeks 1, 5, 8, and 11 in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, periodically during study therapy, and then every 6
      months for 1 year and annually for 3 years after completion of study therapy.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3-6 months
      until disease progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 97 patients will be accrued for the phase II portion of the
      study. A total of 169 patients will be accrued for the phase III portion of the study.
    
  