
    
      Although there are some studies where they used conventional ultrasound and contrast enhanced
      ultrasound (CEUS) on CD patients to construct ultrasonographic scoring systems, there is
      currently no validated scores used in daily clinical practice. Even though CEUS provides
      potentially useful information, the method requires extensive sonographic training, high-end
      scanners and is time-consuming, making this technique less suitable in daily life. In
      contrast, conventional ultrasound can be performed using portable ultrasound system and
      requires less training. Furthermore, evidence suggests that bowel wall thickness predicts
      endoscopic remission better than CEUS. Thus, conventional ultrasound should be used to
      construct an ultrasonographic scoring system.

      In a recent study, we used multiple linear regression to select which simple conventional
      ultrasound parameters that should be included in an ultrasound scoring system (Simple
      Ultrasound Score of Crohn's Disease (SUS-CD)) using endoscopy as a reference. In this study,
      the primary objective is to validate the SUS-CD scoring system using a validated endoscopic
      score (Simple endoscopic activity score for Crohn's disease (SES-CD)) as reference standard
      and further to assess interobserver variability. Secondary objectives are to assess if
      changes in the SUS-CD score correlate to clinical and biochemical disease activity parameters
      used in CD, and to examine if SUS-CD could be used to predict treatment effect.

      Intervention:

      All patients will be examined with trans-abdominal ultrasound and ileocolonoscopy, and
      relevant blood and faeces samples will be collected.

      Ultrasound:

      The ultrasound examinations will be performed with a mid to high range ultrasound scanner
      equipped with a curvilinear abdominal probe and a high frequency probe. Frequency, focus and
      gain settings are optimised to get the best images of the patient. First, a curvilinear probe
      providing good depth penetration is used to get overview and to identify gross pathology.
      Next, a detailed examination of the large bowel is performed by scanning systematically from
      the terminal ileum and further distally, using a linear probe with high frequency. The colon
      is examined in both longitudinal and transverse views. The rectum is examined using the
      curvilinear probe because the bowel-segment is deeply located. The sonographic examination is
      scored according to the SUS-CD. Still images and cine loops in each segment are stored and
      the locations are identified using external markers obtained from the US-machine. The
      examiner is blinded to the findings on ileocolonoscopy and biochemical parameters when
      performing the ultrasound examinations.

      Color Doppler can be used to evaluate bowel wall vascularity. All bowel segments are scanned
      with color-coded Doppler sonography using standardized settings and velocity scale and wall
      filter adjusted to the lowest settings, enabling registration of lower velocities in the
      intestinal wall. The data is saved as a cine loop, and the color-Doppler scores are
      registered in SUS-CD.

      Main study parameter:

      Conventional ultrasonographic parameters in SUS-CD: bowel wall thickness, stratification,
      colour Doppler, fatty wrapping.

      Other parameters: Endoscopic disease activity score (SES-CD), blood and faecal inflammatory
      parameters, clinical disease activity (Harvey Bradshaw Index).

      Interobserver reliability:

      All patients included at Haukeland University Hospital are scanned by two observers to assess
      interobserver reliability. None of the observers are aware of the SES-CD, however, the
      Montreal classification is known.
    
  