
    
      Adjuvant aromatase inhibitor (AI) therapy improves disease-free and overall survival for
      postmenopausal women after surgery for hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. Among
      symptoms associated with AI therapy are changes in cognitive function. Up to 25% of
      postmenopausal women with breast cancer report that they experience changes in cognitive
      function during AI therapy. Studies using neuropsychological tests found subtle
      deteriorations in verbal and visual learning and memory-as well as concentration, working
      memory, and executive function-for as many as a third of these patients. Changes in cognitive
      function may be associated with changes in affect (e.g., worry, depressive symptoms). Neural
      markers of cognitive changes, including changes in brain function and structure, may underlie
      changes in cognitive function.

      The investigators' recent preliminary neuroimaging work to describe neural markers of
      cognitive changes suggests that postmenopausal women with breast cancer have inefficient
      cognitive-emotion processing before AI therapy, as evidenced by greater neural activity in
      the hippocampus (working memory) and amygdala (emotion processing) during task performance
      compared to controls. During AI therapy, patients show differential activation compared to
      controls in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (executive function and working memory),
      medial prefrontal cortices (cortical control of amygdala responses), and hippocampus.

      Stress responses could partially explain relationships between AI therapy and neural markers
      of cognitive changes. The Mindfulness Stress-Buffering Account suggests that interventions
      such as Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) may improve stress responses by attenuating
      negative appraisals of stress and reducing reactivity to stressful situations. For example,
      mindfulness meditation improved psychological stress responses in women with breast cancer.
      It improved some measures of cognitive function. Mindfulness practices reduced physiological
      markers of stress responses, including inflammatory markers in women with breast cancer and
      in stressed community adults, as well as cortisol reactivity for breast cancer survivors and
      during chemotherapy for colorectal cancer. Although similar neural deficits as were found in
      the investigators' preliminary work have been shown to improve in stressed adult populations
      using MBSR, it is not known whether the intervention improves neural deficits in women taking
      AI therapy (estrogen, production of which is blocked by AI therapy, is neuroprotective and
      promotes neural plasticity). Genetic variability was previously found to moderate the effect
      of MBSR on self-reported cognitive function. Therefore, it is possible that inter-individual
      variability in the expression of genes involved in stress responses could moderate
      relationships between AI therapy and neural markers of cognitive changes during MBSR. Taken
      together, MBSR may improve neural markers of cognitive changes shown in preliminary work to
      be deficient in postmenopausal women before and during AI therapy for breast cancer by
      targeting stress responses. Changes in these neural markers may correspond to improved
      self-report and neuropsychological measures of cognitive function.

      Hypothesis: Stress reduction, moderated by gene expression, blunts the impact of AI therapy
      on neural markers of cognitive function, thereby improving cognitive function and affect in
      women with breast cancer.
    
  