
    
      Myeloid-derived suppressor cells utilize different mechanisms to block both innate and
      adaptive arms of anti-tumour immunity, mostly through inhibition of T cell activation and
      expansion . Human monocytic myeloid derived suppressor cells are mostly identified as CD14+
      cells with negative or low expression of HLADR. And also express high levels of CD11b and
      CD33 antigen . Human granulocytic myeloid derived suppressor cells are usually defined as
      CD66b+ CD11b+ CD15+ HLADR- cells and display an intermediate expression of CD33 and a
      variable expression of CD11b, depending on their maturation stage .

      Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a hematological cancer, characterized by a reciprocal
      chromosomal translocation between chromosomes 9 and 22 [t(9;22)], producing the Bcr-Abl
      oncogene. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors represent the standard of care for CML patients and
      exert a dual mode of action: direct oncokinase inhibition and restoration of
      effector-mediated immune surveillance, which is rendered dysfunctional in CML patients at
      diagnosis, prior to TKI therapy. TKIs such as imatinib, and more potent second-generation
      nilotinib and dasatinib induce a high rate of deep molecular response (DMR, BCR-ABL1 ≤ 0.01%)
      in CML patients. As a result, the more recent goal of therapy in CML treatment is to induce a
      durable deep molecular response as a prelude to successful treatment-free remission .

      Accumulation of both Gr-MDSCs and Mo-MDSCs cells has been found in the peripheral blood of
      chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients. They are part of the tumor clone showing BCR/ABL
      expression.

      BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) are able to induce remission in CML patients but not
      to eliminate leukemia stem cells , which can regenerate leukemia on drug discontinuation .

      Unfortunately, molecular relapse is observed after cessation of tyrosine kinase inhibitors in
      61-66% of CML patients, previously in complete molecular response (presumably due to the
      reactivation of dormant CML LSCs that are resistant to TKI-induced leukemic cell ablation.
      Thus, current research efforts aim to develop additional therapies to target these
      TKI-refractory CML LSCs .

      With the aim of increasing cure rates and make it possible for patients to discontinue
      treatment, TKI therapies are currently evaluated in combination with immune modulators .
    
  