
    
      This is a longitudinal, observational study of mid-life women spanning one year.There will be
      frequent monitoring of food consumption, individual activity and individual- level factors
      thought to influence food consumption and activity such as dietary restraint, subjective
      stress, sleep quality and duration, and physiological stress as measured by allostatic load.

      Specific aims:

        1. To identify seasonal changes in %BF of mid-life women.

           Participant's percentage of body fat will fluctuate, and will be highest at the end of
           the winter season and lowest at the end of the summer season.

        2. To describe predictors of seasonal changes in %BF.

      There will be no intervention other than frequent monitoring of food consumption, individual
      activity and individual- level factors thought to influence food consumption and activity
      such as dietary restraint, subjective stress, sleep quality and duration, and physiological
      stress as measured by allostatic load. The volunteers will be asked to complete a 7-day
      activity and energy expenditure monitoring period (along with body composition assessment,
      questionnaires regarding individual factors thought to affect food consumption and activity,
      blood draw and urine collection to measure allostatic load) in each of the four seasons over
      a 12-month period; between monitoring periods they will come to the GFHNRC for measurement of
      weight, skin carotenoids for assessment of fruit and vegetable intake, and to provide a
      morning urine sample monthly (8 times), and receive emails reminding them to log on to a
      secure server and complete a 24-hr recall 3 times a month (36 times during the year).

      The ASA-24 will be administered to assess nutritional intake; Actigraph GT3X+, Actitrainer,
      and QStarz GPS logger will be used to assess physical activity. Physiological stress will be
      assessed using the allostatic load index.
    
  