
    
      Asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are chronic respiratory disorders
      with high prevalence in the general population. Tobacco smoking is the leading risk factor
      for COPD, and has been associated with higher risk for uncontrolled asthma. Tobacco smoking
      is widely extended in the general population and is highly associated with cannabis use,
      which is the most consumed illicit drug in Spain. Other described risk factors for poor lung
      function are metabolic alterations such as insulin resistance and diabetes, and even
      abdominal obesity. Patients with psychosis present remarkably higher prevalence of tobacco
      and cannabis consumption than the general population and higher risk for developing metabolic
      alterations such as obesity and diabetes at the long-run.

      Despite these premises, the effect of metabolic alterations and tobacco and cannabis smoking
      on the respiratory health has been poorly studied. Previous studies, mainly based on
      patients' registers showed an increased risk for COPD and uncontrolled asthma in patients
      with psychosis. Few studies have analysed this relation using lung function tests
      (spirometry), reporting reduced spirometry values in patients with schizophrenia compared
      with healthy controls. But little data is available on the possible causative relation of
      smoking (tobacco and cannabis) and metabolic alterations of COPD and un-controlled asthma in
      psychosis.

      Based on the available scientific evidence, the investigators hypothesize that patients with
      psychosis will present differences in prevalence and severity of lung disease and poorer lung
      function, compared with the general (non-psychiatric) population, probably related to smoking
      (tobacco and cannabis) and metabolic alterations.

      The research project would be implemented as part of a larger prospective longitudinal study
      on first episode non-affective psychosis, in the First Episode Psychosis Clinical Program
      (PAFIP). In particular, the project would be part of the "10 PAFIP study", in which those
      patients that had been included in the PAFIP program 10 years ago will be extensively
      evaluated (e.g.: clinical, neuroimaging, neuro-psychological, and metabolic evaluations) in
      order to analyse the long-term progress of the psychosis.

      Regarding the present project, a respiratory health status evaluation would be carried out
      cross-sectionally at this time-point (after 10 years of initiated the psychotic illness).
      Lung health status would be evaluated through functional test using spirometer. The clinical
      respiratory status would be evaluated using the following scales: the COPD Assessment Test
      (CAT) and the modified Medical Research Council (mMRC) Questionnaire.
    
  