
    
      -  Design: Multicentre prospective case-control study. Centres: University Hospital of
           Montpellier, France; University Hospital of Bordeaux, France; University Hospital of
           Nimes, France; University Hospital of Poitiers, France.

        -  Main objective: To evaluate BDNF in cerebrospinal fluid as a potential marker of the
           BDNF-TrkB signaling pathway in vivo in HD patients at a symptomatic stage.

        -  Secondary objectives: i) Evaluate plasma BDNF in subjects with HD; ii) Study the
           correlation between BDNF in CSF and BDNF in plasma; iii) Study the correlation between
           markers of the BDNF pathway and clinical severity, multimodal brain MRI parameters, and
           relevant markers of evolution of HD; iv) Confirm the increase of Tau and NFL
           (Neurofilament Light Chain) markers in plasma and in CSF, as markers of neuronal
           degeneration, in subjects with HD ; v) Test the TrkB assay in the CSF of patients with
           HD

        -  Inclusion Criteria. General inclusion criteria: age ≥ 18 years old; national health
           insurance cover. Patient inclusion criteria: genetically confirmed Huntington's disease
           diagnosis (≥ 35 CAG repeat in HTT gene exon 1); written informed consent; patient
           agreement for LP, if requested. Control inclusion criteria: previous LP for medical
           reason; agreement for inclusion in a biobank for research purposes.

        -  Exclusion Criteria. General exclusion criteria: subject protected by law, under
           curatorship or guardianship. Patients exclusion criteria: too severe HD, according to
           the clinician's judgment, possibly making difficult to perform cognitive evaluation or
           MRI; contraindications to brain MRI; contraindications to LP; inability to give informed
           consent. Control exclusion criteria: presence of a neurodegenerative of inflammatory
           central nervous system disease.

        -  Inclusion period: 23 months

        -  Duration of participation for each patient: 123 days maximum

        -  Total research duration: 24 months

        -  Plan of the study. Patients group: in 90 patients with HD, the investigators will
           perform: a collection of the main anamnestic and clinical data; a blood test for the
           determination of plasmatic BDNF, Tau and NFL and the genotyping of the Val66Met
           polymorphism of the BDNF gene; multimodal brain MRI with volumetry, diffusion tensor,
           functional MRI of rest; a measurement of the UHDRS and Total Functional Capacity scales;
           neuropsychological tests (SDMT, STROOP test, Trail Making Test (TMT) A and B, digit
           span). In a subgroup of 45 patients, the investigators will also perform a lumbar
           puncture for the determination of BDNF, Tau, NFL and TrkB in CSF. Control Group: 45
           controls will be selected from the samples present in the existing Biobank with CSF and
           plasma samples available in Montpellier, France. MRI data will be centralized and
           processed by the Imaging Institute I2FH Montpellier University Hospital.
    
  