
    
      Regional analgesia (pain relief) for labor can be an epidural, a spinal or a combination of
      the two. Combined spinal-epidurals (CSE) are popular because of their rapid pain relief and
      high patient satisfaction. At the IWK Health Centre, many anesthesiologists routinely use
      this method of pain relief. It involves the injection of pain relief medication into the
      cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) and the insertion of an epidural catheter (slim plastic tube) in
      the epidural space to continue to give pain relief medication. The epidural space is located
      just outside the CSF. In order to insert the epidural catheter, some anesthesiologists inject
      2-4 ml of saline in the epidural space to help the catheter go in. During a CSE, after
      injection of the medication in the CSF and before inserting the epidural catheter, if normal
      saline is injected into the epidural space, there may be an increase in pain relief and an
      increase in the level of numbness. This injection of saline in the epidural space to increase
      pain relief and numbness is termed epidural volume extension (EVE).

      Thus far, studies on EVE have all been done in patients undergoing surgery with spinal
      anesthesia and not solely for analgesia. The purpose of this study is to determine if there
      is a benefit for EVE to improve labor analgesia (pain relief) using CSE. We will study 60
      women requesting labor pain relief. Half these women will receive a CSE without EVE, which is
      the present standard of care. The other half will receive a CSE with 10 ml of saline for EVE
      before inserting the epidural catheter. We will then determine if there is a benefit for EVE
      by observing for a difference between the two groups with respect to the level of numbness,
      the amount and speed of pain relief and the intensity of leg weakness. We hypothesize that
      injecting 10 ml of saline for EVE using CSE may improve the amount and speed of pain relief
      while decreasing side effects such as leg weakness. If there were a benefit to EVE, this
      would be a simple and inexpensive method for improving pain relief in laboring women.
    
  