
    
      Eligibility Criteria :

      CRITERIA OF INCLUSION

        -  Major Topic (18 to 75)

        -  Signed informed consent,

        -  A medical examination must be done before participation in research,

        -  Membership or beneficiary of a social security scheme,

      CRITERIA OF NON-INCLUSION

        -  Topic of under 18 and over 75 years.

        -  Against-indications (CI) to the practice of MRI pacemaker or implantable defibrillator
           or pacemaker neurosensory (risk of temporary or permanent damage to the device or
           heating metal parts). Cochlear implants (risk of demagnetization, electrode temperature
           rise and artifacts). Ocular or cerebral ferromagnetic foreign body close to the nerve
           structures (risk of displacement and complications such as eye or brain damage). Metal
           prostheses (possibility of significant artifacts according to their size and their
           ferromagnetic character, some neurosurgical clips or heart valves can cause problems and
           require an investigation into the exact model implanted). Topics claustrophobic.
           Pregnant woman. Neurosurgical ventriculoperitoneal bypass valves. Irremovable metal
           braces.

        -  CI practice of TMS: the history of epilepsy or seizures during hyperthermia during
           childhood are related ICs. Ferrométalliques body presence in the brain, cochlear
           implants, pacemakers, insulin pumps, during pregnancy, about jet lag or not having slept
           the night before the session of TMS.

        -  Existence of a severe condition in general terms: cardiac, respiratory, hematologic,
           renal, hepatic, cancerous,

        -  Regular Taking anxiolytics, sedatives, antidepressants, neuroleptics,

        -  Psychiatric disorder characterized,

        -  Alcohol ingestion before the examination,

        -  Persons referred to in Articles L1121-5 to L1121-8 CSP.
    
  