
    
      Retrospective data was analysed from 26 patients that were submitted to pancreatic resection
      between August 2002 and November 2015. Inclusion criteria were: single or multiple metastases
      in pancreas or extra pancreatic; primary RCC; never received chemotherapic treatment;
      patients that already received a previous pancreatic resection were also included.

      Cases were collected from two high-volume centres: Surgical Department "Pietro Valdoni" in
      Policlinico Umberto I and the Division of Transplantation and General Surgery at University
      of Pisa.

      Different kind of surgical approaches were taken into account in this study:
      duodenal-pancreatectomy, total-pancreatectomy and distal-pancreatectomy associated or not
      with other metastatic site resections. Surgery was performed either with classical open
      approach and modern robotic surgical approach, with the robot "Da Vinci". Aim of surgical
      interventions were to remove all metastases in association to radical lymphadenectomy thus to
      achieve R0 result. All postoperative events occurring within 90 days of surgery were
      considered. Postoperative complications were graded according to Clavien-Dindo
      classification.

      Patients were followed-up 3 months after discharge and every 6 months thereafter.

      Patients had blood chemistries and CT scans at least every year. A database was used to
      record all patients' data. Results were analysed in terms of Operative Mortality and
      Morbidity, Actuarial Survival, Actuarial Disease-Free Survival and Quality of Life.

      Protocols were approved by the bioethical review committee and meet the guidelines of both
      University Sapienza of Rome and University of Pisa.

      QoL was measured by Karnofsky performance scale and through Activities of Daily Living scale
      (ADL), Instrumental Activities of Daily living scale (IADL), BMI evaluation, serum albumin
      and hemoglobin, also depression was evaluated as a parameter. QoL was defined by combination
      of these parameters as: excellent, good, fair, poor or very poor.

      A low Karnofsky scale index with inadequate social and environmental situations, a reduction
      in functional capacity with depression and severe weight-loss were identified as a decline in
      QoL.

      Data was analysed via Chi-square test, as well as Student's paired and unpaired t-tests.

      Actuarial relative survival and actuarial relative disease-free survival were described by
      Kaplan-Meier analysis. A log-rank test was used to compare continuous variables and was
      expressed by Kaplan-Meier curves. Homogeneity of the different groups to be compared was
      tested by chi-square test. Statistical significance was set at p ≤ 0,05.
    
  