
    
      Primary graft dysfunction (PGD) is responsible of high early mortality in lung transplanted
      patients.

      Rationale

      The evolution of lung transplantation may be complicated by primary graft dysfunction (PGD),
      a form of acute respiratory distress syndrome caused by ischemia-reperfusion-related
      phenomena. PGD occurs in 15-50% of cases and is responsible for a significant increase in
      mortality, duration of assisted ventilation and length of stay in intensive care. It is also
      an important risk factor for the medium-term development of acute and long-term rejection, of
      bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS) - chronic rejection - which drastically reduces the
      survival of the graft.

      Surfactant proteins comprising the secretory protein of Clara cells (16-kd Clara cell
      protein-CC16) and surfactant proteins -A (SP-A), -B (SP-B) and -D (SP- D) are recognized as
      markers of the permeability of the alveolocapillary barrier.

      Based on these findings, we postulate that the gene expression of CC16, SP-A, -B and D is
      altered in pulmonary biopsies performed in donors of patients developing primary graft
      dysfunction after pulmonary transplantation compared to those performed in the donors of
      patients free of this syndrome.

      This study could therefore be a complementary means of objective assessment of lung quality
      prior to transplantation.

      Aims and Objectives

        1. Describe, in the organ donor, changes in expression of Clara Cell Protein (CC16),
           surfactant-associated proteins (A, B or D), pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines in
           circulating blood and lung tissue during organ recovery.

        2. Describe the biological and structural changes after the period of cold ischemia.

        3. Establish a correlation between biomarkers in the organ donor and the occurrence of
           acute graft dysfunction in the lung recipient.

      Material and method

      Inclusion Criteria

      All lung organ donor patients referred to our network and their recipients will be included
      after obtaining their informed consent.

      Data Collection

      In the donor, we will record demographic data (age, sex), history, cause of death, blood gas
      measurement, chest x-ray protocol, blood biological parameters, duration of brain death if
      appropriate and hot ischemia time if appropriate and protocol of bacteriological analyzes.

      In the recipient, we will record the demographic data (age, sex), indication of
      transplantation, results of right catheterization performed on pre-transplantation, standard
      intraoperative data, immunosuppression, Blood gas, chest x-ray protocol, filling balance and
      blood biological parameters at 24, 48 and 72h. The declamping times are recorded.

      Patients are automatically followed up for the rest of their lives. Iterative biopsies are
      performed in the first year to detect possible acute rejection. The data will be included in
      our study.

      Biological samples

      In the donor, before the perfusion of the preservation solutions, 18 cc of peripheral blood
      are taken (dry tube, 9 cc). 1 tube will be stored at -80 째 C., the other will be centrifuged
      (15 minutes, 10000 / min, 20 째 C.) and then the serum will be stored at -80 째 C.

      Immediately after lung recovery, a pulmonary biopsy (6 cm2) is performed at the lower lobes.

      A fragment will be immediately placed in liquid nitrogen and stored at -80 째 C. A second
      fragment is stored in formalin for 24h and then stored in paraffin blocks.

      Before implantation, at the end of the preservation period, a new lung biopsy is performed in
      the lower lobes.

      Biological analyzes

      Histological examination and gradation

      Lung tissues fixed in formalin are stained with hematoxylin-eosin to gradate lung lesions
      [(1) neutrophil infiltration, (2) airway epithelial cell damage, (3) interstitial edema, (4)
      Hyaline membrane and (5) hemorrhage].

      Inflammation, apoptosis and Surfactant proteins

      O Tissue mRNA measurements: in real time Quantification PCR (RTQ-PCR)

      O Tissue peptide measurements: Western Blot - ELISA - MILLIPLEX

      O Treatment of blood samples and analyzes: ELISA - MILLIPLEX

      Protein inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-8, IL-1, IL33) (IL-10), intercellular
      adhesion molecules (ICAM-1, VCAM-1), apoptosis (Bax, Bcl2, Caspases)

      Evaluation of apoptosis: TUNEL - Immunohistochemistry
    
  