
    
      To date anthracycline chemotherapy regimens still play a major role in many cancer
      treatments, approximately 32% of breast cancer patients, 57-70% of elderly lymphoma patients,
      and 50-60% of childhood cancers survivors are treated with an anthracycline regimen.

      Of these patients, approximately 9-24%% of patients on anthracycline chemotherapy will
      develop anthracycline cardiomyopathy and the majority will present with signs and/or symptoms
      within the first 12 months of starting chemotherapy. The onset of anthracycline
      cardiomyopathy, even asymptomatic, not only negatively impacts the cardiac outcome of cancer
      patients, but also limits their therapeutic opportunities to less aggressive and,
      consequently, less effective therapies

      There is limited evidence based research for treatment of anthracycline induced
      cardiomyopathy and is mainly targeted towards standard heart failure therapy. In 2006,
      Cardinale et al. found early treatment of myocardial cell injury, as defined by a rise in
      troponin, with enalapril prevents left ventricular ejection fraction decrease as well as the
      occurrence of cardiac events. Subsequently in 2010, Cardinale et al. also found that
      treatment of anthracycline cardiomyopathy with standard heart failure therapy (enalapril,
      carvedilol) at the onset of cardiomyopathy, defined as ejection fraction of ≤ 45%, lead to
      complete recovery of left ventricular ejection fraction and improved cardiac outcomes.
      Indeed, much of the research has been focused on management of patients who develop early
      signs of left ventricular dysfunction. Unfortunately, despite this strategy up to 11% still
      go on to develop New York Heart Association class 3 or 4 heart failure symptoms.

      A crucial issue remains is whether or not, and eventually how, to treat patients still
      asymptomatic who do not yet demonstrate left ventricular dysfunction. Lisinopril use has been
      well studied in patients with systolic heart failure and is a class I indication in all
      patients with an ejection fraction of <40 %. Randomized control trials have established their
      benefit in reducing morbidity and mortality in heart failure with reduced ejection fraction.
      Since anthracycline induced-cardiotoxicity has a significant impact on overall prognosis in
      cancer patients and despite treatment after the development of left ventricular dysfunction
      from anthracyclines will still result in a large amount of the patient population developing
      heart failure, there is an urgent need in prophylactic treatment in preventing
      anthracycline-induced left ventricular dysfunction.

      Thus, the intent of our study is to show the potential benefits of angiotensin converting
      enzyme inhibitors in preventing anthracycline induced cardiotoxicity.

      This is a prospective, randomized, blinded and placebo-controlled clinical trial that will
      enroll patients who are to be treated with anthracycline chemotherapy (doxorubicin,
      epirubicin, idrarubicin, or mitoxantone) to either lisinopril or placebo group. The study
      will be performed at the Genesys Hurley Cancer Institute. The treating oncologist who intends
      to start the patient on anthracycline chemotherapeutic agent will provide the patient with a
      recruitment flyer and informed consent form and referred to the research nurse. Subjects
      interested in participation, that do not meet any of the exclusion criteria, will be
      consented and enrolled by the research nurse prior to their first treatment.

      The study protocol is outlined below.

      Enrollment (Performed by the Genesys Hurley Cancer Institute research nurse):

        -  Baseline characteristics will be obtained including: age, comorbidities, medications,
           family history of cardiovascular disease, smoking status, and body measurements (height
           and weight).

        -  Patient will be sent for echocardiogram to be performed at Genesys Heart Institute

        -  Patient will be randomized to either study or placebo drug. If in the study group, they
           will be started on lisinopril 5mg oral tablet once a day. If in the placebo group, they
           will be started on the placebo drug by the research pharmacy

      First day of treatment (typically 1-3 weeks after enrollment). The following will be
      performed by the Genesys Hurley Cancer Institute research nurse and research pharmacist:

        -  Vital signs will be taken and recorded

        -  Subject will be screened for any side effects from study drug. If side effects are noted
           the Genesys Hurley Cancer Institute research nurse will contact the study investigator
           (Andrew Hinojos) for further instruction.

        -  If the subjects systolic blood pressure is above 90 mmHg, they will be instructed to
           take 2 tablets of lisinopril 5mg once a day (equivalent to 10mg once a day) or
           instructed to take 2 tablets of placebo drug once a day to maintain the blind.

        -  If the subjects systolic blood pressure is below 90 mmHg, they will be taken off the
           study drug (Lisinopril or placebo) and removed from the study. The study investigator
           will be contacted to evaluate for adverse events

      Follow up visit (Typically 1-3 weeks after first treatment). The following will be performed
      by the Genesys Hurley Cancer Institute research nurse and research pharmacist:

        -  Vital signs will be taken and recorded

        -  Subject will be screened for any side effects from study drug. If side effects are noted
           the research nurse will contact the study investigator (Andrew Hinojos) for further
           instruction

        -  If the subjects systolic blood pressure is above 90 mmHg and they are currently taking 2
           tablets of lisinopril 5mg once a day (equivalent to 10mg once a day), they will be
           instructed to take 4 tablets of lisinopril 5mg once a day (equivalent to 20mg once a
           day). The placebo group will be instructed to take 4 tablets of placebo drug once a day
           to maintain blind.

        -  If the subjects systolic blood pressure is below 90 mmHg and they are currently taking 2
           tablets of lisinopril 5mg once a day (equivalent to 10mg once a day), they will
           instructed to decrease to 1 tablet lisinopril 5mg once a day. They will be maintained on
           that dose of lisinopril 5mg once a day for 12 months. Those in the placebo group, the
           study investigator will be contacted to rule out adverse events. If no adverse events,
           they will be instructed to take 1 tablet of placebo drug once a day.

      Second treatment (Typically 1-3 weeks after first treatment). The following will be performed
      by the Genesys Hurley Cancer Institute research nurse and research pharmacist:

        -  Vital signs will be taken and recorded

        -  Subject will be screened for any side effects from study drug. If side effects are noted
           the research nurse will contact the study investigator (Andrew Hinojos) for further
           instruction.

        -  If the subjects systolic blood pressure is above 90 mmHg and they are taking 4 tablets
           of lisinopril 5mg once a day (equivalent to 20mg once a day). They will be maintained at
           this dose for 12 months.

        -  If the subjects systolic blood pressure is less than or equal to 90 mmHg and they are
           currently taking 4 tablets of lisinopril 5mg once a day, they will be instructed to take
           2 tablets of lisinopril 5mg once a day (equivalent to 10mg once a day). They will be
           maintained on this regimen for 12 months

        -  If the subject is in the placebo group and the systolic blood pressure is less than or
           equal to 90 mmHg: The study investigator will be contacted to rule out adverse events.
           If no adverse events, they will be instructed to take 2 tablet of placebo drug once a
           day

        -  If the subject is on 1 tablet of lisinopril 5mg once a day: If systolic blood pressure
           is above 90 mmHg they will be maintained at this dose for 12 months. If systolic blood
           pressure is 90mmHg or below they will be taken off the study drug and remove from the
           study

      Echocardiograms with strain and strain rate will be performed at enrollment, 3 months, 6
      months, 9 months, and 12 months intervals from enrollment date.

      The Genesys Hurley Cancer Institute Research Pharmacy will be responsible for administration
      of the placebo and the study drug. They will be aware ("unblinded") of the patients
      participation in either the study or placebo group. They will be responsible for maintaining
      that the investigators and research team remain "blind" to the patients allocated group by
      administration of the placebo, which is formulated to appear similar to the study drug(s).

      The research nurse, oncology team, cardiology team, and study investigators will be unaware
      of which drug the subject is receiving which will be made confidential with the help of the
      GHCI research pharmacy and our database management system, RedCap.

      If any potential drug interactions are identified or the patients blood pressure is
      persistently low, which cannot be resolved by the blinded principal investigator, we have
      designated an "unblinded" research investigator, Victor Medina to resolve these issues.

      The primary endpoint of this study is a change in change in strain and strain rate parameters
      prior to, during, and after anthracycline chemotherapy compared to placebo.

      Secondary outcomes are based on the American Society of Echocardiography consensus on cancer
      therapeutics-related cardiac dysfunction (CTRCD). CTRCD is defined as a decrease in ejection
      >10% below 53% with at least 2 signs and symptoms of heart failure (lower extremity swelling,
      elevated jugular venous pulsation, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, dyspnea on
      exertion). Those with a baseline ejection fraction <53% at baseline will be placed in the
      secondary endpoint if their ejection fraction decreases by >10% from their baseline with at
      least 2 signs and/or symptoms of heart failure. We will also examine, subclinical
      anthracycline cardiomyopathy defined as a decrease in ejection fraction >10% below 53%
      without signs and/or symptoms of heart failure. In those with a baseline ejection fraction
      <53% at baseline will be placed in the secondary endpoint if their ejection fraction
      decreases by >10% from their baseline without at least 2 signs and/or symptoms of heart
      failure. We will also examine the occurrence of cardiac events during the 1-year follow-up
      defined as death from any cause, death resulting from a cardiac cause, acute pulmonary edema,
      overt heart failure, and life-threatening arrhythmias requiring treatment.

      Based on a predetermined estimation that the treatment decreases the event rate by 50% (10%
      versus 20%), the study investigators intend to recruit approximately 95 patients per group.

      Blind conventional 2 dimensional echocardiography will be performed using standard
      commercially available equipment. Imaging will be conducted with patients either supine or in
      the left lateral decubitus position. Data will be acquired using a 3.5-MHz transducer in the
      apical (2- and 4-chamber and apical long axis) and parasternal (long and short axis) views
      according to the American Society of Echocardiography. Transmitral flow velocity signals will
      be obtained in the four-chamber view by placing a 2-mm pulsed doppler sample volume at the
      tips of the valve leaflets, aligned with the left ventricular inflow by color flow imaging.
      Peak early (E) and late diastolic (A) velocities, E-wave deceleration time, ratio of E and A
      wave and A-wave duration will be measured.

      A comprehensive assessment of the strain and strain rate for the left ventricular myocardium
      using tissue Doppler-based imaging (TDI). Standard 2D gray-scale images of the left ventricle
      with a mean frame rate of 90 ± 5 frames per second at conventional apical 2- and 4-chamber
      views will be acquired. The parameters measured will be the peak systolic velocity, early and
      late systolic velocities, early and late diastolic velocities. Basal values are considered to
      represent the best reproducibility for TDI-based strain assessment. Peak systolic
      longitudinal strain and strain-rate parameters will be calculated and derived from four
      segments of the two apical chambers (2- and 4-chamber views).

      Study data will be collected and managed using the Ascension installation of REDCap (Research
      Electronic Data Capture). REDCap is a secure, web application designed to support data
      capture for research studies, providing user-friendly web-based case report forms, real-time
      data entry validation (e.g. for data types and range checks), audit trails and a
      de-identified data export mechanism to common statistical packages.

      Echocardiographic data will be stored in cine-loop format on a private, password protected
      echocardiogram viewing software and analyzed by a separate blinded cardiologist.

      Patients will be evaluated according to the standard oncologic evaluation. The treating
      oncologist will make decisions on their treatment based on their personal standards and
      clinical judgement.

      Patients who develop anthracycline induced heart failure will be treated according to the
      treating oncologist and clinical scenario.
    
  