
    
      The prevalence of Diabetes in in-patients is about 32% and therefore exceeds significantly
      the prevalence in general population.

      In most cases Diabetes is only a secondary diagnosis the medical staff has to deal with
      daily. The diagnosis which leads to hospital admission and the often multiple comorbidities
      complicate the metabolic control. Blood sugar imbalances present an additional risk for these
      patients and increase in-hospital mortality, length of hospital stay and general
      complications as nosocomial infections.

      To improve hospital care for diabetics the Endocrine Society and the American College of
      Physicians published new guidelines on blood glucose management for non-ICU wards. Primarily
      they contain recommendations for blood glucose target range and standards to improve
      inpatient hospital care like standard operating procedures for blood glucose monitoring as
      well as hyper- and hypoglycaemic disturbances through to discharge management.

      We developed a training concept for health care professionals (nursing and medical staff),
      according to the current guidelines on treatment of in-patients with Diabetes. Primary
      endpoint is the change in hypoglycaemia rates comparing data before and after the training.
      Hereby we can derive the effects of staff training on the quality of health care in this
      patient population.

      So far there was only one comparable study published which showed a significant improvement
      of treatment quality by reducing hypoglycaemia rates considerably . The results of this study
      cannot be transferred due to substantial structural differences. More over there are no
      national diabetes management guidelines for inpatient treatment in Germany.

      The following data will be collected:

        -  Anthropometric data (Age, Sex, Bodyweight, Height)

        -  Diagnosis

        -  POCT blood glucose values

        -  Other laboratory values

        -  Length of hospital stay

      This study conforms to the requirements of the Declaration of Helsinki, Revision of 1996.
    
  