
    
      The trial will involve 30 subjects (N=30). The study population is defined on the basis of
      the broader concept of vascular depression, but not including post stroke depression (PSD).
      Vascular depression (VaD) is described in patients of age equal or greater than 60 years with
      clinical symptoms of MDD, evidence of deep white matter hyperintensities (DWMH) on MRI and
      cognitive deficits not meeting criteria for dementia (based on a score equal or less than 21
      on MMSE and 0.5 on CDR).

      Upon completion of a screening assessment subjects will begin treatment with desvenlafaxine.
      For subjects who are currently prescribed an alternate SSRI or SNRI, they will be titrated
      off their current medication and begin desvenlafaxine, according to the clinical judgment of
      the investigator based on proven best practices. All subjects will begin on a dose of 50 mg
      of desvenlafaxine and after 4 weeks of active treatment may be titrated up to 100 mg daily.
      At the 8-week visit, individuals assessed as partial-responders, in the judgment of the
      investigator, may be titrated up to 150 mg daily. Personal clinical experience of the
      principal investigator has shown desvenlafaxine can be safely increased above a dose of 100
      mg daily in partially responsive patients. The decision to titrate is based on a risk benefit
      analysis, as 150 mg is shown to be effective with limited side effects in younger patient
      populations. The principal investigator is comfortable with a daily dosage of 150mg and will
      assess for potential side effects. Blood pressure will be monitored at baseline and every 4
      weeks as there is evidence that an increase in these values is more likely with dose
      escalation. It is estimated that 5-15% of the 30 patients may require 150 mg of
      desvenlafaxine as partial or non-responders to 100 mg daily. Patients prescribed 150mg
      desvenlafaxine and requiring downward titration will move to 100mg/d for 7 days, then 50mg/d
      for 7 days, followed by 50mg every other day for 7 days before discontinuation. Patients
      prescribed 50mg/d or 100mg/d will undergo similar downward titration prior to study drug
      discontinuation.

      A baseline assessment will be conducted on all subjects, followed by assessments at week 4,
      8, and a close out assessment at week 12. Additionally, enrolled subjects will undergo an MRI
      of the head, unless MRI results within the past 6 weeks can be made available, to confirm the
      presence or absence of DWMH.
    
  