
    
      Over the past several decades, dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with the combination of
      aspirin and a P2Y12 inhibitor has become an essential treatment in patients undergoing
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) to reduce ischemic events. Although the optimal
      duration of DAPT still remains controversial in patients with coronary artery disease, the
      recommended duration of maintenance of DAPT for patients undergoing PCI with drug-eluting
      stent is ≥12 months for those with acute coronary syndrome (ACS), and ≥6 months for those
      with stable coronary artery disease according to the current guidelines. However,
      individualized approach based on ischemic versus bleeding risks assessment is needed to
      determine the optimal duration of DAPT in various population.

      Several studies reported that patients undergoing PCI for complex lesions had significantly
      higher rates of ischemic events than those with non-complex lesions. Moreover, prolonged DAPT
      of aspirin and clopidogrel more than 1 year significantly reduced the risk of cardiac
      ischemic events up to 44% in patients undergoing PCI for complex coronary lesions, and the
      current guideline recommends prolonged DAPT duration may be considered in patients undergoing
      complex PCI. Apart from prolonged use of DAPT, use of more potent P2Y12 inhibitor than
      clopidogrel may be another strategy to reduce ischemic events in patients undergoing PCI for
      complex coronary lesions. Prasugrel, a new thienopyridine, inhibits platelet aggregation more
      rapidly and potently than clopidogrel. In the TRITON-TIMI 38 (TRial to Assess Improvement in
      Therapeutic Outcomes by Optimizing Platelet InhibitioN with Prasugrel) study, prasugrel
      reduced ischemic events compared with clopidogrel in patients with acute coronary syndrome.
      Moreover, low dose prasugrel also reduced ischemic events without an excessive bleeding risk
      in Japanese population. Therefore, DAPT of aspirin and prasugrel would reduce recurrent
      ischemic events than DAPT of aspirin and clopidogrel in patients undergoing PCI for complex
      lesions, a high risk group of ischemic events, even when they do not present with myocardial
      infarction. So far, there have been no data on this issue.

      The aim of the SMART-ATTEMPT (Aspirin and a PoTent P2Y12 inhibitor versus aspirin and
      clopidogrel Therapy in patients undergoing Elective percutaneous coronary intervention for
      coMPlex lesion Treatment) trial is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of aspirin plus
      prasugrel as compared with aspirin plus clopidogrel in patients undergoing elective PCI for
      complex lesions.
    
  