
    
      This study on the Effect of Oculo-Motor Exercises on Dynamic Visual Acuity, Balance and
      Performance in Volleyball Players was ethically approved by the "Istanbul Medipol University
      Non-Invasive Ethics Committee" with file number 10840098-604.01.01-E.14171 on 16.04.2020. The
      study included 52 female volleyball players aged 16-26 who played participants for at least 3
      years without interruption. Power analysis was performed using the 3.1.9.5 version of the
      G-Power program to determine the number of individuals to be included in the study. Type-1
      was accepted as 0.05 and power ratio as 80%. Effect size 0.8 was taken. According to the
      results of the power analysis, the number of participants required to be included in the
      study was determined as 52.

      Participants; Age, height, weight, gender, body mass index, dominant side, position played in
      volleyball, number of weekly training, daily training time, previous sports injuries,
      education status, smoking and alcohol use, accompanying illnesses were questioned. FBT and
      YBT were used for balance evaluations, and Nelson's Hand Reaction Test was used for reaction
      times. In addition, Dynamic Visual Acuity and Vertical Jumping distances were evaluated twice
      before and after treatment.

      Participants included in the study, the control group continued their routine ball training
      after the evaluations, while the intervention group continued with the oculo-motor training
      for 4 weeks, 6 days a week, in the morning and evening, for 10 minutes, 2 times a day, in
      addition to normal ball training. they did the exercises. While doing the exercises,
      individuals were taught to focus on the purpose they held in their hands, move their head,
      and aim fast enough to see the image clearly. Two repetitions each week were added to the
      exercise numbers. Ten seconds rest between two sets and five seconds rest between movements.
    
  