
    
      This is an observational study with one arm. All enrolled patients will receive a peripheral
      angiocatheter in the internal jugular vein. Approximately 60 subjects will be enrolled.

      After recruitment and consent, an investigator will place the peripherally-inserted jugular
      (PIJ) catheters for this study, under ultrasound guidance. Clean technique similar to that
      used for traditional peripheral intravenous catheters will be used, including chlorhexidine
      skin preparation, caps, and sterile ultrasound gel with sterile occlusive dressing over the
      ultrasound transducer. For patients included in this study because of a clinically-determined
      need for a second IV line, the catheter will be placed after anesthesia induction. Patients
      included because of difficult IV access will have the PIJ catheter placed prior to induction.

      The size of the angiocatheter will be left to the clinical discretion of the investigator,
      from among these choices: 18G x 2.5 inches, 16G x 2 inches, or 14G x 2 inches. All
      angiocatheters will be radiopaque in order to permit visualization in the event of any
      required imaging. Catheters will be placed with visualization under dynamic ultrasonography
      using a Sonosite S-Nerve ultrasound machine with 13-6 MHz 25 mm linear array. All catheters
      and ultrasound components are being used in accordance with their labeling.

      The depth of catheter insertion into the internal jugular vein will be determined, and the
      catheter will be removed/replaced immediately if it is found to extend less than 1.0 cm into
      the vessel. If the catheter is removed or replaced, routine care will be followed: pressure
      will be held until bleeding subsides and the site dressed appropriately (e.g. gauze with tape
      or adhesive bandage). No more than three attempts will be made before abandoning the effort
      to place a PIJ catheter.

      The PIJ catheter will be secured as per normal practice, with an adhesive IV securing device
      and an occlusive bandage placed over both the IV and its securing device.

      The PIJ catheter will be used as usual during surgery. It will not be used for total
      parenteral nutrition or other continuous nutrient infusions.

      In most cases, the PIJ catheter will be removed as usual before the patient is transferred to
      the floor, intensive care unit, or discharged home. In some cases, however, an appropriately
      authorized clinician may determine that the PIJ catheter should remain in place longer. If
      extended use of the PIJ catheter is indicated, it will be removed when it is either replaced
      as appropriate by another intravenous line or no longer needed.

      Procedural data will be gathered on the day of surgery, and chart review will occur after
      surgery in order to capture any IV-related complications within the first week that were not
      immediately apparent.
    
  