
    
      Atherosclerosis is a condition of the coronary arteries characterized by abnormal lipid and
      fibrous tissue accumulation in the vessel wall. This pathologic condition may lead to
      stenosis of the artery. Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) is a standard
      method of myocardial revascularization in patients with occlusive coronary artery disease.

      Restenosis remains one of the main factors determining the long term success of angioplasty.
      The literature still reports a 35% restenosis rate after single vessel angioplasty.l,2,3 This
      study will investigate the feasibility of photopheresis therapy as an adjunct to PTCA plus
      stent placement as a means to reduce the rate of restenosis.

      The UVAX® XTS™ Photopheresis System is currently marketed for use in the palliative treatment
      of the skin manifestations of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) in persons who have not been
      responsive to other forms of treatment. For this feasibility study, the XTS System will treat
      extracorporeally circulating leukocyte-enriched blood with ultraviolet light-A (UVA) in the
      presence of the photoactive drug UVADEX®.

      The UVAR XTS Photopheresis System is used to separate the patient's blood into white blood
      cells, red blood cells and plasma. The red blood cells are returned to the patient. A dose of
      two hundred micrograms of UVADEX is added to the photoactivating bag. A portion of the plasma
      and the white blood cells are exposed to UVA light which causes the methoxsalen in the
      nucleated white blood cells to form covalent bonds in the pyrimidine bases of the DNA,
      preventing further replication of the cell. After exposure to UVA light, the white blood
      cells and plasma are returned to the patient Animal and clinical studies suggest that there
      is an immune response initiated by the reinitiation of the treated white blood cells. The
      mechanism of the immune response is not clear. It appears that when the lethally injured
      white blood cells are reinfused into the patient, surface antigens on the abnormal cells
      cause the host immune system to recognize the clones of the untreated malignant cells. This
      may result in a true biologic response modification and induction of a favorable immune
      response to the underlying malignancy.4 The results of clinical studies of CTCL patients
      treated with a similar procedure show a prolonged clinical remission.

      Photopheresis has been shown to affect diseases mediated by an aberrance in the immune
      system, e.g., scleroderma, HIV infection and CTCL. These diseases involve a variety of
      serologic abnormalities and cellular and humoral immune dysfunction. For instance, CTCL
      demonstrates an abnormally elevated CD4 count; scleroderma reveals a decrease in peripheral T
      cells but an increase in T cells in tissue; and HIV exhibits a falling CD4

      percentage. Several of these diseases have been shown to have antibodies against self to DNA
      and cellular components.5 Atherosclerosis has recently been shown to have as a constituent
      factor an underlying immune mechanism.6 There exists a close functional relationship between
      macrophages and T lymphocytes. In fact, lymphocytes have been demonstrated within the plaques
      of atherosclerotic vessels.7'8 These lymphocytes have been shown to be activated locally,
      presumably by antigens presented in the context of class II MHC. Such activated T cells may,
      in turn, modulate the pathogenesis of restenosis post angioplasty.6 Cyclosporin A, a drug
      which specifically inhibits T cell activation, has been administered in an animal model and
      has resulted in significant reduction in intimal lesions post angioplasty.9 This may be a
      reflection of inhibition of T cell activation which results in an inhibition of
      monocyte/macrophage activation and therefore inhibition of intimal T cell proliferation.
      Recent evidence suggests that UVA Photochemotherapy may represent a novel approach to control
      of smooth muscle cell proliferation without producing cytolysis.10,11 Photopheresis has been
      postulated to specifically down regulate activated clones to T cells.

      All prior clinical studies related to cardiovascular treatment conducted to date have shown
      that photopheresis with UVADEX is a safe treatment modality without serious side effects.
      Photopheresis has been studied--for the prevention and treatment of acute rejection in heart
      transplant recipients.12 As a result of treatment, patients experienced a reduction in the
      number and severity of rejection episodes. Photopheresis therapy also allowed the reduction
      of daily immunosuppressive therapy. No major side effects were observed. In another study,
      the use of monthly photopheresis as an adjunct to standard drug therapy following cardiac
      transplant found a significant decrease in coronary artery intimal thickness at up to two
      years of follow-up.13 Photopheresis was determined to be safe, well tolerated and did not
      increase the morbidity in immunosuppressed patients.

      A previous study of the benefits of photopheresis following PTCA enrolled 62 patients (29
      treated with photopheresis and oral methoxypsoralen and 33 control). At 6 months follow-up,
      the patient group treated with photopheresis exhibited fewer clinical signs of restenosis. No
      significant side effects were observed.
    
  