
    
      Diabetic retinopathy is the leading cause of blindness in adults (20 to 74 years old) in the
      industrialised countries, affecting from 2 to 5% of entire population. All the complications
      of diabetes such as diabetic retinopathy, are caused by the chronic hyperglycaemia. Although
      a good metabolic control with therapy lowers the blood glucose levels enough to preserve
      life, this does not permit complete euglycemia nor prevent the long-term complications of
      chronic supernormal levels of blood glucose. The excess glucose causes flux through the
      polyol pathway, which results in structural tissue modifications.

      Diabetic retinopathy is mainly a vascular disease, primarily affecting the capillaries. The
      first ultrastructural and microscopic changes reported are retinal capillary basement
      membrane thickening and pericyte degeneration, both of which compromise the integrity of the
      capillary wall, followed by pericyte loss.

      The glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) of the basal membrane are progressively substituted by
      collagen, leading to a modification in vascular permeability due to the altered anionic
      charge. These changes lead to the clinical appearance of vascular leakage from retinal
      capillaries followed by microaneurysms. The lack of integrity of the vessel wall leads to
      haemorrhages, and to microthrombosis, which are responsible for the first ischemic lesions.
      If the vascular leakage lasts for a long time, the lipidic fraction of leaked plasma deposits
      in the retina forming hard exudates.

      The substitution of GAGs by collagen leads to a basal membrane thickening also in the kidney.
      As in the retina, the modification of permeability occurs in the renal glomeruli and induces
      the selective loss of proteins (albuminuria).

      Recent papers show a specific modification in GAGs metabolism occurring in diabetic patients
      that could be the common pathogenetic mechanism of vascular diabetic failure. Therefore,
      diabetic retinopathy and diabetic nephropathy may be regarded as the result of the alteration
      of a common underlying molecular mechanism whose expression is the depletion of GAGs from the
      basement membrane in both retinal and glomerular capillaries. In agreement with the previous
      statement, the Wisconsin Epidemiologic Study of Diabetic Retinopathy concluded that
      microalbuminuria is associated cross-sectionally with the presence of retinopathy in diabetic
      patients.

      The progress of the clinical symptoms of the disease despite glycaemic therapy points to
      address the research towards new drugs able to slow or reverse the vessel micro-abnormalities
      responsible for the microangiopathy typical of diabetic retinopathy. Furthermore, the
      similarities of the vessel lesions between diabetic retinopathy and diabetic nephropathy
      suggest that new molecules effective in one of the two conditions should be effective in the
      other pathology as well.

      Sulodexide (fast moving heparin fraction 80% and dermatan sulfate 20%) is a GAG with a high
      trophism for vessel wall. Clinical studies showed its efficacy in decreasing both
      microalbuminuria and macroalbuminuria in diabetic patients, suggesting that it could be able
      to slowdown the nephropathy progression, actually by partially restoring the glomerular GAGs
      content.

      Preliminary observations regarding the use of Sulodexide in patients suffering from diabetic
      retinopathy show significant reduction in hard exudates, thus indirectly pointing out a
      benefit of this GAG at the retinal capillary level.

      Based on the above mentioned physiopathological considerations and experimental findings, the
      investigators deem appropriate to evaluate the effects of Sulodexide on the diabetic
      retinopathy by the present multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial.
    
  