
    
      The most challenging community problems faced by senior military leaders are closely linked
      to the quality of marriage relationships. These include family violence, spouse maltreatment,
      and suicide. Half (51%) of the service members who either completed or attempted suicide from
      2008 to 2010 had a history of a failed intimate relationship, and for nearly one-third (30%)
      this failure had occurred within 30 days of the self-harm event. Relationship distress not
      only affects marriages but is also associated with depression, substance abuse, work role
      impairment and lowered children's health. Despite the potential high costs of chronic marital
      distress, very few couples seek therapy. In a recent Air Force study, only 6% of Airmen in
      distressed relationships reported making use of couple counseling after returning from
      deployment. Indeed, distressed couples wait an average of 6 years before seeking help, at
      which point their relationship likely has deteriorated dramatically.

      Thus, there is a substantial need in the military for early detection and preventative care
      for deteriorating couples before serious and irreversible relationship damage has occurred.
      There are currently no widely available means to fill this need. Mild-to-moderately
      distressed couples may view therapy as reserved for only the most severely distressed
      couples, and thus delay seeking treatment until its efficacy is seriously diminished by the
      chronicity and severity of the accumulated relationship dysfunction.

      The Marriage Checkup (MC) addresses this issue by providing a less-threatening option for
      couples to seek early preventative care before they have begun to identify as distressed.
      Intended to be the relationship health equivalent of the annual physical or dental checkup,
      the MC is a 4 to 5 hour assessment and feedback intervention. This brief intervention
      includes assessment of the couple's relationship history, strengths, and concerns and
      provides individualized feedback to the couple with a list of options addressing the couple's
      primary concerns. Studies conducted with civilian samples have shown that couples receiving
      MC demonstrate significant and lasting improvement across a range of marital health
      variables. In addition, MC has been shown to attract couples across the distress continuum
      and be perceived by couples as more accessible than traditional therapy.

      In recognition of the limited reach and potential stigma of tertiary mental health treatment,
      the military services and the Department of Veterans Affairs have implemented collaborative
      care models in primary care. In a collaborative care model, mental health providers are
      embedded into the primary care setting and serve as integrated behavioral health consultants
      (IBHCs) to the medical providers. The IBHC provides brief, focused assessments and
      interventions for patients referred by their primary care provider. Marital problems are a
      common reason for primary care providers to refer patients to IBHCs, yet there has been no
      effort toward development of marital interventions suitable for primary care. MC's design as
      a brief "check-up" model for marriage help appeared particularly well-suited to primary care.
      Therefore, the investigators conducted a pilot study to adapt MC for use with military
      couples in Air Force primary care clinics (FWR20120054H).

      In our pilot study the original MC was adapted for military couples and fit into the
      fast-paced environment of primary care. Military specific content for the assessment tools in
      the Marriage Checkup were developed. In addition, the team developed and piloted a protocol
      to use when only one member of the couple is available to come in for a Marriage Checkup,
      given the likelihood that some partners seeking an MC may have a partner who is currently
      deployed or otherwise unable/unwilling to participate in an in-person checkup. Finally, the
      Marriage Checkup was streamlined to fit within a Primary Care setting. More specifically, it
      was re-formatted into three 30-minute sessions. Session 1 consisted of the couple's
      relationship history and each partner's primary strengths, Session 2 focused on each
      partner's primary concern, and Session 3 is dedicated to feedback for the couple. IBHCs
      working in primary care were then trained to offer the intervention within a
      quasi-experimental research design in which pre-post changes were evaluated within subjects.

      To date, twenty-two couples and one individual (N = 45; at least one partner in each couple
      was active duty) at two primary care sites have completed the MC. A multilevel modeling
      analysis indicated statistically significant pre-post changes for all study variables at both
      two weeks and two months, with effect sizes in the moderate range. Relationship satisfaction
      (B = .54, p = .003, B = .55, p = .004), distress (B = .75, p < .001, B = .58, p = .003) and
      intimacy (B = .43, p < .017, B = .47, p = .014) were significantly improved. In addition,
      couples completed a questionnaire measuring their level of satisfaction with the MC
      intervention itself. The scale ranged from 1(not at all) to 5 (very much), and across the
      questions the average response was 4.33 immediately post checkup and 4.05 at the one-month
      follow-up, indicating that couples were satisfied with their Marriage Checkup experience. The
      results of the pilot study provide preliminary evidence suggesting that the MC can be
      effectively adapted to a military population, and successfully used by behavioral health
      consultants (BHCs) working in an integrated primary care clinic.

      The overall purpose of the proposed study is to build on pilot study findings by conducting a
      randomized trial of the military-adapted Marriage Checkup (MC) delivered in primary care by
      Integrated Behavioral Health Consultants (IBHCs). The primary outcomes of interest are
      marriage health (e.g., greater satisfaction, deeper intimacy) and community reach (e.g.,
      attracts couples at-risk for marital deterioration who otherwise would not be seeking
      treatment). There are three specific objectives of the study, the first being to conduct a
      randomized trial comparing MC for use in military primary care clinics to a wait list control
      condition. Second, examine the effects of MC participation on relationship health at one
      month and six months post-treatment follow-up. Lastly, to determine whether the MC is
      successful at reaching couples at risk for marital deterioration who would otherwise be
      unlikely to seek traditional couple counseling.

      This study will investigate two research hypotheses. The first hypothesis being that Military
      couples who participate in the Marriage Checkup (MC) for primary care will demonstrate
      positive relationship health trajectories for intimacy, acceptance, and relationship
      satisfaction over the course of six months when compared to couples in a wait-list control
      condition. A randomized control trial with 215 civilian couples demonstrated significant
      increases in relationship satisfaction, intimacy, and acceptance both in the short term and
      at two-year follow-up for treatment couples compared to no-treatment control couples.
      Emerging evidence further suggests that the primary mediator of improvements in marital
      health is the effect of the MC on increasing the level of intimate connection between
      spouses. In addition, the MC worked to affect both distal (i.e., depression) and specific
      (i.e., time together, sexual satisfaction and communication) outcomes. The second hypothesis
      is that the MC will attract military couples at-risk for marital deterioration who are
      otherwise not seeking relationship treatment. The MC is designed to significantly lower the
      barriers to couple help seeking. The MC is very brief and is advertised as an informational
      marital health service rather than therapy, intended for all couples who are interested in
      learning more about their strengths and areas of concern. The MC has been shown to attract a
      broad range of couples across the range of satisfaction from relationally satisfied to
      severely distressed and has been shown to successfully attract couples who would not
      otherwise seek any kind of relationship intervention.

      The randomized trial will be conducted at four military primary care clinics. Three sites
      will be Wilford Hall Ambulatory Services Center (WHASC) in San Antonio, Texas, 359th Medical
      Operations Squadron (359 MDOS) in San Antonio, Texas, and Malcolm Grow Medical Clinics and
      Surgery Center (MGMCSC), Joint Base Andrews, in Maryland. The remaining site will be
      recommended by the Air Force Chief of Behavioral Health Optimization (co-investigator Maj Liz
      Najera).

      Individuals and couples who express an interest in participating in the study will be
      scheduled by the on-site study coordinator with the IBHC to receive a more thorough
      explanation of the study purpose and requirements of participation. Potential participants
      will have the opportunity to ask questions about the study prior to making a decision to
      participate. Potential participants will be told that the MC involves three appointments with
      the IBHC within a four week period and completion of take-home relationship questionnaires to
      aid the BHC in assessing their relationship. At the third IBHC appointment the participants
      will receive feedback on the clinical questionnaires and interview results and be given a
      list of possible strategies for improving their relationship that has been tailored to their
      unique situation. For the purposes of the research, potential participants will be informed
      that they will be contacted approximately one month and six months later and asked to log
      onto a study website to re-complete surveys about their relationship. They will also complete
      surveys that ask their opinion of the MC including what they thought was most helpful and how
      it could be improved further.

      This first contact will also include the standard brief clinical screening conducted by the
      IBHC for all referrals. During this screening the IBHC will also assess for the presence of
      any study exclusion factors. If at the conclusion of this first IBHC contact the potential
      participant expresses interest in participating and meets the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria, they will then meet with the Research Assistant to review and complete the informed
      consent documents for study participation and the baseline questionnaires.

      The study will use a randomized two-group research design in which participants are randomly
      assigned after signing the informed consent document to either receive the MC right away or
      be placed on a 7-month wait list condition. All participants will complete study measures at
      baseline, eight weeks (1 month post-treatment for those assigned first to the MC condition)
      and 28 weeks (six months post-treatment for those assigned first to the MC condition).
      Participants assigned to the 7-month wait-list condition will be offered the MC at the
      completion of the 6-month follow-up measures.
    
  