
    
      Recent research confirmed that levels of IL-6 seem are associated with COVID-19 induced
      inflammatory response, respiratory failure, needing for mechanical ventilation and/or
      intubation and mortality. The importance of identifying Il-6 as a biomarker lies in the
      potential use of antibody against IL-6 such as tocilizumab, which is currently used in the
      treatment protocol of covid-19. The authors shared an encouraging experience of utilizing
      tocilizumab medication, particularly in patients at risk of developing chemokine storm
      secondary to COVID-19. IL-6, a chemokine, is an important biomarker of inflammation and has
      been shown in studies as an important predictor of severe COVID-19. IL-6 is responsible for
      elevation of acute phase reactants, such as C-reactive protein, serum amyloid A, fibrinogen,
      and hepcidin, and inhibition of albumin synthesis. The dysregulated production of IL-6 has
      been attributed to autoimmunity and chronic inflammation.

      We performed a systematic review and meta analysis to compare IL-6 in severe and non severe
      patients. In clinical practice, it remains crucial to develop a scoring system that includes
      IL-6 to assist clinicians in early recognition of patients at risk for developing severe
      disease.

      Circulating biomarker like neutrophil (NEU)-to-lymphocyte (LYM) ratio (NLR) as well as other
      ratios are used to represent inflammation and the immune status and are considered a
      potential predictor for the prognosis of COVID-19 patients. Interestingly clinical scores
      like the CALL score (C = comorbidity, A= age, L = lymphocyte count, L = lactate dehydrogenase
      (LDH)) have been used for predicting progression towards clinical worsening.

      Adding IL-6 levels to the CALL score proved to improve its predictive power and make
      treatment more appropriate, especially in patients for whom decision whether to treat or not
      with IL-6 inhibitors such as tocilizumab is required. It should be recognized that the
      CALL-IL-6 score could be difficult to reproduce in low- and medium-income countries due to
      costs of IL-6 dosage.

      Aim of the Study

        1. Identify new blood immune inflammatory biomarker / ratio that could be used
           alternatively to IL-6 for predicting severity of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID- 19) in
           clinical practice.

        2. Evaluate the influence of the pro-inflammatory profile on clinical outcomes and
           therapeutic efficacy as categorized by the IL-6 levels in patients infected by
           SARS-COV-2.

        3. Assess potential associations with other blood inflammatory biomarker and the impact of
           the inflammatory status on clinical outcomes.
    
  