
    
      The aim of the RIMINI-Trial is to examine the effect of Ranolazine on ischemic myocardium in
      acute myocardial ischemia.

      A pilot-trial by Venkatamaran et al. recently demonstrated, that the area of ischemic
      myocardium in patients with stable coronary artery disease can be reduced by
      Ranolazine-treatment2. This effect was shown by significantly reduced areas of atypical or
      dysfunctional myocardium in SPECT-examinations.

      The dimension of myocardial damage (i.e. area of ischemic myocardium) is directly related to:

        1. Rate of complications (i.e. left-ventricular pump failure, malignant arrhythmia)

        2. Grade of Rehabilitation to daily life (i.e. persistent reduced left-ventricular ejection
           fraction)

      Early angioplasty and coronary medication are key factors for preventing complications and
      ensuring sufficient rehabilitation. This is done to reduce the ischemic area as best as
      possible.

      In patients with stable angina pectoris, Ranolazine is used with beneficial results1.
      Ranolazine improves diastolic blood flow and therefore microcirculation in the myocardium by
      reducing diastolic tension (via inhibiting late Na+-Influx and consecutive Ca2+-Overload).

      Recently published data2 showed that treatment with Ranolazine significantly reduces the
      ischemic area in chronic damaged myocardium. This is due the effect of improved
      microcirculation in hibernating myocardium.

      Early administration of Ranolazine and improvement of microcirculation in patients with acute
      damaged myocardium (i.e. directly after acute ischemia) should lead to a recruitment and
      re-uptake of cardiac activity of hibernating myocardium.

      For the RIMINI-Trial patients are given Ranolazine on top of the guideline-based treatment to
      reduce the area of acute ischemic myocardium.

      Patients with unstable angina pectoris and proof of acute cardiac ischemia (Serum levels of
      Troponin-T-hs >14 pg/ml), proof of myocardial dyskinesia and angina pectoris >/=CCS II
      (Canadian Cardiovascular Society Classification of Angina Pectoris) in the patient history
      will receive unaltered guideline-based therapy for acute cardiac ischemia5,6. All necessary
      procedures will be performed to stabilize patients to a hemodynamically compensated state
      (normalized levels of blood pressure, heart rate, absent malignant arrhythmia, dyspnoea and
      angina-like symptoms), and patients are then transferred to receive cardiac catheterization
      (angiography and angioplasty if necessary).

      After patients are stabilized (i.e. via angioplasty, medical treatment) Ranolazine will be
      given additionally to guideline-based medication (Beta-Blocker, ACE-Inhibitor or
      AT1-Inhibitor, ASS, Clopidogrel, Statins).

      The measurement of the ischemic myocardial area will be done via three functional
      echocardiographies with speckle tracking technique10 (speckle -tracking echocardiography,
      SPE):

        1. The first speckle tracking for screening and will be done directly with patients
           presenting in the emergency room.

        2. After stabilization and coronary angiography or -plasty and before the first dose of
           Ranolazine is given, the second speckle tracking will be done for baseline.

        3. After 42 days of Ranolazine-treatment the third and final speckle tracking
           echocardiography will be done.

      A statistical evaluation of ischemic myocardial area before and after treatment with
      Ranolazine/Placebo will be done after conclusion of the RIMINI-Trial to show the effect of
      Ranolazine in acute myocardial ischemia.

      For controlling and comparing the effect, the RIMINI-Trial will be single-blinded and
      compared to a group of patients not treated with Ranolazine. Participants will be randomized
      to the treatment-group or the no-treatment-group using a computer based randomization-method.
    
  