
    
      Benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH) can be defined as a slowly progressive prostatic adenoma
      that cause bladder outlet obstruction. Risk factors for BPH can be classified into modifiable
      risk factor including genetic factors and age with prevalence of 50% to 60% for males in
      their 60's up to 80% to 90% of those who are over 70 years of age, and non-modifiable risk
      factors including sex steroid hormones, the metabolic syndrome, obesity, diabetes, physical
      activity, diet, and inflammation. The clinical presentation of BPH can be categorized into
      storage and voiding abnormalities. Symptoms include urinary frequency and urgency, nocturia
      and dysuria in addition to urinary hesitancy, dribbling and incomplete bladder voiding.
      Several hypotheses are postulated to explain the pathophysiology of BPH including the
      testosterone and dihydrotestosterone, age related tissue remodelling, prostatic inflammation
      and metabolic aberration as obesity, diabetes and dyslipidemia.

      Oxidative stress has been reported to play a role the pathogenesis of BPH. Oxidative stress
      has been considered to be one of the mechanisms that trigger the chain of reactions involved
      in the development and progression of prostatic hyperplasia. This is especially true as the
      human prostate tissue is vulnerable to oxidative DNA damage due to more rapid cell turnover
      and fewer DNA repair enzymes. In a study conducted on prostate tissue, it was observed that
      oxidative stress and oxidative DNA damage are important in the pathogenesis of BPH. Higher
      oxidative stress markers in terms of Malondialdehyde levels was reported in BPH patients.
      Moreover, a systematic review revealed that prostatic inflammation can induce free radicals
      formation that might play role in carcinogenesis and development of prostate cancer in
      patients with BPH.

      Garcinia cambogia is a natural fruit which has been reported to have anti-obesity activity
      including reduced food intake and body fat gain by regulating the serotonin levels related to
      satiety, increased fat oxidation and decreased de novo lipogenesis. It also exerted
      hypolipidemic, antidiabetic, anti-inflammatory, anticancer, anthelmintic, anticholinesterase
      and hepatoprotective activities in in vitro and in vivo models . Hydro-citric acid, the main
      component of garcinia extract, has been reported to have strong antioxidant property.

      An animal study on rats has reported that kolaviron, a bioflavonoid complex from Garcinia
      kola had decreased prostate weights (compared with the normal control and reversed the
      histoarchitecture of the prostates of the BPH rats.
    
  