
    
      The anticipated study participant population was approximately 30 established PKU patients
      receiving care from Hayward Genetics Center, who were found previously to exhibit no decrease
      in blood phenylalanine (PHE) levels (nonresponders) with administration of sapropterin.
      Subjects acted as their own controls. An additional number of patients naive to sapropterin
      were subsequently added to the study, and the age exclusion of over 21 years of age was
      omitted per IRB approval. Primary endpoints were designed to be measurement of behavioral and
      cognitive function, neurotransmitter levels, and gene expression of enzyme activity after 4
      weeks on treatment compared to baseline levels.

      At study baseline each patient attended an approximately 1 hour clinic visit at their usual
      genetics clinic location. Study purpose, design, and requirements were discussed, and
      consents/assents reviewed and signed.

      Rating inventories of executive function performance and behavior (BASC-2 and BRIEF tools)
      were administered to patients and parents by the Principal Investigator (PI) and/or the Study
      Coordinator.

      Urine samples were collected non-invasively for measurement of neurotransmitter levels. Blood
      as collected by venipuncture (3-5 ml) for microarray expression analysis and analysis of
      plasma amino acids. 3-day food records previously provided to participants for completion
      were collected.

      Participants were provided with a 4 week supply of Kuvan® and instructions on how to take the
      medication during the study period. The importance of maintaining usual dietary intake (food
      choices and metabolic formula) to minimize any research effect not attributable to
      sapropterin administration was emphasized. Sapropterin was discontinued at the end of the 4
      week study period. The exception to this was for the naive patients who were found to be
      responsive to sapropterin.

      All of these measures were repeated at the same sites with study participants at the end of
      week 4 of the study period.

      At the ends of weeks 1 and 2 additional blood samples were sent to Hayward Genetics Center
      for measurement of PHE and tyrosine (TYR) levels to ascertain no significant changes have
      occurred in a patient's usual dietary intake. These samples were drawn at each patient's
      local state health unit, as is done for usual monitoring. Nutrient analysis of the 3-day food
      diaries was conducted at Hayward Genetics Center.

        1. Behavior and executive function were assessed using published validated inventories,
           completed as patient self-reports and as parent (or guardian) reports when appropriate.
           Instruments used were the Behavioral Assessment System for Children (BASC-2) parental
           Rating Scale and Self-Reporting Personality Rating Scale, and the Behavioral Rating
           Inventory of Executive Function (BRIEF) Parent Form Instruments of Executive Function.
           Completed inventories were scored using electronic evaluation instruments by the Study
           Coordinator and PI, with consultation from Harvard Medical Center experts as needed.

        2. Urine samples were non-invasively collected and sent for analysis of catechols and
           neurotransmitters to an NIH laboratory specializing in this technique. Samples were
           blinded to this laboratory to prevent bias.

        3. Microarray analysis of blood samples was conducted at Hayward Genetics Molecular
           Laboratory to determine any effect on gene expression, and thus enzyme activity, as a
           result of sapropterin administration.

        4. Plasma amino acids were analyzed at Hayward Genetics Biochemical Laboratory to document
           that patients are "nonresponsive" to sapropterin (no resultant lowering of blood PHE);
           and to monitor any changes in plasma amino acids that could indicate a patient's failure
           to maintain usual dietary restrictions. Patients naive to Kuvan who responded were noted
           and function as comparators.

        5. 3-day food diaries completed by patients (or parent/guardians) at home documented any
           substantive changes in usual dietary intake during the study period. These were analyzed
           at Hayward Genetics Center using the MetabolicPro web-based analysis program.
    
  