
    
      The study involves transplant recipients presenting to the transplant Clinic Gateway 7th
      floor with resistant hypertension. The initial contact will take place in the transplant
      clinic study consist of approximately eight out patient visits over a 8 week period:
      Screening, and follow-up visits will be conducted at the Clinical Research Services (CRS)
      Unit. The Baseline (Week 1), Visit 1 Enrollment (Week 1) Day 1 and 2, Visit 2, (Week 3) Day 1
      and 2, and Visit 3 End of Study, (Week 7) Day 1 and 2. Additional visits maybe required to
      accommodate adverse reactions. The study will require approximately four (4) time points
      where blood pressure, pulse and weight is obtained, safety blood collections approximately
      2-3 tablespoons drawn by venipuncture and 24 hour urine collection periods. Home blood
      pressure readings will be required at two (2) time points during the study. The subject will
      be required to stop taking current medications for seven weeks, take study medication for 6
      weeks and report adverse reactions and concomitant medications at each visit.

      During the Enrollment visit, the subject will be identified, informed consent obtained,
      demographic characteristics, past medical history, co-morbid illnesses, current medications,
      and home and office blood pressures will be recorded to assess for eligibility criteria. This
      data will be collected prospectively by the investigators.

      Initial clinical assessment at the time of the patient's screening visit will be performed at
      the outpatient testing center in the transplant clinic. A three day window will be allowed
      for all visits. The following measurements will occur at this visit: Biometric measurements:
      vitals ( blood pressure and pulse) body weight, EKG, Arm circumference, confirmation of
      hypertension by 24-h ABPM , urine studies: 24 hour urine collection and evaluation, safety,
      8-10AM sitting upright Plasma Aldosterone/Renin Ratio, clinical safety laboratory test: bone
      morphogenetic protein, Mg/phosphorus level, Parathyroid hormone, vitamin D level and HbA1c,
      review and document concomitant medications, including current furosemide prescription.
      Subjects who meet the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will start
      Baseline (Week 1) Measurements.

      At Baseline (Week 1) the current furosemide prescription will be documented and discontinued.
      This will begin the washout period. The washout period will continue for one week. At the end
      of the washout period the subject will be instructions to return to the CRS unit for Visit 1
      Enrollment measurements.

      Visit 1 Enrollment Measurements Week 1, Day 1, include the following measurements: Biometric
      measurements: Body Weight, confirmation of hypertension by 24-h ABPM Urine studies: start 24
      hour Urine collection, safety laboratory evaluations: bone morphogenetic protein , document
      concomitant medications, and adverse reactions. Visit 1 Enrollment Measurements Week 1 Day 2
      the subject will return the 24-hour urine collection and the 24 hour ABPM will be removed.
      The study medication chlorthalidone will be started. The subject will take study medication
      for 3 weeks before returning for the next study visit: Visit 2 (Week 3) Day 1 . A three day
      window will be allowed.

      At Visit 2 (Week 3) Day 1 and 2. Biometric measurements: Body Weight and home B/P recordings,
      start 24 hour Urine collection. Review pill count for compliance, concomitant medications and
      adverse reactions will be obtained. Day 2: the subject will return the 24-hour urine
      collection. Review study removal criteria After taking the study medication for three weeks,
      the subject will return to the CRS unit for Visit 3 End of Study, (Week 7) Day 1 and 2 Visit
      3 End of Study, (Week 7) Day 1 and 2. On day 1, Biometric measurements: Body Weight, start
      24-h ABPM , Urine studies: start 24 hour Urine collection, safety laboratory evaluations:
      8-10AM sitting upright Plasma Aldosterone/Renin Ratio, collect safety labs: bone
      morphogenetic protein, Mg/phosphorus level, parathyroid hormone, vitamin D level and HbA1c,
      document pill count, concomitant medications, home blood pressure readings and adverse
      Reactions. Day 2: the subject will return the 24-hour urine collection and the 24 hour ABPM
      will be removed If blood pressure is adequately controlled on study medication subject may
      continue study medication. If blood pressure not adequately controlled on study medication
      the subject may return to pre-study medication or a medication prescribed by physician.
    
  