
    
      The GRACE-TB study is a multi-center, open-label, randomized, controlled trial in patients
      with MDR-TB. This study will assess the feasibility and effects of individualized regimen for
      MDR-TB based on rapid molecular drug susceptibility tests（DSTs） of key second-line drugs
      through next generation sequencing (NGS) and try to improve the treatment outcome of MDR-TB.
      And the study will evaluate a shorter course regimen among patients who are proven to be
      sensitive to fluoroquinolones (FQs) or second-line injectable drugs(SLIDs) or pyrazinamide
      (PZA) through NGS.

      A total of 488 participants with MDR-TB will be recruited and followed up until 18 months
      after the end of treatment. During randomization, eligible patients will be assigned in a 1:3
      ratio to one of the following groups: a control group, which is treated with WHO-approved
      MDR-TB regimen, composed of 6 months of PZA, amikacin (Am) ,moxifloxacin (MFX), prothionamide
      (PTO), and Cycloserine (Cs), followed by 18 months of PZA, MFX, PTO and Cs; a NGS-guided
      group, which is treated with one individualized regimen that is guided by the drug
      susceptability test results of FQs/PZA/ SLIDs through NGS.

      About 366 patients will be enrolled in the NGS-guided group. Based on the molecular DST
      results of FQs/PZA/ SLIDs , patients proven to be sensitive to PZA, FQs and SLIDs will be
      divided into to the "simple MDR-TB group" and those with resistant to at least one of
      FQs/PZA/ SLIDs will be divided into to "complicated MDR-TB group".

      Patients in the "simple MDR-TB group" will be assigned randomly in a 1:1 ratio to one of the
      following daily regimen: a 9-month regimen(Regimen A) which consists of 4-month intensive
      therapy of PZA, Am, MFX,PTO, Cs, followed by 5-month consolidation therapy of PZA, MFX, PTO
      and Cs; a 12-month regimen(Regimen B) which consists of 6-month intensive therapy of PZA, Am,
      MFX,PTO, Cs, followed by 6-month consolidation therapy of PZA, MFX, PTO and Cs.

      Patients in the "complicated MDR-TB group" will be treated a regimen (Regimen C) in which the
      resistant drug(s) will be replaced by the other WHO recommended drugs for MDR-TB such as
      linezolid, clofazimine or ethambutol based on the DST results. The duration of treatment in
      the "complicated MDR-TB group" is consistent with control group, with 6 months of intensive
      phase and 18 months of consolidation phase.

      The primary objective is to compare the proportion of patients with a favorable efficacy
      between the NGS-guided group and the control group. The second objective is to assess whether
      the proportion of simple MDR-TB patients with a favorable efficacy outcome of Regimen A is
      not inferior to Regimen B. The participants will be followed up to 18 months after the end of
      the treatment. The data accrued to 18 months after the end of treatment will be used in
      primary and secondary analyses.

      Safety evaluations performed are the routine lab tests, blood glucose, hearing, vital signs,
      electrocardiograph (ECG), reporting of adverse events, physical examinations and chest CT.
      Adverse events will be monitored and promptly managed during the whole treatment course.
    
  