
    
      All patients undergoing FET will receive oral estradiol valerate (Valiera®; Laboratories
      Recalcine) 8 mg/day from the second or third day of menses for 6 days. Endometrial thickness
      will be monitored from day six onwards. From day 8-9 of menses, the estradiol dose could be
      adjusted from 8mg/day to 16mg/day according the development of the endometrium. Progesterone
      will be started when endometrial thickness reached 8 mm or more. In the first four months,
      all the patients will be treated with micronized progesterone. In five months later, the
      intervention will be changed to micronized progesterone plus dydrogesterone. In the second
      group of patients, the duration of study will be extended for one month due to the Lunar New
      Year holiday.

      Group 1: Micronized progesterone Patients will receive micronized progesterone (Cyclogest®
      400mg; Actavis) at the dose of 400mg twice daily (morning and evening).

      Group 2: Micronized progesterone plus dydrogesterone Patients will receive micronized
      progesterone (Cyclogest® 400mg; Actavis) at the dose of 400mg twice daily (morning and
      evening) plus dydrogesterone (Duphaston 10mg) at the dose of 10mg twice daily (morning and
      evening).

      In both group, on the day of starting progesterone, the dose of estradiol will be decreased
      to 8mg/day. A maximum of 2 embryos will be thawed on the day of embryo transfer, which is
      four days or six days after the start of progesterone depending on day-3 or day-5 embryo
      transfer. After thawing, surviving embryos will be transferred into the uterus under
      ultrasound guidance. Estradiol and progesterone will be continued until the day of pregnancy
      test. If the pregnancy test is positive, the patients will continue to use 800 mg micronized
      progesterone or 800 mg micronized progesterone plus 20 mg dydrogestetrone, until 7 weeks of
      gestation.

      Blood samples will be obtained at day 4 after the use of progesterone. Serum progesterone
      will be measured. The blood tests will be taken in the morning, 2-3 h after the
      dydrogesterone and/or micronized progesterone application.
    
  