
    
      The combination of aspirin plus a P2Y12 receptor inhibitor, also known as dual antiplatelet
      therapy (DAPT), is the cornerstone of treatment for patients with coronary artery disease
      (CAD) undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). However, a considerable number of
      patients undergoing PCI also have an indication to be on treatment with an oral anticoagulant
      (OAC). It is estimated that 10-15% of PCI patients also have an indication to be on OAC,
      raising concerns on their optimal antithrombotic treatment regimen. Studies have consistently
      shown dropping aspirin and maintaining a P2Y12 inhibitor and OAC to be associated with
      reduces bleeding without any significant increase in ischemic events. Accordingly, current
      practice recommendations is to limit the use of aspirin to the peri-PCI period and maintain
      dual therapy with a P2Y12 inhibitor and an OAC. Clopidogrel is the P2Y12 inhibitor of choice
      in PCI patients requiring OAC. However, concerns have been raised based on the notion that a
      considerable number of patients may have inadequate response to clopidogrel, also known as
      high platelet reactivity (HPR) status, and thus be at risk for thrombotic complications.
      Although practice recommendations indicate that the use of potent P2Y12 inhibitors (i.e.,
      ticagrelor) may be considered in patients at increased thrombotic risk, they do not recommend
      routine testing to identify patients with HPR status. Nevertheless, consensus recommendations
      do indicate that the selective use of tests to define HPR status is a reasonable option in
      selected cases such as PCI patients requiring OAC. The aim of this study is to assess the
      pharmacodynamic effects of different P2Y12 inhibiting therapy (clopidogrel vs ticagrelor) in
      patients at high risk for HPR identified according to the ABCD-GENE score in PCI treated
      patients also requiring OAC. Up to a total of up to 63 patients are planned to be
      prospectively enrolled in this investigation which will entail a series of comprehensive
      pharmacodynamic assessments to reach the study aim.
    
  