
    
      Due to the loss of dental elements, the bone crest undergoes a significant remodeling. Bone
      resorption begins immediately after dental extraction with a 40-60% reduction in horizontal
      and vertical direction of the alveolar ridge during the first 2 years. The most significant
      bone loss after tooth extraction occurs within the first 3 months, although modeling and
      remodeling of the alveoli have a great variability of time: bone structure and organization
      may not be complete even 24 weeks after dental extraction.

      It is now known that crestal remodeling is closely related to the disappearance of the bundle
      bone, which is more representative of the buccal appearance of the alveolus. Its
      disappearance, especially in thin periodontal biotopes, can lead to significant recessions of
      hard and soft tissues.

      Moreover, with a variable percentage, in many patients, crestal resorption continues over
      time due to a combination of factors involved: anatomical, metabolic and mechanical. Among
      these, the use of removable total or partial dentures can play an important role in
      accelerating the resurfacing process.

      With these premises, it is common to find patients with atrophic crests when processing plans
      that provide implant support prosthetic rehabilitation.

      A crestal bone thickness of at least 6 mm in the buco-lingual sense is considered sufficient
      to safely place a plant with a diameter of 4 mm. But when the width is lower, a variety of
      procedures and techniques have been proposed in literature that allow recreate the volumes
      needed for implant placement.

      Horizontal lifting techniques with bone blocks (autologous, alloplastic, xeno-graft), guided
      bone regeneration, crest expansion technique have demonstrated a good long-term
      predictability of the inserted devices. However, some negatives related to these techniques
      need to be considered, such as increased morbidity for the patient, demand for advanced
      surgical skills for the operator, increased treatment costs, and increased therapy times.

      Because of these observations, a new implant design has been proposed for specific use in
      narrow ridges. Its wedge shape and press-fit insertion make it possible to position it with a
      minimally invasive preparation of the implant site, performed with ultrasound technique.

      Therefore, the use of this implant could allow effective and minimally invasive treatment of
      narrow edentulous crests up to 4 mm, with significant benefits to the patient in terms of
      morbidity, treatment costs and time.

      Twelve clinical centers will treat patients with insertion of wedge-shaped implants in thin
      crests with a specific surgical protocol and clinical outcomes will be collected and
      analyzed.

      The chosen medical device will be the Rex Tissue Level implant System. For each implant
      inserted, the clinical parameters will be recorded up to 5 years after insertion.

      In addition, intermediate evaluations will be carried out at 1 year and 3 years after
      installation.
    
  