
    
      CAN04 is a first-in-class fully humanized and ADCC enhanced monoclonal antibody, targeting
      the Interleukin 1 Receptor Accessory Protein (IL1RAP).

      The CAN04 strategy is to attack the IL1RAP target molecule using an effective antibody-based
      cancer treatment. In preclinical (in vitro and in vivo) studies, CAN04 has shown two distinct
      mechanisms of action:

        1. By blocking the intracellular signals from the IL1RAP target molecule, thereby impairing
           the cancer cells' ability to secrete tumor stimulating cytokines, in turn reducing tumor
           inflammation and tumor progression.

        2. Through antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) against IL1RAP expressing tumor
           cells where CAN04 stimulates natural killer (NK) cells to attack the tumor cells.

      The study is a combined phase 1/2a, open-label, dose-escalation followed by dose expansion,
      safety and tolerability clinical trial, in patients with relapsed or refractory solid tumors.
      It consists of two parts.

      In Part I (Dose Escalation - DE), the intention is to include patients with any of the four
      solid tumor types: Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC), Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
      (PDAC), Triple Negative Breast Cancer (TNBC) or Colorectal Cancer (CRC). In this part of the
      study safety and tolerability will be documented and the MTD/ RP2D will be determined.
      Patients will stay on CAN04 treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or
      discontinuation for any other reason. [Completed December 2018]

      In Part II (Expansion Cohort - EC), safety and tolerability will be further evaluated in an
      expanded cohort of subjects with PDAC or NSCLC at the RP2D level. In addition, early signs of
      efficacy during treatment with CAN04 will be investigated, as monotherapy or in combination
      with the standard of care.

      Patients will stay on treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or
      discontinuation for any other reason. [Enrollment to monotherapy arms completed]
    
  