
    
      Anemia is a major problem in the general population affecting 5.6% in the United States. Iron
      deficiency is the most common cause of anemia. Although traditionally considered to be mainly
      a problem of underdeveloped countries, a recent epidemiological survey reported high
      incidence of iron deficiency anemia (IDA) in Europe in 2011. The incidence rate measured per
      1,000 person-years was 8.18 in Belgium, 8.93 in Italy, 12.42 in Germany and 14.14 in Spain.
      Women were affected four-times more than men. The major causes of IDA are chronic blood loss,
      chronic disorders and excess needs.

      The cornerstones of management of IDA are recognition and management of the cause of iron
      loss and efficient iron supplementation. Iron supplementation is usually done through oral
      formulations of iron. Three oral iron preparations are broadly used: ferrous sulfate, ferrous
      gluconate, and ferrous fumarate. The usual dosage is 325 mg (corresponding to 65 mg of
      elemental iron) two times a day. One major limitation with oral iron supplementation is GI
      side effects observed in almost 40% of cases. These are gastric discomfort, nausea, vomiting
      and constipation and they are caused due to the oxidation of ferrous irons in the stomach by
      acidic gastric fluid into insoluble salts.

      A new formulation of iron conjugated to one N-acetyl-aspartate derivative of casein (Fe-ASP)
      has recently been developed. Due to the casein coating, it is anticipated that iron is
      converted to a smaller extent in the stomach into insoluble salts. In this way, more iron
      reaches the duodenum to become absorbed whereas GI side effects are less often. In parallel,
      animal studies have shown that casein itself primes the expression of enzymes that facilitate
      the absorption of iron across the duodenal mucosa.

      This formulation is anticipated to be better tolerated for oral ingestion since iron is
      readily absorbed in the duodenum. The aim is to compare the efficacy of the new oral
      formulation of Fe-ASP to oral ferrous sulfate in patients with IDA for the restoration of
      decreased circulating Hb.
    
  