
    
      In children with spina bifida and neurogenic bladder dysfunction, the need for intermittent
      bladder catheterization increases the risk of bacteriuria. In many patients, this leads to a
      clinically significant urinary tract infection (UTI). Many of these children are placed on
      long term, low dose antibiotic suppression to prevent recurrent urinary infection.
      Unfortunately, bacteriuria often persists despite daily antibiotic therapy, and breakthrough
      UTIs are common. Furthermore, this approach carries the potential for deleterious side
      effects, and may promote the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.

      UTI in girls occur when virulent bacteria migrate from the rectum and colonize the vagina and
      peri-urethral mucosa, thus gaining access to the bladder. In girls with spina bifida, access
      to the bladder is greatly facilitated by catheter passage. Antibiotic prophylaxis relies on
      maintaining a low dose of antibiotic in the urinary stream, which decreases peri-urethral
      colonization, and prevents proliferation of bacteria after they gain access to the bladder.
      An alternative approach to daily antibiotic prophylaxis is to decrease the risk of urinary
      colonization with virulent bacteria by supplementing the normal bacteria flora with
      non-infection causing strains of bacteria.

      Probiotics are dietary supplements containing potentially beneficial bacterial strains such
      as Lactobacillus. The safety of oral administration of probiotics has been demonstrated in
      several studies over the last 30 years. Studies using Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG, a probiotic
      introduced in the late 1980s to alleviate diarrhea, have shown promising results when used
      for UTI prevention. In one study, researchers found that the subjects consuming GG drinks had
      fewer episodes of UTI compared to those women not receiving probiotics. A placebo-controlled
      study in premature infants also used GG in an attempt to prevent UTI. The number of urinary
      infections was reduced but statistically the difference was not significant. Finally, a
      recent randomized clinical trial demonstrated that the rate of UTI in children taking
      prophylactic antibiotics was similar to that of patients taking Lactobacillus acidophilus
      alone. The efficacy of probiotic usage in the spina bifida population has not been reported.

      Clinical trials have suggested that oral ingestion of the probiotic strains Lactobacillus
      reuteri RC-14 and Lactobacillus rhamnosus GR-1 results in vaginal colonization and prevention
      of adult UTI, potentially by inhibiting uropathogen ascension from the vagina to the urinary
      tract.

      A total of 60 patients will be enrolled for this pilot study, half of whom will be randomized
      to receive probiotics and the reminder of which will receive placebo [1:1 ratio; 50% chance
      of being in each group (A and B)]. Treatment assignment will be double blinded and will last
      6 months.
    
  