
    
      The proposed project will be able to provide services to high-risk youth in Ohio. This
      randomized controlled trial for youth discharged from inpatient psychiatric hospital will be
      able to determine what combination of services is best suited to reduce subsequent suicide
      attempts and re-hospitalization.

      All youth (ages 10-18), that fit the inclusion criteria, will be recruited from the inpatient
      unit at Fairview Youth Inpatient Unit. Patients will be consented, enrolled, and assigned to
      group by the Research Coordinator working at the unit. The Methodologist/ Statistician will
      generate a random allocation sequence using random number generator and communicate group
      assignment to the Research Coordinator. There will not be any restriction on randomization.
      The PI will be blinded to all group assignments.

      The clinical research tools and screens that will be administered in this study include:
      Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS), The Suicidal Ideation Questionnaire (SIQ),
      The Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs), Ohio Scales, Children's Global Assessment Scale
      (CGAS), Clinical Global Impressions (CGI-I).

      The participants of the study will be seen by the child psychiatrist (Dr. Varkula) and the
      research coordinator at the initial appointment, and a 6 month follow-up (Dr. Falcone). The
      C-SSRS and the SIQ will be administered at the initial appointment and the follow-up
      appointment. The study's research coordinator will be regulating the 3 month phone call and
      scheduling the 6 month up visit and administering the Ohio Scales questionnaire with the
      parents and/ or guardians of the child. There will also be a 12 month follow-up phone call
      conducted by the research coordinator. During this time, the information for the C-SSRS
      questionnaire, the SIQ, the Ohio Scales (for both the parent and the child), the CGI-I, and
      the CGAS will be administered.
    
  