
    
      Some research suggests that acupuncture may be helpful in stimulating saliva flow in patients
      with dry mouth caused by radiation treatment. Acupuncture uses very thin needles inserted at
      certain points on the body that are believed to affect bodily functions.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. Your complete
      medical history will be recorded, and you will have a physical exam. You will also be asked
      to complete 3 short questionnaires about your quality-of-life and current saliva flow. These
      should take about 5 minutes to complete. You will be asked to collect saliva in a vial (small
      tube or jar) for 5 minutes, by allowing saliva to collect in your mouth and then spitting it
      into the vial. You will be asked to collect saliva twice at each time point. One collection
      will be like it is described above. The second collection will be after you have held a sour
      liquid in your mouth for 1 minute. A traditional Chinese medicine diagnosis will also be
      conducted. This will include diagnosis by a doctor as well as by using a heart-rate machine
      and taking a photograph of your tongue. This will allow a more objective check of your heart
      rate and tongue condition.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in the study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of a coin) into 1 of 2 groups. One group will receive acupuncture during their
      radiation treatment period, and the other will receive standard care without acupuncture.
      Participants assigned to the acupuncture group will receive acupuncture for 20 minutes before
      their radiation therapy session, 3 days a week for 7 weeks. Participants in the standard care
      group will not receive acupuncture.

      If you are in the acupuncture group, you will be asked to come to the acupuncture clinic for
      the treatment, before your radiation treatment. The acupuncturist will put in the needles in
      certain points of your body (including the chin, wrist, leg, and ear), while you are seated
      in a chair. The needles will remain in for about 20 minutes.

      If you choose to receive medications for dry mouth at any point while on study, your
      participation on this study will end.

      No matter which group you are assigned to, for each of the 7 weeks you are receiving
      radiation treatment, your vital signs (your blood pressure and pulse) will be checked, and
      you will be asked about any medications you are taking. You will also complete questionnaires
      about your quality-of-life and symptoms. Each questionnaire should take about 5 minutes to
      complete. A saliva sample will also be collected on Weeks 1, 3, 4, 6, and 7. If you are
      assigned to the acupuncture group, the saliva sample will be collected after the acupuncture
      treatment on Weeks 1, 4, and 7 and before the treatment on Weeks 3 and 6. A traditional
      Chinese medicine diagnosis will also be conducted in the middle of radiation treatment, at
      the end of treatment, and 1 month later. This will include diagnosis by a physician as well
      as by using a pulse machine and taking a photograph of your tongue.

      One month after the end of radiation treatment (Week 11), your vital signs will be checked,
      you will be asked about any medications you are taking， you will complete the quality of life
      and symptom questionnaires, and you will provide another saliva sample. After Week 11, your
      participation on this study is over.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 100 patients will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled at the Fudan University Cancer Hospital.
    
  