
    
      Dengue has been the growing public health problem in many tropical countries. Almost 4
      billion people were estimated to be at risk, with estimated 400 million infections occurring
      annually. In Asia, around 10% of febrile patients were virologically confirmed with dengue.
      The most common cause of death is from dengue shock as a result of vascular leak syndrome.
      This condition can occur in various clinical manifestations ranging from mild cases to
      life-threatening condition of dengue shock syndrome. The common sites of plasma leakage are
      pleural effusion and ascites. The contributing factors for endothelial dysfunction in dengue
      are cytokines such as soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor (sTNFR/75), interferon gamma,
      and vascular endothelial growth factor, NS1 antigenemia, complement activation, and
      activation of dendritic cells, macrophages, and mast cells.

      Mast cells have recently been acknowledged as an important regulator for promoting innate
      immune responses. Important composition of granules in mast cells are proteases, chymase and
      tryptase, histamine, heparin and leukotriene. The activated mast cells can undergo
      degranulation, releasing these cytokines. These increase capillary permeability, leading to
      vascular leakage.

      Leukotriene has an important role in promoting plasma leakage and leukocyte adhesion in
      postcapillary venules. In dengue patients, leukotriene levels usually elevate during febrile
      and defervescence stage for 35 and 38 times of the baseline values, and return to baseline in
      convalescence stage. Blocking leukotriene in dengue infected mice can significantly reduce
      plasma leakage.

      The management of dengue consists of only symptomatic treatment, and intravenous fluid
      replacement. No specific treatment has yet been demonstrated of a benefit in preventing
      complications. In the recent decades, mast cells have been demonstrated as a major
      contributor of severe forms of dengue, leading to research in reduction of vascular
      permeability with mast cell stabilizers or anti-histamine drugs. An animal model studies
      found that a tryptase inhibitor, nafamostat, or leukotriene inhibitor, montelukast, could
      reduce the plasma leakage.

      In 2018, an open-label study found that patients with montelukast had a 22% absolute risk
      reduction in dengue shock syndrome, compared to standard treatment. However, there has never
      been any randomized controlled trial evaluating the efficacy of montelukast in dengue
      patients.

      This study aims to determine the efficacy of montelukast in reducing the incidence of dengue
      warning signs in adult dengue patients.
    
  