
    
      Abnormalities of sleep are common in hospitalized patients, but the mechanisms and
      consequences are not well understood. In many of these patients, sleep is very disrupted,
      occurs during the daytime, and circadian rhythm is diminished or lost. Hospitalized patients
      experience more frequent arousals and awakenings than is normal and show decreases in rapid
      eye movement and slow wave sleep. The degree of sleep fragmentation is at least equivalent to
      that seen in patients with obstructive sleep apnea. About 20% of arousals and awakenings are
      related to noise, 10% are related to health care personnel and care-related activities, and
      the cause for the remainder is not known, although severity of underlying disease is likely
      an important factor.

      In studies of sleep following acute myocardial infarction, marked disturbances have been
      found in patients, whether in the ICU and on the wards. These disturbances include long
      periods of wakefulness; poor sleep efficiency, and disruption of REM sleep. The fact that
      there is also a loss in circadian rhythm in these patients may indicate a widespread
      disruption of bodily homeostasis which, in turn, may be related to the infarct itself, to a
      more generalized physiological response to stress or to other factors. Sleep disruption can
      induce sympathetic activation and elevation of blood pressure, which may contribute to
      patient morbidity.

      It has been shown that there is an increased level of some inflammatory and coagulation
      factors in the recovery period following an acute myocardial infarction (MI). Post MI
      patients have higher levels of TNF-α, IL-6 and tissue plasminogen activator as well as lower
      levels of antithrombin III and protein C.

      The aim of this study is to determine whether the sleep-aid Eszopiclone can improve sleep,
      decrease inflammation, and decrease pro-coagulation factors in patients who have recently
      suffered myocardial infarction when compared with a control group without sleep aids.
      Eszopiclone is a benzodiazepine receptor agonist which improves sleep quality by reducing the
      time to sleep onset and reduces wakefulness during the sleep period. Unlike benzodiazepines,
      it does not affect the deeper stage 3 and 4 sleep. The result is that it provides a more
      nearly normal night sleep than other sleep aids. It is hoped that improved sleep patterns
      will result in more rapid normalization of inflammatory and coagulation factors and perhaps
      more rapid recovery.
    
  