
    
      Gingival recessions constitute a common problem in the adult population worldwide. In the
      United States the prevalence of ≥1 mm recession in persons >30 years was 58%, representing
      over 60 million adults while in a French cohort aged 30-65 years old 84.6% had at least one
      gingival recession. In two other studies it has been reported that over 90% of adults aged 35
      to 50 years and above present with single or multiple gingival recessions. The consequences
      of gingival recessions can be gingivitis due to suboptimal oral hygiene, tooth mobility and
      in extreme circumstances tooth loss. Tooth sensitivity, root caries, non-carious cervical
      lesions and esthetic concerns especially with anteriorly located recessions can be also
      encountered. With the yearly increase in the number of orthodontic patients a potentially
      additional burden is expected in the population.

      The use of subepithelial palatal connective tissue graft (SCTG) in conjunction with either
      coronally advanced flap (CAF) or coronally advanced tunnel are well established techniques
      for the treatment of single and multiple gingival recessions. These techniques have been
      shown to result in predictable root coverage, higher increase in keratinized tissue and
      stable long-term outcomes thus being considered today state of the art.

      Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10), referred to as 'ubiquinone', is endogenously synthesised by the
      mevalonate pathway in the human body and is obtained in much of human diet. CoQ10 is a
      critical intermediate of the mitochondrial electron transport chain for the synthesis of
      adenosine triphosphate. The biological importance of CoQ10 is related to antioxidant
      activity, which can scavenge free radicals as well as restore the antioxidant defence system.
      Furthermore, in vitro and animal studies have suggested that CoQ10 acts as anti-inflammatory
      agent reducing the inflammatory response by inhibiting the translocation of nuclear factor
      kappa beta into the nucleus. Owing to its anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory capacities
      CoQ10 is of potential therapeutic value in numerous chronic diseases including periodontitis,
      rheumatoid arthritis or cardiovascular disease. Moreover, it might exert also beneficial
      effects on wound healing by reducing inflammation and oxidative stress. A recent clinical
      trial showed that the serum level of TNF-α was significantly reduced in patients with
      rheumatoid arthritis who received capsules of CoQ10 (100mg/day) for 8 weeks. However, to
      date, no published study has investigated the anti-oxidative and anti-inflammation effects of
      coenzyme Q10 spray on oral wound healing. Thus, the purpose of this clinical study is to
      examine the early wound healing after coenzyme Q10 spray administration (for 3 weeks) in
      patients undergoing recession coverage surgery.

      For this pilot study 30 patients exhibiting single or multiple gingival recessions (Miller
      class I-III) will randomly be assigned to the control or test group and will be using a
      placebo or CoQ10 spray for 3 weeks. The primary endpoint is:

      • the progress of wound healing assessed by the early wound healing index EHI previously
      defined by Wachtel et al. 2003.

      The secondary endpoints are:

        -  the improvement of patients' postoperative comfort see patient questionnaire (VAS scale)

        -  the percentage of root coverage after 6 months
    
  