
    
      The head injury is a frequent problem of health, which produces high morbi-mortality. Today
      is the main cause of death and disability between 18 and 40 years. In addition it originates
      expensive expenses in health care systems.

      Severity of cerebral injury is not only because of impact, it is implicated many
      physiopathological changes. Decrease or increase of cerebral blood flow (CBF) play important
      roll formation of edema and intracranial hypertension. Hypoxic/ischemic damage is the final
      point of both changes.

      The transcranial Doppler (TCD) was introduced around 1982. Through TCD can be measured the
      flow velocity of intracranial arteries, which let us identify changes in diameter in vessels.
      There are three windows of access to arteries: transtemporal, transorbitary and suboccipital.

      The parameter are systolic velocity (S), tele-diastolic velocity (D), mean velocity (M) and
      pulsatility index (PI). Many studies have been conducted for evaluate utility in head injury,
      TCD can identify changes that correlate with alteration in CBF intracranial pressure (ICP).

      The autoregulatory status is important, TCD with decrement in D and increment in PI could
      tell us about failure in this issue. An invasive way for estimate cerebral perfusion pressure
      (CCP) with TCD. The most sensible for fall in is amplitude in FV. However there is more
      correlation between CPP and PI. Vasospasm can occur post trauma, for identify the Lindegaard
      ratio (FVcma/FVcia) is useful. The other change, hyperemia, can be demonstrated by
      continuously increase FV. In post traumatic time is very important identify alterations which
      could produce ischemia. The measurement of CPP generally is gotten by invasión with ICP
      determination.

      In severe head injury has been demonstrated correlation between ICP and PI, strongest for CPP
      and PI. Other parameters are oligaemia and vasospasm in the first 24 hours correlate poor
      outcome.

      Because of the non invasive characteristic and good correlation with physiologic and
      prognosis, we think it is important evaluate if there are a kind of correlation between
      amnesia and orientation, prognosis and TCD parameters.
    
  