
    
      The investigators propose a single-stage, randomized, superiority trial with 2 parallel
      groups allocated with a 1:1 ratio. The comparator in this study will be a control ("placebo")
      infographic that is completely unrelated to science (e.g., about cats), but that is developed
      using the same communication and graphical style.

      Subjects will be recruited using the Prolific data collection platform, which is one of two
      primary online crowdsourced research platforms (the other is Amazon's Mechanical Turk, or
      mTurk).

      To be included, participants must be identified by Prolific as part of a
      nationally-representative sample. Participants will also be required to be age 18 or older,
      and to reside in the United States. Individuals who decline to digitally sign the informed
      consent document will be excluded and replaced. Per recent best practice recommendations for
      crowdsourced digital research, attention checks and screens for "bots" and international
      users with virtual private networks to mimic US IP addresses will be embedded within the
      instruments, and failure of more than one attention check, or any bot/location check will
      result in subject exclusion and replacement. Replacements will be drawn in such a way as to
      preserve the representativeness of the sample.

      Missing data will be addressed using either full information maximum likelihood or Markov
      Chain Monte Carlo multiple imputation strategies. When there is a violation of missing at
      random (which is unlikely) in preliminary analyses, the investigators will incorporate
      strategies representing the missingness. The researchers will further explore data quality in
      terms of outliers, measurement error, non-normality, and variance heterogeneity. Robust
      methods of analysis (e.g., Huber-White robust standard errors) will be used, as appropriate.
      For all multi-item measures, reliability will be evaluated prior to computation of the
      variable.
    
  