
    
      Patients with Barrett's esophagus (BE) have an increased risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma
      which is 40-125 fold higher than in the general population. However, the current techniques
      of detecting dysplasia and observing abnormal p53 immunohistochemical staining are not
      accurate or reliable methods for determining which BE patients will progress to cancer. DNA
      hypermethylation is an epigenetic process that occurs in the promoter region of certain
      genes, resulting in suppression of gene expression. Inactivation of specific genes via
      hypermethylation has been highly associated with cancer.

      The primary objective of this research is to determine whether DNA hypermethylation is a
      biomarker that will predict which patients with BE are likely to progress to adenocarcinoma.
      Patients with BE and/or esophageal adenocarcinoma who undergo endoscopy at the Johns Hopkins
      Hospital will comprise the cohort of subjects. Gene hypermethylation will be assessed by
      performing methylation-specific Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) on a panel of 8
      cancer-related genes.

      Specific Aim 1: To compare the prevalence of gene hypermethylation in BE patients with
      different grades of dysplasia and/or adenocarcinoma, using archived specimens.

      Specific Aim 2: To determine whether the presence of gene hypermethylation in initial
      biopsies of BE patients is associated with progression to adenocarcinoma, using archived
      specimens. To compare gene hypermethylation with currently available markers for neoplastic
      progression.

      Specific Aim 3: To determine whether methylated DNA from BE and/or adenocarcinoma can be
      detected in the peripheral blood of patients, by comparing methylation profiles of esophageal
      biopsy specimens with peripheral blood samples taken at the same time in prospectively
      enrolled patients.

      If hypermethylation of one or more genes is detected at an early stage in BE patients who
      later progress to adenocarcinoma, hypermethylation could be used as an early predictor for
      adenocarcinoma even before pathologic changes are evident. Furthermore, this research will
      help determine the specific genetic events that occur in the neoplastic transformation from
      BE to adenocarcinoma.

      The long-term goal of this project is to determine whether hypermethylation can identify BE
      patients who are at high risk for neoplastic progression, thus allowing for early
      intervention in the form of more frequent endoscopic surveillance, chemoprevention, ablative
      therapy, or surgery.
    
  