
    
      This "Evaluation and Treatment Protocol" will allow the uveitis specialists and ocular
      immunologists at the NEI to identify, follow and provide "standard of care" treatment to
      patients with uveitis and other intraocular inflammatory disorders. A primary purpose of the
      protocol is to accumulate a cohort of patients with uveitis or other intraocular inflammatory
      diseases for possible participation in new NEI clinical trials and epidemiological protocols.
      Also, by providing long-term follow-up and treatment for a variety of uveitic or other
      intraocular inflammatory disorders, the uveitis specialists and ocular immunologists at NEI
      will be better able to identify research hypotheses about these diseases in addition to
      maintaining their clinical skills. The availability of cohorts of patients with a spectrum of
      uveitic disorders will be valuable for the training of fellows in intraocular inflammatory
      disease, an important mission of the NEI. The ability to provide long-term follow-up and care
      will also facilitate referral efforts for new NEI protocols.

      The uveitis specialists at the National Eye Institute will be free to choose those ocular
      inflammatory conditions that interest them. However, the total number of patients that can be
      enrolled in the protocol will be restricted. This protocol is not designed to test any new
      treatments. Any evaluations or treatment under this protocol will be based on the current
      standard of care for each uveitic syndrome.

      Participants in this patient evaluation and treatment protocol will be evaluated for
      potential eligibility in any new NEI clinical trials or epidemiologic protocols as they are
      developed. If eligible, patients may be asked to participate in the new protocol. However,
      they will not be required to enter any protocol and their decision to participate will be
      entirely voluntary. No more than 150 patients will be accepted in this "Evaluation and
      Treatment Protocol."
    
  