
    
      Study description:

      Respiratory rate (RR) is a vital sign used to monitor clinical condition of a patient. It is
      defined as the number of breaths per minute. Various devices using different techniques are
      available to measure RR. Currently this is measured at the bedside in clinical practice by
      counting the breaths, however the gold standard for measuring this vital sign is the
      capnograph. For the patient, this involves limiting the movement and talking so that the
      measurements can be taken.

      A new respiratory rate measuring and logging device, SenseGuard™, is non-invasive and
      measures the respiratory rate by responding to changes in air moisture content (small amounts
      of water condensation) in exhaled air.

      The study is planned as a prospective single-center, single arm study, designed to assess the
      bias, accuracy , precision and safety of the SenseGuard™ non-invasive device in measuring of
      respiratory rate in adult patients.

      Subjects will be invited to participate should they meet all of the eligibility criteria.
      Following informed consent, subjects will be measured with both Microstream capnograph and
      SenseGuard™ measuring simultaneously so their results can be compared.

      Study population:

      25 hospitalized patients from Internal/General wards aged 18 and older.

      Objective:

      Evaluate the performance and safety of the SenseGuard™ non-invasive device in measuring
      respiratory rate in hospitalized adult patients.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Hospitalized patients from the Internal/General wards.

        2. Provision of signed and dated informed consent form

        3. Stated willingness to comply with all study procedures and availability for the duration
           of the study

        4. Male or female, aged ≥18

        5. Willing to adhere to the study regimen

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Intubated patients (i.e. endobronchial intubation) or patients currently undergoing a
           BPAP/CPAP treatment.

        2. Presence of implanted electronic device intended to regulate cardiac activity (e.g.,
           pacemaker or cardioverter/defibrillator)

        3. Pregnancy or lactation

        4. Known allergic reactions to materials used in the components of the SenseGuard™ system,
           i.e. polyethylene or silicon, or gold, nickel, copper or alloys containing any of the
           above.

        5. Participation in another study in the last 4 weeks

      Participant Duration:

      A single invitational visit with a respiratory rate measurement duration of 30 minutes

      Study Duration:

      1 year.
    
  