
    
      Transmen who have undergone gender-affirming surgery require long-lasting treatments with
      androgens to maintain male phenotypic characteristics and to preserve their health. In this
      population the effects on muscle and the relative role of testosterone and its metabolite
      dihydrotestosterone (DHT) on the skeletal muscle are still largely unknown.

      In this pilot study, we evaluated the effects of testosterone and DHT on muscle strength,
      body composition, metabolism. Also cutaneous androgenic effects such as acne and androgenetic
      alopecia were evaluated.

      DESIGN

      For this purpose, in this randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled pilot trial we treated
      variectomized transmen for 54 weeks with:

        -  Testosterone Undecanoate (TU) 1000 mg i.m. at weeks zero, six, 18, 30, 42 + a daily oral
           placebo pill (TU+PL)

        -  TU 1000 mg i.m. at weeks zero, six, 18, 30, 42 + dutasteride 5 mg/day (TU+DUT).

      Prospective, phase III, randomized study design was used.

      Subjects were seen every 12 weeks for safety monitoring that included evaluation of
      hematocrit, transaminases, alkaline phosphatases and bilirubin, creatinine, urea and serum
      electrolyte as potassium and sodium.

      Baseline and week-54 evaluations included the following measurements:

      blood drawings for measurements of: hormonal profile (serum testosterone, estradiol,
      luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone, prolactin, sex hormone binding
      globulin, and thyroid stimulating hormone), haematocrit (Ht) and haemoglobin (Hb), glucidic
      and lipidic profile (fasting glucose, fasting insulin, total cholesterol, high- and
      low-density lipoproteins, and triglycerides), hepatic function (aspartate and alanine
      aminotransferases) and bone related markers (osteocalcin, parathyroid hormone, bone alkaline
      phosphatase and 25-hydroxyvitamin, 24h urinary excretion of calcium, potassium, magnesium and
      creatinine).

      anthropometry: weight, measures DEXA for bone mass determination and body composition
      Isokinetic knee extension and flexion peak torque (PT-IKE and PT-IKF) Handgrip strength
      evalutation of the psychological profile with the brief Profile of Mood State (POMS) sexual
      life satisfaction evalutation with a Visual Analogue General Satisfaction Scale (VAS)
      physical examination: inspection of external genitalia (clitorides) and a visit to detect
      appearance of acne and gynecomastia

      During the treatment phase all injections will be administered by the investigator or
      co-investigators for the entire study. Fasting (10 hours) blood samples will be taken
      (immediately before giving the injections) every time subjects come for injections (week 0,
      6, 18, 30 and 42) and at the end of the treatment phase.

      In the sexual and behavior questionnaire the subjects will judge their sexual activity and
      behavior in the period between visits. The subjects have the possibility to making additional
      comments about important events and disturbances.
    
  