
    
      Study rationale

      High risk patients with differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) require therapy with 131 I under
      thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) stimulation. There are two methods of TSH stimulation
      endogenous by thyroid hormone withdrawal (THW) leading to hypothyroidism and exogenous by
      injection of human recombinant TSH (rhTSH Thyrogen). The appropriate 131-I activity utilized
      for treatment is either based on empiric fixed dosage choice or individually determined
      activity based on 131 I dosimetric calculations. Although dosimetry utilizing radioactive
      iodine isotope 131 I enables calculation of maximum safe dose, it does not estimate the
      tumoricidal activity necessary to destroy the metastatic lesions. The alternative radioactive
      isotope of iodine -124 I, used for positron emission tomography (PET) imaging, might be used
      for calculation not only the maximum safe131 I dose, but also to predict the absorbed dose in
      the metastatic lesions.

      Study objectives

      The primary objective of this study is to compare the 124 I -PET/CT lesional and whole body
      dosimetry in each individual patient with metastatic radioiodine (RAI)-avid thyroid cancer
      under preparation with rhTSH and THW. The secondary objective is to evaluate the predicted by
      PET/CT lesional uptake with the early response to therapy.

      Study design

      This is a phase 2 pilot prospective cohort study comparing the lesional and whole body
      dosimetry within each patient undergoing exogenous (rhTSH) and endogenous (THW) TSH
      stimulation and followed for 5 years.

      Interventions

      Each study participant will undergo rhTSH and THW-aided 124 I-PET/CT dosimetric evaluations
      and will be subsequently treated with THW-aided RAI activity based on dosimetric calculations
      enabling maximum safe dosage. The patients will be followed in 12+/-3 months intervals for 5
      years.

      Sample size and population

      This pilot study will include 30 patients with high risk differentiated thyroid cancer
      presenting with distant and/or loco-regional metastases.
    
  