
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR; complete response + partial response) in
      pediatric patients treated with samotolisib (LY3023414) with advanced solid tumors,
      non-Hodgkin lymphomas or central nervous system (CNS) tumors that harbor TSC loss of function
      mutations, that harbor other PI3K/MTOR activating mutations, and if efficacy is observed in a
      MATCHed cohort, in patients that lack mutations in the PI3K/MTOR pathway.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the progression free survival in pediatric patients treated with LY3023414
      with advanced solid tumors, non-Hodgkin lymphomas or CNS tumors that harbor TSC loss of
      function mutations, that harbor other PI3K/MTOR activating mutations, or if efficacy is
      observed in a MATCHed cohort, that lack mutations in the PI3K/MTOR pathway.

      II. To obtain information about the tolerability of LY3023414 in children with relapsed or
      refractory cancer.

      III. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of LY3023414 in children with recurrent or
      refractory cancer.

      IV. If efficacy is observed in a MATCHed cohort, to obtain preliminary information on the
      response rate to LY3023414 in patients that lack mutations in the PI3K/MTOR pathway.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To increase knowledge of the genomic landscape of relapsed pediatric solid tumors and
      lymphomas and identify potential predictive biomarkers (other than the genomic alteration for
      which study treatment was assigned) using additional genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic
      testing platforms.

      II. To explore approaches to profiling changes in tumor genomics over time through evaluation
      of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).

      III. To evaluate the frequency and mechanism of biallelic loss of function, and evaluate the
      expression of TSC1, TSC2, and PTEN in subjects who enroll with a loss of function mutation in
      one of these genes.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive samotolisib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every
      28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  