
    
      Study Purposes:

      This study is to extend our previous research to longitudinally examine the effectiveness of
      FCIP and UCP for VLBW preterm children in Taiwan at 3 and 4 years of age and to investigate
      if dopamine-related genes moderate intervention effect on child developmental outcome.
      Effectiveness examined will include child and parent outcomes. Child outcomes will consist of
      growth, health, neurodevelopment (cognition, language and motor function) and behavior.
      Parent outcomes will include parental stress and quality of life. The long-term effect of
      early intervention for preterm children from the neonatal period to preschool age will
      provide important information to help medical professionals and public policy makers to
      develop effective intervention for Taiwanese preterm children who are at risk of
      developmental problems. Furthermore, the genetic susceptibility theory and the cumulative
      genetic plasticity theory will be used to examine the relations of polymorphisms of
      dopamine-related genes with child development and their possible interactions with
      environmental intervention on child development. Over twenty dopamine genetic markers that
      were identified in extensive research as being associated with plasticity for
      neurodevelopmental functions will be examined for their individual and synergistic influences
      on developmental outcomes.

      Participants:

      Two hundred and seventy-five VLBW preterm children participating in our previous study who
      were born or admitted at National Taiwan University Hospital (NTUH), Mackay Memorial Hospital
      (MMH) and National Cheng Kung University Hospital (NCKUH) during the period of April 2012 to
      December 2014 will be enrolled in this study.

      Methods:

      All families will be contacted via phone call and mail to participate in this study. Children
      and their parents will be examined for the following outcomes when the children approach 3
      and 4 years of age. All measures will be conducted at the Infant Motor Development
      Laboratory, School of Physical Therapy, National Taiwan University, and the Cognitive
      Electrophysiology Laboratory, Institute of Cognitive Science, National Cheng Kung University.
      The outcome measures in this study will consist of the primary child outcome (growth, health,
      neurodevelopment [cognitive, language and motor function] and behavior) and the secondary
      parent outcome (parental stress and quality of life). Child neurodevelopment will be examined
      using the Bayley Scales of Infant Development- 2nd edition, Bayley Scales of Infant and
      Toddler Development-3rd edition, Movement Assessment Battery for Children-2nd Edition, and
      Wechsler PreSchool and Primary Scales of Intelligence-4th Edition. Child behavior will be
      examined using the Children's Behavior Questionnaire, Swanson, Nolan, and Pelham
      Questionnaire- 4th Edition, and Child Behavior Check List/4-18. Parental stress will be
      assessed using the Parenting Stress Index-Long Form and quality of life will be assessed
      using the Chinese Version World Health Organization Quality of Life- Brief Taiwan Version.
      Each assessment will be delineated as follows.
    
  