
    
      1. To assess the impact of exercise on biomarkers related to obesity, insulin-related
           pathways, inflammation, hormones, and microRNAs.

        2. The primary aim of this study is to compare the effect of 2 types of exercise
           interventions (supervised and self-directed compared to control) on biological
           parameters related to breast cancer development. It is important to understand if
           participants in this study respond better to an exercise program they are able to engage
           in on their own (self-directed) or if participating in an exercise program under
           supervision is preferred. A study by Pinto utilized a home-based exercise program among
           breast cancer survivors and commented that the home-based program has several advantages
           including 1) mitigating transportation and scheduling difficulties, and 2) is less
           expensive than supervised programs. Another study compared the effect of a supervised
           exercise program to a self-directed exercise group and a control group on physical
           functioning and health-related quality of life among breast cancer survivors and found
           that participants in the self-directed exercise group improved their physical
           functioning to a somewhat greater degree than the supervised group. The authors proposed
           that one reason for this result could be attributed to the fact that the self-directed
           program included many features thought to comprise effective home training including the
           following: baseline fitness evaluations, written guidelines for home exercise, education
           about pulse checking/heart rate guidelines, daily activity logs and bi-weekly telephone
           calls by the exercise specialist. In the current study, we plan to employ features
           similar to the self-directed exercise program in an effort to determine if the
           self-directed group improves to a greater extent than the control group and better or
           comparable to the supervised group. An added feature of the current study is that we
           will administer a participant satisfaction questionnaire to assess each participant's
           experience in their respective groups. This information will, in part, help us to plan
           future studies. All participants will complete a baseline assessment prior to
           randomization, as indicated in Table 1 in the attached grant proposal; follow-up
           measures will also be conducted as indicated in that table. Participants will be
           required to provide a medical clearance from their health care provider or a nurse
           practitioner.

        3. * Rationale and justification for study (i.e. historical background, investigator's
           personal experience, pertinent medical literature, etc.): In the United States, breast
           cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in women, other than non-melanoma skin
           cancer, and is the second most common cause of cancer deaths among women. Several risk
           factors have been identified that increase breast cancer risk, some of which are
           non-modifiable (e.g., age, family history, and race) and some of which are modifiable
           (e.g., physical activity, body weight, dietary habits, and alcohol intake). Breast
           cancer rates, which are increasing worldwide, parallel the increases in lifestyle
           diseases including Type 2 diabetes, obesity, and metabolic syndrome (MetS). MetS
           represents a cluster of risk factors associated with increased risk of cardiovascular
           diseases, and includes several components individually related to breast cancer
           etiology, i.e., central obesity, hypertension, hyperglycemia, and low high-density
           lipoprotein cholesterol. However, recent studies have suggested that MetS is
           underdiagnosed in African-American women because they are less likely to have decreased
           HDL or increased triglycerides as compared to women of other races/ethnicities. Breast
           cancer is hormone related and thus, the effects of established risk factors for the
           disease, including obesity, differ before to after menopause. Among African-American
           women, in whom MetS is very prevalent and breast cancer mortality rates are high, it is
           hypothesized that intervening on MetS to improve the MetS profile may prove to be a
           means to reduce breast cancer risk. The American Cancer Society (ACS) and the
           International Agency for Research on Cancer of the World Health Organization now both
           recommend regular physical activity as a strategy for women to reduce their risk of
           developing breast cancer. Specific recommendations for breast cancer prevention, which
           initially emphasized diet, are now focused on maintaining a healthy weight throughout
           life by balancing caloric intake while increasing caloric expenditure via increased
           physical activity levels, and losing weight if overweight or obese.

      Obesity itself is a major public health problem and is associated with increased
      postmenopausal breast cancer incidence and mortality. Our proposed pilot project compares two
      exercise interventions: a supervised facility-based and a home-based exercise intervention to
      a control group in African-American women with metabolic syndrome who are at high risk for
      breast cancer (based on the CARE model).This study is a 6-month three-arm RCT to assess the
      impact of the exercise interventions on biomarkers related to obesity, insulin-related
      pathways, inflammation, and hormones. The specific aim of the proposed study is to compare
      the impact of a supervised facility-based and a home-based exercise intervention on obesity,
      metabolic syndrome and known breast cancer biomarkers in postmenopausal African-American
      women with metabolic syndrome who are at increased risk of breast cancer.
    
  