
    
      Cardiovascular thrombotic conditions were estimated to account for 1 in 4 deaths worldwide in
      2010 and are the leading cause of global mortality. Thrombosis begins with damage to the
      vascular wall. Physiological haemostasis is triggered when underlying collagen is exposed to
      circulating platelets which bind directly to collagen with collagen-specific glycoprotein
      surface receptors. After an initial signalling cascade involving release of platelet binder
      von Willebrand Factor, platelets become activated which allows adherence to the site of
      injury. Following activation, phospholipase A2 modifies the integrin membrane glycoprotein
      IIb/IIIa (GP IIb/IIIa) increasing platelet ability to bind fibrinogen. The activated
      platelets then change shape from spherical to stellate, and the fibrinogen cross-links with
      glycoprotein IIb/IIIa aiding aggregation of more platelets and completing primary
      haemostasis. Secondary haemostasis involves activation of the coagulation cascade through
      extrinsic and intrinsic pathways and ends with cross linked fibrin deposition and a mature
      thrombus.

      The haemostatic process is fluid and dynamic with the expression of activated membrane
      proteins and coagulation factors changing throughout. Platelet expression of GP IIb/IIIa
      falls as a thrombus matures hence why it is a pharmacological target for antithrombotic
      therapies. The investigators aim to explore the expression and distribution of GP IIb/IIIa
      receptors in the cardiovascular system. Improving our understanding of how clinical
      presentation relates to platelet activation over a range of conditions, will help optimise
      the appropriate use of anti-thrombotic therapies.

      In the aftermath of major acute myocardial infarction, the combination of blood stasis and
      activated tissue factor frequently leads to the formation of left ventricular (LV) thrombus
      which is associated with stroke, recurrent myocardial infarction and adverse cardiac
      remodelling. The prevention, treatment and resolution of thrombus is hampered by a lack of
      understanding of its initiation, propagation and dissolution. Moreover, the current clinical
      approach fails to diagnose a high proportion of LV thrombi and we lack evidence regarding the
      optimal anti-coagulant therapy to use and duration of therapy. Non-invasive imaging
      techniques hold major promise in improving our understanding of the incidence and the natural
      history of LV thrombus as well as providing potential biomarkers to determine the optimal
      treatment strategy.

      Left ventricular (LV) thrombus post myocardial infarction (MI):

      Before thrombolytic therapy was available, LV thrombus occurred in 20% to 60% of patients
      with acute myocardial infarction. In the thrombolytic trials, the incidence of LV thrombosis
      detected by echocardiography was 5.1% increasing to 11.5% in those who had an anterior
      myocardial infarction. The incidence has further declined with the advent of primary
      percutaneous coronary intervention, likely due to enhanced myocardial salvage, and now ranges
      from 2.5% to 15%. However, the incidence is much higher in patients with anterior myocardial
      infarction, with studies using cardiac magnetic resonance imaging reporting an incidence of
      LV thrombus of 26%.Furthermore, the natural history of this condition is rather vague.
      Indeed, in most published studies, thrombi were assessed at a single time, and their size,
      mobility, and characteristics were not reported. Although echocardiography is currently used
      to identify LV thrombus in the clinic, it lacks sensitivity and leaves many cases undetected.
      In some studies, the sensitivity of transthoracic echocardiography compared to cardiac
      magnetic resonance imaging with contrast delayed enhancement (LGE-CMR) was 20-25%. We
      therefore need a more highly specific and sensitive imaging technique to detect the presence
      LV thrombus early after myocardial infarction. In this study the investigators will use
      18F-GP1 PET to describe the prevalence and natural history of LV thrombus in patients after
      myocardial infarction and to differentiate old from new LV thrombus. This study will also
      facilitate the identification of features that predict thrombus formation as well as
      providing a useful biomarker for potential therapeutic interventions.

      Stroke:

      The incidence of stroke after acute myocardial infarction during the hospital stay ranges
      from 0.7% to 2.2%. Despite contemporary antithrombotic treatment, LV thrombus detected by
      LGE-CMR is associated with a 4-fold higher long-term incidence of embolism. In a large cohort
      of patients with LV thrombus detected by LGE-CMR, there was an annualized incidence of
      embolism of 3.7%, despite the use of contemporary anticoagulant treatment in 89% of patients.
      This was 4-fold higher than the 0.8% annualized incidence of embolism in matched patients
      without LV thrombus. Moreover, among patients with LV thrombus detected by LGE-CMR, the rate
      of embolism was the same irrespective of whether or not the LV thrombus had been observed on
      echocardiography.

      The incidence of subclinical ischaemic stroke in patients with anterior myocardial infarction
      has not been investigated previously. However, mounting epidemiologic evidence has shown that
      subclinical stroke is clinically important, contributing to cognitive dysfunction, dementia
      and increased overall mortality.

      Understanding Platelet Biology:

      As platelet aggregation is a major component of both arterial and venous thrombi, the
      investigators will use 18F-GP1 - a radiolabelled ligand of the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa
      (GPIIb/IIIa) receptor- to detect activated platelets on thrombus. GPIIb/IIIa receptors
      mediate platelet adherence and aggregation. They are expressed in greater numbers and assume
      a more ligand binding conformation on activation. The receptor can then bind protein ligands
      including von Willebrand factor and Fibrinogen, facilitating platelet bridging and
      aggregation. Accordingly, 18F-GP1 PET will provide important information on LV thrombus
      formation following myocardial infarction, allowing us to better understand and time course
      of this pathology.
    
  