
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius) as therapy for
           cancer-related fatigue as measured by the general subscale of the Multidimensional
           Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short Form (MFSI-SF).

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate toxicities and tolerability of American ginseng when used for cancer-related
           fatigue.

        -  To examine stress as a mediating variable on the effects of American ginseng on
           cancer-related fatigue.

        -  To explore the impact of American ginseng on various dimensions of fatigue as measured
           by the other subscales of the MFSI-SF, functional interference as measured by the Brief
           Fatigue Inventory (BFI), stress as measured by the Perceived Stress Scale, and well
           being as measured by the Profile of Mood States (POMS), as well as the single measure of
           fatigue.

        -  To determine clinically significant changes in fatigue scores using the global
           impression of change.

        -  To evaluate whether there are differences in the efficacy of American ginseng for
           fatigue based on minority populations.

      Tertiary

        -  To describe cortisol and cytokine values in fatigued cancer survivors and to evaluate
           the relationship of cortisol and cytokines to fatigue severity as well as to patterns of
           alterations previously documented in fatigued breast cancer survivors.

        -  To evaluate whether Wisconsin Ginseng impacts the expression of cortisol and cytokine in
           fatigued cancer survivors.

        -  To evaluate the role of cortisol and cytokine changes as the mechanism by which
           Wisconsin Ginseng can ameliorate cancer related fatigue.

        -  To evaluate the relationships between cytokine and cortisol levels with secondary
           outcomes such as mood and stress.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to baseline fatigue
      score (4-7 vs 8-10), disease status of current cancer (initial diagnosis vs recurrent
      disease), current treatment (chemotherapy, radiation, endocrine therapy [i.e., tamoxifen or
      aromatase inhibitors], or other targeted therapy) ( yes vs no), duration of all prior cancer
      treatment in patient's lifetime (none vs ≤ 180 days vs > 180 days), and current tumor type
      (hematologic vs solid tumor malignancy). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral American ginseng twice daily for 14 days. Treatment repeats
           every 2 weeks for 4 courses until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo twice daily for 14 days. Treatment repeats every 2
           weeks for 4 courses.

      Patients are instructed to complete the Ginseng Symptom Experience Diary and the Linear
      Analogue Scale weekly. Patients also complete the Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom
      Inventory-Short Form (MFSI-SF), the Profile of Mood States (POMS), and the Brief Fatigue
      Inventory (BFI) questionnaires at baseline and periodically during study therapy.

      Patients who are not actively receiving chemotherapy or radiation therapy undergo blood and
      saliva sample collection at baseline and periodically during study therapy for correlative
      studies.
    
  