
    
      After providing consent, subjects will be assessed as to whether they meet inclusion criteria
      for the study. Subjects will complete a 4 week diary to measure TMD symptoms by recording
      pain levels on a Visual Analog Scale (VAS) twice daily. Standardized Research Diagnostic
      Criteria (RDC) are used to classify types of TMDs. The formal assessment tool is known as the
      RDC/TMD. It is an empirically-based and operationalized system for diagnosing and classifying
      RDC/TMD using a biopsychosocial model of disease as a framework. The CMI/TMD(hereafter
      referred to as the CMI) is designed to provide a basis for evaluating the severity of TMD
      signs and symptoms. The CMI score is calculated from a dysfunction index (DI) and palpation
      index (PI). The majority of questions found in the CMI are also included in the RDC/TMD, with
      the exception of five questions. As part of the baseline medical history, all subjects will
      be asked the five questions that are included in the RDC/TMD but not included in the CMI.
      Data from the CMI and the five RDC/TMD questions will be combined in the database and scored
      according to scoring guidelines for the RDC/TMD in order to diagnose and classify TMDs for
      all study subjects. Subjects may be categorized in one or more of the three diagnostic
      groups, including muscle disorders (myofascial pain), arthralgia, and disc displacements with
      reduction. Subjects will have an examination using the CMI at their screening visit. Subjects
      who meet inclusion criteria will be randomized to one of three groups: The study device
      (Clayton Intra-aural Device (CID)) group, the mouth splint group, or the exercise group.
      Subjects in all groups will return to the clinic for a baseline visit, followed by visits at
      one month, two months and three months post-baseline to return their completed 4 week VAS
      diary and to complete follow-up testing. At the baseline visit, subjects will have a targeted
      physical examination, with results documented by the investigator on the CMI questionnaire.
      Subjects will complete an in-office VAS score, a Modified SSI questionnaire, and will also
      complete the TMJ Scale, a questionnaire designed to measure possible improvement using a 10
      point scale. At each follow-up visit, each subject will complete questionnaires (including
      the Modified SSI questionnaire and an in-office VAS score)and will have a targeted physical
      examination, with results documented by the investigator on the CMI questionnaire. At each
      follow-up visit, subjects will be issued a new monthly diary to complete for the VAS scores
      twice daily, (once in the morning before 10:00 a.m. and once before bed) as well as to track
      their device wearing time or exercise compliance, as applicable. At the three month follow-up
      visit, subjects will also complete the TMJ Scale. Adverse events will be assessed at each
      visit.
    
  