
    
      The purpose of the study is to investigate the effect of systematic proprioceptive-tactile
      stimulation through use of the Protac MyFit® to children, age 6-12 years with SPD and sensory
      seeking behavior. The primary objective is to determine the effect of the vest on the
      children´s abilities for attention and participation in school activities, and secondary
      their abilities for on-task behavior and feelings of self-esteem and self-efficacy.

      Method & design The study is a randomized controlled trial (RCT), were primary school
      children with SPD and sensory seeking behavior receives an intervention with systematic
      proprioceptive-tactile stimulation through use of the Protac MyFit®.

      Study setting and participants The study will be conducted in public primary schools across
      Denmark. Participants will be 240 children with SPD and sensory seeking behaviour age 6-12
      years attending public primary school. Sample size has been calculated based on results from
      the feasibility study and the primary outcome of sustained attention measured with the Test
      of Every Day Attention-Children. The sample size is calculated with Ancova analysis and made
      with an anticipated difference on 1.5 with a correlation of .07 and a standard deviation at
      5.

      Recruitment and randomization Recruitment will be conducted in collaboration with gatekeepers
      from municipal Pedagogical Psychological Counselling (PPR) departments and public-school
      managements across Denmark, that will assist in identifying possible study participants.
      Parents to possible participants will be introduced to the study by the gatekeepers and
      handed out written information about the study together with a baseline questionnaire, the
      Short Sensory Profile questionnaire (SSP), a consent form for participation and a franked
      reply envelope.

      The included children will be randomized into two groups; an intervention group (A) and a
      control group (B). The randomization will be computer generated 1:1. Additionally, 20 of the
      included children will be strategically selected (as per age, gender, group) to represent the
      main population and complete a qualitative research interview regarding their experiences of
      using the MyFit®.

      Intervention The intervention consisted of systematic proprioceptive-tactile stimulation by
      the MyFit®, were the children are asked to wear the vest from the beginning of every school
      day within the study period. Additionally, the participants are invited to use the vest as
      they please at home and doing leisure activities.

      At baseline participants try out and chose whether they wish to use a vest with balls 25mm or
      38mm in diameter. Doing the test period participants in both group A and B will receive the
      usual treatment as provided by the PPR departments, the school and/or the family doctor.
      Usual treatment offered by PPR and schools can vary between municipalities, it can be in form
      of physical therapy, occupational therapy, increased support doing school activities etc.
      This will be registered and described throughout the study. Parents of participant are asked
      to document if the child receive any other treatment medical or otherwise.

      Participation in the study will be voluntary and the families will be informed that they at
      any time can withdraw from the study and that the child should never be forced to use the
      vest.
    
  