
    
      The investigators hypothesize that a mobile device-based symptom assessment, control and
      communication application (m-Palliative Care Link (mPCL) will extend access to palliative
      care specialists (hereafter named specialists), resulting in: a) symptom control information
      exchange between specialists, patients, and local health workers and b) reduced symptom
      burden in late-stage cancer patients.

      This hypothesis will be tested by accomplishing the following specific aims in the two-year
      study period:

      Aim 1. In partnership with local palliative care specialists, to design and create a secure
      mobile communication application (m-Palliative Care Link; mPCL) for facilitating remote
      assessment of and communication about patient symptom control needs among specialists,
      patients/caregivers, and local health workers (all of whom are referred to here as user
      groups). mPCL will:

        -  Regularly deliver the APCA POS (hereafter POS) to the cancer patient/caregiver via
           mobile device; allow them to complete the outcome scale on this device; and return
           responses to the specialist and local health worker for access via a secure website.

        -  Enable specialist POS review/action in partnership with the local health worker.

        -  Allow the specialist to communicate with the patient/caregiver and local health worker
           regarding further symptom assessment and control based on existing standards and the
           patient's desires and needs.

        -  Enable the specialist to generate/update patient records for ongoing review.

        -  Record and track symptom control as a trajectory throughout the patient's illness via
           collection, storage, and analysis of POS responses.

      Aim 2. To usability test an mPCL prototype through a combination of hands-on
      observation/feedback and survey-based assessment of ease of use and suggestions for change
      among 5-7 participants from each user group. Usability test data will be used to improve mPCL
      design for subsequent field test (see Aim 3).

      Aim 3. To field test and validate usability of mPCL among 45 late-stage cancer patients.
      Late-stage cancer patients, who are eligible for the study, will be enrolled/consented,
      trained on mPCL use, and provided with an mPCL-equipped mobile device prior to discharge from
      ORCI. An mPCL record and discharge care plan will be generated by the specialist on his/her
      personal computer and communicated with the patient's local health worker for review and
      ongoing remote care communication and coordination. Field tests will continue for 4 months or
      until patient death. Through a combination of surveys and interviews of user groups,
      investigators will: determine the feasibility, acceptability, barriers, and facilitators of
      mPCL for communication and action regarding symptom assessment, information exchange, and
      symptom control; further optimize mPCL for ongoing study; determine the projected per patient
      cost of mPCL implementation; and gather rich data on the symptom control needs of Tanzanian
      cancer patients.

      Aim 4. To collect preliminary data comparing field test symptom outcomes with 45 usual care
      patients (ORCI palliative care clinic patients). Patients will be identified, enrolled and
      consented during their scheduled outpatient clinic visit. POS responses will be collected at
      the time of each clinic visit for up to 4 months. Through examination/between-group
      comparisons (mPCL intervention versus usual care) of symptom-based outcomes and medication
      type, dose and duration, investigators will collect preliminary data on mPCL impact that is
      critical to design of a future large-scale, randomized mPCL outcomes study.
    
  