
    
      Objective: The primary aim of the study is to investigate the effect of aromatherapy on blood
      pressure and stress response by inhalation and foot massage in individuals with essential
      hypertension. Secondary aims;

        -  to define the effect of aromatherapy inhalation method and foot massage application on
           blood pressure and heart rate in individuals with essential hypertension,

        -  to define the effects of aromatherapy inhalation method and foot massage application on
           blood cortisol levels in individuals with essential hypertension,

        -  to define the effects of aromatherapy inhalation method and foot massage application on
           anxiety scores in individuals with essential hypertension.

      Hypothesis:

        -  H0-1: Aromatherapy inhalation method has no significant effect on blood pressure in
           individuals with essential hypertension.

        -  H1-1: Aromatherapy inhalation method has a significant effect on blood pressure in
           individuals with essential hypertension.

        -  H0-2: Aromatherapy inhalation method does not have a significant effect on stress
           response in individuals with essential hypertension.

        -  H1-2: Aromatherapy inhalation method has a significant effect on stress response in
           individuals with essential hypertension.

        -  H0-3: Foot massage application does not have a significant effect on blood pressure in
           individuals with essential hypertension.

        -  H1-3: Foot massage application has a significant effect on blood pressure in individuals
           with essential hypertension.

        -  H0-4: Foot massage application in patients with essential hypertension has no
           significant effect on stress response.

        -  H1-4: Foot massage application in patients with essential hypertension has a significant
           effect on stress response.

      Methods: The randomized controlled trial is performed with 69 individuals diagnosed with
      essential hypertension hospitalized.There are two interventions (group 1:
      aromatherapy-inhalation method, group 2: aromatherapy-foot massage) and a control group in
      the study. In power analysis based on blood cortisol level,80% power, 95% confidence
      interval, effect size 0.39, standard deviation 3.09 were calculated and 23 participants in
      each group were determined. Blood pressure is measured with a digital sphygmomanometer after
      10 minutes of rest; stress response is determined by heart rate, blood cortisol levels and
      anxiety scale. Aromatherapy with lavender oil is applied to the intervention groups; no
      application is made to the control group and routine follow-up at the hospital continued. The
      group-1 smells sterile cloth with 5 drops of lavender oil for five minutes and is done every
      other day for three days. Group-2 receives a total of 20 minutes of foot massage with 5 drops
      of lavender oil for each foot and is applied every other day for three days. Aromatherapy is
      performed between 07:00 and 08:00 in the morning hours when the blood cortisol value peaked
      at the highest level and homogeneity is achieved in terms of application.

      Measures: For intervention groups (group 1 and 2), blood pressure and heart rate will be
      measured seven times in total, both at the first interview and before and after each
      application, 10 minutes after the application; for control group, it is a total of seven
      times, both once in the first interview and twice every other day. Blood cortisol level is
      measured four times in total for the intervention groups, both at the beginning and after
      each application; For the control group, it is measured at the same time as the intervention
      groups at baseline and on the third follow-up day (twice in total). Anxiety scale
      (Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory) is used for subjective stress response. Trait
      Anxiety Inventory is evaluated at the beginning of the study for both groups (only once).
      State Anxiety Inventory, for intervention groups, is applied four times both before and after
      the first application and before and after the third application; for control group is
      applied twice, on the first follow-up day and on the third follow-up day.

      Analysis: Statistical methods to be used for study data;

        -  Descriptive statistics (number and percentage, average, standard deviation)

        -  T test (Parametric), Mann Whitney U test (nonparametric) (according to the suitability
           of the data for normal distribution)

        -  One-way anova (Parametric), Kruskal Wallis Test (nonparametric) (according to the normal
           distribution of data)

        -  Pearson / Spearman Correlation (according to the suitability of the data for normal
           distribution)

        -  Analysis of variance in repeated measurements

        -  Regression analysis
    
  