
    
      Study Design:

      Single centre prospective crossover study

      Study Objectives:

      Main objectives:

        -  Assessment of the feasibility of non invasive ventilation in NIV-NAVA mode via Miniflow®
           interface in infants of less than 3.5 kg after cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary
           bypass.

        -  Evaluation of the following parameters:

             -  Implementation of the interface

             -  Air leaks

             -  Placement and contention of oesophageal probe

             -  Quality of synchronization

             -  Obstruction of the probe

             -  Risk of nasal wounds

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Comparison of ventilation parameters between nasal Continuous Positive Airway Pressure
           (nCPAP) mode and NIV-NAVA mode

        -  Evaluation of the following parameters:

             -  Breathing rhythm

             -  Tidal volume

             -  PEEP

             -  Inspiratory pressure

             -  FiO2

             -  PaO2

             -  PaCO2

             -  pH

        -  Evolution of EAdi min and EAdi max parameters in NIV-NAVA mode (EAdi : diaphragmatic
           electric activity)

      Conduct of the study:

      First phase: placement of EADI catheter and extubation

      When extubation criteria are met, the oesophageal EADI catheter is placed according to the
      manufacturer's instructions. The ventilation mode is then switched to Pressure Support Mode
      with the same Peep as in the previous mode and a pressure support of 10 cmH2O.

      During 30 minutes, trends in respiratory rate, tidal volume, PEEP, inspiratory pressure,
      FiO2, EADI min, EADi max are recorded.

      After 30 minutes, an arterial blood gas analysis is performed to determine the values of
      PaCO2, PaO2 and pH before randomization.

      The child is extubated according to the procedures of the service and the non-invasive
      ventilation relay is introduced through the Miniflow® interface with nasal prongs adapted to
      the morphology of the child. An adrenaline nebulisation can be given before starting NIV in
      case of respiratory distress due to laryngeal oedema.

      Second phase: nCPAP or NIV-NAVA

      Following randomisation, the child is included in the "nCPAP first" arm or "NIV-NAVA first"
      arm and is ventilated in the designated mode for 30 minutes. During the first 15 minutes, the
      ventilation parameters are adapted according to the procedures below:

      nCPAP parameters adaptation:

        -  PEEP and FiO2 as previously set in invasive ventilation;

        -  FiO2 according to target SpO2 values of the child and/or 10% higher than FiO2 in
           invasive ventilation mode;

        -  PEEP between 4-6 cmH2O in order to minimize respiratory efforts.

      NIV-NAVA parameters adaptation:

        -  PEEP and FiO2 as previously set in invasive ventilation;

        -  Adaptation of the NIV-NAVA level to reach a EADi level equal to the mean EADi level over
           the last 5 minutes of the invasive mode. Inspiratory pressure and tidal volume are
           limited respectively to 30 cmH2O and 8 ml/kg.

        -  FiO2 according to target SpO2 values of the child and/or 10% higher than FiO2 in
           invasive ventilation mode ;

        -  PEEP between 4-6 cmH2O in order to minimize respiratory efforts.

      Over the last 15 minutes of this ventilation mode, trends in respiratory rate, tidal volume,
      PEEP, inspiratory pressure, FiO2, EADI min, EADi max are recorded.

      On Minutes M16, M21 and M29 in NIV-NAVA mode, synchronisation data are recorded :
      auto-triggering, double triggering, inspiration beginning and ending.

      After 30 minutes, an arterial blood gas analysis is performed to determine the evolution of
      the values of PaCO2, PaO2 and pH.

      At any time, if the re-intubation criteria are met, the child is re-intubated and returned to
      conventional ventilation. He is then excluded of the study.

      Third phase: nCPAP or NIV-NAVA

      The ventilation mode is changed from nCPAP to NIV-NAVA or from NIV-NAVA to nCPAP. The
      adaptation protocol and the recorded parameters are the same as in the second phase.

      After 30 minutes, an arterial blood gas analysis is performed to determine the evolution of
      the values of PaCO2, PaO2 and pH.

      At any time, if the re-intubation criteria are met, the child is re-intubated and returned to
      conventional ventilation. He is then excluded of the study.

      Fourth phase: end of the study

      The study concludes at the end of the third phase. The child is left in the better tolerated
      ventilation mode, as judged by the clinician.
    
  