
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the 2-year overall survival of patients with previously untreated, clinically
           unresectable, locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma or adenocarcinoma of the
           esophagus treated with cetuximab, cisplatin, irinotecan, and thoracic radiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the toxicity profile of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the probability of objective response (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and
           partial) in patients with measurable disease treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the time to progression in patients with measurable disease treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Correlate, preliminarily, gene expression (RNA) levels and germline polymorphisms of
           genes involved in DNA repair (e.g., ECRCC-1 and XRCC-1), drug metabolism (e.g., UGT1A1),
           and the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) pathway (e.g., EGFR, interleukin-8, and
           vascular endothelial growth factor) with response, time to progression, overall
           survival, and toxicity in patients treated with this regimen. (This will not be
           completed as this study was closed due to poor accrual.)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive cetuximab intravenous (IV) over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients
      also receive cisplatin IV and irinotecan IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Beginning on day 1 of course 3, patients undergo thoracic radiotherapy once daily 5
      days a week for 5-6 weeks (total of 28 treatments).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3-6
      months for up to 5 years after study entry.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 75-100 patients (75 with adenocarcinoma and 25 with squamous
      cell carcinoma) will be accrued for this study.
    
  