
    
      Individuals in prison are four times more likely to have HIV or AIDS as compared to
      non-incarcerated people. Once HIV infected individuals are released from prison, they have a
      high risk of transmitting HIV to their sexual or needle-sharing partners. Therefore, it is
      important to encourage HIV risk reduction behavior among such inmates who are nearing release
      from prison. SET is a therapy program that mobilizes family and caregivers as a way to
      support and encourage behavior change within an individual. This study will use a tailored
      SET program to meet the specific needs of prisoners who are infected with HIV. The purpose of
      the study is to compare the effectiveness of the tailored SET program versus an individually
      focused therapy program at reducing sexual and drug-related HIV transmission risk factors and
      increasing HIV treatment adherence in HIV infected men who have recently been released from
      prison.

      This 12-month study will enroll HIV infected men who are being released from the California
      Medical Facility Prison in Vacaville, California or the San Quentin State Prison in Marin
      County, California. Participants will meet with study recruiters while in prison and complete
      questionnaires to assess sexual and drug-related HIV transmission risk behaviors and
      treatment adherence; they will also participate in a health education session. Participants
      will then be randomly assigned to either a 4-month tailored SET program or a 4-month
      individually focused therapy program. All participants will meet with study counselors twice
      while still in prison, and then weekly during the first 4 months following release from
      prison. Participants in the SET program will work with study counselors to tailor the program
      to meet their individual needs. Therapy sessions will be designed to restructure interactions
      and communication patterns between the participant and his support network; main goals will
      include reducing sexual and drug-related risk behaviors and improving HIV treatment
      adherence. Participants in the individually focused therapy program will focus on harm
      reduction, goal setting, and motivational enhancement. HIV transmission risk behaviors and
      treatment adherence will be assessed with surveys administered at Months 4, 8, and 12 for all
      participants.
    
  