
    
      Nausea and vomiting are frequently occurring problems in the palliative phase of patients
      with cancer. Between 20-50% of them regularly suffer from nausea, retching or vomiting. Often
      the cause of nausea and vomiting is multifactorial and symptomatic treatment is necessary.

      Potential drugs for symptomatic anti-nausea therapy are metoclopramide, serotonin
      antagonists, the combination of both and dexamethasone as rescue medication in case of
      failure. There is no data that depicts which strategy is the best. This study will be
      conducted to unravel which treatment algorithm is most successful: 1 to start with
      metoclopramide, to add a serotonin antagonist (granisetron transdermal patch and 2 milligram
      granisetron oral loading dose if the patient can swallow) in case of failure and to add
      dexamethasone as rescue medication versus 2 an algorithm to start with a serotonin antagonist
      (granisetron transdermal patch and 2 milligram granisetron oral loading dose if the patient
      can swallow), to add metoclopramide in case of failure and to add dexamethasone as rescue
      medication. Granisetron plaster is a new formulation of a well known serotonin antagonist and
      might be useful especially within the patient group in the palliative phase.

      The questions are:

      Is it feasible to compare treatment algorithms for symptomatic treatment of nausea and
      vomiting in palliative cancer patients? And is a stepwise symptomatic treatment algorithm to
      manage nausea and vomiting using metoclopramide or granisetron transdermal patch as a start
      medication effective in palliative patients in at least one of both treatment arms? Patients
      will be asked to complete the QLQC30 and ESAS on different moments during the study. Besides,
      they will be asked to complete a diary for nausea severity (NRS scale 0-10) and for the
      frequency of vomiting and retching twice daily.

      Success of a treatment algorithm is defined as nausea is < 3 on NRS or a decrease of >2 on
      NRS for nausea combined with an absence of vomiting or retching in the last 3 days.
      Incomplete success is defined as nausea of 3 on NRS during one occasion of the last 3 days
      before the end of study but less than 4, no more than one retching a day during that period
      and absence of vomiting. Complete failure is defined as nausea of 4 or more on an NRS during
      the last 3 days or more than one retching daily or any vomiting or in case the patient has
      stopped all medication due to side effects.
    
  