
    
      One factor that may contribute to elevated activity in the contralesional PMC is increased
      cortical excitatory tone within the contralesional hemisphere (Aim 1).

      While approximately 80% of the descending corticospinal neurons that control the right hand
      originate in the left PMC, 20% originate in the right PMC. Elevated activity in the right PMC
      of left-sided stroke patients may reflect compensatory activity of these descending fibers.
      Neural activity in the PMC reflects the balance of local excitatory (glutamatergic) and
      inhibitory (GABAergic) processing. It can be measured in two manners: 1)
      electrophysiologically, using single hemisphere paired pulse transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (TMS), and 2) neurochemically, using magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS).

      Another factor that may contribute to elevated activity in the contralesional PMC is a loss
      of transcallosal inhibition between the hemispheres (Aim 2). During right hand movement, the
      left PMC of healthy individuals actively inhibits the right PMC via inhibitory projections
      through the corpus callosum. In left MCA stroke patients, elevated activity in the
      contralesional (right) PMC when moving the right hand may reflect a loss of typical
      inhibition from the left PMC. The integrity of inter-hemispheric information transfer can be
      measured in two manners: 1) using bi-hemispheric paired-pulse TMS, and 2) using a multimodal
      brain stimulation/brain imaging approach, interleaved TMS/MRI.

      Through interleaved TMS/MRI, the investigators can selectively stimulate the ipsilesional PMC
      and quantify the amount of TMS-induced activity in the contralesional PMC. These two
      explanations will be tested through a cross-sectional investigation of neural function in
      left MCA stroke patients with mild-moderate right upper extremity impairment and controls
      matched for age and cardiovascular risk factors. To assess the clinical relevance of these
      factors on motor dysfunction, the investigators will perform a detailed kinematic assessment
      of movement efficiency, smoothness and compensation (Aim 3).
    
  