
    
      Setting and design:

      It is a double blinded randomized parallel clinical trial. That had been conducted at Al
      Elweyia Maternity Teaching Hospital in Baghdad during the period from Jan., 4th, 2018 to
      August, 1st, 2018. Written consent was insured for all the participants.

      Data collection:

      Three hundred and twenty pregnant women who were underwent emergency caesarean sections under
      regional anesthesia were enrolled in the study (due to limitation of carbetocin ampoules that
      were available). Those women were randomized to oxytocin or carbetocin in a rate of 2:1 (for
      prophylaxis of PPH in the active management of third stage of labour). Twenty cases were
      omitted since they were not fulfilled the eligibility criteria and only three hundred women
      were completed the study. They were divided into two groups:

      Group1 (case group): 100 pregnant women, whom they received carbetocin for the prevention of
      PPH.

      Group 2 (control group): 200 pregnant women, whom they received oxytocin for the prevention
      of PPH.

      Additional information including age, parity, past medical history, and body mass index (BMI)
      were taken.

      Intervention:

      The following steps were followed:

        1. Hemoglobin and hematocrit were assessed before caesarean section.

        2. One ml of either carbitocin (100 mcg) or oxytocin (10 IU) was given as a bolus
           intravenous injection by the anesthesiologist after labor of the baby at once.

        3. The placentae were delivered by controlled cord traction.

        4. It was the operating obstetrician decision to evaluated the uterine tone, bleeding
           intra-operatively and the need for an additional uterotonic and method of its
           administration, dose and duration.

        5. Our center usual regimen for uterine atony is an oxytocin (40 IU in 500 ml isotonic
           crystalloid solution) intravenous infusion over 4-5 hours.

      Follow up:

      For 24 hours was done, that is include:

        1. Evaluation of blood loss by the obstetrician and the anesthesiologist after skin
           closure, that is include the entire amount that had been suctioned, taken by the
           surgical gauzes or spilled in the surgical field, using visual estimation chart for
           assessment of blood loss.

        2. The need of any additional uterotonic drugs after the operation was recorded.

        3. The need of blood transfusion post delivery.

        4. The blood pressure and pulse rate of the women involved in the study were documented at
           0, 5, 10, 20, 30 and 60 minutes after the injection of the drug.

        5. The period of operation (skin cut into the final closure of the skin) was recorded.

        6. Intravenous fluid infusion was administered regularly and as it had been stated by the
           obstetricians and maintained after the operation until oral intake was started.

        7. Hemoglobin and hematocrit was assessed the day after the caesarean section.

      Statistical analysis:

      Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) version 21 was used. Descriptive statistics
      presented as (mean ± standard deviation) and frequencies as percentages. The database was
      examined for errors using range and logical data cleaning methods, and inconsistencies were
      remedied. Chi square test was used to compare between categorical variables (Fishers exact
      test used when expected variable was less than 20% of total) and t-test was used to compare
      between two means. Cohen's d, a standardized measure of effect size for difference between 2
      means, which can be compared across different variables and studies, since it has no unit of
      measurement was used. Significance level was set at P < 0.05.
    
  