
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is the most common nocturnal breathing disorder. It
      is characterized by the occurrence, during sleep, of repeated episodes of complete collapse
      (apnea) or incomplete (hypopneas) of the upper airways. OSAS is a pathology that, through its
      cardiovascular and metabolic complications, its impact on daytime vigilance, represents a
      real public health problem. The prevalence of OSA is estimated at 2% in women and 4% in men
      aged 30 to 60 years. Recent studies estimate that nearly 2 million French people will be
      affected by this pathology.

      The lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) include: disorders of the filling phase (urinary
      incontinence, diurnal and nocturnal pollakiuria, nocturia, urgency), disorders of the urinary
      phase, dysuria (weakness of the jet, urination by pushing, urinary burns), symptoms of the
      post-mictionnal phase (incomplete bladder emptying sensation).

      LUTS have several etiologies. Dysuria is cause by obstacle under vesical (benign prostatic
      hyperplasia, urethral stenosis, bladder neck disease), neurological bladder, genital
      prolapse, drug etiology (parasympatholytic). Concerning pollakiuria and urgency there are
      bladder etiologies (cystitis, foreign body, tumor, neurological bladder), sub-bladder
      obstruction, extra-vesical etiologies (infectious pathology of contact, pregnancy, extrinsic
      tumor compression).

      LUTS are responsible for an alteration of the quality of life. In men, LUTS are often caused
      by benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), which is one of the most common conditions in men over
      40 years of age. The prevalence of BPH is variable in the literature: in men over 50 years of
      age with moderate symptomatology, the prevalence is of the order of 25%, it is estimated at
      50 to 75% for men 65 years and over.

      The prevalence of overactive bladder is estimated at 14.4% in France, it increases with age
      and among women.

      Erectile dysfunction (ED) is the inability to obtain and / or maintain an erection sufficient
      to allow satisfactory sexual activity; for at least 3 months.

      The prevalence of ED is high, it affects one in three men after the age of 40 and has a
      significant impact on the quality of life of patients. The appearance of an ED must make
      search for cardiovascular diseases. The prevalence of ED increases with co-morbidities such
      as high blood pressure, diabetes, dyslipidemia, obesity and smoking.

      To treat lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) and erectile dysfunction (ED), we mainly have
      symptomatic drug treatments. Some patients are resistant to the treatments that we have or
      are forced to stop treatments because of side effects. It would be interesting to focus on
      comorbidities and to evaluate whether it is possible to improve the urological symptoms by
      taking care the comorbidities, which would consist in an etiological treatment of the
      urological symptoms.

      The aim of the study is to evaluate the evolution of low urinary tract disorders (LUTS) and
      erectile dysfunction (ED) in patients with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) following
      by continuous positive airway pressure equipment (CPAP) at night.

      Participation in the study will be offered to all patients, men and women, consulting or
      hospitalized in the sleep unit of the department of pneumatology CHU Reims for nocturnal
      ventilation polygraphy or diagnostic polysomnography of OSAS.

      Information about the purpose and modalities of the study will be given to the patient by a
      pulmonologist or urologist using an information note. If the patient agrees to participate in
      the study (signing the non-objection form), he / she will be included in the study.

      Participation in the study will consist of:

        -  a filling of questionnaires on LUTS : Urinary Symptom Profil (USP) for all patients,
           International Prostate Score Symptoms (IPSS) only for men and disorders of erectile
           function International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF5) for men during hospitalization
           for a nocturnal ventilatory polygraphy or a diagnostic polysomnography of OSAS.

      The criterion for polysomnography is the hypopnoea apnea index (HAI) which is defined as the
      number of apneas and hypopneas per hour. The diagnosis of OSAS is confirmed if, in addition
      to the clinical symptoms, the HAI is >5 events per hour. The severity of OSAS is defined
      according to the HAI: the OSAS is moderate if the HAI is >15 events per hour, the OSAS is
      severe if HAI >30 events per hour.

      IPSS, USP and IIEF5 are international questionnaires, recognized and validated by the French
      Association of Urology.

      The IPPS questionnaire is only for men and has 7 items on lower urinary tract disorders and
      an item on quality of life. Each item is rated between 0 and 5 depending on the frequency of
      the disorders. The score is the sum of the items. The symptoms are mild if the score is
      between 0 and 7, moderate if the score is between 8 and 19, severe if the score is between 20
      and 35.

      The USP questionnaire is validated psychometrically. It is intended for men and women.

      It includes an item on stress urinary incontinence, 6 items on bladder hyperactivity and 3
      items on dysuria. Each item is scored between 0 and 3 depending on the severity of the
      symptoms. The score for each symptom is the sum of the corresponding items.

      The IIEF5 questionnaire is intended for men only. It has 5 items on erectile dysfunction.

      Each item is rated between 0 and 5 depending on the severity of the symptoms. Erectile
      function is normal if the score is between 21 and 25.The erectile dysfunction is mild if the
      score is between 16 and 20, moderate if the score is between 11 and 15, severe if the score
      is between 5 and 10, and not interpretable if the score is between 0 and 4.

        -  a collection of data concerning the patient (sex, age, tobacco), his comorbidities
           (weight, height and body mass index, hypertension, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia,
           myocardial infarction, stroke, anxiety and / or depression) and his treatment (including
           drug classes that may interact with urologic symptoms: antihypertensives, diuretics,
           alpha blockers, 5 alpha-reductase inhibitors, phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors,
           herbal medicine).

      In addition, patients with moderate or severe OSAS (not warranting implementation of
      nocturnal CPAP therapy) as well as moderate or severe urological symptoms objected to by the
      questionnaires (IPSS> 7 and / or USP not 0 + 0 + 0 and / or IIEF5 ≤ 20) will again complete
      the questionnaires on lower urinary tract disorders and disorders of erectile function during
      the follow-up consultation in pulmonology post PPC equipment (at 3 months post equipment or
      at 6 months post equipment if the observance or the effectiveness of the apparatus is not
      optimal with M3).

      Participation in the study does not change the patient's medical management regarding OSAS.

      The duration of participation will be punctual for patients with no moderate or severe OSA
      associated with moderate or severe urological symptoms. The duration of patient participation
      will be from 3 months to 6 months for patients with moderate or severe OSAS associated with
      moderate or severe urological symptoms. This duration of participation corresponds to the
      time necessary to obtain an observance and an optimal efficiency of the apparatus by PPC
      allowing to consider a clinical improvement of the disturbances of the sleep.
    
  