
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety and toxic effects of nonmyeloablative allogeneic peripheral blood
           stem cell transplantation in patients with a hematologic malignancy or aplastic anemia.

        -  Determine clinical response and overall outcome of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of graft-vs-tumor effect, graft-vs-host disease, and chimerism
           in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Preparative regimen:

             -  Matched related and unrelated donor transplantation:

                  -  Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -5 and -4 and
                     fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -5 to -1.

             -  Cord blood transplantation:

                  -  Patients receive the same regimen as above plus anti-thymocyte globulin IV
                     over 4 hours on days -3 to -1.

        -  Graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis:

             -  Matched related and unrelated donor transplantation:

                  -  Patients receive oral tacrolimus (or IV) once daily and oral mycophenolate
                     mofetil (MMF) (or IV) twice daily on days -1 to 60 followed by tapering* of
                     this regimen. Patients then receive methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, and 6.

             -  Cord blood transplantation:

                  -  Patients receive tacrolimus and MMF in the same regimen as above plus
                     methylprednisolone twice daily on days 1-19 or until blood counts recover.

        -  Allogeneic stem cell reinfusion: Patients undergo allogeneic bone marrow or peripheral
           blood stem cell transplantation on day 0. Patients then receive sargramostim (GM-CSF)
           subcutaneously daily beginning on day 7 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI): Patients not converting to 100% donor T-cell chimerism
           by day 120 and showing signs of progresson of disease after tacrolimus and MMF
           withdrawal may receive DLI every 8 weeks for up to 3 infusions. Cord blood recipients do
           not receive DLI.

      Patients are followed at day 100-120, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months for
      5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30-60 patients will be accrued for this study within 6-7 years.
    
  