
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of navitoclax and vistusertib
      in patients with advanced solid tumors. (Phase I) II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD), dose limiting toxicities (DLT), and recommended phase 2 doses (RP2D) of navitoclax and
      vistusertib. (Phase I) III. To determine the objective response rate (ORR), defined as
      complete plus partial response, of the combination of navitoclax and vistusertib in patients
      with recurrent small cell lung cancer (SCLC). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of navitoclax and vistusertib when administered together.
      (Phase I) II. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. (Phase I) III. To confirm the safety
      and tolerability of navitoclax and vistusertib at the RP2D. (Phase II) IV. To estimate
      progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of the combination of navitoclax
      and vistusertib at the RP2D. (Phase II) V. To estimate disease control rate (DCR) of the
      combination of navitoclax and vistusertib at the RP2D. (Phase II)

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess pharmacodynamic changes in levels of phosphorylated 4EBP1 (p4EBP1) the ratio of
      p4EBP1 to total (p4EBP1/4EBP1) in paired pre-treatment and on-treatment biopsies at the RP2D.
      (Phase II) II. To correlate changes in BAX and MCL-1 with response. (Phase II) III. To
      estimate the baseline inter-patient variability in p4EBP1, pS6, BAX, and MCL-1. (Phase II)
      IV. To explore exposure-response relationships between navitoclax and vistusertib exposure
      and the pharmacodynamic endpoints (safety, efficacy, and laboratory correlatives). (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive navitoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) and vistusertib PO twice daily (BID)
      on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then every 8-12
      weeks for up to 2 years.
    
  