
    
      Rationale: Compared with balloon angioplasty, implantation of bare metal stents (BMS) and
      drug eluting stents (DES) have shown to reduce repeat target lesion revascularization in
      primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PPCI). However, this did not result in a
      reduction of mortality or recurrent myocardial infarction. Furthermore, there are concerns of
      the occurrence of stent thrombosis. The PAPPA-pilot study, evaluating safety and feasibility
      of using a drug-coated balloon (DCB) only strategy in PPCI, showed good short- and long-term
      clinical results, with sustained safety and efficacy at 12 months follow-up. To date little
      is known about the long-term effects of this treatment modality in STEMI. Besides,
      angiographic follow-up is of great clinical importance by giving insight on the treated
      infarct lesion and to assess the functional angioplasty result.

      Objective: This randomized controlled, non-inferiority trial is mainly designed to
      prospectively assess the safety and efficacy of a CE-marked paclitaxel-eluting balloon only
      strategy vs. third generation DES in the setting of a ST-elevation myocardial infarction
      (STEMI).

      Study design: This is a prospective, single center, non-inferiority, randomized controlled
      trial.

      Study population: All patients presenting with STEMI and suitable for PPCI.

      Intervention: PPCI will be performed according to current guidelines. After thrombus
      aspiration and pre-dilatation, randomization between a DCB only strategy (with bail-out
      stenting if indicated) and DES will be done by 1:1 ratio. Concomitant medication will be
      administered according current standards. Control coronary angiography, including measurement
      of the fractional flow reserve (FFR) of the treated lesion(s), will be performed after 9
      months.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main study parameter is the fractional flow reserve at 9
      months follow-up. Secondary study parameters include cardiac death, recurrent myocardial
      infarction in the target vessel area and ischemia driven target lesion revascularisation at 9
      months.
    
  