
    
      The study will include patients scheduled to undergo neurosurgical interventions. Patients
      for whom surgical intervention is deemed necessary will be approached for participation in
      the study. After signing informed consent, they will be randomized to watch a video during
      their preoperative evaluation visit or have a regular standard of care evaluation during
      their preoperative visit. For the patients randomized to the intervention group, the
      preoperative visit will be performed, as it would be normally, with the only addition of a
      5-minute video. Patients will be given a few minutes to watch the video, and will have the
      chance to ask questions. The remainder of the interaction between patient and provider will
      not be affected in any other way.

      The video will include a simulated patient encounter (with actors not real patients)
      showcasing the preoperative experience of the patient, including getting checked in, meeting
      the nurses, surgeons, and the anesthesiologists. The technology used will allow the immersion
      of the patient in the preoperative environment. The hypothesis is that by introducing a way
      to familiarize the patients with the preoperative environment, investigators will have an
      impact on their anxiety about the operation and their satisfaction with the entire
      experience. Investigators hope this quality improvement initiative will change patient
      experiences for the better.

      Patients will fill out questionnaires immediately preoperatively on the day of the procedure,
      on the day after the procedure, and 30-days after the operation (only for patients undergoing
      surgery for degenerative spine disease). The outcomes of interest will be stress level, pain
      level, and patient satisfaction level.

      Preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative variables will be analyzed using χ2 tests for
      categorical variables and the nonparametric Wilcoxon rank-sum test for continuous variables.
      Logistic regression will be performed, for each binary outcome. Linear regression will be
      performed, for each continuous outcome. The variable age will be tested separately as a
      continuous variable and a categorical variable (65-69 years, 70-74 years, 75-79 years, and
      ≥80 years) in multivariable logistic regression models. Other variables that will be included
      in the multivariable models include Charlson Comorbidity Index score, American Society of
      Anesthesiologists [ASA] score, APAIS score. Mixed effects methods will be used, with treating
      physician as a random effects variable, to account for clustering at the physician level.

      Investigators intend to randomize 150 patients in 1:1 allocation to the video and
      conventional arms. We anticipate not being able to obtain the primary outcome on up to 10% of
      patients, leaving 135, or approximately 68 completers per arm. This yields just over 80%
      power at the usual 5% type 1 error rate to detect a difference between the two arms of one
      half (0.5) standard deviations in the primary outcome.
    
  