
    
      In palliative care, the Integrated Palliative Care Outcome Scale (IPOS) is widely used as a
      patient reported outcome measure. IPOS covers patients' main concerns, common symptoms,
      patient and family distress, existential wellbeing, sharing feelings with family, information
      received, and practical concerns. IPOS is validated for patients with advanced cancer or
      non-cancer disease and is available as patients and professional carer version.

      The implementation of a PROM in the home care setting is more challenging compared to the
      inpatient setting. Furthermore, IPOS currently only exists as a paper version. If patients
      complete the IPOS at home, there is a potential delay until the home care team receives the
      information and a potential benefit through patient reported outcome measurement might be
      missed.

      Palli-MONITOR will develop, implement and test the feasibility an internet-based real-time
      monitoring of palliative needs of patients with advanced disease using the electronic version
      of IPOS (eIPOS) including a clinical decision support tool for specialist palliative home
      care.

      The project is conducted in two parts (phase I and phase II). Phase I will consist of two
      components and serve as a pilot study: a qualitative part and a cross-over randomised
      controlled trial (RCT). In the qualitative part, the investigators will conduct
      semi-structured interviews and focus groups with patients and professionals of the
      participating specialist palliative home care teams. In the RCT, the investigators will
      determine the validity of the eIPOS in comparison to IPOS in paper version. The investigators
      will also develop an evidence-based Clinical Decision Support Tool (CDS), using guidelines
      and a Delphi study for evaluation of the proposed CDS.

      Phase II (study design described in more detail below) will serve as a feasibility study and
      consist of an observational case-control study as well as a qualitative part, which again
      will include semi-structured interviews and focus groups.

      This mixed-methods approach will help to implement eIPOS while ensuring at the same time that
      the quality of palliative care during the process will meet at least the current standards.
    
  