
    
      The age-associated loss of skeletal muscle mass and function (sarcopenia) is associated with
      substantial social and economic costs. The plasticity and adaptability of skeletal muscle to
      contraction (ie. resistance-exercise) is a fundamental physiological event leading to larger
      and more robust skeletal muscle. However, muscle growth in response to resistance exercise
      (RE), like other anabolic stimuli, is attenuated in older adults. The cause of aberrant
      muscle adaptation with aging is complex. Recent work has revealed a novel role for small
      non-coding RNAs, called microRNAs (miRNA) in the regulation of gene expression. Using an
      integrated bioinformatics analysis of protein-coding gene and miRNA array data from young and
      older men, I identified ten specific miRNAs as important regulators of muscle plasticity
      (Plasticity Related miRs [PR-miRs]) leading to the transcriptional response to exercise and
      lean mass in young and older men. However, the precise mechanisms underlying the expression
      of PR-miRs on age-related changes in muscle anabolism and sarcopenia are currently unknown.

      Thus, the overall objective of this K01 application will be to determine the mechanistic
      role(s) of these PR-miRs in skeletal muscle adaptation to anabolic stimulation in:

        1. healthy young,

        2. sarcopenic older and

        3. age- and functionally-matched non-sarcopenic older males and females.

      This will be accomplished by determine the differences in expression of PR-miRs with aging
      and sarcopenia in response to anabolic stimulation (AIM 1). Mechanistically determine the
      extent to which manipulation of PR-miR levels in vitro, in human primary myocytes, can
      reverse anabolic resistance observed with age and sarcopenia (AIM 2) and the effect of
      altering PR-miRs levels on skeletal muscle growth and development (AIM 3). This project will
      improve our understanding of the molecular mechanisms that contribute to the loss of skeletal
      muscle and eventually leading to the development of drug therapies for the treatment of
      sarcopenia in the ever growing aging population.
    
  