
    
      Methods:

      Over a 2 year period, women in one academic OB/GYN clinic, who are patients of the PI and
      sub-investigator, with a history of at least one prior episode of BV in the past year,
      (confirmed via medical records) who currently have BV diagnosed via wet mount and vaginal pH,
      will be approached during a clinical visit regarding their desire to participate in the
      trial. If the subject chooses to participate after a thorough discussion of the risks and
      benefits, she will sign the informed consent and be enrolled in the trial. Subjects will be
      screened as per the providers' discretion for GC/ CH and trichomonas if it seems indicated
      per sexual history and/ or has not been screened in the last 3 months. A total of 20 patients
      will be enrolled.

      Once enrolled, each subject will be assigned a study number by the research nurse and receive
      a packet of study materials from a study physician/clinician or the research nurse as well as
      a "Guide to Completing the BV Trial." This is a booklet containing detailed instructions for
      each day of the study as well as a diary in which participants will record daily symptoms.
      Demographic and past medical history information will also be collected at this visit.

      Subjects will return at 1-week after starting the system. They will be screened for BV using
      the wet mount, vaginal pH and Nugent scoring. The wet mount and vaginal pH will be done in
      the office, the Nugent scoring will be sent to Dr. Deirdre O'Hanlon. If a superinfection with
      yeast has occurred, they will be treated via standard of care treatments. If BV is confirmed
      at the one week visit, they will be treated with a 7 day course of oral metronidazole
      (standard of care). Those that are diagnosed and those that are not diagnosed with BV, will
      continue to use Balance every day, Restore every other day, and BiopHresh every third day
      until the completion of the study.

      Subjects will be asked to swab the inside of their vagina for vaginal secretions and make a
      slide for Nugent scoring. This will be done once weekly, on a day when neither Restore or
      BiopHresh is administered. They will be given hands on and written instructions on how to
      make the slide. They will give the slides to the study investigator at each visit and these
      will be later mailed to Dr. Deirdre O'Hanlon.

      Subjects will return every 2 weeks for the remainder of the study to assess AE/SAE and test
      for BV the same as at the screening visit. These visits and all other study related visits
      will be with either the PI or sub-investigator. If the participant is found to have BV at one
      of these visits they will be treated using standard of care and continue using the system as
      directed. After 10 completed weeks, the subject will be rescreened for BV using the wet
      mount, vaginal pH and Nugent scoring at the final study visit. They will also be interviewed
      to obtain clinical experiences during the trial. This will be obtained a member of the
      research team.

      Monitoring of AE / SAE

      The PI or sub-investigator will monitor AEs and SAEs. Sexual Health and Wellness Institute,
      Sponsor of the study, will not interact directly with participants but will have a staff
      member in the role of "Physician Liaison" available to assist physicians/clinicians at all
      times for the duration of the study. To maintain confidentiality, the Physician Liaison is
      the only Sponsor staff that will have access to patient information including patient names
      and patient physician names and contact information.

      Study Oversight

      The study may be prematurely terminated if it is determined that an abnormal number of
      participants experience SAEs directly associated with study materials, as verified and
      reported by their physician/clinician. Study Sponsor (Sexual Health and Wellness Institute)
      will be responsible for making this determination.

      Data Management

      When all participants have completed the study with the participating clinicians,
      participants' diaries and results of swab tests will be collected from participating
      clinicians, and clinical experiences during the trial will be obtained by short in person
      interviews by a member of the research team. Data from the participants' diaries and data
      obtained from interview will be analyzed.
    
  