
    
      If participant or participant's child agrees to take part in this study, information from the
      medical record will be recorded and entered into a research database at MD Anderson.
      Researchers will use this data to learn more about participant's or participant's child's
      current or suspected illness, surgery, and/or recovery as well as participant's or
      participant's child's medical history.

      Length of Study Participant's or participant's child's active participation on this study
      will be over after 15 years.

      Follow-Up Phone Calls Starting about 2-3 years after participant's or participant's child's
      testing and/or diagnosis and/or treatment and continuing for up to 15 years after
      participant's surgery, a member of the research team will contact participant by phone to
      follow up and see how participant or participant's child are doing. The first time
      participant receives a phone call or are asked in the clinic, participant will be asked for
      participant's verbal consent for participant or, if this is for participant's child, on
      behalf of participant's child, to speak to the member of the research team before participant
      or participant's child are asked any questions. After participant agrees, participant or
      participant's child will be asked a series of questions related to participant's or
      participant's child's disease (takes about 20-30 minutes) that ask about participant's or
      participant's child's current medical status and medical history. Each phone call should take
      20-30 minutes to complete.

      If participant or participant's child are scheduled for a routine clinic visit around the
      time of participant's or participant's child's next follow-up phone call, the research team
      member may talk to participant or participant's child in person at that time, or a
      questionnaire can be mailed to participant or participant's child if needed.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 15,000 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  