
    
      Training in neuraxial placement most commonly occurs with patients in the sitting position,
      since it is easy to master. However lateral placement may be preferred in emergent situations
      and for patient comfort. In order to provide safe and effective anesthesia to parturients,
      providers must be competent with the technique in both sitting and lateral positions.

      Ultrasound examination prior to spinal placement is a safe, non-invasive method of
      determining depth, midline, and interspinous location. Its use may decrease the number of
      needle insertions and needle passes in parturients in the sitting position, however little is
      known about the benefit of ultrasound use in the placement of lateral spinals.

      The use of lumbar ultrasound with Accuro may improve success rates, safety, and the education
      of residents as they learn neuraxial placement in the lateral position. This will be the
      first study to examine the use of Accuro for lateral neuraxial placement.

      The study investigators hypothesize that lumbar ultrasound with the handheld Accuro device by
      an experienced provider prior to spinal insertion will result in fewer needle redirections
      compared to palpation of landmarks when performed by anesthesia residents or fellows.

      The two arms of the study are as follows:

      Group 1: Control Group: sham pre-puncture ultrasound procedure with the handheld Accuro
      device turned off, followed by a sham marking on the participant's back using the Accuro
      locator marker attached to the device.

      Group 2: Ultrasound Group: pre-puncture ultrasound with Accuro followed by marking placed at
      the L3-4 interspace in the midline using the attached Accuro locator marker.

      All ultrasound exams will be performed by an unblinded physician study investigator.

      All study participants will have a spinal anesthetic in lateral position performed by one of
      the residents or fellows participating in the study.
    
  