
    
      Opioid use disorder (OUD) disproportionately affects low-income, racial/ethnic minorities
      (Stahler, 2018). MOUD is efficacious for treating OUD. However, adherence to MOUD is often
      low, which includes poor treatment retention, especially among low-income, racial/ethnic
      minority individuals (Stahler, 2018;Williams, 2017). This may be due to barriers such as
      stigma, challenges navigating services, housing instability, fluctuating motivation and
      readiness, and other structural and psychosocial factors (Timko, 2016;Carroll, 2015).

      Peer recovery coaches (PRCs) may be uniquely suited to address these barriers to retention
      (Jack, 2017;Bassuk, 2016). PRCs are trained individuals who have a personal, lived experience
      with substance use. Using their lived experience, PRCs can support individuals with OUD to
      stay retained in care. Rapid increases in the use of PRCs nationwide demonstrates the appeal
      of employing PRCs as a potentially sustainable solution to support the behavioral treatment
      needs in OUD care. Yet, few evidence-based interventions have been evaluated for PRC delivery
      to promote MOUD retention.

      Prior research has been inconclusive regarding psychosocial interventions to support MOUD
      retention (Timko, 2016;Carroll, 2017). Reinforcement-based approaches, such as contingency
      management, have empirical support for improving MOUD retention, but also can have low
      adoption in community settings due to organizational and provider barriers, including cost in
      medically underserved areas (Timko, 2016;Carroll, 2017;Carroll, 2015). Successful
      interventions need to be not only effective in improving MOUD retention, but also be feasible
      and sustainable to deliver for underserved populations.

      Behavioral activation (BA) may be a feasible, scalable, reinforcement-based approach for
      improving MOUD retention for low-income, minority individuals with OUD (Magidson, 2011).
      Originally developed as an efficacious treatment for depression, BA aims to increase positive
      reinforcement by promoting engagement in adaptive, valued behaviors (Lejuez, 2011). By
      targeting increases in positive reinforcement, BA has been effective in improving substance
      use disorder (SUD) treatment retention and preventing future relapse among low-income,
      minority individuals with SUD. Further, BA has improved medication adherence (i.e., for HIV)
      among low-income, minority populations with SUD, as well as depression, which may also be a
      barrier to MOUD retention. Importantly for implementation, BA has previously been implemented
      in low-resource settings (largely internationally) using lay health workers (e.g., peers,
      community health workers). However, to date, prior work has yet to evaluate a PRC-delivered
      BA intervention to support MOUD retention.

      This study builds upon formative work to adapt and evaluate PRC-delivered BA to support MOUD
      retention for low-income, minority individuals initiating methadone at an outpatient, opioid
      treatment program in a medically underserved community in Baltimore, Maryland (Magidson,
      2011;Magidson, 2018;Satinsky, 2020). The current study has three phases, the first being
      formative, qualitative work, to adapt the proposed treatment approach. The second phase is a
      pilot trial (current phase). The pilot trial is an open-label, Type 1 hybrid
      effectiveness-implementation trial assessing the feasibility, acceptability, and fidelity
      (implementation outcomes) of a PRC-delivered BA intervention for MOUD retention in methadone
      maintenance, and evaluating retention in the methadone program at three months (primary
      effectiveness outcome).
    
  