
    
      Background: Elderly individuals often refer to the health facility with the complications of
      diabetes as the first reason. Glycemic control can be quite difficult in elderly diabetic
      individuals compared to other age groups. Diabetic foot problems, leading to progressive
      problems from circulatory disorders and nervous loss to organ loss, constitute the most
      serious complications. Foot reflexology has been shown as a useful practice in the management
      of glycemic control and foot problems in diabetic individuals. Reflexology has been shown to
      have a positive effect on glycemic control and the management of diabetic foot problems.
      There are clinical trials of reflexology in Turkey for use in a variety of diseases or
      conditions, but there are no studies about diabetes or diabetes complications. Therefore,
      current research is a first in this regard. In this context, this study has been performed to
      determine the effect of foot reflexology on ABI, DPN, and glycemic control in elderly
      diabetic individuals.

      Design: A randomized clinical trial. Settings: An outpatient elderly health center in Turkey.
      Participants: 48 individuals aged 65 and over enrolled in the elderly health center were
      included.

      Measures: At baseline, subjective area was collected by participant information form.
      Glycemic control was evaluated with HbA1c. DPN and ABI assessment were performed by physical
      examination of the foot at baseline and three months later.

      Methods: The elderly were randomized into two groups (study, n=24; control, n=24). Foot
      reflexology was performed for 12 week in the study group, whereas the control group continued
      their routine treatment and follow-up. Both groups underwent a comprehensive foot examination
      for evaluating ABI and DPN at baseline and after 12 weeks; furthermore, HbA1c was evaluated.
      An independent two-sample t-test was performed for pre- and post-test between-group
      comparisons; an effect size analysis was performed to determine the effect of intervention.
    
  