
    
      Hypertension (HPT) is a very common disease, expensive to treat with serious morbidity and
      mortality. In Malaysia, from the NHMS III conducted in 2006, HPT affects more than 36% of
      adults. Essential HPT (HPT with no identifiable cause) accounts for approximately 85% of
      cases, whereas 15% have identifiable conditions (secondary cause). The detection of a
      secondary cause of HPT is important as the condition is reversible when detected early.
      Primary aldosteronism (PA) has been identified as the commonest cause of secondary HPT. At
      present, PA has been regarded as the commonest and potentially curable, with a prevalence of
      5-13% [1-7]. If this condition is detected early, the chances of cure from hypertension have
      been reported up to 80% of cases.

      This will translate to a major impact to the Malaysian health-care budget. The costs spent on
      life-long BP medications and complications related to HPT can be reduced enormously. PA is a
      type of hormonal disorder that leads to high blood pressure (BP). In PA, the adrenal glands
      produce too much aldosterone causing sodium retention and potassium excretion. The excess
      sodium then increased the blood volume and BP.

      Diagnosis and treatment of this condition are of paramount importance because people with
      this form of high BP have a higher risk of heart attack, stroke, kidney impairment, metabolic
      abnormality and reduce quality of life compared to patients with high BP not due to this
      condition. More importantly, the high BP associated with PA may be curable. This research
      will be conducted as a multicenter nation-wide study in Malaysia. The research aimed to study
      the prevalence of this disease in the investigators Malaysian population, determine the
      underlying mechanisms why this disease is associated with higher complication rate through
      cardiovascular and inflammatory markers, and identify the genes causing this disease, hence
      provide a more rapid diagnostic test and possibility of curing the disease with genetic
      therapy
    
  