
    
      To our knowledge our study is the first study showing persistent apoptosis in a subgroup of
      patients with complete viral suppression in association with poor immune recovery. Immune
      alterations independent of active viral replication may be responsible. Recent data suggests
      that immune responses to antiretroviral therapy depend on residual or restored thymic
      function. Improved CD4+ counts in patients despite virologic treatment failure are associated
      with greater thymic function, while poor T cell responses despite suppression of HIV are seen
      with decreased thymic function. Discordant immune responses may also be due to differential
      effects of particular antiretroviral agents on T cell apoptosis independent of viral
      suppression. For example, protease inhibitors have been shown to decrease rates of apoptosis
      of uninfected T cells. Viral replication is never completely suppressed with HAART, even when
      patients have undetectable plasma HIV RNA. Therefore, varying degrees of low level viral
      replication or replication in certain cellular compartments may continue to drive T cell
      apoptosis. Finally, our data suggests that ex vivo rates of Peripheral blood mononuclear cell
      (PBMC) apoptosis could potentially be used predict immune recovery or identify subgroups of
      patients who may benefit most from changes in HAART or adjunctive immunomodulatory therapies.

      At this time, although there are excellent guidelines for how to evaluate and change therapy
      for patients with virologic failure, there are no recommendation and little data on
      approaches or strategies to change therapy for patients with poor immune responses. Kaletra
      (lopinavir/ritonavir) may be of benefit to patients with poor immune responses to HAART
      despite viral suppression. Kaletra may have greater potency and better suppression of viral
      replication that is below the level of detection by plasma polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
      for HIV-1 RNA. Kaletra also has an excellent pharmacokinetic profile which may result in
      superior inhibition of T cell apoptosis in vivo.
    
  