
    
      Malaria, schistosomiasis and ancylostomiasis are three parasitic diseases which affect
      hundreds of millions of people and are an important cause of global mortality and morbidity.
      For the control of these poverty related parasitic diseases, and to complement
      chemotherapeutic strategies, accurate and accessible diagnostic procedures play a crucial
      role. Especially in remote and/or low resource settings, appropriate diagnostic tests are
      often lacking. These tests should not only be sensitive and specific, but also affordable,
      reliable, and easy to operate. In recent years, innovative smart mobile technologies have
      been applied for detection and identification of cultured parasite species, which is
      basically based on sample imaging and parasite morphology identification. Promising advances
      have been made with this technology and coupled with its small size, low cost and easy to
      manipulate, makes it suitable for point of care diagnostics in low resource setting. At the
      Technical University of Delft, a smart optical device prototype has been recently developed
      for the detection of Plasmodium. This Excelscope has been tested on a small number of malaria
      cases in Nigeria, showing promising results. In addition, TU Delft has developed a prototype
      for the detection of Schistosoma haematobium eggs in urine, which is ready for further
      validation in the field. Still under construction is a smart optical device for the detection
      of helminth eggs in stool, including eggs of hookworms. For each of these three smart optical
      devices using respectively blood, urine or stool, a diagnostic performance is aimed which
      does not significantly deviate in sensitivity and specificity from the diagnostic tests
      commonly in use in low resource settings, e.g. basic microscopy. At the same time, the
      optical devices have supplementary logistical advantages, e.g. easiness to use, high
      throughput and low costs per sample. The aim of the proposed explorative study is to further
      validate sensitivity and specificity of each of the developed devices, using besides
      microscopy a range of more advanced reference tests. For this purpose, diagnostic samples
      (blood, urine, stool) collected from ongoing studies involving malaria, schistosomiasis and
      STHs. at CERMEL will be used. The outcome of this study will give new insight in the
      diagnostic performance of the innovative smart optical devices, specifically in comparison to
      the WHO recommended diagnostic procedures currently used at CERMEL. The study is the core
      activity of Work Package 3 within the INSPiRED project.
    
  