
    
      This method of stem cell transplantation is designed to overcome some of the limitations of
      other alternative donor transplant options. Use of unrelated umbilical cord unit (UCB) donors
      appears to allow a greater degree of HLA mismatch with acceptable rates of GVHD. However,
      when UCB transplant was studied in the adult population, investigators discovered several
      limitations. One major limitation with UCB was delayed engraftment, resulting in higher risk
      of infection in the early post transplant period. The limitations to cord blood transplant
      involve delayed engraftment resulting in early complications such as infections. The main
      limitation associated with haploidentical donors is the significant immunosuppression
      required to prevent/treat aGVHD. Use of this combined modality of transplantation appears to
      allow for rapid neutrophil engraftment from the haploidentical donor and coupled with long
      term hematopoiesis from the UCB donor, thus requiring less long term immunosuppression.

      This study tests a new method of bone marrow transplantation called combined
      haploidentical-cord blood transplantation. In this procedure, some of the blood forming cells
      (the stem cells) from a partially HLA matched (haploidentical) related donor are collected
      from the blood, as well as cells from an umbilical cord are transplanted into the patient
      (the recipient) after administration of a "conditioning regimen". A conditioning regimen
      consists of chemotherapy and sometimes radiation to the entire body (total body irradiation,
      or TBI),

      One of two 'conditioning regimens' which will be determined by the physician.

        1. FLUDARABINE, MELPHALAN, ATG

           Fludarabine 30mg/m2(Days-7,-6,-5,-4,-3)-,Melphalan 70mg/m2(Day -3,-2), ATG
           1.5mg/m2(Day-7,-5,-3,-1)

        2. FLUDARABINE, BUSULFAN, 400 CGY TBI, ATG Fludarabine 50mg/m2(Day -6,-5,-4,-3,-2),Busulfan
           3.2mg/kg(Day -5,-4,-3,-2) 400cGY Total Body Irradiation(TBI)Day-1,ATG
           1.5mg/kg(Day-7,-5,-3,-1)

      Day 0 -Haploidentical donor and one umbilical cord blood unit infusion

      Filgrastim will be administered daily from day +1 until blood counts have completely
      recovered. Tacrolimus and another immunosuppressant, Cellcept, starting before transplant
      also to reduce the risks of graft versus host disease and to promote the growth of the graft.
      Tacrolimus will be given daily from two days before the transplant until at least three
      months after transplantation. Cellcept, will be tapered after the cells engraft.
    
  