
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the effects of mobilization therapy with or without rituximab on hematopoietic
           stem cells, B and T lymphocytes, and natural killer cells in patients with advanced or
           recurrent B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Compare the effects of B-lymphocyte purging using concurrent rituximab and mobilization
           therapy vs a CD34+ cell enrichment device on hematopoietic stem cells, B and T
           lymphocytes, and natural killer cells in the peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC)
           infusates.

        -  Compare the effect of these purging regimens on tumor cell content of PBSC infusates.

        -  Compare the effects of these regimens on myeloid and lymphoid engraftment after
           high-dose chemotherapy and autologous PBSC infusion in these patients.

        -  Compare post-transplantation infection complications in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the response and relapse-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive mobilization therapy comprising rituximab IV over 2-5 hours on
           days 1, 8, and 15 and cyclophosphamide IV over 3-6 hours on day 16. Beginning 36-48
           hours after the completion of cyclophosphamide, patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF)
           subcutaneously (SC) daily until blood counts recover. Patients then undergo peripheral
           blood stem cell (PBSC) collection.

      After completion of PBSC collection, patients receive high-dose chemotherapy comprising
      carmustine IV on days -7 to -3 and etoposide IV and cisplatin IV for 3 days during days -7 to
      -3. Patients may undergo involved-field radiotherapy to active or previously bulky (more than
      5 cm) tumors daily for 7-10 days.

      Patients receive unmanipulated PBSCs on day 0. Patients receive G-CSF SC daily beginning 4
      hours after completion of PBSC infusion and continuing until neutrophil engraftment.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive mobilization therapy comprising cyclophosphamide and G-CSF and
           high-dose chemotherapy comprising carmustine, etoposide, and cisplatin as in arm I.
           Patients may also undergo involved-field radiotherapy as in arm I. Patients receive CD34
           cell-enriched PBSC on day 0 followed by G-CSF as in arm I.

      Patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 71 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  