
    
      Premenstrual disorders are characterized by negative mood, behavioral, and physical symptoms
      that occur consistently for several days to two weeks before menses, that can disrupt normal
      functioning, and that subside during the postmenstrual phase of the cycle. Marked
      irritability, marked depressed mood, marked anxiety, overeating of specific food cravings,
      mood swings, lack of energy, and pain are among the most common symptoms of moderate to
      severe premenstrual disorders.

      It is estimated that 75% women of reproductive age (menarche to perimenopause) experience
      physical and behavioral symptoms premenstrually and in 40% women symptoms are intense
      (moderate to severe) and require medical attention. For 3-8 % women premenstrual symptoms are
      severe enough to interfere with work and interpersonal relationships. Premenstrual Dysphoric
      Disorder (PMDD) as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders,
      fourth edition (DSM-IV) research criteria, represents the more severe and disabling end of
      the premenstrual disorders spectrum. For women with severe premenstrual symptoms or PMDD,
      these symptoms are bothersome enough to produce an impact on psychological and/or
      occupational functioning, and professional attention is required.

      Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) fluoxetine, sertaline and paroxetine have
      been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a chronic treatment
      for PMDD, however the use of SSRIs significantly increases the risk of suicide in adolescents
      and young adults. Antidepressants are also associated with significant relapse during short
      and long term treatment of PMDD. Contraceptives are also prescribed to treat moderate and
      severe premenstrual symptoms, but besides the severe adverse effects (drospirenone and
      ethinyl estradiol) they re not the treatment choice for women willing to become pregnant.

      Pherin Pharmaceuticals synthesized a number of pherines and screened them for biologic
      activity in vitro. PH80 is a pherine shown to bind to a subset of peripheral receptors in
      nasal chemosensory neurons. Pherines such as PH80 are thought to exert their activity by
      rapid stimulation of the hypothalamus, which does not require systemic uptake and
      distribution. PH80 is being investigated as a potential treatment in women that suffer the
      cycle related symptoms of Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder.

      Each single administration of PH80 to be tested in this study will deliver a similar amount
      of PH80 (800 nanogram) to the nasal passages as was found in previous investigations (Pherin
      Clinical Study #PH80 CL003, #PH80 CL015 and #PH80 CL016) to improve premenstrual symptoms in
      PMDD patients when administered intranasally on an acute basis.
    
  