
    
      Setting: The proposed investigation will be conducted in elementary schools throughout the
      Western New York and Southern Florida areas.

      Sample: Participants will be 300 children, grades 1 - 5, with ADHD who have not been
      classified as special education students (e.g., Specific learning Disability, Emotional
      Disturbed, Other Health Impaired), who are not currently prescribed psychoactive medication
      and are naïve to psychoactive medication. Half of the participants will be recruited in
      Florida and half will be recruited in New York. This sample is selected to represent
      school-age children with ADHD who are at elevated risk for referral for special education
      services.

      Intervention: The intervention under study will be a RTI approach for child behavior. The
      entire intervention includes Tier 1 classwide-behavioral management strategies used by the
      teacher, a Daily Report Card (DRC) that targets the child's behaviors needed to promote
      successful social and academic outcomes, and if needed, an enhanced RTI. Participants
      assigned to the enhanced RTI arm will receive a DRC enhanced with additional behavior
      management strategies (e.g., differential attention, delayed punishments to reduce
      escape-maintained behaviors, premack contingencies, etc.) targeting behaviors as indicated by
      a functional behavior analysis. Participants assigned to the stimulant medication condition
      will continue to receive the DRC established previously and will also receive stimulant
      medication during the school day.

      Research Design and Methods: One-third of children will be allocated to the BAU condition and
      two-thirds will be allocated to the RTI approach (Phase 1 Randomization). Children assigned
      to the RTI approach who do not respond to the Tier 1 strategies will receive a Tier 2
      intervention, namely a daily report card (DRC; Phase 2). Children who demonstrate
      non-response to the DRC will be randomly assigned to one of two additional treatment arms:
      (1) enhanced RTI (RTI-E) or (2) stimulant medication (Phase 3 Randomization). Children will
      be allocated evenly across these two conditions.

      Control Condition: The RTI framework will be compared with other alternative intervention
      approaches that represent the standard of care for ADHD treatment in schools (i.e.,
      medication, business as usual classroom intervention) to determine whether this specific
      model/framework of intervention is efficacious relative to an ecologically valid,
      counter-factual, comparison group.

      Key Measures: Measures of key outcomes will include risk of referral to special education as
      measured by functional academic outcomes, observations of behavior in the classroom by
      observers unaware of study hypothesis or treatment condition, and parent and teacher ratings
      of functioning. Secondary outcome measures will include potential mediators and moderators of
      treatment response including: discipline referrals, parent contacts due to problems in
      academic or behavioral functioning, teacher adherence to Tier 1 and Tier 2 strategies, and
      referrals for an IEP or 504 plan.

      Data Analytic Strategy: Specific aims will be addressed using primary data analysis
      strategies for SMART trials. Specifically, each of the outcome measures will be subjected to
      the following primary analyses:

      Main effect of Phase 1 randomization. Regressions with group membership as a predictor will
      be used to determine the effect of randomizing participants to either (a) the RTI
      problem-solving framework approach or (b) business as usual.

      Main effect of Phase 3 randomization. Regressions with group membership as a predictor will
      be used to determine the effect of randomizing non-responders to both Tier 1 classroom
      management strategies and Tier 2A basic RTI to either (a) enhanced RTI or (b) medication
      management.

      Pairwise comparisons of the three embedded treatment protocols. This SMART design has three
      embedded treatment protocols, or sets of decision rules that together define an adaptive
      intervention. Those three protocols are as follows:

        1. Business as usual (BAU)

        2. Tier 1 strategies, followed by Tier II strategies in the event of non-response (i.e., a
           DRC), followed by enhanced RTI in the event of non-response.

        3. Tier 1 strategies, followed by Tier II strategies in the event of non-response, followed
           by medication management in the event of non-response
    
  