
    
      Study Design This study is a prospective, double-blind randomized placebo controlled trial
      involving adult emergency department (ED) patients who present with an acute exacerbation of
      gastroparesis. This study design will have two arms in the clinical trials. An experimental
      arm will receive an intravenous dose of haloperidol 5 mg in addition to conventional therapy,
      and the control arm will receive conventional therapy. Patients will be randomized as
      described below. Neither the physician nor the patient will be aware of the group to which
      the patient was randomized.

      Methods Upon arrive at to the ED at the Memorial Hermann Hospital located in the Texas
      Medical Center; patients with gastroparesis (GP) exacerbation will be assessed for
      eligibility for enrollment in this trial by the clinicians on duty. Informed consent will be
      obtained from eligible patients that meet inclusion and exclusion criteria by trained ED
      residents. A 12 lead electrocardiogram will be performed to evaluate the presence of QT
      segment prolongation. Enrolled patients will be given 5 mg of intravenous haloperidol or
      equivalent volume of placebo pre-packaged and coded with a study ID number provided by the
      investigational pharmacy.

      No unique identifiers or other PHI will be collected on enrolled patients. Information will
      also be recorded on the time elapsed from the time it took to provide the study medication
      and the time of the decision on disposition (admit or discharge). A record will be maintained
      if any additional medications including analgesics and antiemetics given to the patient
      before and after the study vial are given. Data will be collected on any adverse effects or
      complications the patients may experience (i.e. dystonic reactions, allergies etc.). After
      the data is collected at one hour for the primary outcome the trial will end and the
      physician will be unblended so they can choose subsequent medication.

      All completed data collection forms will be dropped off in a secure locked mailbox and
      collected on a weekly basis by research staff. Collected forms will be housed in the ED
      office located in the Jesse Jones Library (JJL) 4th floor in a locked cabinet. Data will be
      entered electronically and analyzed using statistical package for the social sciences (SPSS)
      version 19.0. This database will be housed on a rights-protected research drive with limited
      access for viewing.

      Informed Consent Patients will be notified of this study and they will be asked if they are
      interested in participating. If they are interested in participating, they will have the
      informed consent (IC) explained to them in either English or Spanish (Beaudoin, Nagdev,
      Merchant & Becker, 2010). The patient will sign, date, and put the time on the IC. The
      consenter will also do the same. A copy of the IC will be made in the ED and given to the
      patient for their records. The original copy will be housed in the regulatory binder located
      in JJL.
    
  