
    
      Mechanical ventilation is a cornerstone treatment for critically ill patients that is however
      associated with complications that may alter the prognosis. A major objective is therefore to
      separate patients from the ventilator as quickly as possible, but without exposing them to
      the risk of extubation failure. Pulmonary edema is a frequent cause of extubation failure (up
      to 60% in recent series) and a positive fluid balance has been identified as an important
      risk factor for extubation failure.

      Studies have tested the effect of a conservative strategy regarding the administration of
      fluids in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome. This strategy is associated with
      an improvement in hemodynamic parameters despite an increase in urine output with a negative
      fluid balance and a significant weight loss as compared to a liberal strategy. The
      conservative approach also shows a significant improvement in oxygenation with a
      nonsignificant trend towards a shorter duration of artificial ventilation and ICU stay.
      During the specific phase of weaning from mechanical ventilation, a randomized trial (BMW
      trial) demonstrated that a strategy of fluid removal guided by measurement of the plasmatic
      B-type natriuretic peptide significantly reduced the duration of weaning. Likewise, the
      interest of obtaining a negative fluid balance through the administration of diuretics in
      weaning induced pulmonary edema has been established for decades ("curative depletion").

      In this context, the hypothesis of the present study is that a preventive and systematic
      strategy of fluid removal through the use of diuretics initiated just before the weaning
      phase, as soon as the patients is stabilized would shorten the duration of weaning from
      mechanical ventilation as compared to a curative strategy of fluid removal, only initiated
      after a failure of the spontaneous breathing trial associated with weaning induced pulmonary
      edema.

      The design of the study will be a randomized (1:1) controlled trial, open label, with 2 arms,
      to evaluate the superiority of the preventive strategy.

      The weaning process will be protocolized and similar for the two groups.
    
  