
    
      History and current related studies:

      Fracture healing is a continuous process, and if any phase is disturbed by unfavorable
      factors, the healing process will be blocked. Clinical studies have found that non-healing
      rate of long bone fracture was approximately 5%. A certain site and type of fracture, if not
      healed within a mean time (usually 3-6 months), is called delayed union by US Food and Drug
      Administration. Simultaneously, the fracture that has not healed after 9 months and has no
      tendency for further healing in the next 3 months is called nonunion. According to fracture
      end activity, nonunion is classified into hypertrophic nonunion and atrophic nonunion.7, 8
      Hypertrophic nonunion is mostly caused by unstable fixation of fracture ends, and can be
      cured by strengthening the stability of fracture site using conventional surgery. Atrophic
      nonunion is difficult to be cured, because of the lack of adequate blood supply and bone
      formation at the fracture ends, so it is unable to form the periosteal callus. At present,
      atrophic nonunion is commonly treated by internal and external fixation combined with
      autologous bone graft, but this method has a long treatment cycle, and there is a situation
      that cannot be cured.

      Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) is blood plasma that has been enriched with platelets by
      centrifuging autologous blood. Platelet after activation can secrete platelet derived growth
      factor, transforming growth factor beta, vascular endothelial growth factor and epidermal
      growth factor. These growth factors can promote cell proliferation and differentiation,
      matrix synthesis and vascular regeneration, and accelerate tissue healing and bone repair.
      PRP contains a large number of leukocytes, which can locally phagocytize bacteria, scavenge
      necrotic tissue, inhibit inflammatory reaction, and resist infection. PRP fibrin can locally
      build the three-dimensional structure required for tissue repair. Since Assoian et al. first
      isolated PRP and used PRP in the clinic in 1984, PRP has received increasing attention in
      areas such as oral and maxillofacial surgery, orthopedics, plastic surgery, and neurosurgery.

      Data management:

      Clinical researchers filled in the clinical trial observation form to ensure the data were
      accurate, complete and timely collected. After the trial, all data were input into the
      computer. After data collection, the main clinical investigators and inspectors monitored and
      checked the integrity and accuracy of the data. The data were locked by the main
      investigators. Data processing statisticians further verified and checked the completeness
      and accuracy of the data after data entry. Anonymized trial data will be published at
      www.figshare.com.

      Statistical analysis:

        1. Measurement data were expressed as the mean ± SD and analyzed using SPSS 17.0 software
           (SPSS, Chicago, IL, USA). Count data were expressed as a percentage.

        2. A normality test and variance homogeneity test were conducted. Normally distributed data
           with homogeneity were compared using one-way analysis of variance. Non-normally
           distributed data were compared using Wilcoxon's two-sample rank sum test.

        3. The incidence of adverse reactions between groups was compared using chi-square test. A
           P value of < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. Results followed the
           intention-to-treat principle.

      Confidentiality:

      Clinical trial observation forms and informed consents were password-protected. No person,
      other than an authorized researcher, might be in contact with it.
    
  