
    
      Among all medical conditions, patients with heart failure report significantly poorer quality
      of life than do the other patients (1). The existing literature describes a wide range of
      negative emotions common among patients with heart failure; these include everything from
      depression, anxiety, submission and helplessness to a profound sense of "discord and
      brokenness." The prevalence of depression, ranging from 11% to 25% among heart disease
      outpatients and 35% to 70% among those who are hospitalized (2). By comparison, the overall
      percentage of the population suffering from depression is about 6.6%. Psychological
      depression appears to be an important predictor of rehospitalization among persons who have
      been admitted with coronary artery disease (3). In addition, depression in patients with
      heart failure was found to be associated with the course of the disease and its prognosis.
      For example, it was found that in patients with heart failure, a diagnosis of Major
      Depression was correlated with a higher rate of mortality (4), and depressive symptoms
      predicted short-term worsening of heart failure symptoms (5). The reduction in quality of
      life that was also found to be common in patients with heart failure is also a prognostic
      factor for repeated hospitalizations and death (6).

      The high prevalence of distress among the population of patients with heart failure, along
      with the broad impact on the patient's quality of life, requires attention to detail and the
      implementation of interventions aimed at reducing levels of distress. Very few studies
      describe interventions aimed at alleviating distress in patients with heart failure.
      Cognitive Behavioral Therapy is reported to improve both the functional and emotional levels
      of these patients, resulting in the relief of their symptoms of depression. Using relaxation,
      Bio-Feedback devices have also achieved a reduction in depression of heart failure patients.
      Research testing the efficacy of psychological treatment using the interpersonal approach now
      is being performed; it is funded by the U.S. NIMH and is, at present, in the initial
      recruitment stages (National Institute of Mental Health, 2010). Studies examining the
      beneficial effects of group therapy are few in number and most of them utilize a Cognitive
      Behavioral approach. This therapeutic orientation has been found to be effective when the
      disease is moderate or the prognosis is favorable. However, outcomes tend to differ greatly
      when it comes to patients in advanced stages of the condition. These patients are also
      confronted with fundamental aspects of their own mortality. A large body of literature about
      psychological interventions for these patients exists. Many of these interventions are based
      on an Existential Approach aimed at facilitating responses to the unique distress of patients
      in an advanced stage of the disease (7).

      This study examines the contribution of a group therapy program based on the Existential
      Approach aimed at reducing distress in patients with heart failure.
    
  