
    
      This is a Phase II, multicenter, single arm, open-label trial which will enroll Chinese
      subjects in China with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma that will assess the efficacy and
      safety of lenalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone regimen (Rd) given until progressive
      disease (PD) or discontinuation of lenalidomide for any reason.

      There are two cohorts in this protocol, Pharmacokinetic Assessment Treatment Cohort and
      Treatment Cohort without Pharmacokinetic (PK) Assessment. The first 10 subjects who are ≤ 75
      years old and have a baseline Creatinine Clearance ≥ 60 mL/min will participate in
      pharmacokinetic assessment during the first 8 days of Cycle 1. During this cohort, all
      subjects will receive 25mg oral lenalidomide once daily on days 1 -21 of each 28-day cycle.
      During the first cycle of this cohort, subjects will also receive 40mg oral dexamethasone
      daily on Days 8, 15, and 22 (and no dexamethasone on day 1). Beginning with Cycle 2, subjects
      will receive 25mg oral lenalidomide once daily on days 1 -21 of each 28-day cycle and 40mg
      oral dexamethasone daily on Days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of each 28-day cycle.

      Once 10 subjects have been enrolled in the PK Assessment Treatment Cohort, the Treatment
      Cohort without PK Assessment will begin. During this cohort, subjects will receive
      lenalidomide 25 mg p.o. once daily on Days 1-21 and dexamethasone 40 mg p.o. once daily on
      Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of each 28-day cycle. In both cohorts, subjects will continue Rd
      therapy until the documentation of PD or discontinuation of study therapy due to any reason
      including intolerable toxicity.

      For the primary analysis, response will be assessed according to the European Group for Blood
      and Marrow Transplantation EBMT (Bladé) criteria by an Independent Response Adjudication
      Committee (IRAC). Response will also be assessed according to the International Myeloma
      Working Group (IMWG) criteria and used as an exploratory analysis.
    
  