
    
      ECT has been the most effective treatment of depression for decades. Despite of this, neither
      the mechanism of action or side-effects are fully elucidated. The reason why some patients
      relapse shortly after remission is still not completely understood. Thus, there is a need to
      find predictors of the favourable clinical effect, relapse and side-effects. ECT is
      considered by professionals to be a safe procedure. However, this view is based on rather old
      and small studies. Additionally, many patients do not consent to this treatment because they
      fear a permanent loss of memory or that they will contract a brain damage after the completed
      ECT series. Therefore, it is very important to examine whether ECT might have negative
      effects on the structure or function of the brain, using state of the art Magnetic Resonance
      Imaging (MRI) techniques on a greater study population.

      The study consists of 60 inpatients, diagnosed with depression, admitted to one of the
      recruiting Mental Health Centres, and scheduled to ECT. The most modern MRI sequences
      examining brain structure and function are used at 3 time points: at baseline (just before
      ECT series), the second examination (just after ECT series) and the third (follow-up)
      examination (6 months after ECT series). Blood samples (measurements of Brain-Derived
      Neurotrophic Factor - BDNF, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor - VEGF along with the marker
      of brain injury - S100B-protein) and the evaluation of clinical effect and side-effects to
      ECT are performed at the same time points.

      The study has 4 main hypotheses. The first hypothesis assumes that the immediate and
      sustained response to ECT can be predicted by combining neuroimaging findings and
      blood-samples results. The second hypothesis is based on the assumption that ECT modulates
      the microstructure and connectivity in the fronto-limbic pathways (FLPs) and that this
      modulation correlates with the clinical effect. Thus, the altered microstructure of the FLPs
      in depression is normalised by an ECT series. Furthermore, the depression-associated
      increased resting state connectivity in FLPs is normalised by ECT. The third hypothesis is
      that ECT will induce changes in blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, which will correlate
      with the severity of memory problems. The last hypothesis assumes that ECT does not cause any
      brain tissue damage (including brain atrophy and white matter lesions - WMLs).
    
  