
    
      HyperEcho is a multi-centre longitudinal observational study, to investigate whether baseline
      transthoracic echocardiography along with routine data collected in the hypertension clinic
      can guide clinicians to better manage, and improve risk stratification for cardiovascular
      disease in young adults with hypertension. Participants are characterised as hypertensive
      patients aged between 18 to 40 years old and referred to the hypertension clinic to manage
      their blood pressure. A patient and public involvement exercise has been performed to ensure
      this study design would appeal to patients attending the hypertension clinic, and to
      investigate the preferred method of contact.

      The study visit will be carried out during the planned routine visit of the participants to
      the hypertension clinics of NHS trusts within England. Routine data will be collected by the
      assigned nurse for the hypertension clinic as part of the clinical service, and research
      participation will not affect the clinical progress of the participant. The additional
      research component to the clinic will be asking the participants for their consent to undergo
      a research echocardiography scan if it has not been a part of their clinical assessment.
      Participants will also be asked to consent to the use of their data that has been collected
      in the hypertension clinic, such as; referral letters, medical history, 24-hour blood
      pressure monitoring report, ECG, blood samples, body fat composition, and dietary
      questionnaire. In addition to this, participants will be asked to consent to further review
      of their data and medical notes during their follow up visits (up to 10 years).

      Previous young adult patients who visited the Hypertension clinics in the last 10 years will
      be also recruited. This cohort will be asked to consent to allow the research team to collect
      and use their clinical data as well as follow up their medical notes. They will not actively
      participate in the study as they will not require visiting the hypertension clinic or
      undergoing an echocardiography scan.
    
  