
    
      The optimal mode of clearance in critically ill patients with acute kidney injury (AKI) who
      require renal replacement therapy (RRT) is unclear. Although both convection (as provided by
      hemofiltration) and diffusion (as provided by hemodialysis) provide equivalent removal of
      small-sized molecules, hemofiltration offers the potential for removal of large molecules
      many of which may be toxic. Hemofiltration and hemodialysis have never been compared in a
      rigorous randomized trial to date.

      Continuous renal replacement therapies (CRRT) are widely used in the management of critically
      ill patients with AKI and current CRRT technology provides a practical platform on which to
      compare convective and diffusive clearance. We hypothesize that continuous venovenous
      hemofiltration (CVVH)- at identical doses of small molecule clearance that are provided by
      the comparison treatment of continuous venovenous hemodialysis (CVVHD)- leads to improved
      patient outcomes.

      This study is an unblinded pilot RCT designed to test the feasibility of conducting a
      subsequent large scale study that will assess whether CVVH leads to improved patient outcomes
      (ie, survival, renal recovery) as compared to CVVHD. Although we will be collecting the full
      array of patient-relevant data for up to 60 days following randomization, the main purpose of
      this pilot study is to demonstrate the feasibility of recruiting, treating and following
      patients for a study designed to test this hypothesis.

      Patient Population

      The recruitment target for this study is 75 patients.

      The inclusion and exclusion criteria are designed to enroll patients with AKI on the basis of
      presumed acute tubular necrosis who would ordinarily be candidates for continuous renal
      replacement therapies (CRRT) in Canada. The overall philosophy is to enroll and begin
      applying the study therapy as close as possible to the clinical need to start renal
      replacement therapy. Similarly, we would like to avoid enrolling patients whose risk of death
      is so high that the study therapy is unlikely to impact on the clinical outcome.

      Treatments

      We will employ equivalent doses of hemofiltration (35 mL/kg/hr of replacement fluid) and
      hemodialysis (35 mL/kg/hr of dialysate).

      Therapies will be administered using Primsaflex machines (Gambro Inc.) using regional citrate
      anticoagulation, heparin anticoagulation or no anticoagulation. Hospital-specific protocols
      for anticoagulation will be used. We have obtained Health Canada permission to utilize
      Prismocal, Normocarb, Hemosol BO and Prismasol 4 as infusates in patients receiving CVVH.
    
  