
    
      This study aims to examine the effect of sensory integration therapy on sensory modulation
      and daily functional performance in children with dyslexia, according to the occupational
      therapy model MOHO.

      The study was carried out in Biruni University Sensory Integration Unit on 35 participants (
      intervention group:17, aged 8,7±0,85 years; control group:18, aged 8,5±1,1 years) with
      dyslexia.

      According to the results of the analysis made in the R program, it was calculated that the
      sample volume should be 35 at 80% Power.

      The investigators talked about the study with a special education and rehabilitation center.
      They will briefly ask the families of children with dyslexia who meet the inclusion criteria,
      during their routine education/therapy sessions, whether they might be interested in taking
      part in the study or not. Following this, the informed consent form was signed by the parents
      who accepted and were willing to volunteer to take part in the study, since the individuals
      participating in the study were under the age of 18.

      Children between the ages of 6 and 10 years who were diagnosed with dyslexia by a
      psychiatrist according to DSM-V criteria were included in the study. Children with any
      secondary diagnosis were excluded from the study. 40 participants were randomly divided into
      20 control and 20 intervention groups using a random number table.

      Children in the intervention group were included in sensory integration therapy sessions at
      Biruni University Sensory Integration Unit for eight weeks, one session a week, 45 minutes
      sessions, and 15 minutes of family information. Both groups continued special education
      sessions in special education and rehabilitation centers twice a week for eight weeks. Three
      participants from the intervention group and two participants from the control group left the
      study.

      The socio-demographic data was collected and recorded, including age, parentage, gender,
      health status. During the evaluation phase, the Sensory Profile test and the SCOPE (The Short
      Child Occupational Profile) was applied to both groups.
    
  