
    
      Adherence to healthcare quality measures is needed to reduce the burden of cerebrovascular
      disease and improve clinical outcomes. Electronic health records (EHRs) can facilitate the
      standardization of care provision and the improvement of disease prediction and prevention.
      Although the EHRs in clinical settings are increasingly prevalent in China, they are rarely
      used for healthcare research. the investigators aimed to conduct an EHR-based registry study
      to improve the healthcare and outcomes for cerebrovascular diseases.

      Twenty-four hospitals were enrolled in the PLATFORM-CVD Study in January 2018. Data
      collection began on February 1st, 2019. Historical data from January 2017 are abstracted
      first and prospective data are continuously reported until May 20th, 2020. Data were
      abstracted from the medical records, including hospital information system, laboratory
      information management system, and picture archiving and communication systems by an
      extract-transform-load tool. The EHR system included diagnostic information for cerebral
      infarctions (I63), nontraumatic intracerebral hemorrhages (I61), nontraumatic subarachnoid
      hemorrhages (I60), transient cerebral ischemic attacks and related syndromes (G45),
      intracranial and intraspinal phlebitis and thrombophlebitis (G08), vascular dementia (F01),
      and other aneurysms (I72). The quality of stroke care was assessed by 21 evidence-based
      performance measures. In-hospital outcomes were calculated including mortality, length of
      stay, and costs.

      The PLATFORM-CVD Study leverages EHRs to better understand incident cerebrovascular diseases
      in China. Data from this cohort will serve as a unique platform for quality assessment and
      improvement for acute treatment and secondary prevention of cerebrovascular diseases, as well
      as in-hospital outcome risk predictions and health economic evaluations.
    
  