
    
      BACKGROUND

      Soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor

      The biomarker soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR) is the soluble form of
      the cell membrane-bound protein urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR), which is
      expressed mainly on immune cells, endothelial cells, and smooth muscle cells. uPAR is
      released during inflammation or immune activation, and therefore the suPAR level reflects the
      extent of immune activation in the individual. All human beings have a baseline level of
      suPAR that is individually determined and increases with age. Studies have shown that the
      suPAR level is associated with morbidity and mortality in a number of acute and chronic
      diseases and in the general population. The suPAR level is elevated across diseases, and not
      solely associated with one specific disease. Therefore, suPAR is applicable as a prognostic
      marker and not as a diagnostic marker. This characteristic may be utilized for risk
      stratification in unselected patients.

      Originally, uPAR was proven a receptor for urokinase (uPA) which splits plasminogen into
      active plasmin. Moreover, uPAR interacts with other proteins and plays a role in several
      important cell processes like migration, adhesion, angiogenesis, proliferation, and
      chemotaxis. The suPAR protein was discovered in 1991, when it was found to be a marker of
      cancer progression. In recent years, several studies have shown that suPAR is associated with
      a number of chronic diseases (including cardiovascular, hepatic, renal, and pulmonary
      diseases), and that the level is a predictor of a negative outcome of various infectious
      diseases (tuberculosis, HIV, malaria, sepsis, meningitis, pneumonia) and in critically ill
      patients.

      Across diseases, the suPAR level discriminates non-survivors from survivors. suPAR reflects
      the level of chronic inflammation, and therefore it has been studied as a potential marker of
      development of diseases, and studies have shown that an elevated level predicts development
      of chronic diseases and cancer in the general population. The suPAR blood level is stable
      with no diurnal variation and no changes following fasting, while suPAR can be measured in
      blood, plasma, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, ascites fluid and pleural fluid. The level
      increases and decreases with progression and improvement of a disease, respectively, but more
      slowly compared to e.g. C-reactive protein (CRP). The normal suPAR plasma level is 2-3 ng/mL
      in healthy individuals, about 3-4 ng/mL in unselected patients in emergency departments, and
      about 9-10 ng/mL in critically ill patients.

      suPAR in intensive care

      In critically ill patients, the suPAR level is significantly increased. suPAR is an
      independent prognostic marker, and the change over time correlates with organ dysfunction.
      suPAR is elevated and has a prognostic value in patients with: SIRS (systemic inflammatory
      response syndrome), sepsis/septic shock, burn injuries, and traumatic brain injuries. The
      suPAR level reflects the body's immune response to infections, and the level increases with
      the severity of the infection. In patients with organ dysfunction, the suPAR value is often a
      two-digit value. In particular hepatic and renal dysfunction affects the suPAR level. suPAR
      has been studied in patients with SIRS who were acutely admitted to the emergency department
      (n=902). The studies showed that suPAR is a stronger marker of 2-day, 30-day, and 90-day
      mortality than age, CRP, IL-6, creatinine, and procalcitonin. However, for diagnostic
      purposes, IL-6 and CRP are superior to suPAR in predicting a positive blood culture. A Greek
      multicenter study including 1914 patients with sepsis showed that suPAR is a strong predictor
      of mortality, and that a suPAR level above 12 ng/mL is linked to a >80% sensitivity for
      mortality and a negative predictive value of 94.5%. In addition, the prognostic value of
      suPAR in patients with sepsis is independent of relevant covariates like APACHE score, CRP,
      etc.

      In patients with burn injuries and inhalation trauma requiring mechanical ventilation, the
      plasma suPAR level and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid level correlate to IL-6 and coagulation
      factors. An elevated plasma suPAR level is associated with prolonged Intensive Care Unit
      (ICU) stay and the duration of mechanical ventilation. The suPAR level is elevated in
      patients with traumatic brain injury. In trauma patients who suffered a brain injury within
      12 hours prior to blood sampling, the mean suPAR level is 14.9 ng/mL ± 6.9 vs. 2.8 ng/mL ±
      0.7 in control subjects. In these patients suPAR is associated with severity of the brain
      injury and with mortality.

      suPAR and acute respiratory distress syndrome

      Mortality rates of patients with the acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) are high.
      Biological markers as well as disease severity scoring systems may be useful for risk
      stratification and the creation of homogenous patient groups in clinical trials. However,
      currently no single biological marker has been found to have sufficient discriminative value
      for accurate prediction of mortality or bedside decision making in ARDS patients in the
      clinical setting The first study that investigated the association between plasma suPAR and
      mortality in a cohort of ARDS patients was published in 2015. In that study, plasma levels of
      suPAR were higher with increasing severity of ARDS, and higher in patients who died in the
      ICU. Furthermore, higher plasma suPAR levels were associated with less ventilator- and
      ICU-free days.

      In a prospective, multicenter, observational study including mechanically ventilated ICU
      patients, low concentrations of suPAR were predictive for survival and high concentrations
      for renal replacement therapy and mortality. The authors concluded that SuPAR may be used for
      screening for patients with potentially good survival, while its association with renal
      replacement therapy may supply an early warning sign for acute renal failure. Several other
      authors have evaluated the predictive value of suPAR regarding the risk of ARDS in sepsis
      patients, and reported a correlation/association with disease severity, inflammation and
      mortality.

      AIM

      SPARCOL is a multi-center observational study aiming to investigate if suPAR measured at
      admission can predict the risk of future complications and mortality in adults patients with
      Covid-19.

      METHODS

      Design

      This is a prospective observational study designed in accordance with the declaration of
      Helsinki. The study will be registered at Clinical Trials.gov and has been approved by the
      Institutional Review Board of the University Hospital of Larisa, under the reference number
      17543.The study will be approved by the IRB of each of the participating centers.

      Patient eligibility

      Consecutive adult patients (≥ 18 years ) who are admitted to the Hospital due to Covid-19
      will be screened for inclusion. Exclusion criteria will be age <18 years, any infection
      within the previous 4 weeks, patients on renal replacement therapy pre-operatively, patients
      who had previously received a transplant, patients with allergies, inflammatory or immune
      system disorders, and/or connective tissue disease including rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing
      spondylitis, and systemic lupus erythematosus, administration of steroid, antipsychotic, or
      anti-inflammatory/immunomodulatory medication during the last 3, administration of opioids
      during the past week, asthma, obesity (BMI ≥ 30 kg m-2), mental disability or severe
      psychiatric disease, alcohol or other abuse, legal incapacity or limited legal capacity,
      subjects within the exclusion period of another study ,and any treatments for sepsis prior to
      enrolment.

      Sampling and laboratory measurements

      Participants will undergo sampling of peripheral venous blood, immediately after admission.
      Blood samples drawn from all patients and EDTA plasma will be stored at -80° C until later
      measurement. Plasma suPAR levels will be determined using the suPARnostic® ELISA assay
      (ViroGates, Denmark), which is based on a simplified double monoclonal antibody sandwich
      ELISA assay whereby samples and peroxidase-conjugated anti-suPAR are first mixed together and
      then incubated in anti-suPAR pre-coated micro wells. The recombinant suPAR standards of the
      kit are calibrated against healthy human blood donor samples. suPAR concentrations are
      determined as ng/mL plasma.

      Outcomes

      The primary endpoint will be the presence of respiratory complications [need of non-invasive
      ventilation (CPAP-BiPAP), hi-flow nasal oxygen, or mechanical ventilation], admission to ICU,
      and survival at 30 days.

      Secondary endpoints will be hypotension (defined as systolic blood pressure <90 mmHg or mean
      arterial pressure <65 mmHg for 3 minutes or more), need for vasoactive drugs (need for
      vasoactive drugs not planned before and/or continuous infusion), and/or acute new
      cardiovascular disorder (atrial fibrillation, sustained ventricular tachycardia,
      supraventricular tachycardia, myocardial infarction, pericarditis, myocarditis, cardiogenic
      shock, and/or cardiac arrest), renal failure, duration of mechanical ventilation,
      reintubation, hospital length of stay, length of stay in ICU and readmission.

      Data Collection and Monitoring

      Data analysis will be based on predefined data points on a prospective data collection form.
      The staff will be blinded to measurements until the end of the study and all data are
      analyzed. Clinical monitoring throughout the study will be performed to maximize protocol
      adherence, while an independent Data and Safety Monitoring research staff will monitor
      safety, ethical, and scientific aspects of the study. Data collection will also include
      demographics, general blood count, C-reactive protein, APACHE II, and SOFA.

      Data management

      The goal of the clinical data management plan is to provide high-quality data by adopting
      standardized procedures to minimize the number of errors and missing data, and consequently,
      to generate an accurate database for analysis. Remote monitoring will be performed to signal
      early aberrant patterns, issues with consistency, credibility and other anomalies. Any
      missing and outlier data values will be individually revised and completed or corrected
      whenever possible.

      Sample size

      This study will include approximately 500 patients. Based on international and national
      epidemiological data, we anticipate that approximately 30% of the included patients will
      reach the primary endpoints.

      Ethics and dissemination

      The study will be performed according to national and international guidelines. The study
      will begin after approval has been obtained from the Hospital's Institutional Review Board,
      according to local regulation. Prospective written informed consent will be requested before
      inclusion of all eligible patients based on the Review Board's decision.

      Competing interests None declared.
    
  