
    
      The first ERAS program was introduced by Kehlet in the 1990's. ERAS programs were initially
      implemented in colorectal surgery and have found their way into general clinical practice,
      including orthopedic, vascular, and thoracic surgery. In the field of liver surgery, cohort
      studies have been conducted and randomized trials have confirmed the feasibility and safety
      of enhanced recovery programs in resectional liver surgery.

      Randomized studies have suggested that ERAS optimization may contribute in decreasing stay in
      hospital after surgery. We hypothesized that opioid-sparing preemptive and post-operative
      multimodal analgesia plus other ERAS items would effectively accelerate patient recovery, who
      receiving hepatectomy. We focus on some fundamental variables that impact normal physiology
      and enhanced-recovery after surgery: fasting, opioid-sparing, exception of an abdominal
      drain, and GI function rehabilitation. We draw attention to the fact that time to recovery is
      a far more important and better outcome measure than time to discharge from the hospital.

      GI function protection and restore was of importance as the respect of ERAS. Traditionally,
      perioperative fasting is consisted of being nil by mouth from midnight before surgery and
      fasting postoperatively until recovery of bowel function. Those empirical practices persist
      despite emerging evidence revealing that excessive fasting results in negative outcomes and
      delayed recovery. Strong and assistant evidence exists for minimization of perioperative
      fasting for 2-hour preoperative fast after clear fluids and for early oral food and fluids
      intake postoperatively. Also, current study should be applying anti-ileus prophylaxis and
      abolition of bowel preparation.

      Optimizing pain control was regarding as one of the ultimate goal of ERAS program: pain and
      risk free surgery. Surgical incisions evoke nociceptors by inducing local inflammatory
      response. The consequence hyperalgesia has been considered to be target of well pain
      controlling. Here, the multimodal opioid-sparing approaches have been emphasized. A regimen
      composed by TAP, local anesthesia, PCA, and systematic anti-inflammatory would be performed
      in order to reduce surgical stress responses.

      Several studies have reported that mobilization within 24h of colon surgery was an
      independent predictor of shorter rehabilitation period. In current study, early postoperative
      enforced mobilization with specific target will be implemented.

      The purpose of this study is twofold. On the one hand examine the scientific evidence that
      exists today on the most important elements of an ERAS program and present preliminary
      results of the implementation of a program ERAS in West China.
    
  