
    
      Allergic rhinitis is a common illness suffered among US Veterans. Despite the availability of
      medications, many patients fail to get adequate control of symptoms especially in high
      pollutant areas. Southern California air pollutants, like diesel exhaust particles may act as
      adjuvants to allergens leading to an exaggerated allergic response in certain individuals.
      These individuals may lack adequate Glutathione transferase activity; necessary to protect
      cells against pollutant induced oxidative stress. Sulforaphane has been shown to protect
      against oxidative stress. The investigators hypothesize consumption of foods containing high
      levels of sulforaphane are beneficial to US Veterans with GST deficiencies suffering from
      allergic rhinitis. In the investigators' preliminary data, the investigators discovered
      administration of broccoli sprout extract rich in sulforaphane leads to diminished nasal
      inflammatory reaction brought on by diesel exhaust particles though did not have sufficient
      patient numbers to prove an association with GST deficiency. The investigators propose a 3
      week randomized clinical trial comparing broccoli sprout extract consumption with nasal
      corticosteroid administration after subjects with allergic rhinitis undergo a Timothy,
      Bermuda or Johnson grass nasal challenge. In Aims 1 and 2, the investigators will compare
      clinical (nasal symptom scores and peak nasal inspiratory flows) and laboratory (inflammatory
      cytokines, eosinophil cationic protein, tryptase) measurements between four groups: nasal
      corticosteroid, broccoli sprout extract, nasal corticosteroid plus broccoli sprout extract,
      and placebo. Aim 3 focuses on exploratory genetic analysis of the 3 glutathione S-transferase
      (GST) genes to determine if correlations exist between the inability to produce GST enzyme
      and the response to broccoli sprout extract. At the conclusion of this study, the
      investigators will gain further knowledge of which patients benefit from anti-oxidant
      nutritional supplementation in treating allergic rhinitis.
    
  