
    
      The investigators will perform a global, Phase III, randomized, double-blind controlled trial
      of rFVIIa plus best standard therapy vs. placebo and best standard therapy alone. The
      investigators will include participants with a volume of ICH ≥ 2 and < 60 cc, no more than a
      small volume of intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) (IVH score ≤ 7), age ≥ 18 and ≤ 80, Glasgow
      Coma Scale of ≥ 8, and treated within 120 minutes from stroke onset. To minimize
      time-to-treatment, the study will use emergency research informed consent procedures
      (including exception from informed consent (EFIC) in the United States) and mobile stroke
      units (MSUs), with a goal of ½ of participants treated within 90 minutes, as accomplished in
      the NINDS t-PA trials. The FASTEST Trial will include approximately 100 hospital sites and at
      least 15 MSUs in the NINDS-funded StrokeNet and key global institutions with large volumes of
      ICH patients and the ability to treat them within 120 minutes of stroke onset. Recruitment of
      860 participants over 3½ years is planned. Countries participating in the trial include the
      United States, Canada, Japan, Germany, Spain, and the United Kingdom.

      Participants will be randomized in a double-blinded fashion to rFVIIa 80 µg/kg dose (maximum
      10 mg dose) or placebo. Participants in both arms will receive best standard therapy as per
      published AHA Guidelines for ICH, including a target systolic blood pressure of 140 mm Hg.
      The primary outcome (ordinal mRS with the following categories: 0-2, 3, and 4-6) will be
      determined at 180 days, but participants will be followed by remote assessment at 30 days and
      90 days. To measure growth of ICH, all participants will have a standard of care baseline
      non-contrast CT of the head and a repeat scan at 24 hours. Centralized volumetric
      measurements of ICH, IVH, and edema will be performed for both time points.

      Novo Nordisk A/S will manufacture and supply rFVIIa as a research medication for use in the
      FASTEST Trial. Novo Nordisk A/S will also manufacture and supply matching placebo that is
      identical to rFVIIa in appearance and administration.
    
  