
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS), the most common inflammatory disease of the central nervous system
      in young adults, has a huge social and health interest, especially the primary progressive
      (PP-) course, in which the disability is very fast accumulated and currently there are no
      available treatments in Spain. PP-MS is characterized by neuro-inflammation and, especially,
      by neurodegeneration, with brain atrophy as key feature. It has been proposed that PP-MS
      therapies should combine anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective activities. The investigators
      have shown that melatonin, an immunomodulatory, antioxidant and neuroprotective compound,
      ameliorates the disease and modulates the pathogenic/protective immune responses in a MS
      animal model. Moreover, melatonin caused a long-term improvement of disability on a PP-MS
      patient. Thus, melatonin could be of interest in the therapy of PP-MS.

      So far, ocrelizumab, recently authorized by the European Medicines Agency and incorporated
      into the portfolio of the Spanish National Health System in December 2018, is the only
      therapy that has shown some therapeutic efficacy on the decrease in long-term disability.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the feasibility of using melatonin combined with
      ocrelizumab to treat PP-MS. Thus, the investigators propose a randomized, single-blind,
      placebo-controlled study on the safety and efficacy of melatonin combined with ocrelizumab on
      PP-MS patients. The investigators will assess the daily administration to patients treated
      with ocrelizumab for at least 9 months of one oral dose of melatonin containing 300mg during
      24 months on patients safety and its effects over brain atrophy progression, Expanded
      Disability Status Scale scores, quality of life, MS symptoms, circadian impairment and levels
      of markers of central nervous system inflammation, axonal damage, Blood-brain barrier
      disruption and oxidative stress.
    
  