
    
      Previous studies have validated endoscopy, as an efficient tool for initial screening and in
      selected cases surveillance of families fulfilling the clinical criteria for hereditary
      diffuse gastric cancer (HDGC). The aim is to detect microscopic foci of in situ or
      intramucosal signet ring cell carcinoma (SRCC), which are characteristic of early HDGC.
      Currently, the recommended endoscopic protocol involves targeted biopsies of any suspicious
      lesion as well as a minimum of 30 mapping random biopsies specimens taken from all anatomic
      areas of the gastric mucosa, also known as Cambridge endoscopy protocol. However this is a
      time-consuming and tedious process, which significantly prolongs the duration of the
      procedure and might reduce patient tolerance. In order to save time two specimens can be
      taken during a single passage of the forceps ("double-bite" technique).

      In order to evaluate the adequacy and utility of the "double-bite" technique, patients
      undergoing surveillance for HDGC, are randomized to the single-bite vs double-bite arm.
      Endoscopies are performed according to a standardized protocol. Briefly, a white-light
      high-resolution endoscope with 85 magnification and a maximal resolution of 7.9 mm
      (GIF-FQ260Z; Olympus, Tokyo, Japan) is used to examine all anatomic segments of the
      insufflated stomach. Any abnormalities on white-light endoscopy are recorded and assessed
      further by narrow-band imaging magnification with or without autofluorescence imaging.
      Targeted biopsy specimens are taken from identified lesions, and 5 random biopsy specimens
      are taken in each of the siz gastric anatomical areas (prepylorus, antrum, transitional zone,
      body, fundus, and cardia). The double-bite technique involves taking an initial biopsy,
      repositioning the forceps, and taking another biopsy from the same area with the initial
      specimen still on the forceps. The single bite technique involves removing the forceps with
      its specimen after each individual biopsy. Time is recorded between the first and last random
      biopsy. Comfort score is reported after the procedure, according to the modified Gloucester
      scale. The investigators use Boston Single-Use Radial Jaw™ 4 biopsy forceps with a spike.
      Biopsy specimens are stained with hematoxylin and eosin and periodic acid-Schiff diastase and
      are assessed for size and presence of SRCC foci by an upper specialist GI pathologist, who
      have significant experience in SRCC identification. Any lesions are checked by a second
      pathologist within the Cambridge Pathology team before reporting. Both pathologists are
      blinded to study arm.
    
  