
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify areas of vulnerability in older adults with cancer through the use of a
      geriatric assessment, and to identify the potential referrals to an interdisciplinary team
      based on geriatric assessment results.

      II. To determine whether the geriatric assessment driven interventions will lead to decrease
      in grade 3-5 toxicity.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the geriatric assessment driven interventions will lead to
      improvement in the following outcomes: unplanned hospitalization, average length of stay
      (ALOS), emergency visits, unplanned readmission rates, and advance directive completion.

      II. To determine whether there is significantly better quality of life (QOL) and function in
      the geriatric assessment intervention group compared to the standard of care group from start
      of treatment to the follow-up timepoint.

      III. To determine the feasibility of delivering geriatric assessment driven interventions in
      a community setting using telemedicine.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients follow an intervention plan created by the nurse practitioner (NP) using the
      results of the geriatric assessment. The NP discusses the results of the assessment and
      treatment recommendations with the patient. They also share the treatment plan, proposed
      referrals, and specific vulnerabilities with the primary care physician and community
      oncologist. Some patients complete the intervention plan via Telehealth, which uses
      telecommunication technology to provide health services over a distance.

      ARM II: Patients follow a standard of care treatment plan at the discretion of the primary
      oncologist. Beginning 6 months from the start of chemotherapy, patients undergo the geriatric
      assessment as in Arm I. Some patients complete the standard of care treatment plan via
      Telehealth.
    
  