
    
      This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded crossover study to test the
      following hypotheses: (1) In normal mid- to late pubertal girls without hyperandrogenism
      (HA), progesterone acutely suppresses waking LH pulse frequency more than sleep-associated LH
      pulse frequency; and (2) compared to normal mid- to late pubertal girls without HA, acute
      progesterone suppression of waking LH pulse frequency is impaired in mid- to late pubertal
      girls with HA. Studies will be performed in mid- to late pubertal girls (at least Tanner
      breast stage 3 but no more than 2 years postmenarcheal). Subjects will complete two 18-hour
      Clinical Research Unit (CRU) admissions in separate menstrual cycles. Immediately before and
      during the first CRU admission, either oral micronized progesterone (0.8 mg/kg/dose) or
      placebo (randomized) will be given at 0700, 1500, 2300, and 0700 h. During the CRU admission,
      blood will be obtained every 10 minutes through an indwelling iv catheter from 1800 to 1200
      h. This will allow full characterization of pulsatile LH secretion in addition to other
      hormone measurements. A second CRU admission (performed at least 2 months later given blood
      withdrawal limits) will be identical to the first except that placebo will exchanged for
      progesterone or vice versa (treatment crossover). The primary endpoint is LH pulse frequency
      while awake. (LH pulse frequency while asleep is an important secondary endpoint.) Results in
      pubertal girls without HA were recently published (Kim et al, J Clin Endocrinol Metab
      2018;103:1112-1121). Data from girls with HA will be compared to recently-published results
      in girls without HA. Mean LH pulse frequency while awake will be analyzed via a hierarchical
      linear mixed model (HLMM). HA status (HA vs. non-HA), sleep status (wake vs. sleep), and
      treatment (progesterone vs. placebo) will represent fixed-effects, along with all associated
      interactions. Random effects will be used to account for hierarchical variance-covariance
      structure of the crossover study design. With regard to hypothesis testing, the association
      between HA status and wake LH pulse frequency will be evaluated via linear contrasts of HLMM
      least squares pulse frequency means. The differential impact of exogenous progesterone on
      wake LH pulse frequency in pubertal girls with and without HA (primary analysis) will be
      evaluated via the same testing method. Using published and preliminary data, we determined
      that, if 16 pubertal girls with HA complete both admissions, we should have at least an 80%
      chance of detecting a 0.2 pulse/hour differential effect of P4 on wake LH pulse frequency
      between the HA and the non-HA groups with a two-sided false positive rejection rate of no
      more than 0.05.
    
  