
    
      Current assessment of lymphoedema consists of measuring volume changes objectively by a tape
      measure or water displacement. Early recognition of pre-clinical changes of interstitial
      fluid congestion in a limb at risk concerning lymph transport capacity is crucial. Objective
      measurement of extracellular fluids with bio-impedance spectroscopy can detect these early
      signs of lymphoedema. Multi Frequency Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis is completely
      non-invasive, highly reproducible (Ward et al 1997), highly sensitive (Cornish et al 2001),
      highly specific (Cornish et al 2001) and can be repeated as frequently as desired. BIS
      demonstrated excellent inter- and intra-rater reliability. All measures are highly reliably
      in women with and without lymphoedema (Szerniec et al 2010). For women with lymphoedema BIS
      detected a difference in the ECF in limbs which were not reflected in a corresponding
      difference in limb volume. This finding suggests that BIS may be particularly useful in the
      early detection of lymphoedema, before there is any volume change (Szerniez et al 2010). The
      mean ratio of extra cellular water (ECW) to intracellular water (ICW) is 1,5:1 (Ward et al
      2009). Cornish et al (2001) predicted the onset of the condition up to 10 months before the
      condition could be clinically diagnosed. This is considerable shorter than the mean delay
      time of 3,5 years reported by National Summit on Lymphoedema, Adelaide 2000. The only risk
      factor identified as contributing to an increased risk of developing secondary lymphoedema
      was an increasing BMI which is consistent with previous reports (Box et al 2002).

      Early detection with BIS is supposed possible even before clinical signs of swelling are
      available.

      In this study we want to study this hypothesis and as control-group patients treated for
      colorectal carcinoma.
    
  