
    
      This is a single center, randomized, single dose, laboratory-blinded, 2-period, 2-sequence,
      crossover study design, in which 32 healthy adult subjects received one of the study
      treatments during each study period.

      The objective of this study is to determine the bioequivalence of two different formulations
      of olmesartan medoxomil/ HCTZ after a single oral dose administration under fasting
      conditions.

      The intra-subject variation following a single dose of olmesartan/ HCTZ appears to be around
      25% for Cmax and around 18% for AUC0-T for olmesartan and around 18% for Cmax and around 13%
      for AUC0-T for HCTZ. Statistically, given that the expected Test to Reference ratio of
      geometric LSmeans should fall within 95 and 105%, it is estimated that the lowest number of
      subjects to meet the 80 to 125% bioequivalence range for each analyte with a statistical a
      priori power of at least 80% is about 28.

      Therefore, the inclusion of 32 subjects should be sufficient to account for the possibility
      of drop-outs, variations around the estimated intra-subject CV and to conclude in favor of
      the hypothesis of bioequivalence with sufficient statistical power. A Caucasian population
      will be enrolled to minimize variability and optimize detection of differences between the
      Test and Reference formulations without regard to race.

      Subject eligibility for this study will be determined at the screening visit and eligible
      subjects will be admitted to the clinical research unit at least 10 hours prior to drug
      administration for each study period.

      Standbys should be recruited and available to replace any subject who withdraws prior to the
      first drug administration.

      On-study drop-outs will not be replaced. Altasciences will generate the randomization code
      with a computer program according to the study design, the number of subjects and the
      sequence of treatment administration. The random allocation of each sequence of treatment
      administration to each subject will be done in such a way that the study is balanced. Once
      generated, the randomization code will be final and will not be modified. Eligible subjects
      will be randomized to one of two treatment sequences. There will be two sequences in the
      study: AB and BA, where A = the test product, B = the reference product (see detailed
      description of A and B items in Section "Arms and Interventions").

      For each study period, subjects will receive a single 40 mg/25 mg oral dose of olmesartan
      medoxomil/HCTZ, under fasting conditions and undergo a 48-hour PK sample collection. Study
      participants will be aware they will receive different formulations of the same drug, without
      being informed which product (Test or Reference) is being administered. The date and time of
      each dose will be recorded. For each subject, all scheduled postdose activities and
      assessments will be performed relative to the time of study drug administration.

      Subjects will fast overnight (no food or drink except water), for a minimum of 10 hours prior
      to dosing. Fasting will continue for at least 4 hours following drug administration, after
      which a standardized lunch will be served. A supper and a light snack will be served at
      appropriate times thereafter, but not before 9 hours after dosing.

      Water will be provided as needed until 1 hour predose. Water will be allowed beginning 1 hour
      after the administration of the drug.

      A total of 42 blood samples will be collected (1 tube of 3 mL for olmesartan and 1 tube of 3
      mL for HCTZ at each time point) in each study period for PK assessments. The first blood
      sample will be collected prior to drug administration while the others will be collected up
      to 48 hours after drug administration.

      Given that olmesartan medoxomil is rapidly and completely converted to the pharmacologically
      active metabolite, olmesartan, and that no intact olmesartan medoxomil or intact side chain
      medoxomil moiety have been detected in plasma1,2, olmesartan medoxomil cannot be reliably
      measured. Therefore, the analytes to be measured in the study will be olmesartan and
      hydrochlorothiazide. Olmesatran and HCTZ plasma concentrations will be measured according to
      validated bioanalytical methods.

      Subjects are to be discharged from the clinic after the 24-hour postdose PK sample
      collection, and following medical approval. However, they may be advised to stay at the
      clinical site for safety reasons, if judged necessary by the physician in charge. Subjects
      will return to the clinic for blood collections at 48 hours postdose.

      The expected terminal half-life values observed after a single oral 40 mg/25 mg dose of
      olmesartan medoxomil/HCTZ film-coated tablet under fasting conditions are 8.6 hours for
      olmesartan and 10.3 hours for HCTZ. To avoid any carry-over effect, a wash-out of 7 calendar
      days is planned between drug administrations, corresponding to more than 16 times the
      expected half-life of the moieties to be measured. The decision of which subjects will be
      included in the PK analysis is to be documented by the pharmacokineticist (or delegate) and
      approved by the sponsor before the start of the sample analysis by the bioanalytical
      facility.

      Subjects who are expected to provide evaluable PK data for both the Test and Reference
      products (based on viable PK samples) will be included in the pharmacokinetic analysis.

      Concentration data of the remaining subjects will be presented separately. Subjects who do
      not complete the sampling schedule of one or more study periods may be included in the PK and
      statistical analysis and bioequivalence determination for only the PK parameters that are
      judged not to be affected by the missing sample(s).

      Statistical analysis of Tmax will be based on a non-parametric approach. Statistical analysis
      of all other PK parameters will be based on an Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) model. Two-sided
      90% confidence interval of the ratio of geometric Least-Square means (LSmeans) obtained from
      the ln transformed PK parameters will be calculated.

      Statistical inference of olmesartan and HCTZ will be based on a bioequivalence approach using
      the following standards: the ratio of geometric LSmeans with corresponding 90% confidence
      interval calculated from the exponential of the difference between the Test and the Reference
      for the ln-transformed parameters Cmax and AUC0-T should all be within the 80.00 to 125.00%
      bioequivalence range.

      The safety population will include all subjects who received at least one dose of one of the
      IPs. Safety assessments will include vital signs, clinical laboratory tests, and AE
      monitoring. Additional safety measurements may be performed at the discretion of the
      investigator for reasons related to subject safety. The physician in charge will be present
      at the clinical site for at least the first 4 hours following each drug administration and
      will remain available at all times throughout the study.

      Total study duration: up to 38 days (including screening).
    
  