
    
      Purpose: To compare the benefits of the Internet-based glucose monitoring system with the
      Continuous Glucose monitoring system in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

      Hypothesis:The investigators propose that the benefits from the Internet-based glucose
      monitoring system (IBGMS) will be comparable to the benefits of the Continuous Glucose
      monitoring system (CGMS) for patients with type 2 DM.

      Justification: Half of the subject will be on the standard treatment, which will involve
      glucose monitoring by testing blood glucose 3 times daily, performing a laboratory test of
      blood hemoglobin every three months, and visiting the doctor every three months for standard
      care. They will also use the internet system to report their glucose readings,which will
      allow the health care professions to view the results and provide feedback. The other half
      will use the continuous glucose monitoring system, which will involve a minimum of testing
      blood glucose at least 2 times a day to calibrate the sensor, performing laboratory test of
      blood hemoglobin every three months, and visiting the doctor every three months for standard
      care. All of the subjects will be under standard care;

      Research Method: Type 2 diabetes patients who satisfy the inclusion criteria will be
      recruited from St. Paul's Diabetes Teaching and Training Centre. They will be randomized into
      2 groups (IBGMS and CGMS). There is an equal chance, a 50/50 chance, of being placed in
      either group.

      The IBGMS group will receive standard care and will be asked to perform self-blood glucose
      monitoring 3 times daily for 6 months. The IBGMS group will also be asked to report their
      blood glucose reading every 2 weeks through an Internet based glucose monitoring system. The
      IBGMS group will make visits to the endocrinologist every 3 months with A1c and serum
      creatinine measurements at 3-month intervals for 6 months.

      The CGMS group will also receive standard care and will be asked to perform self-blood
      glucose monitoring at least 2 times a day for 6 months to calibrate the sensor.The CGMS group
      will also be using the internet system to generate a report of their blood glucose readings
      and can be used at the patient's own preference. Their readings will also be sent to the
      endocrinologist for feedback every 2 weeks. The CGMS group will make visits to the
      endocrinologist every 3 months with A1c and serum creatinine measurements at 3-month
      intervals for 6 months. The laboratory measurements of both groups will be recorded and used
      for data analysis.

      Statistical Analysis: The primary endpoint is the A1c level or the change in A1c level. The
      secondary endpoints include severe hypoglycemia defined as requiring external aid, hospital
      admissions for any CVD related intervention, and adverse events such as unplanned
      hospitalizations for any cause that last more than 24 hours. Patients who do not have the
      required number of SMBG (Self monitored blood glucose) tests performed or patients requiring
      new laser therapy will be asked to discontinue the study.

      For each group, A1C levels before the start of study will be compared to A1C levels 3 and 6
      months after the start of the study. Paired t-tests and random effects models (longitudinal
      analyses) will examine differences in A1C values before and after the study duration.
      Unpaired, independent t-tests will be done to examine the difference in A1C values between
      the two groups before and after the interventions. The planned sample size is 50.
    
  