
    
      Asthma is a common respiratory disease worldwide and in Hong Kong. According to the
      estimation by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention in 2015, 7.6% adults in the
      United States have asthma. In Hong Kong, the prevalence of asthma was estimated to be 10.1%
      among 13 to 14 years old children and 5.8% in randomly selected Chinese elderly aged more
      than 70. With a rising trend of life expectancy in Hong Kong, the epidemiology of asthma in
      adult and elderly population may change over time. In addition, elderly patients with asthma
      may present with a different spectrum of clinical characteristics and pharmacological
      response.

      Asthmatic exacerbation is one of the untoward complications and hospitalization for
      exacerbations requiring ICU care and mechanical ventilation are both predictors for
      near-fatal asthma. After the acute attack, its unfavourable impact continues and can lead to
      multiple sequelae. Exacerbation of asthma is associated with a more rapid decline in the
      post-bronchodilator forced expiratory volume in 1 second and worse quality of life. Without
      adjustment of medical treatment, they are prone to develop another episode of exacerbation
      within a short period of time. In addition, individuals with uncontrolled asthma had higher
      medical expenditures and decreased productivity, contributing to a greater economic burden
      when compared with individuals without asthma. In contrary, patients with controlled asthma
      had lower hospitalization rate, mortality rate and less lung function decline. Many risk
      factors for exacerbation had been identified including upper airway diseases,
      gastroesophageal reflux, poor inhaler technique, medication non-compliance. Many of these
      factors are potentially reversible. A model of better asthma care may be established by
      improving the understanding on these risk factors, leading to less exacerbation events.

      Asthma is not simply an airway disease. Accumulating evidence showed its coexistence with
      other upper airway and systemic diseases, both atopic and non-atopic. These comorbidities
      independently or linked together to impose negative impact on patients' health status and
      quality of life. Knowing about the burden of asthma related comorbidities may help to guide
      clinician in managing these complications in a more effective way, and even prediction of
      subsequent prognosis.

      Since the launching of GINA guideline in year 1993, its regular evidence-based update on
      pharmacological treatment had revolutionize the care of asthma patients. The use of asthma
      medications by both specialists and primary care physicians became more structured and the
      asthma control was improved. However, there is still a significant proportion of asthma
      patients experiencing recurrent exacerbation despite optimization of pharmacological
      treatment. Both the guideline adherence by physicians and drug compliance by patient are
      subjects of concern.

      Previous evidence showed that the compliance rate of GINA guideline is far from satisfactory,
      which is a shared phenomenon among different common diseases even the presence of
      well-established international guideline. Patient's drug compliance also contributes to
      negative disease outcome, especially non-adherence to inhaled corticosteroid. Currently, a
      comprehensive view on the treatment status in and level of asthma control in Hong Kong is
      still lacking.

      A large knowledge gap exists between the current demographics, comorbidities, treatment
      status, level of asthma control and exacerbations in Hong Kong. An updated study on these
      aspects is definitely warranted to enhance patient care and guide further research.
    
  