
    
      Two hundred and ten women undergoing operative hysteroscopy will be randomly divided into
      three equal groups. To ensure blinding the double dummy technique will be used in which group
      1 will receive Tramadol 100mg orally in addition to a placebo similar to Celecoxib, group 2
      will receive Celecoxib 200mg in addition to a placebo similar to Tramadol, and group 3 will
      received a placebo similar to Tramadol in addition to a placebo similar to Celecoxib. All the
      drugs will be given 2 hour before the procedure. An independent person will generate the
      allocation sequence using computer generated random numbers.

      All procedures will be scheduled to be done postmenstrual or after cessation of bleeding in
      case of metrorrhagia and will be done in the lithotomy position. The procedures will be
      performed using 30 degree angle 2.7 mm rigid hysteroscope with a 5mm outer diameter
      continuous flow hysteroscope with a 5 French working channel, a Teknolight 180 XA light
      source, and a Xenon high density fibre optic light cable 3.5mm, 2300mm Light cable without
      adaptors and a T Camera teknocam 2000S pro. All the equipment are provided by Tekno GmbH and
      Co®, Germany.

      Vaginoscopic approach will be used for insertion of the hysteroscope in all cases. The
      hysteroscope will be gently introduced into the uterine cavity after visualization of the
      cervix and identification of the external os. Patient's perception of pain will be assessed
      for each group during the procedure, immediately after and 30 min after the procedure with
      the use of visual analogue scale (VAS). VAS of 0 indicates no pain and VAS of 10 indicates
      the worst possible experienced pain. Patients will also be asked to report any side effects.
      The main outcome measure will be patients' pain perception during the procedure.

      Statistics:

      Quantitative data will be statistically represented in terms of mean ± standard deviation (±
      SD) while categorical data will be represented as frequency and percentage. Comparison of
      quantitative data will be done using ANOVA test for independent samples while categorical
      data will be compared using Chi squared test or Fisher exact test when appropriate. A
      probability value (p value) less than 0.05 will be considered significant.

      Sample size calculation:

      To the best of researchers knowledge this is the first trial to investigate the role of
      Celecoxib and oral Tramadol in reducing outpatient operative hysteroscopy associated pain,
      with no previous data to calculate the sample size with. Data from studies on diagnostic
      hysteroscopy cannot be applied because operative hysteroscopies need more manipulations and
      cause more pain. Assuming that the response will be normally distributed, the sample size is
      calculated to detect a mean difference of 1 unit between Tramadol and Celecoxib pain scores
      during the procedure (lower difference are not considered clinically relevant) using VAS
      assuming that the within group standard deviation will be 2. Investigators will need to study
      64 cases in each group to be able to reject the null hypothesis that the population means of
      the Tramadol and Celecoxib are equal with probability (power) 0.8. Investigators added 6
      cases to each arm accounting for any missing data and procedure failure ending in 70 cases in
      each group. The Type I error probability associated with this test of this null hypothesis is
      0.05 using Student's t test for independent samples. Sample size calculation is done using
      Stats Direct statistical software version 2.7.2 for microsoft Windows, Stats Direct Ltd.,
      Cheshire, UK.
    
  