
    
      Background

      Incisional hernia is a common long-term complication following abdominal surgery and is
      estimated to occur in 11-23% 1-3. Incisional hernia can be repaired by an open or by a
      laparoscopic approach. For incisional hernia prosthetic meshes are nowadays implanted for
      virtually all open and laparoscopic procedures.

      The use of laparoscopy for the treatment of incisional hernia was first reported in 1993 by
      LeBlanc and Booth 4. Short term follow-up studies show that laparoscopic surgery is
      associated with decreased postoperative pain, reduced risks of surgical site infections due
      to minimal tissue dissection, a shorter length of hospital stay and a shorter overall
      recovery period 5-9.

      Important long- term outcome parameters are recurrence rate and chronic pain 10,11.
      Recurrence after incisional hernia repair varies widely and ranges from 1% to 35% 1,3. Morbid
      obesity, a previous failed open repair, large defect size and postoperative complications are
      associated with an increased risk for recurrence 12. Heterogeneity of hernia size and
      follow-up further complicate comparison of the recurrence rate between different techniques.
      On average, 74% of recurrences occur within the first 3 years after initial repair 13. Series
      with an acceptable follow-up of at least 24 months report a recurrence rate in open and
      laparoscopic repair of approximately 10% 1. Currently, no well designed prospective study is
      available comparing the incidence of recurrence between open and laparoscopic incisional
      hernia repair.

      Such variability of patients characteristics, surgical techniques and surgical skills are
      likely to confound a prospective randomized trial. Consequently, a cohort study is performed
      allowing each surgeon to perform the technique he is most familiar with.

      The aim of this multicenter cohort study is to assess the incidence of recurrence 36 months
      after open and laparoscopic incisional hernia repair, performed in swiss hospitals.

      Objective

      All patients undergoing elective incisional hernia repair who meet the inclusion criteria
      (see below) are eligible for inclusion into the study. These patients will be informed about
      the details of the study preoperatively. After a patient has agreed to enroll into the study
      and has signed written informed consent, he/she will be advised to attend follow-up
      assessments according to the study plan.

      Methods

      All patients undergoing elective incisional hernia repair who meet the inclusion criteria
      (see below) are eligible for inclusion into the study. These patients will be informed about
      the details of the study preoperatively. After a patient has agreed to enroll into the study
      and has signed written informed consent, he/she will be advised to attend follow-up
      assessments according to the study plan.
    
  