
    
      In 1996, Gamma Vacuum Foil (GVF) polyethylene was introduced as the first polyethylene to be
      gamma irradiated and packaged in an inert environment. This polyethylene, with its patented
      process and packaging, continues to be the only barrier-packaged process that is impermeable
      to both Hydrogen (H2) and Oxygen (O2), and allows the polyethylene to recombine and
      cross-link in the package. Though the new moderately cross-linked polyethylene being
      evaluated in this protocol is comparable to GVF geometrically and mechanically, the P.F.C.®
      Sigma™ cross-linked polyethylene also has the added benefit of being completely oxidatively
      stable both on the shelf and in-vivo.

      The P.F.C. Sigma tibial tray component being assessed in this study is made of Cobalt Chrome
      (CoCr). The new CoCr tibial tray has the same design geometrically as the original titanium
      (Ti) tray, however, it features a highly polished top surface where it is joined to the
      polyethylene. This polished surface is designed to decrease the coefficient of friction
      between the polyethylene and the tray, thus minimizing backside wear. A comparative clinical
      study will be conducted to evaluate long-term clinical and radiographic data between
      geometrically identical cemented implants using GVF and crosslinked polyethylene tibial tray
      bearing inserts in Total Knee Arthroplasty (TKA) using the P.F.C. Sigma Total Knee System.
      Patients will be assigned to study treatment groups at random if they meet specific
      demographic and pathophysiologic criteria for cemented total knee arthroplasty. The
      anticipated duration of this investigation is a minimum six years, which includes a one-year
      enrollment phase.

      The specific aims of this study are as follows:

        1. Examine whether crosslinked polyethylene performs as well, if not better, than GVF
           polyethylene through standard clinical evaluations.

        2. Evaluate long-term survivorship rates.

        3. Report complications/adverse events.

        4. Report radiographic findings of geometrically identical implants.
    
  