
    
      Recently, a novel swine-origin influenza A/H1N1 virus was identified as a significant cause
      of febrile respiratory illnesses in Mexico and the United States. It rapidly spread to many
      countries around the world, prompting the World Health Organization (WHO) to declare a
      pandemic on June 11, 2009. Data from several cohorts in different age groups that received
      licensed trivalent seasonal influenza vaccines suggest that these vaccines are unlikely to
      provide protection against the new virus. In addition, adults are more likely to have
      measurable levels of serum hemagglutination inhibition assay (HAI) or neutralizing antibody
      than are children. These data indicate the need to develop vaccines against the new H1N1
      strain and suggest that different vaccine strategies (e.g., number of doses, need for
      adjuvant) may be appropriate for persons in different age groups. The primary safety
      objective of this study is to assess the safety of the unadjuvanted, inactivated H1N1 vaccine
      when administered at the 15 or 30 mcg dose. The primary immunogenicity objective is to assess
      the antibody response following a single dose of unadjuvanted, inactivated H1N1 vaccine,
      stratified by age of recipient, when administered at the 15 or 30 mcg dose. The secondary
      immunogenicity objective is to assess the antibody response following 2 doses of
      unadjuvanted, inactivated H1N1 vaccine, stratified by age of recipient, when administered at
      the 15 or 30 mcg dose. Participants will include up to 450 healthy adults age 18 and older
      who have no history of novel influenza H1N1 2009 infection or novel influenza H1N1 2009
      vaccination. This is a randomized, double-blinded, Phase II study in healthy males and
      non-pregnant females designed to investigate the safety, reactogenicity, and immunogenicity
      of an inactivated influenza H1N1 virus vaccine at 2 dose levels. Subjects will be randomized
      into 2 dose groups, stratified by age (200 subjects per dose group with 100 subjects per age
      stratum, 18-64 or greater than or equal to 65 years of age) to receive intramuscular
      influenza H1N1 vaccine at 15 mcg (Group 1) or 30 mcg (Group 2). The H1N1 vaccine will be
      administered at Day 0 and Day 21. Following immunization, safety will be measured by
      assessment of adverse events through 21 days following the last vaccination (Day 42 for those
      receiving both doses and Day 21 for those who do not receive the second dose), serious
      adverse events and new-onset chronic medical conditions through 7 months post first
      vaccination (Day 201), and reactogenicity to the vaccine for 8 days following each
      vaccination (Day 0-7). Immunogenicity testing will include HAI and neutralizing antibody
      testing on serum obtained on the day of each vaccination (prior to vaccination), on Day 8-10
      after each vaccination, and 21 days following the second vaccination (Day 42).
    
  