
    
      Background Information

      In addition to the gold standard imaging of mammography and breast ultrasound, magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) has become a well established investigational modality for the
      diagnosis and staging of breast cancer. MRI demonstrates increased sensitivity and
      specificity relative to both mammography and breast ultrasound in the screening of women with
      an increased risk of breast cancer development (i.e. familial history of disease and / or
      genetic predisposition) and those who have very dense breast tissue. MRI has also proved to
      be very sensitive in the detection of multi-focal, multi-centric breast lesions, permitting
      the accurate staging of disease. However, despite this demonstrated efficacy, the
      standardization of MRI studies from one Institution to another is often difficult as each
      Institution will have a standard breast protocol with sequences set in accordance to the
      manufacturer of the machine and the manner in which the breast examinations have been
      designed.

      At the Cross Cancer Institute (CCI) a breast MRI protocol based on the technical procedures
      recommended in the literature and personal scanning experience has been developed. However,
      due to the limited number of patients undergoing breast MRI examinations, our current
      experience is limited relative to the level of expertise demonstrated in the interpretation
      of breast ultrasound and mammographic scans. Fortunately, we now have the opportunity to
      obtain MRI - pathology correlation as Dr. Kelly Dabbs is performing on site breast cancer
      surgery at the CCI. We propose to obtain an MRI examination of all consented patients prior
      to their surgical procedure. The MRI results of each patient will then be compared to
      previous breast imaging (mammography and breast ultrasound) and histopathological specimens
      to determine the correlative accuracy of MRI with these techniques. To assess whether the
      size, grade, and presence of lymphovascular invasion or associated ductal carcinoma in situ
      influence the accuracy of MR imaging, all breast carcinoma subtypes will be included in this
      study.

      As a teaching hospital, the CCI provides mammographic and breast ultrasound training to the
      Residents and the Diagnostic Radiology Program at the University of Alberta. Although breast
      MRI should be part of this training program, we currently do not have the necessary volume of
      breast MRI scans to provide Residents with adequate experience in this modality. The
      establishment of a breast MRI protocol, one which refers eligible CCI breast cancer patients
      for a pre-surgery MRI examination, will promote the development of expertise in this area,
      provide Residents with a comprehensive Breast program and keep the CCI at the leading edge of
      breast cancer care.

      Objectives

      Primary Objective: to assess how the MRI of the breast correlates to a standard of care which
      includes biopsy, surgery, breast ultrasound and mammography.

      Secondary Objective: to assess how the MRI correlates to the breast cancer pathology
      collected at the CCI.

      Study Design

      A research study is proposed with the above information in mind, whereby Dr. Kelly Dabbs
      refers consented surgical patients with known breast carcinoma for a pre-surgical breast MRI.
      The MRI results will then be reviewed along with the mammograms and breast ultrasounds and
      then correlated to pathology findings. The intent will be to correlate all of the various
      sub-types of breast carcinoma with MRI, as well as to assess whether or not MRI demonstrates
      changes dependent upon the extent lymphovascular invasion, the presence of associated ductal
      carcinoma in situ and the size, cellular composition and grade of the cancer.

      Dr. Dabbs will explain the study rational and give the patient a copy of Informed Consent
      and, for those patients who are willing to undergo the procedure, schedule a MRI at the CCI.
      It is our aim to accrue 50 patients per year for two years, for a total of 100 patients.

      Inclusion / Exclusion Criteria

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Females ? 18 years of age

        -  Females referred to Dr. Kelly Dabbs for breast cancer surgery who have pathology
           positive for breast carcinoma, any sub-type.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Pacemakers

        -  Aneurysm clips

        -  Cochlear implants

        -  Epicardial pacemaker wires

        -  Neural stimulators

        -  Significant claustrophobia

        -  Significant obesity that would not enable the patient to fit in the scanner

        -  Pregnancy or breastfeeding

      Recruitment

      Surgical patients referred by Dr. Kelly Dabbs will undergo a pre-surgical MRI examination
      providing they meet the study eligibility criteria.

      Statistical analysis

      N/AP

      Stopping Rules

      The study will end once the first 100 subjects enrolled have undergone their MRI breast scan.

      Data Safety Monitoring Committee

      N/AP
    
  