
    
      Background: Hope is essential in the experience of living with advanced chronic disease.
      Maintaining hope in situations of physical, psychological, spiritual and social suffering
      requires expertise and can be very difficult to achieve without the help of professionals,
      leading to hopelessness, despair and desire to hasten death (Rodin et al., 2007;Breitbart,
      2000; Monforte-Royo, et al., 2012) The research team has designed an intervention program -
      Hope Promotion Program (HPP) to increase hope, comfort and quality of life in palliative
      patients. HPP consists of a three session's individual interventions carried out by the
      researcher in patients homes. The first session includes viewing the film Hopeful Living,
      produced by the research team, inspired by Duggleby et al, (2007) which features palliative
      patients, caregivers and health professionals describing their experiences of hope. The
      second session consists of patients' expression of feelings and emotions related with
      experience of living with a chronic advanced disease and the choice of a hope activity from
      the Hope activity book - a collection of hope activities specially designed for people living
      with an advanced chronic disease. The third session includes a relaxation activity and a plan
      to include hope exercise in patients' activities of daily living.

      This project was designed according to the literature review of hope interventions and have
      the potential to become part of palliative care interventions evidenced based.

      Aims: The purpose of this study is to evaluate the acceptability and feasibility and collect
      preliminary data on the effectiveness of the Hope Promotion Program for persons in palliative
      situation residing at home.

      Moreover this project will allow to a) Obtain relevant information about hope, comfort and
      quality of life of palliative patients; b) Tailor therapeutic strategies to individual needs;
      c) increase hope, comfort and quality of life in patients at the end of life.

      Sample: Patients with a chronic advanced disease in palliative situation, recruited from
      Oncology day care units of two district hospital in the centre of Portugal. Inclusion
      criterion for participants are: a) 18 years of age and older, b) Portuguese speaking, c) have
      cognitive capacity to participate in the study (MMSE>15) and d) have agreed to participate in
      the study. An interview with a nurse precede the inclusion in the study to explain the study
      and obtain written informed consent.

      Design: This study is designed as a mix-methods randomized clinical trial (Quantitative
      +Qualitative) design. Patients eligible, are randomly assigned to one of two groups: 1)
      treatment (Hope Promotion Program delivered by a nurse in three sessions during one week), 2)
      usual care group.

      In all groups, demographic information and measures of hope (Herth Hope Index), quality of
      life (McGillQOL), Comfort (Hospice Comfort Questionnaire) will be collected by a trained
      research nurse at baseline, day 15 and one month. Participants in group 1 (treatment group)
      will be asked to describe what they were thinking about when doing the hope activities on day
      15 and one month using qualitative interviews. At one month all participants will be
      interviewed using open ended audiotaped questions to help evaluate the program and study
      procedures.
    
  