
    
      This study will separate into two phases. Phase I is a large scale cross-sectional survey to
      corporations in Hong Kong to examine the employers' knowledge, attitudes and practices in
      promoting smoking cessation in the workplace. Phase II is a randomized controlled trial study
      to evaluate the effectiveness of a smoking cessation intervention to assess the subjects'
      smoking behaviors, knowledge on smoking and satisfaction of the smoking cessation services.
      The investigators are interested to know if the intervention package including health
      education,social media and telephone follow-up would trigger higher quit rate or other
      changes in smoking behaviors. The investigators will also monitor the smoking status of the
      subjects regularly through telephone follow-ups, understand the company's practices about
      smoke-free policy as well as evaluate the outcomes of the intervention.

      The primary outcome of the study is to measure participated smokers' self-reported 7-day
      point prevalence quit rate at 26 weeks follow-ups. The secondary outcomes include
      participated smokers' (i) self-reported reduction rate at 52 weeks follow-ups; (ii)
      self-reported quit attempt at 26 and 52 weeks follow-ups; (iii) self-reported reduction rate
      at 26 and 52 weeks follow-ups; (iv) Engagement in social media intervention.

      Data of the above outcomes will be collected through telephone interviews (follow-ups) by the
      investigators. Descriptive statistics will be used to measure the (1) basic info of the
      participants, including the total number of employees and smoking employees; (2) knowledge on
      smoking of employers/managerial staff; (3) attitudes on smoking cessation of
      employers/managerial staff; (4) practices of the corporations with respect to smoking
      cessation. Logistic regression, linear regression and spearman correlation coefficient will
      be used to examine the relationships between corporates' policy in smoking cessation and the
      knowledge and attitudes of employers/ managerial staff. Chi square and t-test will also be
      used to compare the quit rates between groups and logistic regression will be used to predict
      quitting. Data will be entered and analyzed using IBM SPSS version 23.
    
  