
    
      Background: It is the bladder, one of the organs with important functions in the urinary
      system. However, the bladder sometimes cannot work effectively as a result of neurological
      and sometimes non-neurological reasons. After this situation, urine in the bladder should be
      emptied. The bladder is one of the most frequently used organs in the urinary system. In
      neurogenic or non-neurogenic bladder disorders, the process of entering the bladder with a
      catheter in clean conditions, evacuating urine, and then removing the catheter is called
      Clean Intermittent Catheterization (CIC). CIC has been used by patients for nearly 40 years.
      CIC is one of the effective methods used to protect the urinary system, especially in
      children with Spina Bifida and people with urinary system problems. CIC application to
      children is done by caregivers. In the education of caregivers who have to apply CIC to their
      child the role of nurse to become more and more important. The aim of this study is to
      evaluate the effect of based on the roy adaptation theory supported android phone application
      CIC training, on the knowledge / skills, coping / adaptation and anxiety level of caregivers
      and the development of urinary tract infection in children.

      Metod: The universe of the study consisted of the patients and their caregivers who were
      decided to perform CIC by Karadeniz Technical University Farabi Hospital Pediatric Nephrology
      Department. In order to determine the sample of the study, the test power in power analysis
      was calculated with the G * Power 3.1 program. 95% confidence interval in determining the
      strength of the study; With 5% significance level and 0.50 effect size a total of 36 patients
      (df = 1; F = 4.130). 36 conforming patients were divided into experimental and control groups
      for a single- blind randomized control. The data will be collected using the introductory
      information form, the CIC application knowledge and skills form, based on North American
      Association of Nursing Diagnoses (NANDA) nursing diagnoses and Psychosocial Adaptation Area
      of Roy Adaptation Model form, Coping and Adaptation Scale and State Trait Anxiety Scale. In
      addition, for the diagnosis of urinary tract infection in participants undergoing CIC,
      urinalysis will be performed once a month, three times for three months. Patients with
      100,000 colonies per milliliter of urine for urinalysis will be considered to have a urinary
      tract infection. No additional intervention will be made to caregivers in the control groups.
      Caregivers in the intervention group (Caregivers who will receive CIC training supported by
      Android phone application based on Roy adaptation model) will be given CIC training, home
      visit, and telephone conversation. In addition, an android phone application will be
      installed on the phones of the caregivers in the intervention group, which reminds the CIC
      times, procedure steps and hospital appointments. The data will be analyzed using SPSS
      versiyon with descriptive statistics, Independent t test and Anova in repeated measurements
      p<0.05 will be statistically significant
    
  