
    
      Students on campus will be made aware of the study through fliers posted on campus. If they
      contact the study representatives to participate, they will fill out a screening
      questionnaire that will determine their symptoms and care they are currently receiving. Those
      that meet the inclusion criteria will be assigned to Group 1 or 2 randomly. The mind body
      skills groups will be 10 weeks long. Group 1 will participate in mind body interventions
      immediately, and Group 2 will continue with their usual care for the 10 weeks. After the
      first session, Group 2 will complete the mind body intervention sessions. The research will
      therefore be a crossover randomized design where each group will serve as its own control,
      and also may be compared to the other group. Participants in either group will still be
      allowed to participate in any care they are currently receiving outside of the mind body
      intervention, including but not limited to counseling or a support group or therapy. Also,
      after these groups are over, the first group will continue to have "reunion groups" once per
      month for 6 months and the second group will not. Reunion groups will consist of
      supplementary mind body skills group sessions that reinforce skills learned in the original
      mind body skills groups and also work on retention of knowledge beyond the program. Outcome
      measures will be taken pre and post mind body skills group, and then at 3, 6, and 12 months
      after the 10 week mind body skills group ends.

      The topics for each session is based upon the Centers for Mind Body Medicine model. Both
      groups will follow this same weekly topic schedule.

        1. Introduction and Drawings

        2. Autogenic Training and Biofeedback

        3. Guided Imagery

        4. Meditation

        5. Mobilizing, Transforming, and Celebrating Emotion

        6. Genograms part 1

        7. Genograms part 2

        8. Mindful Eating and Healthy Nutrition

        9. Spirituality

       10. Closing Drawings and Ritual
    
  