
    
      The aging of the U.S. population presents a number of challenges, many of which that can be
      addressed through nutritional approaches. Postmenopausal women are particularly at-risk for a
      number of diseases such as osteoporosis (By 2020 it is estimated that 50 percent of women at
      50 years and older will either suffer from or be at-risk of bone loss), and cardiovascular
      disease, the number one killer of postmenopausal women. Polyphenolic compounds in fruits and
      nuts have been the focus of extensive research regarding their potential to reduce risk for a
      number of chronic diseases. All fruits are not created equally, so determining if dried plums
      (Prunus domestica L.) have certain phytochemicals in amounts that promote health when
      consumed in realistic amounts is important. This demonstration is likely to impact market
      demand for dried plums. Indeed, favorable research on other California specialty crops
      (walnuts, almonds, strawberries, grapes) is a key strategy to help growers increase sales.

      While hundreds of plum cultivars exist, with varying amounts of phenolic compounds, the
      process of drying results in high amounts on hydroxycinnamic acids, a family of compounds
      that have been shown, in animal models, to be protective of bone health by both reducing bone
      loss and improving bone growth. Hydroxycinnamic acids have also been proposed to improve
      vascular function by protecting the smooth endothelial lining of the blood vessels in animal
      models. Whether these encouraging observations also occur in humans is unknown. Therefore,
      the overall objective of this project is to conduct the first human study exploring the
      effects of California dried plums on markers of bone health and vascular function. Favorable
      results from this project will increase awareness of the unique benefits of dried plums for
      bone health and vascular health, two topics of great interest to aging baby boomers and other
      health-conscious consumers, both in the U.S. and internationally.
    
  