
    
      According to the 2014 Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey (BDHS), 36% of children under
      the age of five were stunted, 14% were wasted and 33% were underweight. These results reflect
      positive trends in stunting and underweight since 2004, though the rate of decline in
      undernutrition slowed from 2011 to 2014. And, despite positive trends, there remain gaps in
      key indicators between rural and urban areas and between those in the highest and lowest
      wealth quintiles. For instance, according to the BDHS, 38% of rural children under five were
      stunted compared to 31% of urban children. The wealth discrepancies are even greater; 49% of
      children under five in the lowest wealth quintile were stunted compared to 19% in the highest
      quintile.

      In 2017, the GoB approved the second National Plan of Action for Nutrition (NPAN 2)
      2016-2025. The plan aims to improve nutrition and eliminate malnutrition, with a focus on
      children, adolescent girls, and pregnant and lactating women. Specific targets of NPAN 2
      include reducing stunting to 25% among children under 5; reducing wasting to less than 8% and
      reducing underweight to less than 15%. A significant acceleration in the annual rate of
      reduction to 3.3% needs to occur in order to achieve the ambitious Targets by 2025. This
      acceleration requires high-level political commitment, a strong policy framework, effective
      coordinating mechanisms, adequate resourcing, strong involvement of local civil society
      groups, and high impact, cost-effective, multisectoral nutrition interventions.

      In 2017, USAID awarded FHI 360 the Strengthening Multisectoral Nutrition Programming through
      Implementation Science Activity (hereafter referred to as "the Project") to test and refine
      multisectoral nutrition approaches in high stunting areas of Bangladesh. Under the Project,
      research is being conducted to assess the effect of different multisectoral nutrition
      intervention packages aimed at improving nutrition outcomes that are known to contribute to
      overall healthy nutritional status of children under two in Bangladesh. One of the
      intervention packages to be studied by the Project focuses on integrated agricultural and
      livelihood activities, known as homestead food production (HFP). This protocol describes a
      cluster randomized controlled trial (cRCT) to compare two different HFP interventions to the
      current standard of practice. The two interventions:

        1. Homestead food production (HFP) supported by community farmers, Social and Behavior
           Change Communication (SBCC), strengthened health services, and referrals to health and
           other services

        2. HFP supported by retailers, SBCC, strengthened health services, and referrals to health
           and other services

      A cluster-randomized, controlled trial (cRCT) design will be used to evaluate effectiveness.
      The interventions will be delivered at the level of the union, which is a geo-political unit
      with an average population of 25,000 people. A total of 45 unions in Khulna and Barishal
      Divisions of Bangladesh will be randomly allocated to one of the three study arms: Control
      (Current Practice), HFP intervention through community farmers (plus SBCC and strengthened
      health services), or HFP intervention through retailers (plus SBCC and strengthened health
      services) . Outcome data will be collected through face-to-face interviews using structured
      questionnaires with independently selected random samples of mothers/caregivers of children
      ages 6 to 23 months at baseline (pre-intervention) and again at endline. At both timepoints,
      participants will be chosen from a sub-sample of the general population who meet the
      eligibility criteria. Baseline data will be conducted prior to initiation of study
      activities. Endline data collection will be conducted after two years.

      A process evaluation will be completed between baseline and endline to understand how well
      the interventions were implemented, their costs, and ways they may be improved.

      The final evaluation of the cRCT to be done at endline, and will focus on comparing the
      effect of the intervention on the study outcomes. The study's primary outcome is the
      percentage of children 6-23 months old receiving a minimum acceptable diet (MAD), as a
      proximate determinant for stunting. MAD is defined as the proportion of children 6-23 months
      old who receive both the minimum feeding frequency and minimum dietary diversity for their
      age group and breastfeeding status. It will be assessed based on the mother/caregiver report.
      Secondary outcomes include assessing the knowledge, attitudes, and practices around
      breastfeeding, complementary feeding, water sanitation and hygiene, health services and
      gender norms.

      It is anticipated an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) approach will be used for a post-only
      comparison of study arms with possible adjustment for baseline levels in an aggregate manner
      (note: aggregation for baseline adjustment will be needed given the independent samples
      selected at each time point). Generalized mixed models will be used to compare the study
      groups; the will be adjustment for clustering at the Union level. A logit link will be used
      for the primary outcome as it is a dichotomous outcome, while other link functions will be
      used for other outcomes as appropriate. The comparison of each intervention to the standard
      of practice is the primary evaluation focus, while the comparison between intervention groups
      secondary, as the interventions' effects are not expected to be very different from each
      other. Adjustment for multiple comparisons is not anticipated. The main analysis will use an
      intention-to-treat (ITT) approach, where study participants' outcomes are analyzed in the
      study arm the Union was randomized to, regardless of whether or how much they have been
      exposed to the intervention.
    
  