
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the percentage of patients with stage III BRAFV600 mutated (BRAFm) melanoma
      that achieves a pathologic complete response after 12 weeks of neoadjuvant
      vemurafenib/cobimetinib/atezolizumab (neoadjuvant phase).

      II. To estimate the percentage of patients with stage III BRAF-wild-type (BRAFwt) melanoma
      that achieves a pathologic complete response after 12 weeks of neoadjuvant
      cobimetinib/atezolizumab (neoadjuvant phase).

      III. To assess recurrence-free survival (RFS) in patients with stage III BRAFm melanoma after
      neoadjuvant vemurafenib/cobimetinib/ atezolizumab, surgery, and adjuvant atezolizumab
      (adjuvant phase).

      IV. To assess RFS in patients with stage III BRAFwt melanoma after neoadjuvant
      cobimetinib/atezolizumab, surgery, and adjuvant atezolizumab (adjuvant phase).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the frequency of adverse events among patients with stage III BRAFm melanoma
      receiving neoadjuvant vemurafenib / cobimetinib / atezolizumab followed by surgery followed
      by adjuvant atezolizumab.

      II. To determine the frequency of adverse events among patients with stage III BRAFwt
      melanoma receiving neoadjuvant cobimetinib/atezolizumab followed by surgery followed by
      adjuvant atezolizumab.

      TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the association between pretreatment, on treatment, post-neoadjuvant and
      post-adjuvant treatment soluble PD-L1 (sPD-L1) and RFS in patients with stage III melanoma
      receiving neoadjuvant vemurafenib / cobimetinib / atezolizumab or cobimetinib/atezolizumab,
      followed by surgery and adjuvant atezolizumab.

      II. To determine the association between pretreatment, on treatment, post-neoadjuvant and
      post-adjuvant treatment intracellular bim in tumor-related T cells and RFS in patients with
      stage III melanoma after neoadjuvant vemurafenib/cobimetinib/atezolizumab or
      cobimetinib/atezolizumab, followed by surgery and adjuvant atezolizumab.

      III. Evaluate associations between pre and post-neoadjuvant treatment molecular features of
      melanomas and the tumor immune microenvironment in responders versus non-responders with
      multiplexed immunohistochemistry (mIHC) and ribonucleic acid-sequencing (RNA-Seq) in patients
      with stage III melanoma after neoadjuvant vemurafenib/cobimetinib/atezolizumab or
      cobimetinib/atezolizumab, followed by surgery and adjuvant atezolizumab.

      IV. To determine the association between pretreatment tumor PD-L1 and RFS in patients with
      stage III melanoma receiving neoadjuvant vemurafenib/ cobimetinib/ atezolizumab or
      cobimetinib/atezolizumab, followed by surgery and adjuvant atezolizumab.

      OUTLINE: Participants are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

      ARM A (BRAF mutant): Participants receive vemurafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days
      1-28, cobimetinib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21, and atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over
      30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15 of courses 2 and 3. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to
      3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B (BRAF wild-type): Participants receive cobimetinib as in Arm A, and atezolizumab IV
      over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Within 2-4 weeks after treatment, participants undergo surgery then receive atezolizumab IV
      over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeat every 21 days for up to 8 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed every 3 months for up to 3
      years.
    
  