
    
      Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a commonly occurring, severe, and costly condition
      for which treatment efforts have been hindered by several factors. First, extant treatments
      for BPD are long-term, intensive and consist of multiple components, largely focused on
      resolving the life-threatening dysregulation that characterizes this disorder. It is
      important to note, however, that most individuals diagnosed with BPD never attempt suicide or
      require inpatient hospitalization. Multi-component interventions may not be the most
      efficient approach for patients with less severe levels of BPD and also make it difficult to
      draw conclusions regarding which treatment strategies are influencing mechanisms maintaining
      symptoms. Additionally, extant BPD treatments do no explicitly address high rates of
      comorbidity with anxiety and depressive disorders; high levels of co-occurrence amongst these
      disorders underscores the utility of identifying transdiagnostic treatment components
      relevant to maintaining mechanisms across diagnostic boundaries. The proposed Mentored
      Patient-Oriented Research Career Development Award (K23) is a four-year plan in support of
      the applicant's long-term career goal to become a clinical scientist proficient in developing
      parsimonious, easily disseminated treatments for BPD and other emotional disorders. This
      project will be completed in two phases. The goal of Phase I, in line with an experimental
      therapeutics approach, is to investigate the effect of acting inconsistent with
      emotion-driven behavioral urges on emotional intensity in a sample of individuals diagnosed
      with BPD in the context of a single-case experiment (alternating treatment design). Phase II
      will also utilize single-case experimental design (in this case a multiple baseline study) to
      explore the effects of brief intervention focused solely on acting inconsistent to emotional
      action tendencies on emotional intensity, tolerance of emotions, and BPD symptoms in a sample
      diagnosed with BPD. Boston University's Center for Anxiety and Related Disorders, where all
      research and the bulk of the training activities will take place, is a world-renown clinical
      research institution with a successful history of treatment development research. Overall,
      the broader aim of these research and training goals is to address the need for improved
      treatments for BPD. This study will answer important theoretical questions about the
      mechanism of treatment change, and might lead to more efficacious, cost-effective, and easily
      disseminable treatment strategies for BPD, a severe and understudied disorder.
    
  