
    
      This is a proposal to conduct a pilot study to assess the feasibility of recruitment of
      Veteran smoker and support person (SP) dyads and study procedures in preparation for a large
      randomized pragmatic trial. Enhancing access and use of evidence-based tobacco cessation
      treatments and eliminating tobacco-related health disparities are top national and VA health
      services priorities. The prevalence of tobacco use is greater among Veterans compared to
      non-Veterans. From 2010-2015, 28.9% of women and 21.1% of male Veterans reported current
      cigarette smoking. Because our prior VHA trials enrolled about 94% men and the higher smoking
      rates among women, we will examine the feasibility of recruitment of an equal number of men
      and women Veteran smokers in this pilot study. Evidence-based cessation treatments (EBCTs)
      such as, tobacco quitlines, behavioral counseling, and pharmacotherapy, are greatly
      underutilized by Veteran smokers. This pilot project is innovative for evaluating social
      support networks as a proactive outreach approach to enhance cessation treatment utilization
      among Veteran smokers. The role of social network influences and social support on successful
      smoking cessation is established. Based on Cohen's theory of social support, our team
      developed a social support intervention for diverse family members, friends, and other adults
      who wanted to help a smoker quit. The intervention consists of written materials and a
      1-call, 15-25 minute coaching session. The intervention goal is for support persons (SPs) to
      encourage their smoker to use EBCT.

      We will conduct a randomized pilot trial within the national VHA health system to evaluate
      the feasibility of recruitment of smoker-SP dyads and other study procedures. Veteran
      smokers, regardless of level of readiness to quit, will be identified nationally using the
      VHA electronic health record (EHR) data base and proactively recruited. Interested smokers
      will be asked to identify a SP who will enroll. Participants will be randomized as smoker-SP
      dyads to the intervention (n= 15 dyads) or control condition (n= 15 dyads). All smoker
      participants will receive written resources and information on evidence-based cessation
      treatments. All SP participants will receive written materials. SP participants assigned to
      the intervention group will additionally receive a 1-call coaching session. Assessments for
      dyads in both study groups will be conducted at baseline and at 3-months post-randomization.

      Our specific aims are to: (Aim 1) To assess the feasibility of recruitment of 30 Veteran
      smoker-SP dyads including enrollment of an equal number of men and women Veterans; and (Aim
      2) To evaluate the feasibility of biochemical verification of the smoker's abstinence at
      1-month follow-up using a remote collection method.

      If the project is successful, we will have a blueprint for conducting a large randomized
      pragmatic trial. Preliminary data will be incorporated in a grant resubmission to the VA HSR&
      D to support the feasibility of recruitment and other study procedures.
    
  