
    
      -  Prospective participants will complete registration in the CMDIR.

        -  The CMDIR genetic curator will review CMDIR data for study eligibility.

        -  If eligible, participant will be called and consented to participate in the study.

        -  Sequencing can be done with a saliva sample. However, if this method does not detect a
           mutation or change in the MTM1 gene, a further test, called CGH Array, has to be
           performed. For the CGH Array test, a saliva sample may deliver a clear result in terms
           of a deletion/duplication mutation. In the event, CGH Array with the saliva sample does
           not provide a result, a the blood sample is necessary to repeat CGH Array.

        -  The study participant will receive a kit and instructions for saliva specimen collection
           for genetic testing from the CMDIR in the mail.

        -  If a mutation or change in the MTM1 gene could not be found by genetic testing and CGH
           Array with a saliva sample, the study participant will receive a second kit in the mail
           from the CMDIR with instructions for a blood draw to be used for CGH Array.

        -  The family will coordinate collection of the saliva specimen or a local blood draw, if
           necessary, and will be responsible for mailing the specimen in a pre-paid parcel to the
           University of Chicago. There will be a $40 reimbursement for the cost of the blood draw.
           Mailing the specimen to the testing site is at no cost for the participant. A two-week
           turn-around from receipt of the kit to sending it to the testing laboratory is
           requested.

        -  Genetic testing will start with standard sequencing of the MTM1 gene, isolated from the
           saliva specimen, followed by CGH Array if sequencing of the MTM1 gene isolated from the
           saliva sample or further from a blood sample if a variant consistent with the symptoms
           could not be detected using the saliva sample.

        -  Test results will be 1) reported to a physician specified by the study participant and
           2) uploaded into the study participant's profile in the CMDIR and 3) if concurrently
           enrolled in the Beggs Laboratory or other IRB-approved clinical study, test results will
           also be made available to that study provided appropriate informed consent has been
           given.
    
  