
    
      The study is designed as a MAD escalation in up to 3 cohorts of patients, followed by a
      cohort expansion to further confirm the safety and tolerability of the selected dose, prior
      to further investigation in Phase 2 studies. The cohort expansion will also support the
      assessment of the trial's secondary efficacy objectives. Approximately 50 patients are
      planned to be enrolled across the entire study.

      Approximately 24 patients are planned to be enrolled in the initial MAD escalation, with a
      maximum of 3 ascending dose levels (low, medium and high) of ASLAN004 (Cohorts 1-3). In all
      dose cohorts, 8 patients will be randomized in a 3:1 ratio to receive ASLAN004 (at specified
      cohort dose, n=6) or matching placebo (n=2). Additional cohorts may be optional depending on
      the data from the preceding cohort.

      An expansion cohort (Cohort 4) of approximately 18 patients is planned and will be randomized
      in a 2:1 ratio to receive ASLAN004 (n=12) or matching placebo (n=6). The rationale for this
      is to provide greater assurance about the safety and tolerability of the selected dose level,
      and to provide preliminary estimates of the PD and clinical effects at this dose, prior to
      further dose and schedule finding work in Phase 2 studies.

      A total of 8 subcutaneous injections of ASLAN004 or matching placebo will be administered
      according to a weekly schedule of injection from Day 1 (baseline visit) to Day 50 (Week 7) of
      the study. Patients will be closely monitored and observed for a period of 30 minutes after
      each injection of study drug (all visits). The clinical assessments and blood sampling for
      safety laboratory tests, PK analysis, ADA assays, and biomarkers will be performed at each
      visit as noted in the Schedule of Assessments. The treatment period will end at the last day
      of Week 8 (ie., Day 56) after which patients will be followed every week for 12 weeks for
      safety, PK parameters, ADA, and PD marker assessments. In the event that patients develop
      adverse events (AEs)/serious AEs (SAEs) which are determined as definitely related, probably
      related, or possibly related to ADA, and/or patients have a positive ADA result, additional
      unscheduled sampling of ADA may be performed during the study or after Day 141, as deemed
      clinically necessary. The exact timepoints for ADA sampling after Day 141 will be discussed
      between the Investigator and Sponsor for each case.
    
  