
    
      Background: Jaundice due to hyperbilirubinemia is the most common entity that requires
      medical management in neonates. About 50% of full-term newborns and 80% of premature infants
      develop jaundice. The effectiveness of phototherapy for neonatal jaundice depends on two
      factors: the spectrum of light emitted and the spectral irradiation of light. An ideal
      phototherapy device should have a broad light emission surface, in order to cover the maximum
      of the body surface in the horizontal plane, it should be durable, generate relatively little
      heat and provide a wavelength and light intensity (radiation) optimal (460-490nm and ≥ 30uw /
      cm2 / nm). The conventional phototherapy devices use fluorescent lamps that emit heat and
      require eye protectors, in addition to increasing water losses, which requires a permanent
      monitoring of vital functions and temperature. Its use imposes hospitalization and
      consequently mother-child separation, always traumatic. The most recent devices use light
      emitting diodes (LED light) as the light source. Objective: to evaluate the effectiveness,
      safety and level of satisfaction of parents and healthcare team with one innovative device
      for phototherapy to which a LED light mesh has been incorporated (one blanket), comparing it
      with the Ohmeda BiliBlanket Plus®, used at the Kangaroo Mother Care Program for intermittent
      ambulatory phototherapy. Methods: randomized controlled clinical trial with preterm or low
      birth weight infants that required phototherapy according to the guidelines of the American
      Academy of Pediatrics. The Protocol was evaluated and accepted by the "Hospital Universitario
      San Ignacio and Pontificia Universidad Javeriana research committee". Informed consent was
      requested from parents and the authors declared no conflict of interest. Sample size and
      allocation: using the STATA 12 program, a sample size of 64 patients was calculated, 32 for
      each group, with significance level of 0.05, power of 80% and difference in bilirubin
      decreasing of at least 0,1 mg/dl/h with standard deviation of 0.14 mg/dl/h and 5% of losses.
      A computer program randomized the allocation to the intervention and the concealment of the
      assignment was through sealed opaque envelopes. Seric bilirubin levels were taken at the
      start and at the end of phototherapy. Controls were done every 2 hours with bilicheck
      spectrophotometer device. Axillary temperature was measured at the beginning of phototherapy,
      at 30 min, 60 min, and every 2 hours during intervention. Physical examination, recording of
      side effects related, mortality and requirement of hospital treatment were performed. Parents
      and health personnel answered a survey on comfort and perceptions with the use of the devices
      at the end of phototherapy. Analysis: Comparison of means was made for the decrease of
      bilirubin levels and body temperatures and chi-square for incidence of side effects,
      hospitalization, mortality and results of the survey.
    
  