
    
      60 healthy graduation and post-graduation at the Federal University of Pernambuco (UFPE)
      students will take part of the study. After providing written informed consent, the
      volunteers will respond to four online questionnaires, received by email: a sociodemographic
      questionnaire investigating eligibility conditions; the brazilian version of the
      Self-Reporting Questionnaire (SRQ-20) to screen for common psychiatric disorders; the
      brazilian self-report version of the Alcohol, Smoking and Substance Involvement Screening
      Test (ASSIST) 3.0, to screen for drug-related disorders; and the brazilian version of the
      Emotion Regulation Questionnaire (ERQ) to evaluate individual profile of habitual use of
      emotion regulation strategies. They will be oriented to contact to researchers if they have
      any doubts. After filling the questionnaires, the volunteers will be contacted to be informed
      about eligibility. Individuals with previous history of epilepsy/ convulsions, brain tumors,
      neurosurgery, or with brain metallic implants or pacemakers, as well as in current use of
      psychotropic medication will be excluded from the study. The volunteers that score less than
      5 point in SRQ-20 or more than 10 points for alcohol or more than 3 points for other
      substances in self-report ASSIST 3.0 will also be excluded from the sample.

      The selected volunteers will receive a training on the cognitive task. Firstly, they will
      receive a brief explanation and examples on cognitive reappraisal, the reinterpretation
      strategies and the instructions. Against the instruction MAINTAIN, they should simply look at
      the pictures and maintain their emotional experience, according to their initial
      interpretation of the presented situation. When facing the instruction DOWNREGULATE, they
      should look to the picture and imagine that the situation is better or will become better
      than initially perceived and when instructed to UPREGULATE, they should look to the picture
      and imagine that the situation is worse or will become worse than initially perceived. They
      will be presented on the computer screen to a series of 21 negative images preceded of a
      screen containing one of instructions (7 images for each instruction) and 7 neutral images
      preceded of a screen with the instruction maintain. The images will be presented randomly and
      they will be asked to generate strategies to each situation. They will be guided to provide
      adequate strategies to the received instructions and will receive a standardized example for
      each picture. After this phase, they will be presented to the same series of images in the
      same format as the experimental cognitive task. They will see 4 screens for each picture,
      following uninterruptedly. The fist will contain the strategy for 2 seconds, the second will
      present the picture for 8 seconds, the third will contain a visual scale from 1-7 to rank the
      intensity of the emotional arousal felt after applying the strategy to the picture (1=very
      weak; 7=very strong). They will be asked to press the correspondent number on a numerical
      keyboard into 5 seconds. The final screen will have the instruction RELAX for 3 seconds and
      they should wait and relax until the subsequent task initiate.

      The experiment will be conducted 3-5 days later. Before the experiment, the participant will
      respond to 2 questionnaires: the first will investigate behaviors that could influence the
      results of the experiment (sleep, psychostimulant substance intake) and the second will
      evaluate the current momentaneous status of the volunteer (humor, attention, fatigue). After
      a brief training of the cognitive task with 6 pictures, we will proceed to the electrodes
      montage. tDCS (1 mA) will be applied through a pair of saline-soaked surface sponge
      electrodes connected to a battery-driven constant current stimulator and positioned according
      to the 10-20 EEG system over the left VLPFC. A 4,5x4cm "active" electrode will be placed over
      the crossing point between T3-Fz and F7- Cz and a 12x5cm "return" electrode will be
      positioned over Fp2. The big return electrode will be used to attenuate the effects of
      stimulation over that region. The stimulation will start 4 minutes before the beginning of
      the cognitive task. The participants of the real stimulation groups will receive stimulation
      for 20 minutes, with 10 seconds ramp-up and down periods. In the sham group, the participants
      will receive the stimulation for 30 seconds.

      Measures of central tendency and dispersion (mean and standard deviation) for continuous
      variables and measures of frequency for the categorical variables will be used in the sample
      characterization. T-test for independent samples or qui-square will be used to verify
      comparability between groups for continuous and categorical variables, respectively.
      Shapiro-Wilk test will be used to evaluate normality. Repeated measures analyses of variance
      (ANOVAs) will be used to test for main effects and interaction with the within subjects
      factors regulation condition (downregulate, upregulate, negative maintain, neutral maintain)
      and the between-subjects factors (anodal, cathodal, sham stimulation) in case of normality.
      Paired t-test will be used for compare intra-group differences. T-test for independent
      samples will be conducted to compare inter-group differences. The sphericity will be verified
      with the Mauchly's test. Greenhouse-Geisser correction will be used when necessary. If
      normality is not verified, Friedman's test with post-hoc Wilcoxon test will be conducted to
      detect intra-group differences and post-hoc Mann-Whitney test will be conducted for
      inter-group differences. Two-tailed tests will be performed at 95% confidence interval for
      all analyses. Statistical analyses will be carried out using SPSS (Statistical Package for
      Social Sciences) 20.0 version for Windows (SPSS Inc, Chicago IL, USA).
    
  