
    
      Schizophrenia (Sz) is associated with psychotic symptoms, such as hearing voices and paranoid
      beliefs that remain partially or fully refractory to standard antipsychotic medications for
      ~2/3 of patients. Alternative, glutamatergic approaches for treatment development have been
      proposed but have not yet led to FDA-approved medications. Moreover, several
      glutamate-targeted medications, such as pomaglumetad (POMA), have failed in pivotal clinical
      trials despite robust effectiveness in preclinical models. A major barrier to effective
      glutamatergic treatment development is the absence of validated measures for target
      engagement that can identify effective compounds and guide dose selection. Target" refers to
      a factor that an intervention is intended to modify, leading to improvement in symptoms, and
      target engagement biomarkers are a measure of the ability of the intervention to "engage" the
      target.

      As part of the recently completed NIMH multicenter FAST-PS initiative (IRB protocol 6925 and
      7285), we evaluated ketamine-induced pharmacoBOLD (phBOLD) in healthy volunteers (HV) as a
      potential target engagement biomarker for development of metabotropic glutamate (mGluR2/3)
      agonists, as a prelude to planned studies in Sz. BOLD imaging indirectly measures brain
      energy, as a proxy for glutamate target engagement.

      The present study will (1) build on these initial positive results to develop phBOLD for use
      in Sz, (2) optimize ketamine dosing to further increase sensitivity of the phBOLD approach,
      and (3) explore mechanisms of psychosis. The present study will enable a personalized
      medicine approach to target engagement and dose evaluation in Sz, while, in parallel,
      evaluating mechanisms in Sz.

      The structure of this grant requires successful completion of Specific Aim (SA) 1 over the
      first 18 months prior to initiation of SA2 and SA3. We will amend the PSF and consent to
      include a full description of SA's 2 and 3 prior to its initiation.

      In FAST-PS, we selected a high dose of ketamine (0.23 mg/kg) in order to produce robust
      pharmacological effects. Under SA1, we will titrate this dose downward in HV in order to
      identify doses that produce reduced psychotomimetic effects, but nevertheless sufficiently
      robust phBOLD effects.

      50 HV will participate in 2 identical phBOLD sessions at least 7 days apart. In total, MRI
      scans will last approximately 45 minutes, including pre and post ketamine scan. The design is
      based on our published study(Javitt, Carter et al. 2018). On both days, clinical assessments
      will be performed following removal of the subject from the scanner.

      HV will be discharged home after clearance by the study physician. Although we expect all HV
      to tolerate ketamine challenge, in the case that a subject does not tolerate it well, we have
      the capability of admitting a HV subject to an inpatient unit for monitoring and treatment if
      necessary.

      SA1 will assign ketamine doses in successive 10 subject cohorts. The ketamine dose for the
      1st cohort will start at 0.08 mg/kg. For subsequent cohorts, the bolus will be successively
      reduced or increased by 0.02 mg/kg (n=10/dose) to determine the lowest dose of ketamine that
      still produces a robust phBOLD response.

      The study will be subject and rater blind, i.e. subjects and raters, will be blinded to the
      treatment (ketamine dose) group.

      The study physician will be aware of the ketamine dose, and ketamine dose will be the same
      for both sessions.

      Subjects will not be told what the exact ketamine dose they will receive, but it will be
      based on their weight and will be no higher than 0.08 mg/kg.
    
  