
    
      Given the urgent need for effective monitoring and medical management of hypertension during
      the COVID-19 pandemic, this study will test the feasibility of remote screening and
      onboarding to remote medical management of hypertension utilizing personalised digital diary
      record assisted optimisation of Blood Pressure control. Having remote screened a large number
      of participants, we then test the effect of a very gentle addition of amlodipine 1mg/ml oral
      solution to the regimes of a subgroup of asymptomatic participants with inadequate BP
      control.

      The majority of participants screened for the study will continue in follow-up and may be
      offered further developments as may be possible through development of the digital diary and
      a more comprehensive adaptive protocol which allows for further interventions (such as stop
      meds at onset of symptoms, or swap on or off ACE/ARB medications etc). Remote monitoring of
      blood pressure has been shown in times of normal healthcare access to improve blood pressure
      control, we will assess if the digital diary allows us to help during lockdown/reduced
      healthcare access and improve blood pressure with amlodipine without the need for blood tests
      or social contact.

      Amlodipine is a calcium-channel blocking drug which reduces blood pressure by relaxing blood
      vessels (especially veins) but this same effect makes it prone to causing fluid accumulation
      (oedema) in the lower limbs. There is a large amount of evidence on its effectiveness and
      safety in reducing blood pressure and in treating stable angina. There appears to be a close
      relationship between wanted and unwanted effects. Finding the best dose of amlodipine for a
      patient could be useful in optimizing their blood pressure treatment. At present the tablet
      doses available are only 5mg and 10mg in the UK. The present study will also investigate the
      tolerability of side effects and the relationship of these to the prescribed dose of
      amlodipine. It will measure the side effects of ankle swelling, headache and any other
      reported side effects using visual analogue scales. The study will utilise a selection of
      questionnaires to investigate the relationship between participant beliefs about medicines
      and participants' adherence. The hypothesis of the study is that participants' tolerability
      of side effects (as measured by VAS) will be related to their beliefs about the necessity of
      medication (necessity concerns), their concerns about side effects and their adherence to
      medication.

      Participants with uncontrolled blood pressure (systolic =>140 mmHg and/or diastolic =>90
      mmHg) on their existing prescription antihypertensive (>= 1 drug) are eligible for the
      interventional arm of this study. This interventional arm of this study will assess
      introduction and titration of amlodipine doses within the current maximum licensed dose of
      10mg (although higher doses are used in specialist clinics for selected participants).
      Amlodipine liquid formulation (oral solution) will be used to permit dosing in 1-2mg
      intervals for optimization of blood pressure control and side effects. Participants will use
      their standard home blood pressure monitors (a home blood pressure monitor can be provided as
      appropriate) and will be asked to measure their blood pressure in the morning (three
      readings) before taking their antihypertensive medication (trough treatment) and again in the
      evening (three readings).

      Participants will participate in remote teleconference consultations (telephone or electronic
      platform according to participant preference and familiarity, such as Zoom/MS Teams/
      WhatsApp/ Facetime) with the William Harvey Clinical Research Centre (WHCRC) at least
      2-weekly, following initial (remote) screening with clinical history taking, review of home
      blood pressure measurements and a thorough review of all information reported by the
      participant in the digital diary from a 5 day run-in period (see Section 11.6). Remote
      consultations remain frequent for those participants with poor BP control, but will be less
      frequent (monthly) for those who have stable blood pressure (defined as above BP<= 140/90)
      and are followed in the observational arm of the study.
    
  