
    
      This study is a qualitative study and intervention planning study to create and refine an
      online resource for weight management in new kidney transplant (KTx) recipients, which will
      be named "exertion".

      Objectives and hypothesis:

      The aim of this qualitative study is to use qualitative methods to create and refine a weight
      management, exercise/ physical activity online resource for patients with kidney transplant
      recipients.

      This study involves data collection via:

        -  Think-aloud interviews- 5 KTx patients and 2 Health Care Professionals (HCP) working in
           the transplant team will have recorded think aloud interviews using the resources. Other
           participants will be exposed to the resource during a routine lab session.

        -  Semi-structured interviews of transplant HCP's and KTx recipients.

        -  Demographic data including age, gender, occupation, smoking history, medical history,
           medication lists and baseline body weight (kg).

        -  Website/ resource log in data

        -  Field notes and observations from Think Aloud interviews, lab sessions and
           semi-structured interviews

      The investigators aim to recruit 10 new kidney transplant recipients and 5 transplant health
      care professionals to explore the following themes through 'Think-Aloud' interviews:

        -  The functionality of the "exertion" online resource for KTx recipients

        -  The functionality of the "exertion" online resource from a HCP perspective

        -  KTx participants interpretation of the "exertion" modules and resource as a whole

        -  HCP participants interpretation of the "exertion" modules and resource as a whole

        -  Thought processes involved to use the "exertion" application

        -  Recommendations from participants

        -  Likes/dislikes

        -  Barriers/ easier to use sections

        -  Highlight individual differences in the use of the "exertion" resource

      The investigators aim to explore the following themes through semi-structured individual
      interviews:

        -  What components of the online resource (exertion) are helpful/ unhelpful from a kidney
           transplant perspective?

        -  What components of the online resource are helpful/unhelpful from a kidney transplant
           HCP perspective?

        -  Are there any difficulties/ barriers participating in the study?

        -  And are they what were expected or different?

        -  Patients experiences and learning using the online application, and when the changes
           were noticed

        -  Anything missing/ they would recommend adding to the application

      Statistical Analysis:

      Baseline demographics of the participants will be described using summary statistics.
      Continuous variables will be summarized using the mean and standard deviation (SD) if
      approximately normally distributed. Continuous variables that are not normally distributed
      will be summarized using the median and IQR.

      Qualitative analysis: Data will be collected through in-depth feedback about the online
      intervention materials; field notes, individual interviews and 'Think-aloud' interviews.
      'Think-aloud' interviews will be used to elicit participants' reactions to sessions of the
      online intervention; participants will be observed and asked to comment aloud on reactions to
      every aspect of the different sessions. Semi-structured interviews will explore participants'
      overall impressions of the online intervention. These qualitative techniques will allow for
      themes and sub-themes to emerge. The website will be designed to record user entries, and
      observational field notes about participants' use of the intervention will also be collected.
      Individual interviews will be transcribed verbatim and analysed using an inductive thematic
      analysis approach (17), informed by techniques of grounded theory (15), including
      line-by-line open coding grounded in data and constant comparison of all instances of codes.
      Deviant case codes will be employed to ensure that perspectives that diverge from dominant
      trends are not overlooked.
    
  