
    
      Background

      Acute bacterial meningitis is a severe infection, which leads to persistent neurological
      deficits in up to 50% of patients, despite optimal medical treatment. Although, the incidence
      of acute bacterial meningitis has declined in developed countries since the advent of
      vaccines against Haemophilus influenzae and Streptococcus pneumoniae, this is not yet true
      for developing countries. Also, the impact of serotype replacement in invasive pneumococcal
      disease cannot be estimated to date.

      Acute bacterial meningitis causes brain injury most prominently in the cerebral cortex, the
      inner ear and in the hippocampus. In the hippocampus, a brain region functionally important
      for learning and memory, the brain damage is characterized by apoptosis of cells in the
      hippocampal dentate gyrus. Autopsy studies demonstrated the occurrence of apoptosis in
      neurons of the hippocampal dentate gyrus in the majority (> 75%) of human autopsy cases, who
      died of acute bacterial meningitis. Children are particularly vulnerable to this form of
      brain damage because of ongoing development of neurological functions and they have a higher
      risk of neurologic deficits after bacterial meningitis than adults. The 3 most common
      pathogens in childhood meningitis are Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae and
      Neisseria meningitidis. Streptococcus pneumoniae is associated with the greatest risk for
      fatal outcome or persistent neurological deficits. In the most recent prospective study
      hearing loss was the most common major sequelae in half of the patients, followed by
      cognitive deficits (40.0%), seizures (21.2%), and motor deficits (21.2%); one third of these
      patients had multiple defects.The pathogenesis of brain damage in meningitis is driven by the
      host's owns inflammatory reaction to the invading pathogens in the subarachnoid space. This
      inflammatory reaction is triggered by the release of subcapsular bacterial components.
      Unfortunately, β-lactam antibiotics, current standard of care in bacterial meningitis, induce
      bacteriolysis leading to a brisk accumulation of subcapsular bacterial components in the
      cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), which in turn trigger an over-shooting inflammatory reaction
      contributing to brain damage.

      First evaluated more than 50 years ago, adjunctive corticosteroids still are the only
      approved therapy to minimize this inflammatory reaction in humans.

      In children the benefit of a combination therapy with dexamethasone and ceftriaxone has only
      been proven in the reduction of permanent hearing loss after Haemophilus influenzae type b
      meningitis, a pathogen that today is virtually eradicated in regions that implemented the
      vaccination. Furthermore, the beneficial effects of dexamethasone administration in
      meningitis have been challenged repeatedly. A recent prospective study and two meta-analyses
      show conflicting results considering the benefit of adjuvant corticosteroid treatment for
      neurological outcome in children with acute bacterial meningitis. Furthermore, adjunctive
      corticosteroid treatment does not seem to benefit patients with acute bacterial meningitis in
      developing countries. Even more worrying are results in experimental meningitis, which
      indicate that dexamethasone might lead to neuronal injury.

      Daptomycin (Cubicin¨, Novartis Pharma AG, Basel Switzerland) is a cyclic lipopeptide
      antimicrobial agent active against most Gram-positive bacteria including strains that are
      resistant to methicillin, vancomycin or linezolid. It binds to the membrane of Gram-positive
      bacteria and causes rapid depolarization of membrane potential leading to bacterial cell
      death. Thereby, daptomycin exerts a bactericidal, but non-bacteriolytic effect and does not
      cause release of subcapsular bacterial components.

      Recently, it has been proven for experimental pneumococcal meningitis that daptomycin leads
      to a substantially reduced inflammatory reaction compared to ceftriaxone. Additionally, it
      has been shown that compared to ceftriaxone monotherapy, daptomycin plus ceftriaxone lowers
      the levels of pro-inflammatory mediators in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and reduces brain
      damage in the form of hippocampal apoptosis and hearing loss in infant rat pneumococcal
      meningitis.

      Based on the experimental data summarized above, it appears reasonable to assume that the use
      of daptomycin, followed by the administration of a broad-spectrum antimicrobial agent in
      children with pneumococcal meningitis, or other Gram-positive meningitis, would lead to a
      reduced inflammatory response and, ultimately, to a reduced incidence of permanent
      neurological deficits.

      While it has been established that the pharmacokinetics (PK) of daptomycin in children are
      age-dependent 6, only scarce data exist on the extent of penetration of daptomycin into the
      inflamed CSF. Anecdotal evidence indicates that in humans with inflamed meninges daptomycin
      penetrates into the CSF in sufficient amounts. This is supported by animal studies.

      There are currently two pediatric studies ongoing in the United States of America. DAP-PEDS-
      09-01 will assess pharmacokinetics (PK) and safety of Daptomycin in 18 children ages 3-24
      months with Gram-positive bacterial infections. DAP-PEDS-07-03 will assess efficacy and
      safety of multiple daptomycin doses in 339 children aged 2 - 17 years with skin and skin
      structures infections. Design and dosing of both studies are based on previous findings in
      two pediatric studies involving 25 children ages 2-17 years and 12 children ages 2-6 years.
      None of these studies will or has investigated daptomycin penetration into the CSF.

      As a first step to establishing optimal dosing recommendations for daptomycin in pediatric
      patients with meningitis, the present pharmacokinetic study attempts to document adequate CSF
      penetration of daptomycin in children with acute bacterial meningitis.

      Objective

      Characterize the extent to which daptomycin penetrates into the CSF of children with acute
      bacterial meningitis. Because determination of AUC in the CSF is not feasible, Cmax of
      daptomycin in the CSF will be taken as a surrogate marker

      Methods

      Children between the ages of 3 months to 16 years with acute bacterial meningitis will be
      recruited. After obtaining baseline blood parameters including muscular enzymes, renal
      function, hepatic function, and blood cultures, a lumbar puncture is performed and standard
      of care therapy with ceftriaxone 100mg/kg (top dose 4g i.v.) is initiated. 24 hours after
      hospitalisation a single dose of daptomycin at an age- dependent dosage, is administered i.v.
      over 15 min. shortly before or after the second dose of ceftriaxone. 4-8 hours after
      daptomycin administration a second lumbar puncture is performed to obtain a CSF sample for
      measurement of peak daptomycin levels. Serum concentrations of daptomycin are measured
      immediately after i.v. administration, at the time of lumbar puncture and 24 hours after
      daptomycin administration.

      Daptomycin therapy is discontinued after one dose, while standard of care antimicrobial
      therapy is continued for a total of 7 to 10 days.
    
  