
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the efficacy of induction therapy with rituximab followed by short- vs long-term
           maintenance therapy with rituximab, in terms of event-free survival, in patients with
           follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the safety of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the pharmaeconomical aspects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the evolution of immunologic competence in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive rituximab IV weekly in weeks 1-4 and undergo
           restaging between weeks 11-13. Patients with stable disease or progressive disease are
           taken off study. Patients achieving partial or complete response are stratified
           according to prior treatment status (untreated* vs treated with or without anti-CD20
           therapy), presence of bulky disease** at study entry (yes vs no), and participating
           center. Patients are then randomized to 1 of 2 maintenance treatment arms.

      NOTE: *Patients treated with radiotherapy only are considered as therapy-naïve.

      NOTE: **Defined as a mass or lymph node conglomerate ≥ 5 cm diameter.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients start maintenance therapy within 7 days of randomization.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive rituximab IV every 2 months for 4 treatments.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive rituximab IV every 2 months for up to 5 years in the
                absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months until disease
      progression or relapse and then annually for up to 10 years after randomization.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 270 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.
    
  