
    
      The study team proposes a randomized controlled trial of CPAP (n=100) vs. control (n=100) in
      COVID-19 suspected or confirmed patients with pneumonia or respiratory illness. The
      overarching aim of this proposal is to determine if early use of CPAP at home will reduce
      hypoxemic events or reduce the need for hospital admission or death in COVID-19 suspected or
      confirmed patients. The study team will include adult patients (age>18) who live alone or
      have more than one bedroom at home, with serologically confirmed or suspected COVID-19
      infection, who have one or more of the following: fever (>38ºC), sore throat, myalgia or
      flu-like illness AND have one or more of the following additional symptom or diagnostic
      criteria: abnormal chest x-ray, new onset cough, mild hypoxemia at rest (saturation less than
      96%), abnormal lung exam, chest tightness or shortness of breath AND who are without need for
      hospital admission. Patients with preexisting pulmonary diseases such as advanced COPD,
      advanced parenchymal lung disease, history of pneumothorax etc. will be excluded.
      Participants in both arms will be shipped a pulse oximeter to monitor oxygen saturation and a
      disposable home sleep apnea monitor (WatchPAT) to track blood oxygen level continuously for
      12 hours with data feed into a cloud based platform. Additionally, 100 patients will be
      randomized to receive CPAP at fixed pressure (8-10cm H20) for 72 hours continuously (except
      for daily activities such as eating, personal activities and breaks for ambulation etc). The
      CPAP pressure will be adjusted based on patient's comfort but will not deviate from the range
      of 8-10cm. While the study protocol will end at 72 hours, patients who wish to continue CPAP
      will be allowed to do so for symptomatic benefit up to 7 days from randomization. All CPAP
      recipients will be given a full-face mask and will be asked to stay in quarantine for the
      duration of the protocol to avoid risk of infecting family members with aerosol (separate
      consent to be obtained from household members who are elderly or with comorbidities.) The
      study team hypothesizes that early low-grade fixed CPAP in COVID infected patients who have
      respiratory abnormalities will reduce hypoxemic events and decrease the risk of subsequent
      hospitalization or death in 14 days from randomization. The study will also address whether
      use of CPAP in the home increases the risk of infecting household family members.
    
  