
    
      This registry plans to enroll 1000 patients at 75 clinical sites across the United States.

      Potentially eligible patients will be anti-HCV antibody-positive and have detectable serum or
      plasma HCV RNA. Patients can have any HCV genotype; they also can be antiviral
      treatment-naïve or have a history of either nonresponse or relapse to previous antiviral
      therapy. Patients can roll over directly from current interferon (IFN) therapy into registry
      Infergen therapy, but the average washout period will be <1 month. Rollovers will occur after
      4, 12, or 24 weeks of IFN therapy. Patients coinfected with HBV or HIV can be included in the
      registry.

      Each investigator participating in this registry will employ his or her discretion and
      standard clinical practice to determine when to see the patient in the clinic, how to manage
      the patient's drug regimen, and how best to monitor the patient's response and tolerance to
      therapy.The decision to enroll a patient and start therapy with Infergen and other prescribed
      therapies may be guided by historic biopsy results, or the patient can undergo liver biopsy
      at the investigator's discretion. Biopsy is not a prerequisite, however, if the investigator
      believes it to be unnecessary. When a patient's treatment is expected to require significant
      dose modification and/or more intensive monitoring because of comorbid conditions, enrolling
      the patient in the registry is at the investigator's discretion. For purposes of the
      registry, data will be collected at baseline; at Weeks 4, 12, 24, and 48 from the start of
      therapy; and at follow-up visits 4 and 24 weeks after treatment ends.

      Safety will be assessed by monitoring AEs, reduction/discontinuation of therapy because of
      AEs, routine laboratory results and by other means determined by the investigator. Adherence
      over the course of therapy will also be evaluated, taking into account physician-directed
      dose reduction or cessation, patients' self-reports of compliance, and the return of used and
      unused medication to each scheduled visit.
    
  