
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the feasibility of using the multi-phase optimization strategy (MOST) approach
      to optimize energy balance (EB) interventions in a sample of MD Anderson employees. (Pilot I)
      II. To explore the feasibility of using the MOST approach to optimize energy balance
      interventions in a sample of BRCA (BReast CAncer)-positive and Lynch syndrome positive
      individuals and their family members. (Pilot II) III. To explore the feasibility of using the
      MOST approach to optimize energy balance interventions in a sample of CLL (chronic
      lymphocytic leukemia) patients. (Pilot III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To develop preliminary estimates of effect size and outcome variability for use in
      planning future studies. (Pilot I) II. To develop preliminary estimates of effect size and
      outcome variability for use in planning future studies. (Pilot II) III. To develop
      preliminary estimates of effect size and outcome variability for use in planning future
      studies. (Pilot III)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine relationship between individual-level (e.g., distress) and family-level (e.g.,
      shared mutation status) variables that are specific to high-risk families and the
      effectiveness of energy balance interventions. (Pilot II)

      OUTLINE: Participants are assigned to 1 condition in each component for a total of 16 groups
      using a randomized factorial design.

      TELEPHONE COACHING VS EMAIL COACHING: Participants receive telephone coaching once per week
      for 16 weeks or 1 email per week for 16 weeks (with follow-up responses if the participant
      responds) from a coach trained in motivational interviewing.

      TEXT MESSAGES: Participants receive daily text messages promoting adherence to diet and
      exercise recommendations daily 1-3 times per day or no text messages.

      SOCIAL NETWORKING: Participants are invited to an online forum for study participants
      available for 16 weeks or do not receive an invitation for social networking.

      SELF-MONITORING: Participants are asked to record their dietary intake 4-7 days per week or 1
      day per week on a website or smartphone application (app).

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 4 months.
    
  