
    
      The investigators have organised a Patient Feedback Session in Leeds, comprising of patients
      who previously sustained hip fractures and who underwent surgical fixation (either
      cephalomedullary nail or dynamic/sliding hip screw). According to the feedback that was
      provided, the most important issue highlighted was how quickly the patients regain their
      functional capacity (mobility) and by inference their independence and overall quality of
      life, to pre-injury levels. The length of hospital stay was also an important parameter in
      their judgement.

      Based on this patient feedback session, the design of a study evaluating the result of
      treatment of unstable pertrochanteric hip fractures should focus on how soon mobility is
      restored leading to their independence. Moreover, using the length of hospital stay as a
      secondary outcome would not only act as a surrogate of mobility (hospital discharge is
      determined by ability to safely mobilize), but would have huge implication to health care
      cost as well, which is considered as a major contributor for the majority of the overall
      hospital costs. Finally, it has been shown that up to 50% of hip fracture patients have
      dementia, which has been reported to be an independent risk factor of poor outcome following
      hip fractures. The investigators can therefore argue that it is even more important that this
      cohort of patients be treated with a superior implant, and thus be included in studies.
      However, currently, there is limited experience with regards to clinical trials which involve
      surgical patients with dementia, particularly on issues of consent, recruitment and
      retention/follow-up. This was highlighted by a recent review, who found that 8 out of 10 hip
      fracture trials excluded or ignored the patient population with cognitive impairment.
      However, with up to one in three patients with hip fractures presenting simultaneously with
      some degree of dementia, this is an important population to include.

      The investigators therefore propose concept feasibility study, to investigate the feasibility
      of running a study involving patients with and without dementia to investigate the outcome of
      unstable pertrochanteric fractures (AO/OTA type A2), comparing the implantation of the
      Endovis BA 2 cephalomedullary nail (device conferring biomechanical advantage) to the
      Dynamic/Sliding Hip Screw (current "gold standard").

      Patients who fulfill the inclusion and exclusion criteria, will be invited to participate in
      this study. Following patient or patient's carer/personal or nominated consultee providing
      informed consent/assent to participate in the study they will be randomized using an online
      randomisation tool, by permuted blocks, stratified for cognitive status (AMTS<8/≥8).

      The abbreviated mental test score (AMTS) can rapidly assess elderly patients for the
      possibility of dementia and can assess for confusion and other cognitive impairment. The
      doctor seeing the patient will conduct the AMTS as standard of care.

      Although patients will not be told of their allocation but cannot be considered blinded as
      they may guess which group they have been allocated based on the incision size. The assessor
      for clinical outcomes, such as the TUG assessment will be blinded to group allocation.

      Following surgery, patients will be followed-up at week 2, 4 and 12 post-operation (as per
      standard of care practice). Information collected during these visits will include, hip
      X-rays, functional scores (Lower Extremity Measure, London Handicap Scale, DEMQOL), TUG
      (Timed Up and Go) test, complications/adverse events and concomitant medication requirements.

      Within standard care patients undergo the above stages, the only extra measures with this
      research project from the above are the Lower Extremity measure, London Handicap Scale and
      TUG test.

      Lower Extremity Measure will be used on patients with AMTS score ≥8 only whereas London
      Handicap Scale will be used on patients with AMTS score ≥8 only.

      The TUG test involves standing up from a seated position, walking three metres, turning
      around, and then walking three metres back to chair and returning to the seated position. The
      TUG times will be noted down.

      The extra measures besides the TUG test are questionnaires which will be given to patients to
      complete with the help of the Research Nurse.

      The DEMQOL will involve carers completing the Carer part of the DEMQOL questionnaire. For
      those patients coming from nursing home's the nursing home staff will complete the DEMQOL
      carer questionnaire.
    
  