
    
      BACKGROUND: Despite improvement in survival rates, a prostate cancer diagnosis still elicits
      negative reactions and confronts both patients and their partners and family caregivers
      (collectively referred to as 'caregivers') with a wide range of complex physical and
      psychosocial challenges. However, caregivers' support reduces the demands on the health care
      system and positively impacts on how well their loved ones adjust to the illness, their
      support comes at a particularly high cost to their own health and functioning. A recent
      review found that 16% to 68% of caregivers report needing more support to meet the challenges
      of their role. Such rates of unmet supportive care needs not only exceed those reported by
      the patients, but also further contribute to caregivers' burden and adversely impact on
      patients' quality of life (QOL). In light of caregivers' challenges, the first dyadic,
      Tailored, wEb-based, psychosocial and physical activity self-Management PrOgramme (called
      TEMPO) has been developed recently. TEMPO aims to increase patient-caregivers dyads' access
      to QOL-enhancing support and information, tailored to their needs. Due to the novel nature of
      this resource, no previous study has evaluated the usefulness of TEMPO.

      OBJECTIVES: The goal of this pilot study is to inform the development and planning of a
      larger trial to evaluate the impact of TEMPO on key outcome measures for patients and
      caregivers. The primary objective of this pilot study is to (a) explore the feasibility and
      acceptability of the trial procedures and (b) estimate the cost-effectiveness of this
      intervention. The secondary objective is to estimate the clinical significance of using TEMPO
      on the primary and secondary outcomes.

      METHODOLOGY: This pilot study is a multicenter, stratified, parallel, two-group RCT.
      Participating dyads will be randomized to receive (a) TEMPO with usual care or (b) usual care
      alone. Across participating sites, research assistants (RAs) will screen new patient records
      and confirm with clinicians whether the patients meet the medical eligibility. The clinician
      will then obtain interested patients' permission for a RA to approach them and provide
      further information, including a study brochure. If the potential participant(s) are
      interested, the RA will take them to a quiet/separate location to further explain the study,
      check eligibility using the eligibility checklist, and obtain consent. If it is not possible,
      at a minimum, the RA or hospital volunteer will get potential participants' contact
      information and their approval for a member of the research team to follow-up. Eligible and
      interested patients will complete an online consent form. If the caregiver is not present,
      the RA will provide study information to the patient and obtain his/her verbal consent to
      follow-up by phone within the next week to determine the caregiver's interest in the study.
      In addition, each site will display study posters giving potential participants the ability
      to self-refer.

      A convenience sample of patients and their caregivers will be recruited from the , McGill
      University Health Centre (MUHC), Tom Baker Cancer Centre (TBCC), Vancouver General Hospital
      (VGH), and Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre (SHSC).

      Patient inclusion criteria are:

        1. confirmed prostate cancer diagnosis (localized or advanced) within the past two years,

        2. identified a primary caregiver willing to participate in the study,

        3. is undergoing or has undergone active treatment (i.e., surgery, chemotherapy,
           radiotherapy, and/or hormonotherapy),

        4. has access to the internet,

        5. understands English or French. Eligible caregivers will be those identified by the
           patient as his primary source of support. Caregivers who were diagnosed with cancer in
           the previous year, or who are currently receiving treatment for cancer will be excluded.
           Patients and caregivers also need to be able to understand English or French.

      SIGNIFICANCE: The ability of caregivers to maintain their QOL despite the stressors they face
      is undermined by limited access to the support needed. This study will evaluate the first
      dyadic, tailored, web-based, psychosocial and physical activity self-management programme,
      and address a significant research gap by documenting its acceptability, feasibility. In
      addition, this study will estimate its potential clinical significance.
    
  