
    
      for both interventions ,

        1. Informed consent from participating parents.

        2. Baseline records photographs, percussion test, periapical radiograph and personal data
           collection.

        3. Allocation (concealed by withdrawing a sealed opaque envelope containing eight times
           folded paper containing the type of dressing material that will be used then writing
           patient name and I.D. on it and will be opened after performing the access cavity).

        4. Diagnostic chart with personal, medical and dental history will be filled.

        5. Clinical examination will be performed to assess the clinical inclusion criteria.
           (Pulpal and periapical diagnosis is established after clinical examination).

        6. Preoperative and Postoperative photographs will be taken.

        7. The radiographic examination will be performed by taking periapical x-ray using
           (parallel technique) through machine to assess the inclusion criteria. The preoperative
           radiograph will serve as a reference for the follow-up radiographs. Standardization of
           the technique to avoid any distortion in the vertical dimension and to provide
           reproducible images using x-ray holding device.

        8. Preoperative and postoperative radiograph will be taken by parallel technique using
           extension cone paralleling (XCP) film holder.

        9. Administration of inferior alveolar nerve block (Septodont, Scandonest® 2% L Mepivacaine
           hydrochloride (HCl). 2% and Levonordefrin 1:20,000 Injection, U.S.P.) at the side of the
           affected tooth.

       10. Application of rubber dam for isolation, then a standardized pulpotomy procedure will be
           performed using a large sterile round end bur in a high-speed handpiece with copious
           irrigation, a sharp spoon excavator will remove pulpal tissues to the orifice level.
           Hemostasis will be achieved by the application of a wet cotton pellet.

      Children will then be allocated into either one of the groups alternatively depending on the
      pulpotomy medicament used as follows:

        -  Group I (Experimental group) TheraCal PT pulpotomy.

        -  Group II (Control group) MTA pulpotomy.

      Group I (Experimental group) TheraCal PT:

        1. After complete hemostasis, TheraCal PT (BISCO Dental Products, Schamberg illinois (IL),
           U.S.A.) will be applied according to the manufacturer's instructions and gently placed
           over the pulp stumps to a thickness of 2mm then the rest of the pulp chamber will be
           filled with glass ionomer cement.

        2. Tooth will then be restored with stainless steel crown.

      Group II (Control group) MTA pulpotomy:

        1. After complete hemostasis, MTA+ Curamed (ul. Kwiatkowskiego 1, 37-450 stylosa Wola,
           Polka) will be manipulated in the ratio of 3:1 (powder: liquid) to obtain a putty mix.
           This mix will be placed over the radicular pulp with the help of a suitable sterile
           amalgam carrier. Gentle condensation of the mix will be done in the pulp chamber with a
           moistened cotton pellet, followed by application of glass ionomer cement.

        2. Tooth will then be restored with stainless steel crown.
    
  