
    
      Background: Trabeculectomy with adjunctive use of Mitomycin C (Trab MMC) is the standard
      incisional procedure to lower intraocular pressure (IOP) in adults with open angle glaucoma
      (OAG). Trab MMC has been shown to effectively lower IOP, however, it can be associated with a
      number of serious complications, such as hypotony maculopathy, choroidal effusion or
      hemorrhage, and endophthalmitis, as well as less serious complications that may affect vision
      related quality of life such as bleb dysesthesia.

      A newer technology, referred to as the Trabectome (NeoMedix Corp., San Juan Capistrano, CA),
      removes an arc of trabecular meshwork and inner wall of Schlemm's canal with microcautery and
      appears to lower IOP effectively with fewer and less serious complications than Trab MMC.
      However, more studies are needed to determine the long term safety and efficacy of this
      relatively new procedure.

      In addition, for OAG patients with visually significant cataracts, either Trab MMC or
      Trabectome can be combined with cataract surgery.

      Study Objective: To compare the efficacy and safety of Trabectome versus Trab MMC, in
      combination with cataract extraction by phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implant, for
      control of IOP in OAG, including pseudoexfoliative glaucoma.

      Methods: Single center, single surgeon, prospective randomized controlled trial. A total of
      52 eligible participants, 26 per study arm would need to be recruited for 90% power. One eye
      per study patient will be enrolled and randomized to Trabectome combined with cataract
      surgery (Trabectome-IOL) or Trab MMC combined with cataract surgery (Trab-IOL).

      Postoperative visits will take place at the discretion of the surgeon but will include at
      least visits at day 1, week 1, and months 1, 3, 6, and 12. Postoperative glaucoma medications
      will be added in a stepped regimen as appropriate, along with additional laser or surgical
      procedures if needed.

      Current Study Status: The clinical trial was terminated early due to slow recruitment and
      clearer indications for each technique over time leading to lack of clinical equipoise
      essential for patient randomization/recruitment. This had been discussed and agreed upon with
      our data safety monitoring board. A total of 19 participants were recruited with followup to
      one year. Study analysis is pending.
    
  