
    
      With the increasing public use of complementary medicines, most researchers agree that there
      is a compelling need to study the safety and efficacy of these agents in humans by means of
      appropriately designed double-blind, placebo controlled clinical trials. With fatigue
      affecting 96% of the cancer patient population and little more than life style alterations
      offered as an intervention, the need to evaluate putative and innovative approaches for
      fatigue is a high priority. The NIH released a "State of the Science" statement in 2002 which
      concluded that fatigue is a serious cause of morbidity, being the most prevalent symptom
      experienced by cancer patients. This expert panel also concluded that the major barrier to
      effective management of fatigue includes a lack of awareness of this fact, the lack of
      knowledge of the causes of fatigue, and the lack of proven methods to treat fatigue.
      Presently, clinical trials evaluating intervention for cancer fatigue are lacking.

      Organic germanium literature states that it may be an effective agent for combating fatigue
      with virtually no toxicities. Since virtually all cancer patients receiving radiation therapy
      experience fatigue, the use of this drug should be evaluated as an intervention for
      non-anemic fatigue in breast and prostate cancer patients undergoing a definitive course of
      radiation therapy. We intend to test whether organic germanium is able to reduce the fatigue
      experienced by patients undergoing radiation therapy and if this reduction in fatigue
      correlates to an improvement in quality of life for these patients. Changes in the patients'
      mood will also be evaluated. We will also collect information on the toxicity profile of
      Organic germanium and try to determine when the peak fatigue time occurs and possibly when
      they recover. This information will be utilized to see if a larger study is warranted.

      2.0 OBJECTIVES 2.1 Primary: To determine if Organic germanium is effective in decreasing
      severity of fatigue in patients undergoing definitive radiation therapy for prostate or
      breast cancer at the one month follow-up visit.

      2.2 Secondary 2.2.1 To compare changes in patients' moods between Organic germanium versus
      placebo at the one month follow-up visit 2.2.2 To compare the duration of fatigue between
      organic germanium and placebo 2.2.3 To further evaluate the toxicity profile of organic
      germanium using the CTCAE version 3 scale.

      2.2.4 To determine the Peak time of fatigue in patients receiving external beam radiotherapy
      or high dose rate brachytherapy for breast or prostate cancer.

      2.2.5 To determine the tolerability of 5 tablets per day as the dosing schema. 2.2.6 To
      determine when the patients recover from their radiation induced fatigue
    
  