
    
      This is a phase I/II protocol aiming at the assessment of the safety and efficacy of
      arylsulfatase A（ARSA) / adenosine-triphosphate-binding cassette, sub-family D (ABCD1) gene
      transfer into hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells for the treatment of metachromatic
      leukodystrophy/adrenoleukodystrophy.

      Metachromatic Leukodystrophy (MLD) is an autosomal recessive Lysosomal Storage Disorder (LSD)
      characterized by severe and progressive dysmyelination affecting the central and peripheral
      nervous system. Adrenoleukodystrophy (also known as X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, ALD,
      X-ALD), a disorder of peroxisomal fatty acid beta oxidation which results in the accumulation
      of very-long chain fatty acids (VLCFA) in tissues throughout the body, is caused by mutations
      in ABCD1.Both diseases are characterized by progressive neurodegenerative decline, leading to
      a devastating state without treatment.

      Hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) is ineffective in ameliorating patients' phenotype
      or delaying disease evolution in many patients. No evidences of efficacy of enzyme
      replacement strategies are available at the moment. Transplantation of genetically corrected
      autologous hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) could represent a novel and potentially efficacious
      treatment for MLD/ALD patients.

      Recently, an Italian group conducted a gene therapy clinical trial based on autologous HSC
      and advanced generation lentiviral vectors (LV) for patients affected by the most severe,
      early onset forms of the disease (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier:

      NCT01560182).The safety and efficacy of this gene therapy approach in MLD patients was
      evaluated.During 3 years of follow-up, they reported multilineage ARSA expression and ability
      to prevent and correct neurological disease manifestations.However, only pre-symptomatic late
      infantile/Pre- or early-symptomatic early juvenile patients were recruited into the trial. In
      most cases, MLD/ALD patients tend to be diagnosed at an advanced stage, missing the best
      timing of curable HSC intervention. In our study, we intend to recruit symptomatic patients
      for transduced cluster of differentiation 34 positive (CD34+) HSC treatment. In the treated
      patients, we will study the short-term and long-term safety of the administration of the
      autologous transduced HSC, their long-term engraftment, the expression of vector-derived
      ARSA/ABCD1, and the ability of the transduced cells to provide a clinical benefit to the
      patients. The treated patients will be followed for 3 years and thereafter monitored for the
      safety of gene therapy for additional 5 years. If successful, this study will provide key
      results on the safety and efficacy of gene therapy for MLD/ALD patients.
    
  