
    
      The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is a vital structure within the knee that provides the
      stability of the joint. Injury to the ACL is a common injury of the knee affecting young
      adults, usually whilst playing sport.

      Surgical reconstruction of complete ACL rupture aims to restore stability of the knee, reduce
      pain and swelling, limit future arthritic change, maximise knee function and allow patients
      to return to preinjury recreational and sporting activity. It has been suggested that the
      success of an ACL reconstruction is dependent upon the postoperative rehabilitation process.

      There is no consensus on the best rehabilitation following ACL reconstruction. Traditional,
      nonaccelerated, rehabilitation programmes emphasise protection of the ACL graft, modelled on
      the stages of graft healing. This includes postoperative immobilisation, limiting how much
      the knee can be straightened, restricted weight bearing and delayed return to activity with
      most patients returning to activity at 1 year. Complications have however been identified
      with nonaccelerated rehabilitation. This includes ongoing muscle weakness, inability to fully
      straighten the knee, and knee cap pain at 1 year followup. To address these issues
      alternative, accelerated, rehabilitation programmes have been developed. These have included
      allowing full movement, earlier weight bearing and earlier return to activity, with no
      adverse sequalae.

      The uncertainty in the benefit of accelerated rehabilitation over conventional nonaccelerated
      protocols warrants further investigation in order determine whether accelerated protocols
      improve knee muscle function and clinical outcome in the longterm, and provide a more
      effective practice for treating patients following ACL reconstruction, or whether they pose
      an increased risk of reinjury by permitting early return to higher level activity.

      This study is a single centre randomized controlled trial comparing accelerated versus
      nonaccelerated rehabilitation protocols with the use of clinical and patient reported outcome
      measures over a 15month period following ACL reconstruction.
    
  