
    
      Implantation is a complex process which requires coordination and interaction between a
      blastocyst and the endometrium. Impaired embryo quality or impaired endometrial receptivity
      may negatively affect this interaction that in turn results in implantation failure.
      Successful implantation entails a process of strict synchronization of endometrial and
      blastocyst development.

      Despite advancements made since the introduction of assisted reproductive technology (ART),
      fewer than 40% of ART treatment cycles result in a live birth. Endometrial receptivity
      remains a crucial rate-limiting step affecting the success of ART treatment. Embryos are
      thought to be responsible for one-third of implantation failures, whereas the remaining
      two-thirds result from sub-optimal endometrial receptivity or abnormal embryo-endometrium
      dialogue.

      There are 3 main methods used to assess endometrial receptivity: endometrial biopsy, hormone
      profile, and ultrasound imaging. Ultrasound has been established as an appreciated, simple,
      and non-invasive technique in evaluation of endometrial preparation before embryo transfer in
      IVF cycles. Several sonographic parameters have been assessed that include endometrial
      thickness (Ent), endometrial pattern (EnP) and sub-endometrial blood flow.

      Endometrial thickness (EMT) is the most widely used prognostic factor for endometrial
      receptivity during ART. Both clinical pregnancy and live birth rates decreased significantly
      for each millimeter below 8 mm in fresh IVF-ET cycles and below 7 mm frozen ET cycles.
      Regarding endometrial patterns and vascularization, data are still contradictory. Increased
      contractility frequency before embryo transfer was inversely related to the clinical
      pregnancy in fresh and frozen-thawed embryo transfer cycles.

      Currently, there is an emphasis on a new endometrial parameter called endometrial compaction,
      which is the decrease in endometrial thickness on the day of ET. In a Study of 274 frozen
      embryo transfer cycles, patients whose endometrium compacted had a significantly higher
      ongoing pregnancy rate than patients whose endometrium became thicker or did not change.

      On the other hand, a large-scale cohort study revealed that an increased endometrium
      thickness after progesterone administration in FET was associated with better pregnancy
      outcome. The role of endometrial compaction in fresh ART cycles is not yet studied. So, it's
      better to test its effect on fresh cycles ART outcome.
    
  