
    
      Postpartum care is an essential component of women's reproductive health. During this time,
      the health care provider and the new mother review the previous pregnancy course, assess the
      mother's wellbeing, and establish treatment plans for any ongoing problems. Prospective
      guidance is given for both the mother and the baby in areas such as breastfeeding, nutrition,
      depression screening, and perineal/vulvar care. However, one of the most important goals of
      the postpartum visit is to discuss the new mother's desire for future pregnancies and the
      interval she wishes before another pregnancy. Inadequate reproductive health planning may
      result in unintended or rapid repeat of pregnancy (RROP), clinically defined as a second
      pregnancy within 24 months of the end of a previous pregnancy. A short inter-pregnancy
      interval is a risk factor for poor pregnancy outcomes including stillbirth, early neonatal
      death, extreme preterm births, and babies born small for gestational age. Compared to women
      who conceived 18-23 months after a previous birth, women conceiving less than five months
      after a previous birth had increased third trimester bleeding, uterine infection, premature
      rupture of membranes, and maternal death.Central to these outcomes is the rate of postpartum
      contraception use.

      In fact, research shows an association between a postpartum visit and use of a reliable
      contraceptive method after pregnancy.

      The optimal time for postpartum visit may be 3-4 weeks post-delivery rather than 6-8 weeks
      post-delivery with regard to visit attendance and proactive management of reproductive
      health, including contraception and time intervals between pregnancies. The timing of the
      postpartum visits are also linked to economic outcomes and healthcare utilization; postpartum
      care that results in decreased RROP and unintended pregnancies will likely decrease
      healthcare costs associated with the adverse consequences of inadequate reproductive health
      planning. Despite the obvious potential benefits of a decreased interval between delivery and
      the postpartum visit, to date, there have been no studies to systematically compare the
      impact of postpartum visit timing on visit attendance, contraception use and, subsequently,
      RROP.

      This study is designed to investigate the effect of reduced time interval to postpartum visit
      on postpartum visit attendance rate, contraceptive use, and RROP. Additionally, the study
      will assess the impact of the two visit schedules on these outcomes by race, providing
      critical information about high risk populations. Finally, this research will assess the cost
      effectiveness of the shortened postpartum visit schedule relative to the standard of care. In
      order to account for potential bias in increased attendance rate due to intervention effect,
      compensation and other factors, this study will also compare the effectiveness of shortened
      time interval to postpartum visit on postpartum attendance rate and contraceptive use to a
      historic cohort.
    
  