
    
      Motivational interviewing (MI) has been demonstrated to be an effective intervention for
      alcohol use disorders (AUD). The consistency, magnitude, and durability of its effects
      suggest powerful mechanisms of behavior change (MOBC) operate to reduce drinking. A better
      understanding of the MOBC in MI is therefore important. Existing MOBC studies of MI have
      yielded limited and contradictory findings. The project proposes to conduct a small pilot
      study to disaggregate MI into its component parts and test full MI compared to MI without its
      directive strategies. This test will compare whether the directive elements of MI (Full MI,
      or FMI) are critical or whether MI effects may be attributable solely to its Rogerian,
      non-directive components (aka, Spirit-Only MI, or SOMI).

      In addition, we will test whether hypothesized main effects of FMI are mediated via increases
      in commitment to reduce drinking early in treatment. Further, we will examine whether
      non-specific therapy factors alone (SOMI) significantly reduce drinking when compared to a
      Feedback Followed by Counseling (FFC) condition that controls for non-therapy factors and
      incorporates assessment and self-monitoring. We will also test whether SOMI's main effects
      are mediated by increases in mood and greater belief in the ability to change, as
      hypothesized by various theories.

      Our work on MOBC for MI will take place in the context of studying brief, stand-alone
      treatments for individuals with primary AUD who seek to reduce, but not stop, drinking. We
      will recruit 90 individuals with AUD seeking treatment; collect daily process data during a
      pre-treatment week; and then assess and randomly assign them to 3 conditions: FMI, SOMI, and
      FFC. All participants will be followed for 9 weeks using daily Interactive Voice Recording
      (IVR) and in-laboratory assessments at weeks 0, 1, 4, and 8. Those in treatment conditions
      will receive 4 sessions of treatment at weeks 1, 2, 4, and 8. FFC will receive treatment
      after completing the week 8 assessment period. Participants in FMI and SOMI will be followed
      for an additional 4 weeks post-treatment (week 12).
    
  