
    
      Induction of labor is a common obstetric procedure with a reported rate of 23.3% in 2012 in
      the United State. It has been recently reported that Induction of labor at full term in
      uncomplicated singleton gestations is not associated with increased risk of cesarean delivery
      and overall has similar outcomes compared to expectant management.

      Induction of labor in women with an unripened cervix is comprised of two stages, cervical
      ripening followed by augmentation of labor.

      Extra amniotic balloon inflation is a widespread mechanical method of cervical ripening that
      commonly results in a ripened cervix open to 3-4 cm without significant uterine contractions.
      At this point the clinician may opt to perform artificial rupture of membranes or rather
      first begin oxytocin infusion delaying amniotomy to later stages of labor. A retrospective
      cohort showed early amniotomy after Foley balloon catheter removal was associated with
      shorter duration of labor induction among nulliparous women.In accordance, an RCT
      investigating the efficacy of early amniotomy in nulliparous women showed this practice
      resulted in labor shortening without increasing the rate of cesarean section, yet these women
      were treated by different methods for cervical ripening. Contradicting results were shown in
      a randomized controlled trial addressing the very question of early versus late amoniotomy
      after balloon ripening, concluding that postponing amniotomy until active labor commences
      results in a reduction of dystocia indicated cesarean section. However no distinction was
      made in this study between nulliparous and multiparous parturients. Since these comprise
      different groups with distinct labor curves, the question remains whether one should consider
      parity when deciding to perform early vs late amniotomy following balloon expulsion.

      Both Amniotomy and Oxytocine infusion are part of the routine protocol and necessary
      procedures for induction of labor. Adverse outcome of amniotomy includes fetal heart rate
      changes, cord prolapse and intrapartum fever when labor is prolonged. Adverse outcome of
      oxytocine include hypertonus and fetal heart rate changes requiring cessation of oxytocine
      infusion (as in routine protocol) and intrapartum fever if labor is prolonged (not due to
      oxytocine infusion per se). Most of the patients admitted for induction of labor will need
      both amniotomy and oxytocine, however the role of the order of these two procedures is
      unclear ,as well as whether the order of these procedures affect the rate of adverse outcome.

      The objective of this study is to investigate the course of labor in early versus late
      amniotomy following balloon cervical ripening in women undergoing term induction of labor
      stratified by parity.

      STUDY PROTOCOL Multicenter randomized control trial that will be conducted in 4 medical
      centers in Israel.

      Women with a singleton viable gestation undergoing indicated labor induction at term (37-42
      weeks of gestation) who undergoing induction of labor at term with a low bishop score<4 who
      require extra amniotic balloon cervical ripening will be asked to participate in the study.
      Written informed consent will be obtained from all patients.

      Early amniotomy- Amniotomy performed as the exclusive primary intervention to augment labor
      following expulsion of the EAB regardless of cervical dilatation.

      Late amniotomy- EAB expulsion is followed by oxytocin infusion at increasing increments as
      the primary intervention as an exclusive intervention for at least 2 hours.
    
  