
    
      The objective of these studies is to identify genetic factors that contribute to the
      pathogenesis of complex congenital heart disease and other more rare conditions resulting
      from disturbances in organ positioning. These are a group of medical conditions that are
      thought to stem from a poorly understood disturbance in the establishment of the basic body
      plan in the embryo. While the outside of the human body is generally symmetric with mirror
      image left and right sides, the positions of some internal organs are distinctly asymmetric.
      For example, the heart could not function properly as a mechanical pump if its connections to
      major blood vessels retained their initial symmetry. The left ventricle of the heart normally
      pumps blood to the body, while the right ventricle normally pumps blood to the lungs.
      Reversals in these blood vessel connections can be fatal. Similarly, the gut
      characteristically loops in a counterclockwise direction placing the stomach on the left side
      in most cases. Rare laterality anomalies can occur if this looping is in the other direction,
      or randomized (equally likely to loop in either direction). Serious medical problems can be
      caused by disturbances in the establishment, or maintenance of left-right (L-R) differences
      as key organs are developing in the embryo.

      We have established formal collaborative agreements with three major centers who have
      collected a large number of coded cases of congenital cardiac disease. Our research objective
      is to try to understand if specific genetic changes can contribute to a range of cardiac
      malformations. We utilize mutational analysis of candidate genes as our principal tool to
      study the genetics of L-R axis malformations (e.g. denaturing high performance liquid
      chromatography, dHPLC, or similar methods). This protocol is also open to other conditions
      whose basis is also thought to result from L-R problems. In all cases, the patients continue
      under the care of the referring physician. We anticipate a minor role of NIH researchers and
      genetic counseling services if subjects either do not have, or cannot afford, similar
      services in their local area.

      This is not a treatment protocol. Our empiric ability to generate medically significant
      research results is limited by the extensive genetic and other etiologic heterogeneity.
      Therefore, this research is not a diagnostic study. At this stage of research, we are not
      sufficiently confident that our research results will have direct medical implications for
      research subjects.

      Results that are of potential medical importance will be discussed with the primary physician
      who is (in most cases) a trained cardiologist (and/or medical geneticist). We will emphasize
      that these are only preliminary research findings, that they are not CLIA-approved, and must
      be disclosed to the patient or included in the medical record. Repeat testing in a
      CLIA-approved lab under another protocol would be required before the genetic information
      could be shared with the patient and family.
    
  