
    
      STUDY OBJECTIVES The primary endpoint was change in ALT after 6 weeks of Rifaximin. Secondary
      endpoints were change in hepatic lipid content and insulin sensitivity measured with a
      hyperinsulinaemic euglycaemic clamp.

      STUDY DESIGN This was an open-label study of Rifaximin (Normix, Alfa Wasserman S.p.A,
      Bologna, Italy) 400mg twice daily for six weeks followed by a further six weeks observation
      period during which patients received standard care. Compliance with treatment was checked by
      collection of empty blister packs. Subjects were asked to provide a structured dietary and
      lifestyle history as previously described (Williams HR, Cox IJ, Walker DG, North BV, Patel
      VM, Marshall SE, Jewell DP, et al. Characterization of inflammatory bowel disease with
      urinary metabolic profiling. Am J Gastroenterol 2009;104:1435-1444). The primary endpoint was
      change in ALT after 6 weeks' Rifaximin therapy. Secondary endpoints were change in hepatic
      and whole-body insulin sensitivity assessed by the two-stage hyperinsulinaemic euglycaemic
      clamp and change in hepatic triglyceride content assessed by proton nuclear magnetic
      resonance spectroscopy at 6 weeks from baseline. Serum ALT, biochemistry and anthropometrics
      were also measured at 12 weeks to look for longer-term effects. Stool microbiota, urinary
      metabolic profile and serum cytokine profile were measured before and after intervention.

      PARTICIPANT ENTRY

      INCLUSION CRITERIA Male and female patients were eligible for inclusion if aged between 18
      and 70 years with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis histologically-proven, as evidenced by the
      presence of all of: steatosis, hepatocyte ballooning and lobular inflammation, and scored
      according to Kleiner(18) by a single experienced histopathologist (RDG) within the previous
      year, with or without mild to moderate fibrosis (stage 0-3/4) and with persistently elevated
      alanine aminotransferase (ALT) values on at least two occasions in the three months prior to
      recruitment.

      EXCLUSION CRITERIA Patients were excluded if there was histological evidence of cirrhosis;
      hepatic decompensation; regular alcohol consumption exceeding 14 units/week (16g ethanol/day)
      for a woman or 21 units/week (24g ethanol/day) for a man; evidence of viral, autoimmune or
      other metabolic liver disease on a chronic liver disease screen; a history of malignancy or
      systemic inflammatory conditions; myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular events in the
      preceding 6 months; a history of bariatric surgery, blind loop or short bowel; use of any
      treatment known or suspected to change bowel flora within 3 months of enrolment; initiation
      or major dose change of metformin, thiazolinediones, biguanides, statins, fibrates,
      anti-obesity medications or insulin within 3 months of enrolment.
    
  