
    
      This is a randomized and blinded clinical trial held at the Laboratory of Neuromuscular
      Performance of the Department of Physical Therapy, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte
      (UFRN). Characterization of the sample: The sample consisted of 46 men submitted to anterior
      cruciate ligament reconstruction. The participants were randomly divided into 2 distinct
      groups. Ethical aspects: For its implementation, this project was submitted to the Research
      Ethics Committee (REC) of the Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte. Was respected and
      ensured the autonomy and anonymity of participants, as well as privacy as confidential data,
      as governed Resolution 196/96 of the National Health Council and the Helsinki declaration for
      human research. Instruments: Stationary bicycle (Ergo-Fit, ErgoCycle 167, Pirmasens,
      Germany); computerized baropodometry platform Eclipse 3000 model (Guy-Capron® SA, France);
      vibrating platform model Power Plate® pro5 ™; signal conditioning module (Telemyo direct
      transmission system) 8-channel (Noraxon, USA); self-adhesive electrode active surface
      (Noraxon, USA); isokinetic dynamometer (Biodex Multi-Joint System 4, Biomedical Biodex System
      Inc.®, New York, USA). Procedures: There was a previous pilot study for adequacy of any
      research procedures and the training of evaluators. The volunteers were informed about the
      procedures to be performed in the research, signed the informed consent form, fill in an
      evaluation form with anthropometric data and personal examination of members. Evaluations
      were performed before and after the intervention protocol. Initially, all the volunteers
      executed a warming exercise on a stationary bike for 5 minutes. After that, they were
      submitted for shaving and cleaning the skin with 70% alcohol before attaching the electrodes
      on vastus medialis and vastus lateralis. Torque rating: the volunteer was positioned sitting
      on the dynamometer, stabilized by braces and with the device axis aligned with the knee
      evaluated. The apparatus of the lever arm was attached to the distal leg. Then, it was
      performed the normalization of the electromyographic signal, where the subject performed two
      maximal voluntary isometric contractions of knee extension at an angle of 60 ° for 5s, with
      one-minute interval between each repetition. After, the concentric evaluation was conducted,
      with 5 maximal contractions for knee flexion and extension at 60 ° / s, starting from 90 °
      flexion up to full extension. Joint position sense: The volunteer was instructed to perform a
      knee extension member starting with 90 ° of flexion. When the 45 target angle wass reached,
      the dynamometer arm remained in this position, keeping it for 5 seconds, so that the
      voluntary noticed which the angle to be achieved. Finally, prompted an active extension from
      90 ° knee flexion (1 / s) to the target angle, the second trial of the subject. At that
      moment, the volunteer should trigger a device to record the angle reached. Postural balance:
      the volunteers were placed standing on the baropodometry platform, supported in the
      non-dominant member and with the knee kept at 40 ° of flexion. The affected limb remained
      with the knee in 90 ° of flexion. The evaluation was repeated 3 times, being considered for
      analysis the average of the two best measures. The evaluation time was 20 seconds on an
      acquisition frequency of 20 Hz with a period of 1 minute break between tests. Previously the
      participant was allowed to become familiar with the equipment. Electromyographic activity:
      emg was collected concurrently with exercise protocols on the platform, as well as during the
      torque rating.
    
  