
    
      Background: According to United States data from the National Inpatient Sample, about 1.3% of
      1.5 million patients (20,300) hospitalized with ischemic stroke from 2007-2009 underwent
      tracheostomy - while the number of tracheostomies performed for hemorrhagic stroke is
      unknown. Historically, mechanically ventilated patients with ischemic or hemorrhagic strokes
      have had poor functional outcomes, and care of such patients is extremely expensive.
      Effective interventions to improve survival, improve functional recovery, decrease costs, and
      increase cost-effectiveness are urgently needed. Early tracheostomy of selected medical and
      surgical patients allows for dramatically decreased sedation and analgesia, and is associated
      with improved outcomes. Preliminary data from a pilot study of early tracheostomy in patients
      with hemorrhagic or ischemic stroke suggest that such patients may also have improved
      survival and long-term functional outcomes, but a large, multicenter clinical trial is needed
      to confirm these findings.

      Method: SETPOINT 2 is a prospective, randomized, controlled, outcome observer-blinded,
      multicenter, two-armed, comparative trial. Patients are randomized 1:1 to either the
      experimental group - who undergo percutaneous tracheostomy (PDT) as soon as feasible and
      within 5 days after intubation ("early tracheostomy") or to the control group ("standard of
      care" group), in which PDT is performed after day 10 from intubation if the application of an
      in-house weaning protocol did not lead to successful extubation. Otherwise, no differences in
      intensive care treatment are intended, and each participating institution's standard
      operating procedures will be applied to ensure uniform management decisions in fields such as
      weaning, ventilation, analgesia and sedation, transfusion, and neurological monitoring and
      management. Blinding to the treatment assignment is impossible for treating physicians,
      patients and legal representatives as well as for most of the investigators. However, the
      primary endpoint of long-term outcome and causes of mortality will be assessed by
      trial-independent adjudicators blinded to the timing of tracheostomy.

      The study started as an investigator initiated study which was conducted with limited
      external funding. Some funding (about 50 000 Euros) was provided from third party funds by
      the principal investigator and other foundations to provide for data management by the IMBI
      and other organizational aspects of the study. The principal investigator and the US
      co-principle investigator-David B. Seder, M.D.) together applied for research funding to
      several foundations and medical associations and in December 2016 received confirmation of
      funding from the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI). Based on this award,
      some additional endpoints (e.g. neuromonitoring, patient and family experience) were added as
      secondary endpoints in this study. The core version of this study remained unchanged. There
      will be no industry funding of the SETPOINT 2 study. This is not an investigation of any
      specific medical products or medications.
    
  