
    
      1. The impact of chronic heart failure (CHF) on pulmonary function is incompletely
           understood and remains controversial. It is difficult to separate the contribution of
           stable CHF from underlying pulmonary disease and other confounding influences, such as
           changes due to normal ageing, obesity, environmental exposure (mainly smoking),
           stability of disease, a history of coronary artery bypass grafting, and other conditions
           that can lead to pulmonary function abnormalities. Studies have shown that isolated or
           combined pulmonary function impairment, such as diffusion impairment, restriction, and
           to a much lesser extent airway obstruction are common in patients with CHF and can
           contribute to the perception of dyspnoea and exercise intolerance. Pulmonary dysfunction
           increases with the severity of heart failure and provides important prognostic
           information. Most investigators compared pulmonary function in CHF patients with normal
           predicted values or control subjects. However, there is only a small body of literature
           addressing the prevalence of different pulmonary function abnormalities in patients with
           CHF. In addition, these studies have included (potential) heart transplant recipients,
           who represent one extreme of the heart failure spectrum. The aim of the present study
           was to investigate the prevalence of pulmonary function abnormalities in patients with
           CHF and to determine which of these pulmonary abnormalities prevail and to what extent.

        2. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) frequently coexists with CHF, leading to
           impaired prognosis as well as diagnostic and therapeutic challenges. However, lung
           functional data on COPD prevalence in CHF are scarce and COPD remains widely undiagnosed
           or misdiagnosed. The reported prevalence rates of COPD range from 9 to 41% in European
           cohorts and from 11 to 52% in North American patients with heart failure. The purpose of
           this study was to determine the prevalence, underdiagnosis, and overdiagnosis of COPD as
           determined by spirometry and according to Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung
           Disease (GOLD) criteria in patients with CHF.

        3. There is abundant evidence of increased systemic inflammation in both CHF and COPD and
           it is remarkable to observe the similarities of inflammation in both conditions. These
           inflammatory responses may provide a mechanistic bridge between COPD and cardiac
           co-morbidity. However, there is no information regarding systemic inflammation when CHF
           and COPD coexist. It is unknown whether the combination of these two diseases leads to
           increased systemic inflammation in comparison to CHF alone. The aim of this study was to
           investigate the presence of systemic inflammation, as measured by inflammatory
           parameters (leukocytes, platelets, high sensitivity CRP), in CHF patients with or
           without COPD.
    
  