
    
      Although advances in device and lead technology have expanded the ability to implant
      pacemakers and defibrillators in children and patients with congenital heart disease , a
      number of challenges exist that can complicate long-term pacing success in this unique
      population . These include a long duration of pacing need, a more active lifestyle in young
      patients, somatic growth, congenital cardiac abnormalities, and relatively small patient and
      vessel size. Traditional stylet driven leads have limited maneuverability, making lead
      placement in smaller patients and those with structural abnormalities more challenging.

      Additionally, the larger lead diameter needed to accommodate the stylet has been correlated
      with increased risk of venous complications in children . Furthermore, many congenital heart
      disease patients have structural abnormalities and cardiac scarring that require pacing leads
      to be placed in non-standard locations, and selective site pacing can be difficult to achieve
      with stylet-driven leads .

      Pacing therapy in children must take into account several unique pediatric issues: (1) small
      physique; (2) somatic growth; (3) presence of intracardiac shunts; and (4) a complex
      anatomical heart structure. It is important to understand these features when deciding
      whether pacing is indicated, as well as when selecting the time to implant and how to
      implant.

      The 2008 Guidelines of the American College of Cardiology /American Heart Association /Heart
      Rhythm Society summarize indications for pacing treatment in children. Atrioventricular block
      including congenital atrioventricular block associated with cardiac surgery or a natural
      history of complex congenital heart disease such as corrected transposition of the great
      arteries are the most important indications for pacemaker implantation in children 8-13. In
      pediatric patients, atrioventricular block that does not recover within 7-10 days after
      cardiac surgery is associated with a risk of sudden cardiac death in the future, so pacemaker
      implantation is recommended.

      Dual-chamber pacemakers are often selected for adult patients with atrioventricular block.
      Dual-chamber pacemakers pacing requires two endocardial leads. In infants, this presents a
      problem because the venous diameter is small and may cause venous obstruction. A single
      chamber ventricular pacemaker instead of a dual-chamber pacemaker is a good alternative
      choice in children with complete atrioventricular block and normal sinus node function,
      because it requires only a single lead and may reduce the possibility of venous occlusion.
      The high heart rate of infants is another issue. The mean heart rate of an infant is 100 bpm
      or faster, increasing to 180-200 bpm or above when crying. In an infant with atrioventricular
      block, the atrial rate becomes so rapid that it may exceed the maximum programmable upper
      tracking rate, which is limited by the post-ventricular atrial refractory period and
      atrioventricular delay. Under the condition where the atrial heart rate exceeds the maximum
      programmable upper tracking rate, symptomatic 2:1 atrioventricular block may occur.
      Therefore, in infants with a small body size and a rapid ventricular rate, single chamber
      ventricular pacing or single-chamber ventricular pacing with rate response should be
      selected.
    
  