
    
      The main purpose of the experiment is to investigate the cardiovascular modulations of sauna
      use with respect to vascular compliance and hemodynamics. The investigators seek to
      understand the long-term adaptations of regular sauna bathing in conjunction with exercise,
      particularly in sedentary populations with cardiovascular risk factors.

      Of particular interests are the cardiovascular adaptations of regular sauna bathing when used
      in conjunction with exercise training; which meets the recommended minimum of current
      physical activity guidelines. Recent studies have shown that long-term sauna use with
      exercise is more effective than sauna use alone in patients with chronic heart failure.
      However several questions pertaining to regular exercise in combination with sauna use remain
      to be answered, as experimental data in the general population is still lacking.

      This research project aims to find out the differences (if any) in cardiovascular and
      hemodynamic-related outcome parameters, between regular exercise according to the minimum
      recommended guidelines, and the same exercise program with an additional regular 15 minute
      sauna session post exercise.

      The training intervention will last for 8 weeks, with each session consisting of 20 minutes
      of moderate intensity resistance training, followed by 30 minutes of aerobic training.
      Participants in the exercise only group rested in the training area for 15 minutes while the
      exercise and sauna participants went to the sauna for 15 minutes.

      Temperature of the sauna room was increased by 5 degrees celsius every fortnight starting
      from 65 degrees celsius; during the final 2 weeks of the intervention the sauna temperature
      was at 80 degrees celsius. (65, 70, 75, 80). Participants were told that they could leave the
      sauna room anytime they felt uncomfortable or if they wish to.
    
  