
    
      The trial employs a randomised controlled trial design to evaluate the impact of a novel
      mealtime intervention for older adults who are living alone and may be at risk of social
      isolation. The intervention combines social interaction, cooking, and shared mealtime
      behaviour, as well as nutritional education, in a once-weekly, mealtime visit, delivered by a
      peer volunteer. RelAte is grounded in psychological theory. It is expected that the RelAte
      intervention will have a beneficial impact on self-efficacy and on energy intake among
      participants. As an additional point, we will be looking at whether the intervention also
      impacts on physical and mental health among older adults over time. RelAte involves sharing a
      mealtime with a trained peer volunteer once a week for 8 weeks, as well as sharing the
      cooking and food preparation associated with the meal. The one-to-one intervention comprises
      social, nutritional and cooking components, and can be described as a complex intervention.

      The intervention will run for 8 weeks and each participant will be matched with a peer
      volunteer for the duration. At baseline and at three follow-up points, participants will
      undergo a social cognitive, and nutritional assessment, as well as physical and mental health
      assessments, to ascertain whether the intervention has a lasting impact on defined primary
      outcomes. Participant outcomes will also be compared with the control group to assess the
      impact of the intervention. Volunteers will also undergo an assessment to investigate whether
      being a volunteer in an intervention has positive impact on psychological wellbeing and
      social connectedness.

      Primarily the intention is to improve self-efficacy and energy intake among older adults,
      thus maintaining or improving general functioning, rather than treating an existing condition
      or syndrome. Thus the intervention aims to optimise functioning in older adults rather than
      to treat a pre-existing condition.
    
  