
    
      Gastric cancer is one of the most common malignancies in China. Complete surgical resection
      is the only potentially curative therapy available to patients with gastric cancer. However,
      the overall survival results remain unsatisfactory. The main factor accounting for high
      mortality rate is the relapse after surgical resection. During the past few decades, the
      principle of combined modality treatment has been developed and applied in gastric cancer.
      Radiation therapy plus concurrent chemotherapy had demonstrated to be able to achieve a
      significant improvement in overall and disease-free survival according to Intergroup Trial
      0116/Southwest Oncology Group 9008. Nevertheless, the result from Intergroup Trial 0116 study
      had been challenged by the fact that the surgical treatment applied in the trial was
      gastrectomy with limited lymph node dissection (D0 or D1) in 90% of cases. Therefore, it is
      debatable whether adjuvant chemoradiation therapy can confer survival benefit in patients
      with extensive lymph node dissection. In ARTIST study, the addition of concurrent
      capecitabine and radiotherapy to capecitabine and cisplatin chemotherapy did not
      significantly reduce recurrence after curative resection and D2 lymph node dissection in
      gastric cancer. In subgroup analysis of patients with positive pathologic lymphnodes, there
      was a statistically significant prolongation in disease-free survival in the concurrent
      treatment arm when compared with the chemotherapy alone arm. Furthermore, CLASSIC study
      showed that XELOX (oxaliplatin/capecitabine) combination given as adjuvant chemotherapy for
      stage II or III patients after D2 surgery could achieve a significant survival benefit. The
      standard treatment modality in gastric cancer after D2 dissection is still disputable. Thus,
      the assessment of the effect of adjuvant sequence chemoradiotherapy in D2 resected gastric
      cancer is essential.
    
  