
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the sensitivity and specificity of the Droplet-BC screening test for
      distinguishing breast cancer (BC) patients from non-cancer volunteers, using reference data
      confirmed at sites.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the performance (sensitivity and specificity) of the Droplet-BC screening
      test for the classification of early-stage BC.

      II. To determine the performance (sensitivity and specificity) of the Droplet-BC screening
      test for classifying patients into non-cancer volunteer (Breast Imaging-Reporting and Data
      System [BI-RADS] Categories 1 and 2) and BC patient subgroups.

      III. To determine the performance (sensitivity and specificity) of the Droplet-BC screening
      test to classify different subgroups between non-cancer volunteers (BI-RADS category 1)
      versus BC patients plus non-cancer volunteers (BI- RADS category 2).

      IV. To determine the performance (sensitivity and specificity) of the Droplet-BC screening
      test for the classification of non-cancer volunteers into BI-RADS categories 0-5 (small
      cohort study).

      V. To determine the performance (sensitivity and specificity) of the Droplet-BC screening
      test for the multi-classification among cancer stage.

      VI. To compare the sensitivity of the Droplet-BC test with mammogram for detecting BC by
      extracting a subgroup of BC patients that have mammogram results.

      VII. To compare the sensitivity of the Droplet-BC test with ultrasound for detecting BC by
      extracting a subgroup of BC patients that have ultrasound results.

      VIII. To compare the sensitivity of the Droplet-BC test with MRI for detecting BC by
      extracting a subgroup of BC patients that have magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) results.

      IX. To conduct all analyses described above with subgroups of participants matched as closely
      as possible for age, race/ethnicity, cancer history, current medication, family history of
      cancer, and/or breast cancer gene (BRCA) status.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the Droplet-BC test to detect cancer among
      different age groups.

      II. To evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the Droplet-BC test to detect cancer among
      individuals of differing ethnicities.

      III. To compare expression levels of small ribonucleic acid (RNAs) among different age
      groups.

      IV. To compare expression levels of small RNAs among individuals of differing ethnicities.

      OUTLINE:

      Participants undergo collection of blood sample for the Droplet-BC test. Breast cancer
      patients' medical records are also reviewed.
    
  