
    
      Purpose of the study:

      The goal of this study is to identify initial electrocardiogram (ECG) findings (including
      ST/S ratio and T-wave morphology) that predict clinical outcomes (myocardial infarction,
      positive stress test, revascularization and death), in a cohort of Emergency Department (ED)
      patients with left bundle branch block (LBBB) who are being evaluated for acute coronary
      syndrome (ACS).

      Design & procedures:

      The investigators will prospectively identify all adult (18yrs and older) patients presenting
      to their institution's ED who are being evaluated for ACS and have LBBB on ECG. The
      investigators will collect data on demographics (including age, but not date of birth),
      cardiac risk factors, date and time of presentation to the ED, ECG measurements, lab and
      radiographic results (cardiac biomarker data including date and time of the sample, stress
      test results, coronary imaging results, coronary catheterization results) and clinical
      outcomes such as 30-day death or MI. They will collect copies of ECGs and measure the
      following: ST/S ratio (ratio of the amplitude of ST segment deviation to the S wave
      amplitude); T-wave morphology (entirely discordant, entirely concordant, or biphasic to the
      PR interval); and standard ST segment deviation. A logistic regression analysis will be used
      to identify which ECG features are associated with 30-day death, MI, and revascularization.
      In the sub-cohort of subjects with negative "modified Sgarbossa criteria" a subanalysis will
      identify the outcome rates for the following specific sub-populations: those less than 2
      consecutive partially-concordant T-wave leads and those with 2 or more consecutive
      partially-concordant T-wave leads.

      Selection of Subjects:

      The population will be patients age 18 or older who present to the ED with LBBB and suspected
      ACS. The investigators expect the mean age of the study population to be approximately 60
      years old, with most patients between 40 and 90. They anticipate that these patients will on
      average have multiple medical comorbidities given that those with LBBB and ACS are reported
      to be a sicker, older population with more cardiac risk factors than the usual ACS patient
      without LBBB. Patients under age 18 will be excluded because they extremely rarely have ACS
      and/or LBBB. The investigators anticipate 300 subjects.

      Inclusion criteria: age 18 and older, LBBB on ECG, presenting to the ED and being evaluated
      for ACS.

      Exclusion criteria: prisoners, institutionalized individuals, patients who are incapable of
      giving legally effective consent, patients who cannot understand spoken English.

      Consent process:

      After the initial screening process, if the potential subject meets the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria and does not object to learning more about the study during initial discussion with
      their primary provider, then one of the key personnel trained and authorized to consent will
      approach the potential subject to discuss the study by explaining the following: the purpose
      of the study and the future benefits it may provide in subsequent patients, the prospective
      and observational nature of the study, the study procedures, the risks of loss of
      confidentiality, and the safeguards against that risk. All information will be clearly
      printed in plain language on the consent form. The potential subject will then be given the
      choice to enroll in the study.

      Only the potential subject will be allowed to provide consent. The potential subject will
      have until discharge or transfer from the Emergency Department to decide whether or not to
      participate in the study. The minimal risks and minimal subject involvement justify this
      practical and logical time requirement. The consent process will occur in the potential
      subject's room in the Emergency Department.

      Data Analysis & Statistical Considerations:

      The data will be analyzed with a cohort study design, calculating odds ratios between ECG
      characteristics and outcomes. The two primary ECG characteristics investigated will be 1)
      presence of at least 2 consecutive leads with at least a partially concordant T-wave
      (biphasic or entirely concordant), and 2) the ST/S ratio (the ratio of the ST-segment
      deviation to the S or R wave amplitude, whichever greater). Secondary ECG features measured
      will include heart rate, rhythm, intervals, bundle branch blocks, PR and ST segment
      deviations and concordance/discordance, P/Q/R/S/T amplitudes, QRS durations, QT intervals, T
      wave inversions, segment contours and concavity/convexity. The primary outcomes of interest
      will be 1) positive cardiac troponin T biomarker levels on index visit, and 2) positive
      stress test results on index visit. Secondary outcomes will include the rates of 30-day
      myocardial infarction, 30-day death, and 30-day revascularization.

      The investigators will present summary statistics on subject demographics, ECG findings,
      lab/imaging/procedure results, and outcomes. They will determine association between
      dichotomous outcomes of cardiac biomarker (cTNT) levels, stress test, MI, death,
      revascularization, and normally distributed continuous clinical and demographic
      characteristics using t-tests for normally distributed continuous data or Wilcoxon tests for
      non-normally distributed data, and with categorical characteristics using Fisher's exact or
      Chi-squared tests. Associations between continuous variables will be assessed using Spearman
      or Pearson correlations. Significance of the tests will be assessed at alpha = 0.05. Analysis
      will be conducted using SAS 9.3 (SAS Institute, Inc., Cary, NC).
    
  