
    
      The Environmental Polymorphisms Registry (EPR) Health and Exposure Survey is designed to
      collect health, family history of disease, environmental exposures and lifestyle data on EPR
      participants. The EPR was established to collect and store DNA specimens from 20,000
      participants and to serve as a resource for scientists investigating genotype-driven
      translational research of chronic health conditions. Under this protocol, question Health and
      Exposure Survey to EPR participants. The information used to better characterize the EPR
      population, thus making it more useful in answering research questions related to
      gene-environment interactions. Data from the survey will help researchers to advance clinical
      research by developing new ways of preventing, diagnosing, and treating common diseases such
      as cardiovascular disease, asthma, and diabetes.

      During Phases I and II, the survey was administered to EPR participants using a modified
      version of the Dillman Total Design Method (TDM) (1) for surveys. This method requires
      following specific steps for survey administration that incorporate web-based, paper and
      phone administration. The rationale for using the TDM was to maximize participant response
      rates. As of August 2016, 9,000 EPR participants had responded during Phase I and II
      administration of the survey under protocol 12-E-0194. Efforts are ongoing to collect these
      data from additional EPR participants. During Phase III, under protocol 04-E-0053, the survey
      will be distributed to new EPR participants (i.e., those who were not enrolled in the EPR at
      the time of the Phase I and II survey administrations under protocol 12-E-0194) for
      self-administration at the time of enrollment and to existing EPR participants who have not
      yet completed the survey.

      Investigators may select and contact participants for follow-up studies based upon health,
      exposure, or disease status information; this includes responses to the EPR Health and
      Exposure Survey. Participation in follow-up studies is completely voluntary. Participants can
      decide at the time they are contacted if they would like to enroll in the follow-up study.
      Their decision whether or not to participate in a follow-up study will not affect their
      participation in the EPR.
    
  