
    
      During the study, patients will have blood, urine, bone marrow, and X-ray exams done. These
      exams are done to monitor the results of the transplantation. Blood tests will be done daily
      while patients are hospitalized.

      Patients in this study will receive chemotherapy and/or radiation to treat their malignancy
      and prevent graft rejection. This is given before the infusion of donor cells.

      Patients with myeloid leukemias may receive busulfan by vein (IV) for 4 days and
      cyclophosphamide by vein for 2 days.

      Patients with lymphoid malignancies may receive thiotepa by vein in one dose,
      cyclophosphamide by vein for 2 days, and irradiation for 4 days.

      Other chemotherapy treatments may be used before donor cell infusion.

      IV injections will be given through a previously inserted catheter that extends into the vena
      cava (a large chest vein).

      Patients will be randomly picked (as in the toss of a coin) to receive one of five different
      treatments. This is done to learn the benefit of pentostatin treatment and the appropriate
      dose. Four of the treatments will use different dose schedules of pentostatin. The fifth
      treatment group will receive no pentostatin at all. All patients receive tacrolimus and
      methotrexate.

      Pentostatin will be given by vein in 4 doses during the first month after transplant.
      Tacrolimus (FK506) will be given by vein or mouth for 6 months. Methotrexate will be given by
      vein for 3 doses in the first week after transplant.

      Patients will receive blood and platelet transfusions after the transplant. The number of
      transfusions will depend on how quickly the blood cell counts return to a normal range.

      Patients will remain in the hospital for about 4-6 weeks and in the Houston area for 100 days
      after the transplant.

      This is an investigational study. All of the study drugs are commercially available.
      Pentostatin will not be used for GVHD prevention outside of this study. A total of 150
      patients will take part in this study.
    
  