
    
      This single-center pilot study of 40 patients is designed to determine the feasibility and
      safety of a large randomized controlled trial examining the impact of hemodialysis frequency
      on well-being, a patient reported outcome, in incident patients with end stage kidney disease
      who are above the age of 70. Subjects meeting inclusion criteria will be enrolled into the
      trial if they are still alive 7 weeks post HD initiation. Once enrolled, subjects will
      continue thrice weekly HD, have weekly potassium measured, have intra-dialytic weight gain
      and dry weight assessed weekly and have any extra or missed HD sessions and death recorded.
      Six weeks post enrollment, subjects meeting inclusion for randomization (potassium within
      normal range on K2,3 or 4 bath and mean inter-dialytic weight gain of less than 2 L and
      within 1.0 kg of their prescribed dry weight on weeks 5 and 6) will have residual GFR
      measured by iohexol clearance and by the average of 48 hour urea and creatinine clearance.
      Randomization will be 1:1 using permuted blocks of undisclosed varying size and stratified by
      residual kidney function (RKF) (<5 ml/min, 5-10 ml/min and >10 ml/min) measured by the
      average of 48 hour urea and creatinine clearance. Throughout the remaining 9 months,
      potassium will be measured weekly, interdialytic weight gain recorded, and missed or extra HD
      sessions and death will be recorded. Every 6 weeks, ESAs-r and every 3 months the SF-36 will
      be completed. The primary outcome for this single-center pilot study will be metrics of
      feasibility and safety. Feasibility will be assessed by rate of enrollment into the trial and
      rate of subsequent randomization to a treatment arm, adherence to protocol and loss to trial
      completion. Safety will be assessed by measures of serum potassium and achievement of target
      weight. We hypothesize that an adequately powered RCT (The D-LITE Main Trial) that will
      determine whether elderly patients who dialyze twice weekly have better self-reported
      well-being compared to thrice weekly will be feasible.
    
  