
    
      Severe hemoglobinopathies such as sickle cell disease (SCD) and Thalassemia are associated
      with considerable morbidity, organ damage and premature mortality. Allogeneic hematopoietic
      stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is the only therapy that can cure a hemoglobinopathy. The
      applicability of HSCT for hemoglobinopathies is limited by the paucity of suitable donors,
      and risk of early regimen-related toxicity and the late effects. Reduction of the dose of
      myelotoxic drugs in preparative regimens prior to HSCT has the potential to increase the
      applicability of this curative option for patients with hemoglobinopathies. We hypothesize
      that a preparative regimen that maximizes host immunosuppression without myeloablation will
      be well tolerated and sufficient for engraftment of donor hematopoietic stem cells in
      patients with severe hemoglobinopathies. The long term objective of this research is to
      develop novel, less toxic approaches to HSCT for patients with severe hemoglobinopathies.
      Specific aims: 1. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of a novel nontoxic nonmyeloablative
      approach to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for hemoglobinopathies. 2. To optimize
      the immunosuppressive regimen for HSCT patients through a thorough understanding of the
      pharmacokinetics of Busulfan (BU) and Mycophenolic acid (MPA) 3. To determine the effect of
      partial or complete donor chimerism on cerebral vasculopathy in patients with SCD. 4. To
      determine the rate of T cell immune reconstitution in children with sickle cell disease
      following myeloablative compared to nonmyeloablative stem cell transplantation, using
      immunophenotyping assays, CDR3 spectratyping TREC analysis, and measurement of T cell
      specific donor engraftment. Subjects meeting eligibility criteria in whom an human leukocyte
      antigen matched, partially mismatched related or unrelated donor of bone marrow or umbilical
      cord blood will receive a HSCT after a nonmyeloablative preparative regimen consisting of BU,
      Fludarabine (FLU), total lymphoid radiation and Anti-Thymocyte globulin followed by
      prophylaxis against graft versus host disease with cyclosporine A and MMF. Patients will be
      studied for survival, cure of hemoglobinopathy, absence of severe regimen related toxicity
      and graft versus host disease. The relationship of engraftment, survival and Graft versus
      host disease to kinetics of lineage specific donor chimerism and area under the curve for
      Mycophenolic acid and Busulfan will be studied.
    
  