
    
      This is an open-label, non-comparative study aimed to evaluate the safety profiles and
      efficacy of patients with unresectable colorectal liver metastases treated by selective TACE
      (transarterial chemoembolization) using HepaSphere load with doxorubicin. Total of 15
      patients will be planned to recruit.

      The study procedures will consist of a screening period in which patient eligibility will be
      determined. Patients meeting the study entry criteria will receive one HepaSphere treatments.
      Computed tomography (CT) will be done 4 weeks after treatment to determine tumor response.

      Hepatic progression free survival will be followed from the date of first study HepaSphere
      procedure until a date of target liver tumor progression is obtained or the patient is lost
      to follow-up. Treatments for liver metastases after the study HepaSphere treatments are
      complete will be documented during the survival period to the extent possible.

      The investigators will evaluate subjects' previous treatments and response, and determine to
      use doxorubicin for subjects. 100 mg doxorubicin will be loaded onto the HepaSphere
      Microspheres (through ionic bonding when the spheres are exposed to doxorubicin solubilized
      in non-ionic contrast medium) and delivered via microcatheter. No ethiodized oil is used with
      the microspheres. The occlusion endpoint will be stasis to the second or third branches. If
      stasis has not been reached when the target dosage of doxorubicin has been delivered,
      additional bland embolic agent will be used to achieve a consistent endpoint. Other
      concurrent chemotherapy, such as Xeloda, 5-fluorouracil but not limited, can be used in
      combination with HepaSphere Tx.

      The study will evaluate safety throughout the protocol specified treatment phase of the
      investigation by assessing adverse events, as well as changes from baseline in laboratory
      values, findings on physical examination including vital signs and Eastern Cooperative
      Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status. Concomitant medication usage will also be assessed.
    
  