
    
      Opioid Free Anesthesia (OFA) is a technique where no intraoperative opioid is administered
      during the anesthetic management. Opioid free anesthesia is usually achieved through
      sympatholysis, analgesia, and anesthesia with dexmedetomidine and analgesia with low dose
      ketamine. In addition paracetamol and other non-steroidal anti inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS)
      may be used as adjuncts to the multi-modal pain regimen.

      Dexmedetomidine, a highly selective agonist of the alpha2 adrenergic receptor, has many
      clinical benefits, such as sedation, analgesia, preventing unwanted stress responses and low
      risk of respiratory depression. Because of concern that opioids might cause perioperative
      respiratory depression, substitution with dexmedetomidine will be helpful with its analgesic
      and sympatholytic properties. Dexmedetomidine has shown to reduce minimum alveolar
      concentration (MAC) of inhalational anesthetics and the requirement of perioperative opioid
      by 30-50%. In neurosurgical patients, dexmedetomidine is helpful in maintaining intracranial
      pressure (ICP) and intraoperative hemodynamic stability, especially during intubation and
      extubation. It can allow for faster awakening and thus an earlier neurological examination by
      decreasing necessary volatile agent and opioid doses.

      Ketamine, an N-methyl-d-aspartate(NMDA) antagonist, blunts central pain sensitization at
      sub-anesthetic doses (0.5 mg/kg or less) and has been studied extensively as an adjunct for
      perioperative analgesia. Sub-anesthetic ketamine improves pain scores and reduces
      perioperative opioid consumption in a broad range of surgical procedures.Recent literature
      has suggested that adjuvant ketamine administration in mechanically ventilated patients has
      no cerebrovascular effects.

      The present study has been planned to compare the effect of opioid free anesthesia using
      dexmedetomidine and ketamine with opioid based anesthesia using fentanyl in maintaining the
      intraoperative hemodynamic stability and recovery characteristics in patients undergoing TSS
      of pituitary tumors.
    
  