
    
      Achieving urinary continence in patients with bladder extrophy epispadias complex remains a
      challenging urological goal. Children with bladder extrophy epispadias complex generally
      undergo many surgical procedures for the treatment of sphincteric incompetence, including
      bladder neck reconstruction, slings and bulking agent injection. The key point in most of
      these procedures is to enhance urethral resistance, leading to some degree of bladder outlet
      obstruction. However, the reported 7% to 85% continence rates in these patients may not
      exactly represent those children who achieve volitional voiding through the urethra, but may
      also include the ones with bladder augmentation and urinary diversion. Endoscopic injection
      of bulking agent has emerged as a therapeutic approach in the treatment of urinary
      incontinence (UI). this procedure seems to be economical, with shorter hospitalization and
      fewer major complications. On the other hand, degradation, migration, reabsorption,
      overbulking, bladder outlet obstruction and hypersensitivity are frequently reported
      complications of bulking agents.

      The ideal substance for periurethral injection should be durable, non immunogenic,
      nonmigratory and efficacious. So, transurethral implantation of autologous myoblasts may
      represent an improved alternative to synthetic bulking agents, with the unique ability to
      compensate for the deficient muscle fibers in the urethral sphincter. Patients with
      incontinence usually have decreased resting tone and contractility of the rhabdosphincter. In
      patients with bladder extrophy epispadias complex the perineal structures are dislocated
      laterally, and the internal and external urethral sphincters are deficient. Muscle precursor
      cells constantly regenerate striated muscles, and include the quiescent satellite cells
      located beneath the basal lamina of skeletal myofibers, which are responsible for repair of
      the terminally differentiated striated muscle tissue. After injury or in response to
      intensive physical exercise satellite cells proliferate and differentiate into myoblasts,
      which ultimately fuse to form new myofibers capable of muscle contraction. Considering the
      limited capacity of the rhabdosphincter for regeneration, the idea of urethral sphincter
      repair in patients with bladder extrophy epispadias COMPLEX via transurethral injection of
      autologous myoblasts has been suggested. The technical availability of these cells, as well
      as immunological acceptance and survival, makes them appropriate for this purpose. Satellite
      cells are committed cell lineage with restricted plasticity and do not multiply beyond the
      required repair needs. This property confers an acceptable measure of safety for clinical
      applications. The first clinical study of cell therapy based treatment of sphincter
      insufficiency, using muscle derived stem cell transplantation was carried out in patients
      with stress incontinence revealed and confirmed the ability of cell therapy to improve the
      structure and contractile function of the sphincter.
    
  