
    
      Concise Summary of Project:

      The objective of the proposed research is to examine the dose-response of an intervention to
      improve interlimb and gait coordination in community-dwelling older adults with mobility
      limitations. The investigators will compare the effects of 3 doses of the intervention and a
      physical activity control. The intervention will consist of exercises for performing movement
      coordination patterns: 1) plantar flexing and dorsiflexing the right and left ankles; 2)
      flexing and extending the right and left shoulders; and 3) synchronizing the steps during
      walking with auditory metronome tones. Treatment will mirror outpatient rehabilitative care
      in that it will involve 1 weekly visit to the clinical laboratory and 4 days of home
      exercises each week, focusing on limb movement coordination. A physical activity control
      group will perform a similar treatment program of range of motion exercises that do not
      target coordination.

      The treatment arms will consist of three doses of an intervention to improve coordination and
      a physical activity control arm. The three doses will consist of different durations of daily
      training in coordination exercises. Primary outcome variables are the standard deviation of
      relative phase of the ankles during rhythmic ankle coordination, and the Phase Coordination
      Index (a measure of gait coordination) during normal pace walking. Secondary outcomes will be
      the standard deviation of relative phase during rhythmic shoulder coordination, and Short
      Physical Performance Battery score. Key study endpoints will be at the end of the 8 week
      intervention, and 2-week follow up assessments up to 8-weeks post-intervention.

      The maximum number of subjects to be consented, including projected screen failures and early
      withdrawals is 250. The study will last five years. Conditions that would result in subjects
      exiting the study prior to expected completion are death, moving away from the area, injury,
      the development of exclusionary comorbidities, safety reasons, and withdrawal of consent.

      Study Procedures:

      Recruitment Participants will be recruited through a letter mailed to addresses of
      individuals listed on the Dallas, Fort Worth, Irving, and Arlington, TX voter registration
      lists as being ≥ 70 years of age. Individuals potentially interested in participating in the
      study can contact the Principal Investigator (PI) or Research Coordinator (RC) at the
      telephone number or email provided in the letter.

      Those who qualify for the study will be given a series of physical movement assessments and
      questionnaires. Participants will attend the research study once weekly for 10 weeks (2
      weekly screening/baseline assessments, 8 weekly intervention sessions), followed by once
      every 2 weeks for another 8 weeks, for a total of 14 laboratory visits. The duration of each
      visit will be approximately 60 minutes. On the initial day of intervention or control
      training, participants will be scheduled for their subsequent days of weekly participation.
      In the event of an emergency the PI or RC will contact ext. 88911 (UTSW Emergency Services).
      In the event of a fall or other emergency and an ambulance must be called, while waiting for
      the ambulance to arrive our research personnel will provide assistance to the participant as
      instructed by the emergency operator. Participants will arrange for their own transportation
      to and from the laboratory.

      Physical movement assessments The investigators will assess ankle and shoulder coordination
      by having participants lie down in a supine position on a physical therapy table and: a)
      plantar- and dorsi-flex their right and left ankles; and b) flex and extend their right and
      left arms (directly in front of them). The participants will perform 2 trials of 45 seconds
      duration of each task while synchronizing their movements with an auditory metronome we will
      play for them. A motion capture system will be used to collect 3-dimensional data on the body
      movement while participants perform the physical movement testing. This system is a set of
      infrared cameras on tripods that will be situated around participants. The camera system
      tracks the 3-D position of small reflective balls will be taped to the back of participants'
      arms, feet, head, and upper back. These reflective balls will be taped to elastic bands that
      will be wrapped around the participants' body. This camera system records infrared light and
      does not capture video images.

      Participants will also walk 6-9 times across a 20 foot long walkway, with short rest breaks
      given between each pass across the walkway. The researcher will walk alongside (but off the
      walkway) the participant. The walkway is an instrumented mat that collects data from
      footfalls. This data will be used to assess gait patterns.

      Participants will also perform the SPPB every 2 weeks when they come to the lab, using the
      same procedures as for exclusionary testing.

      Questionnaires The participants will be asked a series of questions on their handedness and
      footedness (right or left), their race/ethnicity, years of education, annual family income,
      overall health, any chronic medical conditions, history of falling in the past 12 months,
      fear of falling, pain, and two connect-the-dot tests (Trail Making Tests A and B) that assess
      executive function. There are also a series of questions asked regarding participants'
      ability and frequency of performing physical activities (Late Life Function and Disability
      Instrument). These questionnaires are included in the IRB application materials.

      The questionnaires will be administered during one of the first two days of
      screening/baseline assessments, at the end of the intervention (week 12), and on the last
      follow up session (week 22). The time for administration of the questionnaires will be
      approximately 40 minutes each day.

      The total time for administering the physical testing will be approximately 20 minutes. The
      physical testing will be conducted on the first two screening/baseline testing sessions,
      every two weeks during the intervention (8 weeks), and every two weeks during the 8-week
      follow up testing. After completing the 2 screening/baseline testing sessions, participants
      will be randomly assigned to one of 4 groups: low, moderate, or high dose intervention; or
      physical activity control.

      Participants will perform the intervention or physical activity control exercises in the
      Mobility Research Laboratory at UT Southwestern once per week for 8 weeks. During each
      training session the participants will practice rhythmically moving two parts of their body
      at a time. Each practice session will be approximately 30 minutes in duration, including rest
      breaks as needed by each individual. The participants will be instructed to make comfortable
      movements, to rest as needed and to stop moving if any movement causes them pain.
      Participants will be instructed on exercises they are to perform at home on 4 days of the
      subsequent week.

      Intervention groups The rhythmic coordination exercises will be to synchronize the following
      body segments with auditory metronome tones. Exercises 1-4 will be performed supine; exercise
      5 will be performed during walking

      Body segments: Osteokinematic movement:

        1. Right and left ankles Dorsiflexion-plantarflexion

        2. Right and left shoulders (glenohumeral joints) Flexion-extension

        3. Right shoulder (glenohumeral joint) and ankle. Flexion-extension with
           dorsiflexion-plantarflexion, respectively.

        4. Left shoulder (glenohumeral joint) and ankle. Flexion-extension with
           dorsiflexion-plantarflexion, respectively.

        5. Arms and legs during walking. Normal walking arm and leg swing.

      Participants assigned to the low, moderate, and high dose intervention groups will practice
      synchronizing movements of their right and left ankles, right and left shoulders, and right
      and left steps with an auditory metronome. The researchers will provide participants with a
      take-home metronome for use during the exercises. These exercises will be varied slightly
      each week. This will be a very low impact type of training (it is designed to improve
      coordination, not endurance or strength).

      The intervention will consist of 8 weeks of exercises to decrease the variability of
      participants' body and gait coordination. The intervention will consist of 1 training session
      /week in the Mobility Research Laboratory and 4 days of home-based training. In each session
      participants will perform 6 trials (of 30 seconds duration) of 4 body coordination exercises
      and 1 gait exercise (total duration approximately 30 minutes/session). In the intervention
      sessions participants will perform interlimb coordination exercises, synchronizing body
      segments with auditory metronome tones. Participants also will perform a gait exercise by
      synchronizing steps with an auditory metronome during walking around in their home. The
      metronome tone frequency will correspond with a percentage of the participant's normal
      walking cadence. The metronome will assist participants to retrain their movement timing to
      decrease coordination variability.
    
  