
    
      Social deprivation is a state in which individuals are at risk for adverse health, as well as
      psychological and social outcomes. Social deprivation emphasises relative rather than
      absolute conditions, taking into account cultural standards of living in its classification
      of individuals. Increasing age is associated with increasing prevalence of social
      deprivation, putting older adults at risk for negative outcomes such as poor quality of life
      and ill-being. Rapid apprehension of social deprivation states by researchers and healthcare
      providers could improve management, favour proactivity, and increase understanding of health
      and social trends in older individuals.

      No Canadian clinical assessment of social deprivation exists. There are only two social
      vulnerability indices that have been associated with incident health outcomes. On the other
      hand, the Evaluation of Deprivation and Inequalities in Health Examination Centres (EPICES:
      Évaluation de la Précarité et des Inégalités de santé dans les Centres d'Examens de Santé) is
      a brief social deprivation assessment developed and validated in France. The Canadian Older
      Adult Deprivation (COAD) scale is a modified EPICES assessment. Using participants in the
      Canadian Longitudinal Study on Aging (CLSA), the global objective of this study is to examine
      whether the COAD score is in fact associated with social deprivation and its association with
      adverse social, psychological, and health outcomes.

      Social deprivation is considered the state of an individual experiencing social withdrawal,
      poor economic conditions, and cultural deprivation; it exposes individuals to adverse social,
      health, and psychological outcomes. Social deprivation has been found to be influenced with
      many factors, including an individual's socioeconomic status (SES), gender, ethnicity and
      age, to name a few. The Canadian population is unique in its composition, with large
      immigrant, diverse, and ageing populations. This emphasises the need for a simple assessment
      specific to the Canadian population that can quickly yet accurately identify socially
      deprived older individuals. Currently, such a scale does not exist in the Canadian context.
      To bridge this gap, the French social deprivation assessment Evaluation of Deprivation and
      Inequalities in Health Examination Centres (EPICES: Évaluation de la Précarité et des
      Inégalités de santé dans les Centres d'Examens de Santé) will be adapted to the Canadian
      context, creating the Canadian Older Adult Deprivation (COAD) scale. Moreover, as two
      Canadian social vulnerability and isolation indices have been previously created, the
      potential overlap between these indices and the COAD scale will be examined.
    
  