
    
      D0: Visit of inclusion and randomization After the end of chemoradiotherapy, the patient is
      seen in consultation by her / him a surgeon who propose him to participate in the study. At
      the end of the visit if the patient agrees to participate in it, the investigator at each
      center will conduct the collection of written consent to the inclusion of the patient.
      Inclusion will be recorded in the electronic Case Report Form (e-CRF) by the investigator at
      each center. Randomization (7 or 11 weeks of delay) is performed by the surgeon via the
      software module CleanWeb randomization.

      M1- 1.5 or M2.5 depending of the group randomisation A consultation with the surgeon is held
      within 15 days (+/- 5 days) of intervention to check the clinical response (tumor regression
      in rectal tumor distance from the dentate line) and planify surgery. During this visit, the
      surgeon noted in the e-CRF, clinical findings of the lesion and the results of further
      investigations.

      Not specific exam is requested in the study.

      M2 or M3

      Surgical procedure:

      The anesthesia consultation is planned before the surgery according to the habits of service.
      Participation in the study does not alter the anesthetic procedures.The patient is admitted
      the day before surgery in the surgical ward.

      During surgery, the operating data are provided on the e-CRF (digital rectal examination
      under general anesthesia, type of surgery (anterior resection or abdominal-perineal
      resection), operative time, intraoperative bleeding, macroscopic appearance of the
      mesorectum, distance from the distal limit of resection). The postoperative complications are
      noted by the surgeon in the e-CRF during hospitalization (about 10-15 days), and data
      reporting pathological (Annex 2).

      Pathological examination of the specimen of proctectomy is performed according to
      recommendations for clinical practice using the standard form (Annex 2). The tumor response
      is evaluated by inclusion of all residual tumor and the response to chemoradiotherapy is
      graded with the scale of Rödel (Annex 5). A double reading of slides will be made for each
      patient by two independent pathologists blinded to the randomization group of the patient.

      M2 - M5 or M3 - M6 :

      Postoperative follow-up :

      Following the intervention, no specific consultation is necessary. At follow-up consultations
      (1 month, 3 months) the surgeon evaluate the postoperative course, planify the stoma closure,
      noted the potential adverse events and results of morphological examinations (computed
      tomography, ultrasound, endoscopy) and biological (markers) eventually prescribed.

      M6 - M60 :

      Cancer surveillance :

      Regular follow-up every 3-4 months fo the first two years and every 6 months for the last
      remaining 3 years (clinical examination, CT-scan and biological marker (CEA))
    
  