
    
      This is a multicenter, prospective, randomized, double blind, sham controlled study in adult
      subjects undergoing TKA.

      Subjects will be screened no more than 60 days prior to TKA. During the screening visit,
      subjects will be assessed for past or present neurologic, cardiac, and general medical
      conditions that, in the opinion of the Investigator, would preclude them from study
      participation. No procedures other than the site's standard of care will be performed before
      signed informed consent is obtained. After the informed consent form (ICF) is signed,
      demographic information, medical and surgical history, concomitant medications/concurrent
      procedures information and vital signs will be collected. Assessment of the intended
      treatment areas, functional-ability assessments, a urine drug screen, and a urine pregnancy
      test (UPT) for women of childbearing potential will be conducted.

      Randomization: initially 60 subjects will be randomized 1:1 (30 subjects per group) to one of
      two treatment groups.

      Group 1: subjects will receive iovera° cryoneurolysis treatment of superficial genicular
      nerves (anterior femoral cutaneous nerve [AFCN] and infrapatellar branches of the saphenous
      nerve [ISN]) of the target knee

      Group 2: subjects will receive sham iovera° treatment of superficial genicular nerves (AFCN
      and ISN) of the target knee

      All subjects in all groups will also receive intraoperative local infiltration with EXPAREL
      and postoperative multimodal pain medications.

      Based on the results of an interim analysis, a primary endpoint between a) the postsurgical
      total opioid consumption or b) postsurgical pain control will be chosen and additional
      subjects may be enrolled (up to an estimated target of 200 subjects in total)..

      Subjects will be asked questions and/or be asked to fill forms as part of the following
      assessments: Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) to assess pain scores and sleep quality, functional
      (physical) ability tests to assess range of motions, and KOOS questionnaire to assess knee
      movement.

      iovera° treatment or iovera° sham treatment (Day -15 [±7 days] prior to TKA). TKA surgery
      will be Day 1 and follow up will be up to Day 90. Therefore, subjects may participate in the
      study for up to 155 days.
    
  