
    
      Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a rare and fatal lung disease characterized by an
      unpredictable evolution with variable kinetics of progression and burdened by the occurrence
      of exacerbation. The evaluation of the prognosis in a given patient remains difficult.
      Impaired lung function assessed by the value of forced vital capacity (FVC) and diffusion of
      lung carbon monoxide (DLCO) at the time of diagnosis, or decline in lung function within 6 or
      12 months after the diagnosis, are the best predictive markers of survival but fail to assess
      or to predict lung function decline. Until recently, lung transplantation was the only IPF
      treatment and remains associated with high morbidity and mortality. Pirfenidone and
      nintedanib - anti-fibrotic treatments - are now validated therapies in the management of
      mild-to-moderate IPF defined by FVC ≥ 50% of predictive value and by DLCO ≥ 30 % of predicted
      value. Several international clinical trials demonstrated that pirfenidone and nintedanib
      significantly reduce the lung function decline and the exacerbations incidence and
      significantly improve survival. The emergence of these innovative but costly therapies -
      which are associated with a non-negligible rate of adverse effects - requires the development
      of tools to evaluate their effectiveness and monitor anti-fibrotic activity. The
      18-fluorodesoxyglucose (18FDG) lung uptake may be the first tool to predict early therapeutic
      response. PET offers the possibility to quantify in vivo and non-invasively the cell
      metabolism, using a non-metabolizable substrate labeled as 18FDG. Several parameters can be
      measured in an automated and reproducible manner such as the mean uptake intensity (SUV
      mean), the maximum uptake intensity (SUV max), the metabolic lung volume measurement (MLV) or
      finally the measurement of tissue glycolytic activity or TLG (total lesion glycolysis). 18FDG
      PET scanner plays a key role in the diagnosis and monitoring of neoplasia and inflammatory
      diseases such as sarcoidosis. Recent studies reported a change of the metabolic activity of
      pulmonary fibroblasts issued from IPF, showing increase of glycolytic activity. In a recent
      study, the investigators demonstrated a strong correlation between the lung uptake parameters
      and the lung function tests results and prognostic score GAP. In addition, MLV and TLG were
      prognostic and independently associated with progression-free survival at 12 months.
      Preliminary data suggest that the intensity of lung 18FDG uptake may be a prognostic marker
      but also a predictive marker of response to anti-fibrotic treatments. A prospective study
      must be conducted to confirm or refute these observations.

      Primary objective: The main objective of this study is to describe the changes of 18FDG lung
      uptake assessed by TLG variation in patients with IPF, 12 weeks after the initiation of
      pirfenidone.

      Secondary objectives: Secondary objectives include the following : 1. To describe the changes
      of 18FDG lung uptake assessed by other 18FDG indices (SUVmean, SUVmax and MLV) in patients
      with IPF, 12 weeks after the initiation of pirfenidone ; 2. To study the relationship between
      the variation of 18FDG lung uptake 12 weeks after the initiation of pirfenidone therapy (as
      assessed by the changes of TLG, SUVmean, SUVmax and MLV) and the decline of FVC 12, 24, 36
      and 48 weeks after the initiation of pirfenidone therapy ; 3. To estimate the predictive
      performance of the variation of 18FDG lung uptake 12 weeks after the beginning of pirfenidone
      therapy for therapeutic efficacy at 24 weeks.

      Experimental plan: This is an interventional, prospective, multicenter, proof of concept
      study. 18FDG PET-scanner will be performed at baseline and 12 weeks after the beginning of
      pirfenidone treatment in each patient. Lung Function Tests will be also performed before and
      12 weeks after initiation of pirfenidone treatment and will be repeated every 12 weeks until
      48 weeks after pirfenidone initiation. A clinical examination and liver enzymes will be
      assessed every 12 weeks. The occurrence of any adverse event will be collected throughout the
      trial. LFTs will be interpreted blindly from the results of 18FDG uptake.
    
  