
    
      Elderly insomnia is a serious public health problem. It has been estimated over 50% of
      elderly have sustained sleep complaints. About 20-40% of the elderly worldwide are reported
      insomniac. In Hong Kong, a high proportion (38%) of older people have been reported to have
      sleep disorders. These figures are alarming because insomnia associates with co-morbidities
      including cognitive impairment, depression, mood/anxiety disorders, risks for falls,
      hypertension, and heart disease in elderly. It also destructively affects daily functioning
      by impairing the memory and reducing the attention span and response time. Most importantly,
      insomnia has been evidently shown to link with the increased risk of hospitalization and
      mortality. As the proportion of geriatric population is rapidly increasing, it is foreseeable
      that the socioeconomic impact of elderly insomnia to the healthcare system will be
      undoubtedly aggravated.

      Current conventional approaches for treating insomnia are not suitable or effective in
      elderly population. Pharmacologic treatment has always been a concern in insomniac senior
      patients due to the adverse drug effects including dependence, abuse, cognitive impairment
      and increase in risk of falls and hip fractures. With fewer adverse effects and consistent
      efficacy, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is taken as a more appropriate remedy for
      elderly insomnia. However, the operation of effective CBT for insomnia is very labor
      demanding and cost-ineffective. The large-scale use of CBT for elderly insomnia is not
      feasible due to the shortage of CBT specialty-trained healthcare providers and the high
      treatment cost. The limited availability of CBT treatment is far insufficient to match with
      the increasingly large demand of insomniac elderly. There is another problem with the
      conventional approaches. It is observed that most of the insomnia sufferers would not seek
      timely clinical consultation and they tend to initiate self-help treatments when facing the
      problem of insomnia. This situation is suggested to be more common in Chinese elderly due to
      the traditional Confucius philosophy of reservation and quietness probably drive them more
      likely to keep the problem to themselves and become reluctant to seek prompt clinical help
      until serious medical symptom occurs. Given the prevalence of elderly insomnia is already
      high and keeps increasing, there is an urgent need to explore other effective therapeutic
      modalities preferably in forms of self-help remedies that can help to relieve the problem of
      elderly insomnia.

      Tai Chi has definite advantages to be developed as self-help therapy in older adults. Tai
      Chi, a traditional form of Chinese fitness exercise, is a unique form of physical activity of
      low impact and slow body movement, which includes a meditation component. It is a moderate
      type of exercise that is well perceived to be suitable for regular practice by older
      population. It is expected that Tai Chi is more acceptable to the elderly patients to be
      incorporated with their daily life as an instant approach for remedying insomnia relative to
      the conventional clinical treatment such as CBT. Additional advantages of Tai Chi include
      low-cost and can be conveniently practiced at any time and any place without requirement for
      extensive facilities. Certainly, the practice of Tai Chi is more accessible than the
      conventional CBT treatment, which facilitates the large-scale use of Tai Chi to relieve
      insomnia in elderly population. Furthermore, Tai Chi can be practiced individually or in a
      group. If practicing in a group, Tai Chi provides additional benefit by serving as a vehicle
      for establishing social interaction through which older people can establish friendship and
      gain supports from other seniors.

      Tai Chi has a number of beneficial effects on geriatric health and fitness. These health
      benefits include improvements of aerobic fitness, energy metabolism, muscular strength and
      balance. In addition to the improvements of cardiorespiratory function, bone loss, posture
      stability and flexibility, Tai Chi exercise has also been shown to improve psychological
      well-being via relieving symptoms of anxiety and depression and reducing mood disturbances.
      All these physical and psychological advantages of Tai Chi cooperatively support its
      prescription to the senior population.

      Tai Chi has been preliminarily demonstrated to improve sleep in older people. Favorable
      effects on sleep parameters have been reported in geriatric following 12 weeks to 6 months of
      Tai Chi training. The self-reported sleep quality is demonstrated to be improved by a 12-week
      of Tai Chi intervention in the senior residents in elderly home. Favorable effects of 12-week
      of Tai Chi training in patients with chronic heart failure are reported by showing the
      enhancement of sleep stability as assessed by sleep spectrogram. A longer period (6-month) of
      Tai Chi training has also been shown to improve the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index
      (PSQI)-indicated sleep quality in community-dwelling older adults. In older subjects with
      moderate sleep complaint or sleep-disturbance, 24/25-week of Tai Chi training is shown to
      improve the self-rated sleep quality, habitual sleep efficiency, sleep duration, and sleep
      disturbance.

      All these preliminary data collectively indicate the beneficial effects of Tai Chi on
      improving sleep in geriatric population. Nonetheless, all these studies have a common design
      limitation, which is the lack of direct objective sleep measures. With the study limitation
      and research gaps, the present project is proposed to examine the therapeutic effects of Tai
      Chi on chronic insomnia in elderly by including objective sleep measures. The findings of
      this project are expected to have impact to unveil the efficacy of Tai Chi to alleviate
      elderly insomnia, which has been an epidemic healthcare problem that necessitates to be
      tackled promptly.
    
  