
    
      Interventional spine procedures such as lumbar epidural steroid injections and nerve blocks
      can be painful or anxiety provoking for patients. It is paramount to reduce pain and anxiety
      as much as possible during these procedures, since doing so improves patient satisfaction and
      compliance.

      Lavender is a plant whose extracts are widely used in aromatherapy. Aromatherapy is defined
      as the therapeutic use of essential oils derived from plants. Lavender aromatherapy has been
      reported to possess several therapeutic effects including anti-anxiety, sedation, mood
      stabilization, and analgesia.

      Situational anxiety, such as that relating to procedures, along with procedural pain, can be
      particularly uncomfortable for patients. The current short-acting anxiolytic agents like
      benzodiazepines and pain-relieving opiates are associated with numerous side effects such as
      drug tolerance, abuse and sedation. Consequently, it is important to discover an alternative
      therapy to relieve anxiety and pain. Lavender has been shown to decrease anxiety in patients
      scheduled to undergo colorectal surgery and has been shown to decrease anxiety associated
      with dental procedures. Lavender has also been shown to decrease pain during procedures,
      particularly when inhaled prior to a generally painful procedure such as catheter or needle
      insertion, or chest tube removal.

      Two basic mechanisms may explain the effects of lavender therapy. First is the influence of
      aroma on the brain through the limbic system via olfaction, and the other is through the
      direct pharmacological effects of the essential oil. Lavender contains two compounds,
      linalool and linalyl acetate, both of which have been shown to stimulate the parasympathetic
      nervous system. In recent animal models, linalyl acetate anxiolytic effects were not observed
      in anosmic mice, indicating that the effects were triggered by olfactory input. In addition,
      it was found that flumazenil antagonized odor-induced anxiolytic effects, indicating that
      GABAergic transmission plays an important role in anxiolytic effects.

      It is well known that anxiety can alter the course of pain. Studies show that the emotional
      and behavioral responses to pain are strongly guided by two related psychosocial factors,
      fear and anxiety. Individuals who have lower anxiety do not interpret pain as negatively,
      which aids in recovery.

      This study seeks to investigate whether lavender essential oil reduces pain and anxiety
      during interventional spine procedures.
    
  