
    
      The role of prophylactic topical epinephrine in improving hemostasis and prevention of
      clinically-significant pulmonary hemorrhage has never been studied formally in the past,
      despite its common use by pulmonologists performing bronchoscopic TBLB. Lung transplant
      recipients undergo multiple bronchoscopies and TBLBs for surveillance and evaluation of ACR
      as well as lung infection, especially during the first year post-transplantation. This
      population may have a predilection to TBLB-related bleeding and may benefit from measures to
      reduce the frequency and magnitude of this relatively common complication.

      In the PROPHET trial, the investigators intend to assess the degree of biopsy-related
      bleeding, measures taken to control bleeding, and potential effects of bleeding on completion
      of the intended procedure in 50 bronchoscopy procedures performed on single and double lung
      transplant recipients, randomized to prophylactic topical epinephrine versus placebo (normal
      saline). The study participant, physician performing the TBLB, and independent observer
      reviewing the procedure recording will all be blinded to the randomization. Further use of
      measures to control bleeding that occurs during the procedure as well as the decision to
      complete the procedure as planned or to abort it prematurely will be left to the discretion
      of the performer. In this way, the investigators aim to elucidate a potential role of topical
      epinephrine in the prevention of TBLB-related airway bleeding in lung transplant recipients
      and assess whether the dose and volume of instillation used in the investigators' institution
      comprises an effective means to prevent hemorrhagic complications of TBLB.

      HYPOTHESIS

      The investigators hypothesize that prophylactic instillation of topical epinephrine prior to
      performance of TBLB will decrease the frequency and extent of biopsy-related hemorrhage as
      well as result in fewer procedures being aborted earlier than intended due to bleeding
      complications as well as shorter overall procedure time due to the preventive effect on
      bleeding. Concomitantly, the investigators hypothesize that the instillation of topical
      epinephrine will not be associated with a serious adverse event profile in comparison to
      placebo.

      SPECIFIC AIMS

      In this randomized-controlled double blind placebo controlled clinical trial post-lung
      transplant patients scheduled to receive bronchoscopy with TBLB as part of their routine
      standard of care will be randomized to receive a fixed dose and volume of topical
      endobronchial epinephrine versus matching volume of placebo which will be instilled into the
      target biopsy airway prior to performance of TBLB. This study will specifically aim at
      providing the following information:

      Aim 1: Demonstrate the feasibility of assessments of bleeding related to TBLB, including:

        1. The degree of TBLB-related bleeding using a standardized grading scale used by the
           physician performing the procedure to quantify the degree of procedure-related bleeding.

        2. The degree of TBLB-related bleeding using a standardized grading scale used by two
           independent observers blinded to patient data and study drug assignment who will review
           a video recording of the procedure to quantify the degree of procedure-related bleeding.

        3. The magnitude of inter-observer variability in grading TBLB-related hemorrhage based on
           review of video recording of the procedure.

      Aim 2: Evaluate the hypothesis that prophylactic administration of topical epinephrine
      results in reductions in TBLB-related hemorrhage in lung transplant recipients, including:

        1. The frequency of active measures taken to control pulmonary hemorrhage once it occurred.

        2. The proportion of procedures completed as planned in terms of obtaining a predefined
           target number of biopsy specimens.

        3. Comparison between single- and double-lung transplant recipients in terms of prevalence
           and degree of TBLB-related hemorrhage.

        4. Identification of clinical factors associated with an increased or decreased risk of
           procedure-related hemorrhage.

      Aim 3: Evaluate the hypothesis that prophylactic administration of topical epinephrine
      affects the overall efficiency of bronchoscopy with TBLB performance, including:

        1. Overall duration of the bronchoscopic procedure.

        2. The proportion of procedures completed as planned in terms of number of adequate
           biopsies obtained as assessed by the physician performing the bronchoscopy.

        3. The proportion of procedures resulting in acquisition of adequate biopsy samples that
           allows proper pathologic evaluation of assignment of a pathologic diagnosis.

      Aim 4: Explore the hypothesis that instillation of our prespecified dose and volume of
      topical epinephrine into the target biopsy airway is not associated with an adverse event
      profile that is significantly different from placebo, including:

        1. The prevalence of clinically significant hemodynamic changes.

        2. The prevalence of cardiac adverse events, including conduction abnormalities,
           arrhythmia, and myocardial ischemia.

        3. The prevalence of other vascular adverse events, including stroke, mesenteric ischemia,
           and critical limb ischemia.

        4. Identification of clinical factors associated with an increased or decreased risk of
           drug-related adverse events.
    
  