
    
      INTRODUCTION

      There are very few treatment options for patients with spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage,
      a type of hemorrhagic stroke especially prevalent among Chinese, during the acute phase.
      Blood clot expansion in the brain (hematoma expansion; HE) is one of the most significant
      predictors for poor outcome in such patients.

      Tranexamic acid (TXA) is a commonly used medication available in all acute Hospital Authority
      hospitals prescribed for a variety of conditions when bleeding occurs, for example epistaxis
      and menorrhagia. Intravenous administration of TXA has been proven to benefit severe trauma
      patients by reducing mortality and also preventing the recurrent rupture of brain aneurysms
      in another type of hemorrhagic stroke. The medication is safe and has been proven to improve
      outcomes in these patients.

      A previously performed pilot study exploring the safety and feasibility of administrating
      intravenous TXA to patients with hemorrhagic stroke was recently performed and concluded the
      medication's safety. There was also a trend to significance for reducing the percentage
      change of hematoma volume in patients who received TXA.

      This study aims to explore the effectiveness of TXA in reducing hematoma expansion in
      patients with hemorrhagic stroke when given in the acute phase.

      METHODOLOGY

      This will be a Phase III, parallel-group double-blind randomised placebo control trial.
      Patients allocated to the control group will receive standard care for hemorrhagic stroke
      according to the 2015 American Heart Association guidelines. Patients allocated to the
      intervention group will receive, in addition to standard care, a loading dose of intravenous
      TXA 1gm within 3 hours of symptom onset followed by a 1gm maintenance dose over 8 hours.
      Timing and dosing are in accordance to previous established study protocols. Patients in the
      intervention group will only receive a single treatment course of TXA.

      Study subjects will be identified by either the on-duty clinicians from the Department of
      Neurosurgery of this institution or by the study investigators. Should the patient meet study
      eligibility criteria consent will be obtained either from the patient or from his/her next of
      kin. 1:1 block randomization will be performed by a remote internet randomization service by
      accessing a website. Patients allocated to the intervention arm will have 1gm of TXA added to
      100ml of normal saline (0.9%) infused over 10 minutes as a loading dose. This is then
      followed by a maintenance dose of 1gm of TXA in 500ml of intravenous isotonic solution
      infused at 120mh/hour (60ml/hour) for 8 hours. Patient's allocated to the control arm will
      have an equal volume of isotonic solution infused as a placebo. The patient and the outcome
      assessor will be blinded to study group allocation.

      The primary endpoint of this study will be to assess the percentage change in brain blood
      clot volume by computed tomography brain scans on admission, 6 hours later, at 24 hours and
      at 1 week. Volumetric analysis of the brain scans will be performed by two radiologists
      blinded to the patient's study group allocation..

      Secondary endpoints will be assessed by a research assistant blinded to the patient's study
      group allocation. One such endpoint is functional outcome in terms of the Glasgow Outcome
      Scale and modified Rankin scale at 3 months and 6 months after stroke. Another secondary
      endpoint is quality of life at 3 months and 6 months by adopting the Stroke-specific Quality
      of Life Scale. Other secondary endpoints include death within 30 days of admission, vascular
      occlusive events (myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis), ischemic
      stroke, seizures and other TXA-associated adverse effects.
    
  