
    
      Type 1 diabetes is commonly treated with the administration of insulin, either by multiple
      insulin injections or by a continuous supply of insulin through a wearable pump. Insulin
      therapy allows long-term survival in individuals with type 1 diabetes; however, it does not
      guarantee constant normal blood sugar control. Because of this, long-term type 1 diabetic
      survivors often develop vascular complications, such as diabetic retinopathy, an eye disease
      that can cause poor vision and blindness, and diabetic nephropathy, a kidney disease that can
      lead to kidney failure. Some individuals with type 1 diabetes develop hypoglycemia
      unawareness, a life-threatening condition that is not easily treatable with medication and is
      characterized by reduced or absent warning signals for hypoglycemia. For such individuals,
      transplantation of pancreatic islets is a possible treatment option. Unfortunately, insulin
      independence among islet transplant recipients tends to decline over time. New strategies
      aimed at promoting engraftment of transplanted islets are needed to improve the clinical
      outcomes associated with this procedure. The purpose of this study is determine the safety
      and efficacy of islet transplantation, when combined with an immunosuppressive medication
      regimen containing belatacept, for treating type 1 diabetes in individuals experiencing
      hypoglycemia unawareness and severe hypoglycemic episodes. This study will also seek to
      improve the understanding of determinants of success and failure of islet transplants for
      type 1 diabetes.

      Eligible participants will be randomly assigned to this study or a site-specific Phase 3
      islet transplantation study (CIT-07). Participants in this study will receive up to three
      separate islet transplants and a regimen of immunosuppressive medications consisting of
      belatacept, basiliximab (an IL-2 monoclonal antibody receptor blocker), and mycophenolate
      mofetil. Participants will begin receiving all three drugs on the day of the first islet
      transplant. Belatacept will also be administered again on Days 4, 14, 28, 56, and 84
      post-transplant and then every 4 weeks for the duration of the study.

      If the participant receives daclizumab, it will also be given again on Days 14, 28, 42, and
      56 post-transplant; if the participant receives basiliximab, it will also be given again on
      Day 4 post-transplant. Mycophenolate mofetil will also be given for the duration of the
      study.

      Transplantations will involve an inpatient hospital stay and intraportal infusion of islet
      cells. Participants who do not achieve or maintain insulin independence by Day 75
      post-transplant will be considered for a second islet transplant. Participants who remain
      dependent on insulin for longer than 1 month after the second transplant and who show partial
      graft function will be considered for a third islet transplant. Participants who do not meet
      the criteria for a subsequent transplant and do not have a functioning graft will enter a
      reduced follow-up period.

      There will be up to 25 study visits following each transplant. A physical exam, review of
      adverse events, and blood collection will occur at most visits. A chest x-ray, abdominal
      ultrasound, electrocardiogram, quality of life questionnaires, urine collection, and more
      extensive blood testing will occur at some visits. Participants will also test their own
      blood glucose levels at least five times per day throughout the study. A 24-month follow-up
      period will take place after the participant's last transplant.
    
  