
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine the MTD for radiosurgery in the treatment of
      unresectable pancreas cancer, this MTD can then be used in future phase II or III studies. In
      terms of starting dose for the phase I study, based on the low toxicity seen in the Moffitt
      study we feel that 30 Gy in five fractions will be a successful starting dose.

      Most of the data in unresectable is derived from patients in the metastatic setting in terms
      of chemotherapy agents. There have been two major studies that looked at various chemotherapy
      regimens versus the previous standard of care Gemzar. One study found improved survival with
      FOLFIRINOX and a second found that the combination of nab-paclitaxel and gemzar were superior
      to gemzar alone. Thus, the current standard of care for metastatic pancreas cancer (in which
      a local therapy like radiation has more limited role) is either FOLFIRINOX or gemzar and
      nab-paclitaxel. While there is some discussion of a randomized study comparing FOLFIRINOX and
      gemzar combined with nab-paclitaxel such a study has not started as of this time and it is
      unclear how much interest there would be in accruing to this study. Therefore the exact best
      chemotherapy regimen for metastatic disease is unclear but is either FOLFIRIONX or
      gemzar-nab-paclitaxel. The chemotherapy regimens for unresectable cancer are extrapolated
      from the metastatic setting, per NCCN guidelines any chemotherapy regimen approved for
      metastatic disease is reasonable to use in unresectable pancreas cancer. Thus for purpose of
      this study we have chosen one of the two chemotherapy regimens that have shown the best
      results in the metastatic setting, since there is no way to determine the exact best regimen
      we have chosen gemzar and nab-paclitaxel since it is felt that this is a less toxic regimen
      as compared to FOLFIRINOX.
    
  