
    
      Protocol Description:

      This is an exploratory, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled study of thalidomide for
      retreatment patients with failure of first course thalidomide treatment for recurrent
      gastrointestinal bleeding from vascular malformations. Informed consent will be taken from
      all subjects and the Institute Ethics Committee approved the study protocol. All procedures
      are in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. The study is not supported by
      pharmaceutical funding.

      Study design and Intervention:

      From Dec. 2014 to Nov. 2015, patients with failure of first course thalidomide treatment and
      repeated at least four episodes of chronic gastrointestinal bleeding a year due to vascular
      malformations identified by oesophagogastroduodenoscopy, capsule endoscope or double-balloon
      endoscope will be enrolled (according our enrollment criteria).

      The patients will be randomly assigned to receive a second four-month course of 25 mg of
      thalidomide or placebo at daily time 6 a.m.,12 noon,6 p.m. and 10 p.m., respectively.

      Randomization is performed through the proc plan procedure of Statistical Analysis System
      (SAS), using the method of randomly permuted blocks of 4. Within each block, the number of
      patients allocated to each of the two treatments is equal. Each patient who met the inclusion
      criteria will be consecutively assigned a random number in chronological order, which
      allocate him or her to one of the treatment groups.

      In the case of an adverse event, the study medication will be temporarily or permanently
      discontinued based on subject inclination and toxicity intolerance.

      Concomitant therapies, such as blood transfusions and other symptomatic treatments like iron
      supplementation, will be performed in both groups as necessary during the four-month
      treatment and subsequent follow-up periods. Blood transfusion is indicated and recorded when
      the hemoglobin (Hb) level reaches < 7.0 g/dl. Red-cell transfusions are administered
      according to patient Hb level as follows: 2 units will be administered for 6.1 g/dl ≥ Hb ≤
      7.0 g/dl, 3 units for 5.1 g/dl ≥ Hb ≤ 6.0 g/dl, and 4 units for Hb < 5.0 g/dl. Iron is
      provided for patients with 7.0 g/dl ≥ Hb ≤ 11.0 g/dl. After the four-month treatment course,
      all patients discontinued study medications except for cases where symptomatic treatments are
      necessary as described above.

      Assessment of response and adverse events:

      The primary end point is defined as the patients whose rebleeds decrease from baseline by ≥
      50% at 12 months and the cessation of bleeding. Rebleeding is defined based on a positive
      fecal occult blood test (FOBT) (monoclonal colloidal gold color technology) at any visit
      after treatment. Secondary outcomes include the participants dependent on blood transfusions
      and changes from baseline in transfused packed red cell units, bleeding episodes, and
      hemoglobin levels at 12 months.

      Adverse events include any unfavorable change in health, including abnormal laboratory
      findings, during the study or follow-up period.

      Evaluation of Patients and Follow-up:

        -  Certified research nurses collected information on the demographics and medical and
           social histories of all patients enrolled in the study.

        -  After screening and baseline evaluations, the patients will be closely monitored in the
           hospital for at least one week. They are then followed twice monthly during the
           four-mouth course of treatment and once a month thereafter.

        -  Clinical follow-up is performed by qualified doctors. At all visits, the
           bleeding-related parameters (number and duration) will be collected, a physical
           examination will be performed and laboratory values obtained for FOBT, complete blood
           counts, serum chemistries, and hepatic and renal function. Neuropathy and other adverse
           events were also assessed.

        -  Patients are advised to refrain from any other non-prescribed medicines, especially
           rebleeding-related medications such as aspirin, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
           drug(NSAIDs), anti-platelet drugs, anticoagulants, and Chinese medications (with
           salicylates), gingko, or Echinacea.

      Statistical Analysis:

      To our knowledge, no similar such study concern on efficiency of thalidomide retreatment has
      previously been performed, and the investigators are thus unable to refer to published
      studies to determine our samples. According to our published study, response in the
      iron-control group and thalidomide group reached 3.7% and 71.4%. And in our preliminary study
      (unpublished), response of thalidomide retreatment reached 66.7%. For this study, the
      investigators estimate that the primary outcome (the proportion of subjects whose number of
      yearly bleeds has decreased by ≥ 50%) will occur in 3.7% of the placebo group and 66.7% of
      the thalidomide retreatment group patients. An equally divided sample of 9 subjects is deemed
      sufficient for detecting the primary end point, with a type I error (two-sided) of 5% and a
      power of 90%. Assuming a 10% volunteer attrition rate to follow-up, the investigators
      establish a target sample size of 10 per group (calculated with PASS 11). To ensure an
      adequate power of later stratified analysis, the sample size is approximately increased to be
      15 in each group.

      Analyses of the responses and adverse events are performed on all registered patients
      according to the intention-to-treat principle. Statistical analysis is performed by a blinded
      biostatistician with the SPSS 13.0 software package. The investigators simultaneously analyze
      the primary endpoint of the full analysis set (FAS) and per protocol set (PPS). Continuous
      variables are compared using a two-sample independent t-test or Wilcoxon rank-sum test.
      Categorical variables are compared using the chi-squared and Fisher's exact tests. The
      Breslow-Day test is used to test for the heterogeneity of treatment effects across strata.
      All reported P-values are two-sided. Data are reported as the mean ±Standard Deviation(SD) or
      median (range) for continuous variables and number (%) for categorical variables. Since
      adjustments to the control group are minimal, the investigators also report point estimates
      and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). For all outcomes, a P-value of < 0.05 is considered
      statistically significant.
    
  