
    
      Based on preclinical data and preliminary studies, the investigators hypothesize that sleep
      continuity disruption (SCD) and/or sleep fragmentation (SF), two sleep patterns commonly
      observed in both chronic pain and substance use disorders, will alter study drug receptor
      availability in descending pain inhibitory and reward processing pathways. The investigators
      further hypothesize that these forms of sleep disruption will increase risk by reducing
      analgesic efficacy and/or enhancing standard abuse liability measures.

      The investigators will conduct a parallel group experiment that will randomize 100 healthy
      subjects to two nights of either experimental:

        1. SCD (frank, prolonged, nightly awakenings with curtailed sleep duration, a pattern
           associated with insomnia);

        2. SF (multiple, frequent, non-waking arousals with preserved sleep duration, a pattern
           observed in sleep apnea); or

        3. undisturbed sleep (US). Subjects will then complete a Carfentanil positron emission
           tomography (PET) brain imaging scan divided into two phases (resting to measure basal
           receptor binding potential (BP) and during pain to quantify endogenous medication
           release). The investigators will then use a placebo-controlled, multiple dose paradigm
           to evaluate the analgesic efficacy and abuse liability of a study medication. Analgesic
           efficacy and abuse liability will be evaluated using quantitative sensory testing and
           standard procedures.

      Establishing whether common and treatable forms of sleep disturbance directly alter cerebral
      receptor availability, analgesia and abuse liability will transform the understanding of how
      sleep disturbance is a risk factor for substance use disorder and chronic pain and lead to
      novel prevention efforts and changes in pain management practice.

      Objectives:

      AIM 1: To evaluate whether experimental SCD and/or SF alter(s) basal (resting) or pain evoked
      binding potentials (BP) in brain regions associated with descending pain inhibition
      [dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), anterior cingulate cortex, amygdala, insula,
      periaqueductal gray, and nucleus accumbens].

      H1. Compared to US, SCD and SF will demonstrate altered basal BP in regions of interest.

      H2. Compared to US, SCD and SF will demonstrate a blunted release of endogenous drug response
      (basal BP- pain evoked BP).

      AIM 2: To examine whether experimental SCD and/or SF alters the analgesic response and abuse
      liability profile of a study medication.

      H3. Compared to US, SCD and SF will diminish analgesia. H4. Compared to US, SCD and SF will
      increase drug high, "liking" and monetary valuation of the study medication.

      AIM 3: To determine whether BPs in brain regions of interest are associated with analgesia
      and abuse liability and evaluate the extent to which associations differ by sleep condition
      or sex.

      Study Design:

      Participation in this study involves three visits which are completed in approximately 6
      weeks. The first visit is a screening visit, where participants will fill out standardized
      questionnaires to assess medical and psychiatric history as well as sleep patterns.
      Participants will also receive a physical exam and will undergo blood testing to verify
      participants' health status. Participants will also be trained to use a sleep diary and
      devices to monitor participants' sleep at home. If the participant is still eligible, the
      participant will be asked to come back for a second screening visit which occurs at least one
      week after the first. At the second visit, sleep monitoring data will be reviewed and the
      participant will be introduced to the investigators' quantitative sensory testing procedures.
      Participants will be stimulated by heat, pressure, and cold water to assess baseline
      estimates of pain severity and unpleasantness. Participants will then undergo the
      investigators' study drug administration process, where up to three injections will be given
      that may contain either a drug or a placebo. Throughout this process, quantitative sensory
      testing will be done to assess analgesic response and questionnaires will be given to assess
      abuse liability.

      If participants remain eligible, the participants will be asked to come for a third visit and
      spend four consecutive nights and days at the investigators' clinical research unit.
      Throughout participants' visit, participants will be completing standardized questionnaires
      and undergoing quantitative sensory testing. Participants will be randomized to undergo
      either sleep fragmentation, sleep continuity disruption, or undisturbed sleep on nights 2 and
      3. On the third day, participants will have a 90 minute PET scan and will undergo a study
      drug administration procedure similar to what was done in the second screening visit.
      Participants will then stay for a fourth night of undisturbed sleep and will be discharged
      the following morning.
    
  