
    
      Dementia is a term used for a collection of symptoms that can be caused by a number of
      diseases or injuries that affect the brain. Individuals with dementia have a loss of
      cognitive function (thinking, perception, learning, verbal communication, memory, judgment),
      which may lead to behavioral and personality changes (for example, agitation, delusions,
      hallucinations). Some causes of dementia are reversible; however, irreversible dementia is
      caused by certain conditions, such as Alzheimer's disease. Dementia is common in elderly
      individuals, but it is not a normal part of aging. This is a randomized, double-blind,
      parallel-group, placebo-controlled study comparing the effectiveness and safety of
      risperidone to placebo in patients with behavioral disturbances associated with dementia. The
      study is composed of a screening visit, followed by two study phases: a 1-week run-in period
      in which patients are discontinued from other antipsychotic drugs and receive placebo twice
      daily, and a 12-week double-blind period. At the end of the run-in period, patients are
      randomly assigned to one of three risperidone doses (0.5, 1, or 2 mg/day) or placebo. All
      patients randomized to risperidone start with 0.25 mg twice daily. During the first week of
      the double-blind period, patients assigned to the 1 mg/day dose group have their doses
      increased to 0.5 mg twice daily and patients assigned to the 2 mg/day dose group have their
      doses increased to 1 mg twice daily. These three assigned doses continue for an additional 11
      weeks. The primary measure of effectiveness is the change from baseline in the clinical
      response, defined as a reduction of >= 30% from baseline on the total Behavior Pathology in
      Alzheimer's Disease Rating Scale (BEHAVE-AD) score. Additional efficacy testing includes the
      Clinical Global Impressions (CGI), a rating system used to evaluate the overall and severity
      of clinical change in a patient with various diseases affecting the brain; the
      Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory (CMAI), a questionnaire evaluating agitation that is
      completed by the patient's caregiver; the Physical Self-Maintenance Scale (PSMS), a scale
      that measures activities of daily living (for example, toileting, dressing, grooming,
      feeding, etc.). Safety evaluations include the incidence of adverse events; results of
      clinical laboratory tests (hematology, biochemistry, urinalysis); measurements of vital
      signs; physical examination and electrocardiogram (ECG) findings; and the Extrapyramidal
      Symptoms Rating Scale (ESRS), a scale used to measure effects of antipsychotic medications on
      motor functions of the patient. The study hypothesis is that risperidone is more effective
      than placebo, as measured by a change from baseline on the total BEHAVE-AD score, in treating
      behavioral disturbances in demented patients. Risperidone tablets (or placebo tablets) taken
      orally, starting with 0.25 mg twice daily, continuing at this dose for the 0.25 twice daily
      group and gradually increasing to either 0.5 mg twice daily or 1 mg twice daily in the other
      risperidone dose groups. Treatment duration is 12 weeks.
    
  