
    
      West Virginia (WV) has a critical need for resources to reach more of its older adults with
      fall-prevention programming. The Tai Ji Quan: Moving for Better Balance® (TJQMBB) program is
      an evidence-based, CDC-approved, community-delivered, physical activity fall-prevention
      intervention for older adults. The program is efficacious and effective in reducing falls in
      older adults, and has been translated into clinical and community settings. Programs
      delivered in one setting; however, may not automatically translate to others. We recently
      completed a CDC-funded study which successfully translated a 16-week TJQMBB intervention into
      20 faith-based organizations in 7 rural WV counties. In the maintenance phase of the study
      (i.e., post intervention), only 38% of classes continued despite the fact that 87% of
      participants expressed a desire to continue. The rate limiting factor for continuing classes
      in these rural areas was lack of instructors. Thus, there is a vital need to further
      translate TJQMBB into practice using alternative delivery channels to increase the reach and
      maintenance of the program, especially in rural areas where instructors are less available.

      Using telehealth technology to deliver exercise classes (i.e. tele-exercise) is one
      alternative to the traditional, face-to-face, group exercise classes where the instructor and
      participants are in the same room. We propose delivering tele-TJQMBB to older adults using a
      computer, television, and the internet. This delivery mode will allow us to recruit
      instructors from any location (e.g., urban areas), and with possibly more experience, yet
      still reach older adults in communities without instructors.

      The purpose of this translational study is to work with our injury control, technology, and
      wellness partners to: 1) implement a 16-week intervention of the tele-TJQMBB classes in 120
      older adults at 12 community sites in 4 WV counties; 2) describe functional, self-reported,
      and fall/injury outcomes; and 3) evaluate the translation of tele-TJQMBB with respect to its
      Reach into the target population (number of participants), Effectiveness (participant
      outcomes), Adoption (number of sites, instructors, classes), Implementation (fidelity
      ratings), and Maintenance (satisfaction, continued participation) using the Re-aim Framework.
      Demonstrating that tele-TJQMBB is effective would provide an additional delivery channel for
      the program, help overcome the barrier of identifying instructors in rural areas, and in the
      future, allow for the number of classes to be expanded to reach more older adults, provide
      more community-based programs in which to refer older adults to, and enhance overall
      maintenance of the program. To our knowledge, this is the first study to translate an
      evidence-based, group, fall-prevention exercise program using an alternative delivery method
      in a priority population, and thus, may serve as a model for reaching other underserved older
      adults.
    
  