
    
      Study Purpose: To evaluate the effect of atypical antipsychotic augmentation, specifically
      risperidone on specific cognitive domains in adolescents with ADHD and behavioral
      disturbances.

      Hypotheses:

        1. Risperidone will improve performance in tasks assessing attention, verbal memory, visual
           memory and working memory in adolescents with ADHD and DBDs

        2. Risperidone will impair performance in tasks assessing spatial memory and some executive
           functions in adolescents with ADHD and DBDs.

        3. Risperidone, but not other atypical antipsychotic, will improve performance on the IGT.

      Study Design

      General:

      This study is an observational prospective open label clinical controlled trial.

      The planned study will compare performance, with and without the effect of risperidone, in
      various cognitive tasks in children and adolescents diagnosed with ADHD.

      Each subject will perform a battery of cognitive tasks using the Penn Web-Based Computerized
      Neurocognitive Battery (WebCNP) and the Iowa Gambling Test (IGT).

      Experimental Procedure

      Each potential subject and his parents will be screened on the phone for the study. All
      enrolled subjects will be instructed to avoid taking any stimulant treatment on the days of
      assessment sessions. On the day of enrolment, each subject will be evaluated by a standard
      basic medical interview and physical and neurological examinations for evidence of current
      neurological and physical disorders. They will also be evaluated by the Development and
      Well-Being Assessment (DAWBA) for evidence of any psychiatric disorders. Parents will also
      answer DAWBA questionnaire. Subjects who will qualify for the study and their parents will
      receive a comprehensive explanation on the study and will sign an informed consent form.
      Subjects will then complete The Penn Web-Based Computerized Neurocognitive Battery (WebCNP)
      and the Iowa Gambling Test (IGT). The first session will take approximately 2.5 hours. All
      subjects will undergo a follow up session approximately a month after the first session. The
      second session will take approximately 2 hours. Subjects in Groups II will be instructed to
      start taking their risperidone after the first session and on the day of the follow up
      session. Subjects on Group III will be instructed to take their risperidone or other atypical
      antipsychotic treatment on days of the experiment in the night before the session at least 8
      hours before the sessions and in the month between them. The treatments with Risperidone will
      be given only according to the decision and guidance of the subject's physician. All subjects
      will be invited to perform the Penn Continuous Performance Test for a third time, under the
      influence of their stimulant treatment. Normal IQ will be ascertained using the Raven's
      Progressive Matrices task which is a part of the WebCNP battery.
    
  