
    
      Although outcomes of pancreaticoduodenectomy have improved, it remains a procedure with a
      high perioperative complication rate. Surgical site infection is one of the most common
      complications after pancreaticoduodenectomy. In a retrospective review of all patients who
      underwent pancreaticoduodenectomy at Johns Hopkins between 9/2011 and 8/2014, a total of 679
      patients, 30-day surgical site infection was observed in 16.7%. By univariate analysis,
      perioperative blood transfusion, operative time greater than 7 hours, preoperative
      chemotherapy and/or radiation, bile stent, absence of a superficial wound vacuum closure
      device, and vascular resection were associated with surgical site infection (all, p<0.05). On
      multivariable analysis, pre-operative bile stent/drain and neoadjuvant chemotherapy were
      independent predictors of surgical site infection (all, p<0.001). Studies in colorectal
      patients have found an estimated cost of up to $1400 per patient secondary to prolonged
      hospitalization, wound care, and wound complications in patients with procedures complicated
      by a surgical site infection. Furthermore, in another study of 1144 patients undergoing
      pancreaticoduodenectomy between 1995 and 2011 at Johns Hopkins Hospital, post-operative
      complications delayed time to adjuvant therapy, decreased median survival.

      The hypothesis of the investigator(s) is that placement of Prevena Peel & Place Dressing
      using the standard Acelity vacuum dressing after suture on patients undergoing
      pancreaticoduodenectomy at highest risk of infection will result in a significant decrease in
      surgical site infection rate. The investigator(s) plan to perform a randomized control trial
      where the patients who have had pre-operative bile stent/drain placement and/or neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy will undergo closure with Prevena Peel & Place Dressing using the standard
      Acelity vacuum dressing after suture versus standard closure. The investigator(s) will then
      follow the participant(s) for 30 days postoperatively to determine surgical site infection
      and other perioperative complication rate.
    
  