
    
      Primary Laparotomy Closure Treatment 1) Study Group - Duramesh Laparotomy Closure (DLC)
      Treatment 2) Control Group - Conventional Suture Closure (CSC)

      Patients undergoing a midline laparotomy for trauma or emergency surgery will have their
      abdominal wall laparotomy incision closed with size 0 Duramesh suturable mesh. Patients
      randomized to conventional laparotomy closure will be closed using size

      1 slowly-absorbing (PDS) single strand or looped suture, based on surgeon preference.

      While it would be preferable to identify a single conventional suture to serve as the control
      group, polling of potential participating surgeons demonstrated a preference for both single
      strand and looped sutures to be available for use in the conventional suture closure group.
      Both Duramesh and conventional sutures will be placed using a standardized closure technique
      that incorporates 1cm wide bites and 1cm spacing, as this is the established technique for
      trauma and emergency laparotomy closure at both participating institutions. An effort to
      quantify suture to wound length ratio will be made in an effort to confirm standardization of
      closure technique between groups. The small-bites surgical closure technique popular in
      Europe has not been adopted by trauma and emergency surgeons at either institution given
      concerns related to early dehiscence and the inability to extrapolate the STITCH trial data
      to a US trauma population. The surgeons at both institutions do not believe it acceptable to
      generalize the European trial with a mean BMI of 24 to the United States population, nor do
      they believe it wise to close the abdominal wall with a 2-0 polydioxanone suture, as this
      technique trended towards a higher rate of acute fascial dehiscence (burst abdomen).

      All patients will be assessed for post-operative complications ( i . e . , infection, seroma,
      hematoma), a t 1 , 3 , 6 , and 12 months p o s t o p e r a t i v e l y . Patient will also be
      assessed for incisional hernia formation at the same post-operative time points (1, 3, 6, 12
      months). Hernia outcomes will be based on physical examination, with ultrasound used for any
      uncertainties. While surveillance imaging has been shown to be more sensitive for hernia
      detection, the primary purpose of this study is to compare the safety profile of Duramesh
      laparotomy closure to standard closure technique. Surveillance imaging for hernia
      identification is not a part of standard clinical practice at the participating study sites.
      The rate of clinically relevant hernias found on physical exam will be used to inform future
      efficacy studies, where routine surveillance imaging will be incorporated into the study
      design.

      In addition to the patients undergoing primary laparotomy closure following an open trauma or
      emergency abdominal surgery, an additional subset of 20 patients undergoing delayed primary
      closure of an open abdomen will also be studied. These patients represent a particularly
      challenging clinical problem, for which there is no standard approach to repair. All 20 study
      patients undergoing delayed primary closure of an open abdomen will be closed with #1 or #2
      Duramesh and followed according to the same post-operative protocol as those undergoing
      primary laparotomy closure. This subgroup is too small for randomization to provide useful
      data for comparison, and thus will be used to provide only a descriptive analysis of this
      early experience with delayed Duramesh closure of the open abdomen. The safety of Duramesh
      closure in this patient population can be extrapolated from the previously referenced
      experience of mesh strip closures in contaminated incisional hernias.
    
  