
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the tolerability and maximum tolerated dose of Sorafenib (sorafenib tosylate)
      when given orally in combination with Bevacizumab in patients with renal cell carcinoma
      (RCC). (Phase I) II. To estimate the objective response rate of advanced RCC receiving the
      combination therapy of Bevacizumab and Sorafenib. (Phase II) III. To estimate the
      progression-free survival of advanced renal cell carcinoma patients to Sorafenib (sorafenib
      tosylate) in combination with Bevacizumab. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To obtain fixed tissue in the form of paraffin blocks or unstained slides for evaluation
      of the following: von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor, E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (VHL)
      mutation status and phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) mutation and/or expression status;
      VHL downstream proteins; Apoptosis and proliferation status; Microvascular density, and if
      able to process; kinase status- phosphorylation, inactive for mitogen-activated protein (MAP)
      kinase, v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 (Akt) and kinase insert domain receptor
      (KDR) if feasible.

      II. In situations where fresh tumor may be obtained prior to and/or following therapy (4
      weeks)

        1. Assess tumor baseline and changes in signal transduction - Raf-1 proto-oncogene,
           serine/threonine kinase (Raf), mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK),
           mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (Erk), Erk phosphorylation, Akt phosphorylation
           status and Raf subcellular localization.

        2. fms-related tyrosine kinase 1 (VEGFR1) (flk1) and kinase insert domain receptor (VEGFR2)
           (flt1/KDR) status and tissue vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF).

        3. Tumor cell apoptosis - marker of proliferation Ki-67 (Ki-67), transferase dUTP nick end
           labeling (TUNEL) staining, and expression levels of BH3 interacting domain death agonist
           (BH3) domain containing proteins.

        4. Tumor blood vessel characteristics - microvessel density, fraction of immature tumor
           blood vessels, endothelial cell apoptosis.

        5. Presence of VHL downstream proteins III. To relate changes in tumor perfusion and
           vascular permeability on serial arterial spin labeled (ASL) and dynamic
           contrast-enhanced (DCE)-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to clinical outcome and
           anti-tumor effects.

      IV. Evaluate the pharmacokinetics of Sorafenib (alone and in combination) and bevacizumab in
      patients enrolled on the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) dose level of Sorafenib and bevacizumab
      representing the recommended phase II dose (RPTD) schedule (200mg once daily [QD] Sorafenib
      and 5 mg/kg intravenously [IV] Q 2 weeks of bevacizumab).

      V. To determine the steady-state trough plasma concentration of Sorafenib and trough
      concentration of Bevacizumab and relate to toxicity and correlative endpoints.

      VI. Serial analysis of circulating angiogenic cytokines (i.e. VEGF, angiopoeitin 2, basic
      fibroblast growth factor [bFGF], interleukin [IL]-8 etc) and association of findings with
      response, response duration and prediction of relapse.

      OUTLINE: This phase I dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive sorafenib tosylate orally (PO) twice daily on days 1-28 and
      bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15.

      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of sorafenib tosylate and bevacizumab until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that
      at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 6 patients are
      treated at the MTD.

      PHASE II: Patients receive sorafenib tosylate PO once daily on days 1-28 and bevacizumab IV
      over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15 at the MTD in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity*.

      [Note: *Patients may remain on protocol if only 1 of the drugs is stopped.]

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  