
    
      4.5.1 SCREENING VISIT:

      For patients eligible to participate in the study, the following procedure will be done in
      the screening visit:

        1. Patient will sign the IC (Informed Consent) form

        2. Test the eligible eye(s) of the patient will be tested

        3. The following demographic and clinical data will be collected for each tested eye and
           will be registered in the CRF:

             1. Patient's DOB and gender.

             2. Patient's diagnosis in study eye(s), based on patient's medical record, including
                media opacity (e.g. cataract or corneal opacity, if exists).

             3. Examination to check habitual correction, pinhole VA and refraction.

           4.5.2 OCT Visit 1: may take place on the same day as screening visit.

           For each eligible eye, testing will include:

           d. Refraction by auto-refractometer e. Commercial OCT scanning: i. Scanning pattern:
           Macular cube of at least 6mm (20 degrees); At least 40 B-scans per cube f. NOTAL-OCT
           V3.0 scanning: i. Scanning pattern Macular cube of the central 10 degrees of the macula
           At least 40 B-scans per cube ii. The patients will undergo an interactive tutorial that
           will teach the patient to self-operate the NOTAL-OCT V3.0 device. The tutorial will be
           done only once, using the eye with the better VA.

           iii. To check repeatability, image capturing phase will include up to 8 testing
           sessions, each ~2 minutes long.

           iv. Patients will rest for 5 minutes between sessions. v. Total examination time with
           NOTAL-OCT V3.0 is expected to be less than an hour.

           vi. In case of patient's fatigue during the testing procedure, examination session will
           be terminated.

           vii. The study staff will administer the NOTAL-OCT V3.0 "patient-experience"
           questionnaire at the 1st OCT Visit.

           4.5.3 OCT Visits 2-6:

           For each eligible eye, imaging will include:

           a. Commercial OCT scanning: i. Scanning pattern: Macular cube of at least 6mm (20
           degrees); At least 40 B-scans per cube b. NOTAL-OCT V3.0 scanning: i. Scanning pattern
           Macular cube of the central 10 degrees of the macula At least 40 B-scans per cube ii.
           Image capturing phase that will include up to 8 testing sessions, each a~2 minutes long.

           iii. Patients will rest for 5 minutes between sessions. iv. Total examination time with
           the NOTAL-OCT V3.0 is expected to be less than an hour.

           v. In case of patient's fatigue during the testing procedure, examination will be
           terminated.

           c. VA of eye(s) participating in the study. d. Clinical diagnosis of eye(s)
           participating in the study.
    
  