
    
      The human colon (large intestine) contains hundreds of species of bacteria which exist in a
      symbiotic (mutually beneficial) relationship with their human host. The number and type of
      colonic bacteria varies in different people. Recent studies show that overweight individuals
      have different types of bacteria in their colons than lean subjects, and that as overweight
      subjects lose weight their colonic bacteria change to resemble those in lean subjects. It was
      suggested that this was because the bacteria in overweight people more efficiently ferment
      dietary fiber thus producing more SCFAs and providing more energy to the body. However, this
      is not consistent with other studies showing that high fiber intakes are associated with
      reduced risk of obesity.

      Some studies have shown that overweight people have higher concentrations of SCFA in their
      stool samples. But the reasons for the difference in stool concentrations of SCFA have not
      been studied. Stool concentrations of SCFA may differ in lean and overweight people because
      of differences in type of bacteria in their colons, differences in dietary intakes or maybe
      because lean and overweight people absorb SCFA produced by bacteria differently.

      Therefore, the objectives of this study were to:

        1. determine the relationship between SCFA production and the acute effects of consuming an
           unabsorbed carbohydrate on blood SCFA, FFA, glucose, insulin, c-peptide and gut hormone
           responses in lean and overweight subjects

        2. determine the types of bacteria in the stools of lean and overweight subjects

        3. to see if the types of bacteria are correlated with body weight, the composition of the
           diet, breath gases, fecal SCFA and other demographic and lifestyle factors.

      Healthy subjects with a BMI <25 (lean) or between 25 and 35 (overweight or obese; OWO) took
      part in a 2 phase study. In phase 1 subjects recorded their dietary intake for 3 days and
      then provided a stool sample for analysis of micro-organisms and short chain fatty acids. In
      phase 2 overnight fasted subjects were studied on 3 occasions separated by about a week. On
      each occasion subjects consumed a control test meal of dextrose, or dextrose plus inulin or
      dextrose plus resistant start and had breath and blood samples taken at intervals over 4
      hours. Subjects were then given a standardized lunch and had more blood and breath samples
      taken over the next 2 hours.
    
  