
    
      BACKGROUND: Venous thromboembolism (VTE) remains the most common cause of maternal mortality
      in the developed world. VTE is up to 10 times more common in pregnant women than non-pregnant
      women of comparable age. More than a third of pregnancy related VTE occur during the brief
      postpartum period (6 weeks). When compared with vaginal delivery, cesarean delivery further
      increases the risk of pregnancy associated VTE by three-fold. Pregnancy associated VTE is
      unique in that isolated iliac vein thrombosis is more likely and long term morbidity
      (post-phlebitic syndrome) is common.

      There is an absence of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of thromboprophylaxis after
      C-section to guide practice. Many national societies have guidelines on thromboprophylaxis
      however these are not evidence based and compliance with these guidelines is poor.
      Thromboprophylaxis may be associated with adverse effects (bleeding, heparin induced
      thrombocytopenia, skin reactions), inconvenience and cost. It is critical that the efficacy
      and safety of thromboprophylaxis following cesarean delivery be assessed in well designed and
      conducted randomized trials.

      OBJECTIVES: We are conducting a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled pilot study. The
      pilot study seeks to answer the question: Is a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled
      multicentre trial of low molecular weight heparin thromboprophylaxis feasible in moderate to
      high risk women post cesarean section with DVT detected by pelvic vein (MRV) or leg vein (leg
      compression ultrasound) imaging? Our ultimate goal is to determine:

        1. Is LMWH effective in preventing postpartum DVT following cesarean section in women at
           moderate to high risk of VTE?

        2. Is LMWH safe in preventing postpartum DVT following cesarean section in women at
           moderate to high risk of VTE?

        3. Is LMWH cost effective in preventing postpartum DVT following cesarean section in women
           at moderate to high risk of VTE?

      STUDY DESIGN: We propose a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled pilot study of
      prophylactic LMWH in women at moderate to high risk for VTE following cesarean section.
      Eligible, consenting and randomized participants will receive once-daily injections of study
      drug (4,500 IU tinzaparin sodium (Innohep®;) or placebo) within 6 to 24 hours postpartum and
      continue until 3 to 7 days postpartum. On the day of hospital discharge, bilateral leg
      imaging with compression leg ultrasounds and pelvic vein imaging with MRV will be completed.
      The primary outcome will be adjudicated DVT documented on ultrasounds or MRV on the day of
      hospital discharge. Secondary outcomes will include symptomatic DVT and PE, death from PE,
      major and minor bleeding, HIT during the six week postpartum period. All outcomes will be
      adjudicated by an independent committee of experts blinded to study drug allocation.

      With a sample size of 134 patients we will have over 80% power to detect a 50% relative risk
      reduction in the primary outcome event rate and a large enough sample to determine the
      feasibility objectives of the pilot study (i.e. obtain a precise estimate of the primary
      outcome event rate [DVT], a precise estimate of the multicentre recruitment rate, feasibility
      and acceptability of blinded study drug and placebo administration, feasibility of obtaining
      local study centre MRV and central interpretation of MRV and a preliminary relative risk
      reduction estimate with study drug compared to placebo to inform final study sample size
      determination).

      RELEVANCE: Maternal mortality is a devastating outcome with far reaching emotional and
      societal implications. Evidence to guide thromboprophylaxis in women at risk for the number 1
      cause of maternal mortality is required.
    
  