
    
      Design, materials and methods:

      The project is divided in two phases. In Phase 1 the project's intervention is developed; in
      Phase 2 the intervention is tested. Phase 2 will be conducted as a feasibility study.

      Recruitment:

      Based on experience from previous studies, we know the target group can be difficult to
      recruit and maintain in a course of treatment. We expect that 10-15 patients belonging to
      each provider-number will meet the project's inclusion criteria. To obtain sufficient
      patients for the project, we aim to include 20 general practitioners (individual
      provider-numbers). Accordingly, it is realistic to assume that around 75 patients undergo
      screening in general practice.

      Recruitment of general practitioners will be done by sending written information about
      project participation and an invitation to participate. Only general practitioners who have
      one or several practice nurse(s) will be invited. The written invitation will be followed by
      a telephone call to all invitees to identify those practitioners wishing to participate.

      Intervention:

      Phase 1: Development of intervention:

      The aim of Phase 1 is to design an intervention based on the experiences and perspectives of
      the involved stakeholders regarding how to optimize detection and treatment of somatic
      disease among persons with severe mental disease. The project rests on the fundamental idea
      that it is crucial to involve all relevant stakeholders as early as in the development phase
      if the intervention is to be effective and feasible to implement in practice. This phase
      includes 1) meetings with key stakeholders in the field, 2) observations and interviews
      within the Mental Health Centre Copenhagen and Copenhagen Municipality, 3) multiple project
      meetings involving all sectors in the project as well as on-going monitoring by the project
      group.

      Phase 2: Testing of the intervention:

      The intervention is divided in two parts: a screening intervention and a treatment
      intervention. The testing of the interventions is conducted as a feasibility study.

      Evaluation:

      The evaluation is twofold:

        1. Evaluation of the effect of the intervention

        2. Evaluation of the implementation process
    
  