
    
      With a growing aging population, the number of persons with chronic conditions continues to
      escalate and challenges related to chronic care quality, effectiveness and cost remain
      unresolved. Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHC) have experienced increasing numbers of
      patient visits for chronic conditions, and FQHC patients are more likely to have serious
      chronic conditions when compared to patients being cared for by non-FQHC providers.
      Effectively managing multiple chronic conditions is particularly challenging for both
      patients and health professionals, and costs of care rise as the number of co-morbid
      conditions increases. FQHCs primarily serve patients with public insurance or those who are
      uninsured. Consequently, simultaneously controlling costs and improving chronic care is a
      critical issue for the FQHC system. Two approaches that have been used to improve health
      status and reduce health care utilization are preventive home visiting and patient activation
      counseling. Preventive home visiting allows for multidimensional assessment and
      individualized, patient-centered care, and there is wide agreement that engaging patients to
      be an active part of the care process is an essential element of the quality of care. This
      concept is known as "health activation".

      The Chronic Care Intervention (CCI) combines home visiting with health activation coaching
      and has resulted in improved health status and reduced expenditures (Preliminary Studies).
      Implementing the CCI for aging adults with multimorbidity (2 or more chronic conditions) and
      high baseline acute care utilization, allows us to test and expand the efficacy, external
      validity and cost effectiveness of the proposed intervention model. The investigators seek to
      improve patients' and FQHCs' abilities to effectively manage chronic conditions and reduce
      acute care use. This contribution is significant because it potentially extends our knowledge
      about effective community partnerships and best practices that can enhance the effectiveness
      of health homes in providing patient-centered team-based care for patients with
      multimorbidity and high baseline health care utilization.
    
  