
    
      Hypothesis: The interventions follow-up of patients with Crohn's Disease or Ulcerative
      Colitis active moderate-high complexity based on the incorporation of information
      technologies and communication, to improve monitoring of the presence of inflammatory
      activity, adherence to treatment and drug toxicity, increase the proportion of inactive
      patients (clinical remission) at 6 months follow-up and thus improve clinical outcomes and
      health outcomes (HRQOL, satisfaction) and reduces the consumption of health resources.

      Goals:

        -  Primary: To assess the effectiveness of intervention Teccu to achieve clinical remission
           of IBD patients with moderate-high compared to usual care to these patients (G_control)
           and assisted call with nurses (G_AT) complexity.

        -  Secondary: - To evaluate the effectiveness of interventions to improve HRQOL and
           satisfaction with treatment in patients GTECCU intervention group compared to G_control
           and G_AT in the 6 months follow up. - To assess the safety of the intervention Teccu
           judging by adverse events that require a doctor's visit or unscheduled nursing. -
           Describe the use of health resources (surgeries, hospitalizations, emergency room visits
           and outpatient visits) by patients of G-Teccu, G_control and G_AT in the 6 months follow
           up. - Evaluate the effectiveness of intervention in the reduction of a combined endpoint
           of hospital emergency room visits and unscheduled patients in the intervention group
           compared to G-Teccu G_control and G_AT within 6 months of follow-up consultations.

      Description:

      The proposed intervention is based on the extent of chronic GeCronic program that is
      currently being developed at the Hospital La Fe de Valencia for comprehensive management of
      chronic conditions of high complexity using the technology platform NOMHAD. NOMHADchronic is
      a system designed to allow management services to deploy chronically ill supported by
      technology. The product consists of different modules that seek to cover all aspects of that
      management: clinical information on the status of patients according to their respective
      conditions, support for the coordination of the actors during the care process, logistics
      management and human resources, integration with accessories and monitoring devices. Of all
      the modules of the platform, NOMHADcore out as the module which houses all the functionality
      on clinical and care management of patients. There follows a detailed description of the
      module, its structure and operation.
    
  