
    
      Post hepatectomy liver failure (PHLF) is one of the most severe complications after liver
      re-section. Preoperative evaluation of liver function is complicated and imprecise. The
      volume and function needed for each individual patient is unknown and the methods used for
      evaluation are uncertain. Arbitrary volume limits have been postulated but still there are
      patients dying of PHLF with volumes well above these limits.

      On multivariate analyses, age ≥70 years, pre-operative chemotherapy, steatosis, resection of
      >3 segments, vascular reconstruction and intraoperative blood loss >300 mL significantly
      increased the risk of PHLF. Combining ISGLS grades B and C groups resulted in a high
      sensitivity for predicting mortality compared to the 50-50 rule and Peak bilirubin >7 mg/dL.

      For patients with low volume of the future liver remnant (FLR) there are techniques to
      in-crease the volume prior to resection. Portal vein embolization (PVE) is an established
      meth-od, whereas associating liver partition and portal vein ligation for staged hepatectomy
      (ALPPS) is relatively new. Augmentation of the volume of the FLR is indicated for patients
      with FLR less than 20%, provided no intrinsic liver disease exists, 30% after chemotherapy
      and 40% for patients with compromised liver function, for example liver cirrhosis.

      Both methods, PVE and ALPPS, have high risks of morbidity and mortality, especially post
      hepatectomy liver failure (PHLF), why other alternatives are evaluated. Liver venous
      depri-vation (LVD), adds liver vein/s occlusion with a plug/plugs when PVE is performed or
      after PVE. Preliminary data indicate that the growth rate with this percutaneous method is
      equivalent to ALPPS with function following in parallel. Still all three methods add one
      extra treatment stage to increase liver volume of the FLR but still suffers the risk of PHLF.
      Furthermore, a large group of patients is treated with one stage hepatectomy where the volume
      and function also may be limited.

      Liver volume estimation has been the main method to ensure safe resections, but as many
      studies have explored functional tests with the goal of increasing safety. The most used ones
      are Indocyanine green (ICG), maximum liver function capacity (LiMax) , Child Pugh (CP) score
      and Hepatobiliary scintigraphy (HBS). Still, none of these, alone or in combination have been
      able to completely ameliorate this dreadful complication. In addition, the cut-off levels for
      resection for each of these methods are arbitrary, mainly because PHLF is relative-ly rare as
      are major liver resections. Furthermore, all the tests are time consuming, costly and
      demanding for the patients.

      The development of liver gadoxetate (=Primovist) MRI has given hope that this method may
      provide similar information as that of hepatobiliary scintigraphy (HBS), but with a higher
      resolution of liver function on a segmental level and at the same time enable liver volume
      estimation of the FLR as well as tumour burden and anatomy. In addition, MRI may also add
      quantitative information regarding steatosis, fibrosis (MRE) and iron content, factors
      previ-ously not included in any test used to estimate liver function.

      So, with one modality most of the information gathered with all the other methods could
      possibly be incorporated into one.

      Data regarding the increase in volume, as well as function, during the first week after
      PVE/ALPPS/LVD is sparse. Previous studies have shown that after PVE the increase in func-tion
      in the non-embolized lobe is larger than the increase in volume. The opposite has been shown
      for patients operated with ALPPS where the increase in volume was larger than the increase in
      function.

      HBS has become common in several centers to estimate the liver function prior to major
      hepatectomy, including TSH and ALPPS. One disadvantage is the relatively poor spa-tial
      resolution which therefore necessitates another radiological study to assess the tumor burden
      in the liver. Dynamic gadoxetate MRI has been shown to be comparable with HBS to assess the
      liver function, with a very strong correlation between the two methods. Also, in PVE
      patients, it strongly indicates the risk of PHLF after resection when there is no in-creased
      enhancement in the FLR after 2 weeks.

      Liver MRI is increasingly used prior to liver resection for analysis of liver tumour burden
      and anatomy. The long-term goal of this project is to find simple functional measures that
      can be obtained from the standard clinical MRI used today in everyday clinical practice. In
      this way we would ultimately have a method to both evaluate segmental function (gadoxetate),
      fat and iron storage, fibrosis, volume, tumour burden and anatomy.

      Study aim The overall aim of this retrospective study is to evaluate if a preoperative MRI
      with liver specific contrast agent (gadoxetate, aka Primovist) add segmental functional
      information and if this information can be used to predict PHLF more accurate than with FLR
      calculation alone. Thus, the result of the functional analysis will be used to identify
      factors in the MRI examination that correlates to the risk of PHLF. Based on the gadoxetate
      MRI data, a pro-spective clinical trial will be designed afterwards to validate the results
      of this retrospective study. The final goal is to establish a pre-operative workup based on a
      Primovist MRI proto-col, providing a robust and predictive functional and volumetric measure
      in all preoperative examinations. This might contribute to a more accurate risk assessment of
      patients sched-uled for hepatcetomy, thus reducing both post-operative, PHLF related
      morbidity and mortality.
    
  