
    
      1. Background: The research team has developed and pilot tested a Living with Hope Program
           (LWHP) for caregivers of family members with advanced cancer. The LWHP includes viewing
           an award winning Living with Hope video followed by writing a daily journal for two
           weeks. The pilot test findings suggested that the LWHP is an acceptable and feasible
           intervention for use by family caregivers. Although the LWHP shows promise in
           potentially increasing hope and quality of life, further testing and development is
           needed. Questions remain as to: a) what are the mechanisms through which the LWHP
           affects outcomes and b) how long it is effective?

        2. Purpose: The overall purpose of this time series mixed method study is the further
           development and testing of the LWHP by:

             1. Determining the mechanisms of the LWHP by testing the LWHP conceptual model in
                which self-efficacy and loss and grief are hypothesized intervening variables for
                changes in hope, and subsequently quality of life among rural women caring for
                persons with advanced cancer. In the LWHP model we hypothesize that administration
                of the LWHP will improve self-efficacy and decrease feelings of loss and grief.
                This will lead to a positive influence on the proximal outcome of hope and the
                distal outcome of quality of life.

             2. Exploring the longitudinal effects of the LWHP on hope, quality of life and health
                services utilization among older rural women caring for spouses with advanced
                cancer. We want to determine if the LWHP has benefits beyond what was found in the
                pilot. The team will compare baseline scores of hope and quality of life to scores
                after the LWHP over time and health services utilization (one year prospective
                number of physician visits and prescriptions compared to the year before the LWHP).
                This study is unique, as it will follow caregivers over a one-year period. As
                approximately 50% of these caregivers will become bereaved one month after study
                enrolment; rather than dropping these caregivers from the study, the team felt that
                retaining these subjects would add to the understanding of hope, quality of life
                and health care utilization among caregivers by continuing to follow them through
                bereavement. Thus, patterns of hope, quality of life and health care services
                utilization will be delineated over time for active and bereaved caregivers.

        3. Research Plan: Using a time-series embedded mixed method design, baseline measures were
           collected from 122 rural women caring for a person who has advanced cancer. Data
           collection began January 2009 in 4 sites: Saskatoon Cancer Agency, Alan Blair Cancer
           Agency, Sunrise Health Region and Regina/Qu'Appelle Health Region. Data collection in
           Alberta started July 2010 through Alberta Health Services Community Cancer Clinics, and
           in September 2010 through a mail out through the Alberta Cancer Registry. In January
           2011 subjects were enrolled through a mail out through the Saskatchewan Cancer Registry.
           Subjects who consented to participate in the full study received the LWHP. Subjects were
           then post tested on the variables at 1 and 2 weeks, 3, 6 and 12 months. Journal entries
           were copied and transcribed.

        4. Data Analysis: Path Analysis will be used to test the model post LWHP at 1 and 2 weeks.
           Two-factor ANCOVA will determine patterns over time and Cortazzi's narrative analysis
           will be used to analyze the subjects journals completed as part of the LWHP.

        5. Significance: This study will contribute to the refinement of the Living with Hope
           Program that may improve quality of life and personal health of older rural women caring
           for their spouse with advanced cancer and those who subsequently become bereaved. The
           findings will also increase our understanding of the factors influencing hope, quality
           of life and health in a vulnerable, understudied population that is increasing in
           numbers with the aging of Canada's population. Family care giving is what sustains
           patients at the end of life, and with changing demographics and diminishing resources
           there is a potential that every Canadian will be an informal caregiver at some time.
           Effective psychosocial supportive interventions, such as the LWHP are critical for their
           support and well-being.
    
  