
    
      In this single group longitudinal study, the investigators propose that functional images
      from magnetic resonance (MR) methods performed at baseline and after 6 cycles of neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy (NACT) are in agreement with histological findings from pre-treatment biopsy and
      post-treatment surgically excised tissue. MR methods will be performed at baseline
      (pre-treatment) and after the 1st, 3rd and 6th (post-treatment) cycles of NACT treatment. The
      investigators hypothesise that specific physiological changes detected through MR methods are
      a manifestation of tumour response to NACT confirmed by histology and radiological assessment
      (Hypothesis 1). The investigators further hypothesise that early sensitivity to physiological
      changes manifesting from tumour response to NACT can be revealed by MR measurements after the
      first and third cycle of treatment (Hypothesis 2).

      Research Question 1: Is there a difference in physiological parameters revealed by MR
      measurements at baseline and after completion of NACT?

      Research Question 2: Do the physiological measurements at the completion of NACT from MR
      measures agree with histological findings?

      Research Question 3: Is there a difference between MR measurements at baseline and after the
      first and third cycle of NACT?

      Research Question 4: Is there a difference in MR measurements at baseline, first and third
      cycle of NACT, between positive treatment responders and non-responders.

      MR measurements will be compared against clinical and study specific results from
      histological analysis and radiological assessment of MRI, mammography and ultrasound measures
      of tumour treatment response. Information collected from a health questionnaire will
      supplement interpretation of the data.

      To test the effects of NACT on specific aspects of tumour physiology, paired t-tests will be
      performed on MR measures of lactate concentration, lipid composition and diffusion
      parameters, between baseline and post-treatment assessments (Research Question 1).

      To examine the relationship between MR measurements and histology, correlation analysis will
      be conducted between baseline and post-treatment assessments. MR measures will be correlated
      against corresponding percentage changes in histological findings between biopsy and tumour
      excision (Research Question 2).

      To evaluate MR measures as early markers of NACT efficacy, paired t-tests will be carried out
      between MR measures at pre-treatment and post 1st and 3rd cycles of NACT treatment (Research
      Question 3), with independent group difference determined between responders and
      non-responders (Research Question 4).
    
  