
    
      This study validates effectiveness of educational materials that the investigators developed
      due to the rates of completing advanced care planning are considerably low and patients
      relatively less less preferred to receive palliative care and hospice at terminal status,
      which is led by the lack of information available to patients; whether these decision aids
      change end-of-life care preference, elevate the preference of patients toward advanced care
      planning, reduce the burden of decision making compare to educational resources that are
      currently available.

      Previous studies inform that educational video about advanced care planning increases the
      knowledge of care for life prolongation, and affects the preference towards care for life
      prolongation and palliative care. However, being no resources are provided and orally
      explained, patients in the control group don't have enough time to fully aware of the
      information, also, since those studies are done mostly in the western countries, 'discussing
      with family members or guardians' part is missing, which is critical under contemporary
      Korean medical society. This study provides educational resources to both the intervention
      group and the control group and identifies if advanced care planning is discussed with family
      members or guardians.

      Primary outcome of this study is end-of-life care preference. Participants of this study will
      fill out the baseline questionnaire about end-of-life care preference, end-of-life discussion
      and documentation, knowledge of ACP, etc. After that, participants will be allocated equally
      into the intervention group and the control group. The intervention group will receive a book
      and videos about advanced care planning which are based on Smart Management Strategy for
      Health(SMASH). The control group will receive a book and videos about pain control for cancer
      patients that were provided by Korea National Cancer Center. After reading and watching the
      educational materials, patients will get another questionnaire about knowledge of ACP,
      satisfaction on the materials, end-of-life care preference, and decision role preference.
      Participants will read and watch the materials for about 6-8 weeks and then they will be
      asked to complete another questionnaire which includes every questions from the baseline and
      post-intervention. The result from all three questionnaires (baseline, post-intervention,
      7-week questionnaire) will be compiled and be compared with one another.
    
  