
    
      Background Colonoscopy is instrumental in colon cancer prevention as through polypectomy it
      may interfere with the adenoma-carcinoma sequence, thus resulting in a clear survival
      benefit.

      However, not all adenomatous polyps are identified during a colonoscopy. The overall
      false-negative ("miss") rate for colonic adenomas is estimated to be as high as 24%,
      according to studies of same-day, tandem colonoscopies. In addition, flat and depressed
      lesions often remain undetected during white-light colonoscopy.

      Low-cost optimization of existing resources, such as use of a second observer or water-aided
      colonoscopy, were recently found to be able to significantly increase colon adenoma detection
      rate (ADR).

      Previous studies that examined whether the presence of an additional observer, more
      specifically a GI fellow, during colonoscopy can enhance detection of all polyps and adenomas
      yielded conflicting results. Of note, all of the aforementioned studies were retrospective
      and robust evidence derived from well-designed randomized controlled trials (RCTs) are
      lacking.

      .

      Technical procedure In the control arm all colonoscopy will be performed by full-time
      board-certified gastroenterologists who have each done more than 5000 colonoscopy
      examinations.

      In the investigation arm colonoscopy will be performed by gastroenterology fellows. The
      fellows will always start the case and proceed generally until they are unable to make
      further progress despite "coaching" from the staff attending.

      During the procedures with fellows, the staff attending will always actively participate in
      the entire procedure and assess for the presence of any lesions.

      Colonoscopies will be performed by using only high-definition white-light (HDWL) scopes
      (Olympus 180 series CF H180).

      Bowel preparation will be uniform and consist of 4 L of polyethylene glycol. All detected
      lesions will be endoscopically removed and samples will be sent to pathologists for
      histological diagnosis.

      Treatment strategy Patients complying with the eligibility criteria will be randomized in a
      1:1 fashion to undergo colonoscopy performed by a trainee (under attending physician
      supervision) or colonoscopy performed by an experienced physician.

      Sample size calculation and statistical considerations On the basis of previous retrospective
      comparative reports, the study is designed to detect an increase in ADR by 8%. Therefore, 812
      patients (406 per arm) will be required to have a 80% power to detect the target difference
      at a 0.05 significance level (two sided). The primary endpoint will be ADR. In order to
      collect the estimated sample size, up to 1 year of recruiting will be needed.
    
  