
    
      It is a phase II single-arm clinical trial. The primary endpoint is diagnostic sensitivity of
      the Ga-68 PSMA ligand in prostate cancer. The four outcomes (true positive, false positive,
      true negative, and false negative) can be defined based on the process as Figure 1 and
      formulated in a 2×2 contingency table, and the related sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy
      will be calculated based on the test results of enrolled subjects. All subjects enrolled must
      meet eligibility criteria based on the inclusion/exclusion criteria detailed in Section 5.4
      and 5.5.

      Time elapsed from the last PSA determination until PET was no more than 2 weeks in all
      patients. Patients will receive complementary workups including MRI (for patients suspicious
      for local or regional node recurrence), bone scan (for patients suspicious for distant bone
      metastasis), contrast CT (for patients suspicious for visceral organ metastasis or lung
      metastasis) subsequently after Ga68-PSMA ligand PET/CT scan no longer than two weeks.

      All of the images were interpreted by a team of two nuclear medicine physicians and one
      radiologist. In cases of questionable findings, the decision was made by consensus of at
      least two observers using pre-specified criteria. All of the readers were blinded to the
      patient's clinical history, blood tests, and previous imaging findings. If patient have
      consistent findings between Ga68 PSMA ligand PET/CT and other complementary workups, the
      patients are deemed as true positive or negative. For patients with discrepancy image
      findings between Ga68 PSMA ligand PET/CT and the other complementary workups, biopsy, needle
      aspiration or operation will be arranged for histology confirmation. The final results of
      Ga68-PSMA ligand PET/CT scan will be depend on the consensus of multidisciplinary tumor board
      based on all integrated informations.
    
  