
    
      This is a multi-center, single-agent, open-label clinical trial to be conducted in serial
      cohorts of patients with squamous cell cancer of the head and neck receiving escalating doses
      of GC4419 in combination with standard chemoradiation.

      The study will follow a standard 3+3 cohort design typical for phase I clinical trials, in
      which 3 patients are initially entered at a given dose level and observed for dose-limiting
      toxicity (DLT). For the purposes of managing dose escalation, the DLT observation window will
      be defined as the first dose of GC4419 through 24 hours following the last dose of GC4419 for
      an individual patient. If zero of three patients in a dose cohort experience a DLT during the
      DLT observation window, enrollment to the next higher dose level will begin. If 1 of 3
      patients experiences a DLT within the DLT observation window, 3 additional patients will be
      added to the dose level. If no DLTs are observed in the 3 additional patients, dose
      escalations will resume with enrollment to the next higher dose level. If ≥2 patients in a
      cohort experience a DLT within the DLT observation window, that dose will be considered to
      have exceeded the MTD. The MTD is defined as the highest dose where ≤ 1 of 6 patients
      experience a DLT during the DLT observation period.

      Decisions to expand a dose cohort or proceed to dose escalation will be made after review of
      the safety data at a dose level by the Sponsor in collaboration with investigators and
      appropriately qualified consultants, as needed.

      Planned dose levels will be 15, 30, 50, 75, 112, 150, 175, 210, and 250 mg/day, with
      subsequent dose increments of 50 mg/day, as data warrant or until an MTD is determined. These
      dose levels represent maximum dose escalation increments. At any time, if ongoing review of
      safety and other data warrant, intermediate dose levels may be studied (with 3-6 patients
      enrolled per dose level). These intermediate dose levels may be selected below the next
      planned dose level or between two dose levels previously studied. If an MTD has not been
      determined after the 250 mg dose level, further dose escalation may be undertaken at
      increments of 50 mg/day.

      Initial dose escalation will proceed on a treatment schedule wherein GC4419 is administered
      prior to IMRT on each of the first 14 scheduled days of IMRT. Separate dose cohorts will also
      be studied wherein GC4419 is administered on each of the first 20, 25, 30, or all 35 days of
      IMRT (four, five, six, or seven weeks of Active Treatment). Daily dosing of GC4419 by this
      schedule will begin at a dose that has been shown not to exceed the MTD by the original,
      14-dose schedule. Further dose levels may be selected following the same planned dose level
      guidelines (including possible intermediate dose levels) and rules for determining an MTD as
      for the 14-dose schedule. At a given daily dose level, extension of the dosing period may be
      undertaken in increments of one week (5 doses, M-F) per cohort, in successive cohorts. For
      example, dosing for 20 doses (4 weeks) may proceed at a given dose level only if the MTD has
      not been exceeded for the same daily dose given for 14 doses; or, dosing for 25 doses (5
      weeks) may proceed at a given daily dose level only if the MTD has not been exceeded for the
      same daily dose given for 20 doses (4 weeks); etc. Note again that, for any cohort and
      treatment duration, the DLT observation period will extend to 24 hours after the last GC4419
      dose for an individual patient. Note also that an extension of dosing duration and an
      escalation of the daily dose in the same step is not permitted.

      In addition, a separate dosing cohort may be concurrently enrolled to receive 30 mg/day, M-F,
      for 35 doses (7 weeks), based on the calculation that the total dose administered to a given
      patient (1050 mg) will not exceed the total dose received by 3 patients at 75 mg/d x 14 doses
      (1050 mg), which was previously determined to be safe (i.e., without any patients having
      experienced a DLT). If this dose and schedule does not exceed the MTD as defined in this
      protocol, enrollment of additional 7-week dosing cohorts may be undertaken by applying the
      same total dose approach to future dose levels administered for <7 weeks without exceeding
      the MTD.

      On the 14-day schedule, missed doses of GC4419 may be made up prior to study day 28. On
      schedules employing administration of GC4419 for 20 or more doses, M-F, no GC4419 doses will
      be made up.

      On any schedule, additional patients may be studied at dose levels not exceeding the MTD to
      characterize the safety, pharmacokinetics, and potential efficacy of GC4419 at those dose
      levels.

      At least one recommended Phase 2 dose, by at least one schedule, will be identified for
      GC4419. More than one dose may be identified for further assessment of exposure/response
      relationships. Dose(s) recommended for further study will be at or below the MTD, with
      exposure and preliminary efficacy data suggesting that they may warrant further investigation
      for safety and efficacy.

      Treatment will be administered on an outpatient basis. Supportive care measures including
      those directed at controlling symptoms resulting from the patient's malignancy are allowed at
      the discretion of the treating investigator.

      Pharmacokinetic samples will be obtained from all patients.

      Primary Objectives:

        1. To assess the safety and tolerability of GC4419 when administered with standard
           chemoradiation, by observation of the frequency and severity of adverse events with the
           study regimen

        2. To determine a Maximum Tolerated Dose/Recommended Phase 2 dose and schedule of GC4419
           for further study when administered in combination with standard chemoradiation to
           patients with squamous cell cancers of the mouth and oropharynx

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To determine the pharmacokinetic profile of GC4419 when administered in combination with
           standard chemoradiation

        2. To determine the incidence, severity, time to first onset and duration of oral mucositis
           in patients receiving GC4419 when administered in combination with standard
           chemoradiation

        3. To preliminarily assess the tumor response to standard chemoradiation when administered
           in conjunction with GC4419

      Exploratory Objectives:

        1. To determine the pharmacodynamic effects of GC4419

        2. To correlate pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic effects of GC4419 with the incidence,
           severity and time to first onset of oral mucositis

        3. To evaluate the potential synergistic effect of GC4419 with chemoradiation on tumor
           response using pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analyses

        4. To evaluate the effect of GC4419 on specific late toxicities (xerostomia and trismus) of
           standard chemoradiation

        5. To collect information about health resource utilization

        6. To collect information about health-related quality of life (Oral Mucositis Daily
           Questionnaire)
    
  