
    
      MATRALS AND METHODS This retrospective comparative study was approved by our institutional
      review board.

      Patient Selection This study targeted patients who had undergone arthroscopic rotator cuff
      repair, which was performed by a single surgeon in our institution between January 2010 and
      January 2014.

      The inclusion criteria were as follows: (1) a full-thickness superoposterior rotator cuff
      tear larger than 5 cm(19) or complete superoposterior rotator cuff tear(24) identified on
      preoperative MRI and intra operative arthroscopic findings, (2) a follow-up MRI evaluation at
      6 months after surgery, and (3) a clinical assessment performed a minimum 2 years
      postoperatively. The exclusion criteria were as follows: (1) small, medium, or large
      tears(21); (2) a partial-thickness tear; (3) an isolated subscapularis tear; (4) failure of
      subscapularis repair at the time of the index procedure; (5) previous rotator cuff surgery of
      the affected shoulder; (6) concomitant surgery for glenohumeral joint instability or other
      bony procedure; and (7) substantial glenohumeral arthritis (Hamada classification29 grade 4)
      or inflammatory arthropathy of the affected shoulder.

      Tear Classification Rotator cuff tear patterns were classified into the following 3
      categories according to the tear size of the subscapularis tendon on preoperative MRI:
      I-massive tear, intact subscapularis tendon; S-massive tear, tear involving half or less than
      half of the subscapularis tendon; and L-massive tear, tear extending to more than half of the
      subscapularis tendon.

      Clinical Assessments Clinical data were recorded on the day before surgery and at final
      follow-up (at least 24 months postoperatively) by fellowship trainees. Four outcome measures
      were used in this study: VAS pain score, ASES score, Constant score, and active shoulder ROM.
      The ASES score involves a score summation using a 100-point system (50 points for daily
      function and 50 points for pain).

      Radiographic Evaluation A standard set of plain radiographs was obtained as follows:
      anteroposterior (AP) views in internal rotation and external rotation, supraspinatus outlet
      view, axillary view, and Rockwood view (30 caudally angled AP view). We evaluated fatty
      degeneration of the rotator cuff muscle preoperatively with MRI, using the 5-stage grading
      system27: grade 0, no fatty deposit; grade 1, some fatty streaks; grade 2, more muscle than
      fat; grade 3, as much muscle as fat; and grade 4, less muscle than fat. The integrity of
      rotator cuff repair was determined by ultrasonographic evaluation. All patients underwent a
      postoperative ultrasonographic examination at 4.5 months and 12 months or later after
      surgery. One specialized radiologist with more than 10 years of experience in musculoskeletal
      ultrasonography performed all follow-up examinations using an HDI 5000 system or an IU-22
      system (both from Philips Healthcare). He did not receive any information on intraoperative
      findings and subsequent operative procedures. An ultrasonographic evaluation of the rotator
      cuff was performed according to the standard protocol.42 The ultrasound criteria for the
      diagnosis of full-thickness rotator cuff tears were as follows5,54: (1) absence of
      observation of the supraspinatus tendon attributable to retraction under the
      acromioclavicular joint; (2) localized absence or focal discontinuity of the rotator cuff
      with concomitant loss of the normal anterior arc of the subdeltoid bursa; (3) loss of the
      normal supraspinatus substance with widening of the gap between the supraspinatus and biceps
      tendons, including exposure of a bare area of bone and cartilage; (4) a hypoechoic or
      anechoic cleft extending through the entire substance of the rotator cuff; and (5)
      coexistence of fluid in the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa and/or presence of fluid in the
      sheath of the long head of the biceps tendon. Partialthickness tears were diagnosed based on
      the presence of a focal hypoechoic or anechoic defect in the tendon, involving either the
      bursal or articular surface and manifesting in 2 perpendicular planes.54
    
  