
    
      This is a multicenter prospective double-blinded randomized controlled trial comparing 253
      patients with clean-contaminated (Class 2)or contaminated (Class3) abdominal wall ventral
      hernias undergoing single staged repair. Soft Mesh by CR Bard, a macroporous monofilament
      polypropylene permanent mesh will be compared to Strattice mesh by Lifecell, a non-cross
      linked porcine dermal biologic graft for the single stage open reconstruction of
      clean-contaminated and contaminated abdominal wall defects. The primary outcome variable will
      be the absence of surgical site occurence requiring procedural intervention and the absence
      of a hernia recurrence from the time of surgery up to 24 months of postoperative follow up.

      Patients undergoing open ventral hernia repair for clean-contamination and contaminated
      abdominal wall hernias meeting inclusion criteria will be randomized to receive a synthetic
      mesh or a biologic mesh. Randomization will be carried out using computer-generated
      randomization blocks at the time of enrollment. Stratified randomized will be used with the
      strata formulated by medical center then by clean-contaminated or contaminated surgical site
      class. The Investigator will be blinded to patient randomization assignment until the point
      of intra-operative device use following final CDC wound classification, whereas patients and
      co-investigators responsible for data analysis will remain blinded to patient randomization
      until the conclusion of the study period. As such, a double-blinded study protocol will be
      maintained. Patients randomized to synthetic mesh will receive SoftMesh™ (CR Bard, Murray
      Hill, NJ) and those patients randomized to biologic mesh will receive Strattice™ (Lifecell,
      Branchburg NJ). The use of biologic and synthetic mesh in contaminated fields is considered
      experimental however the selection of these prosthetics was based on a careful review of the
      multiple animal models, preclinical data, and our own clinical experience with each of these
      materials placed in both clean and contaminated abdominal wall reconstructions. Surgical
      wounds will be classified based on CDC(Centers for Disease Control) criteria and only Class 2
      and 3 wounds will be included in this study.

      Postoperatively patients will be evaluated for signs and symptoms of complications along with
      presence or absence of Surgical Site Infections per CDC guidelines, presence or absence of
      surgical site occurrences (SSOs) and any procedural interventions required to treat these
      SSOs, presence or absence of hernia recurrence and any reoperations, length of hospital stay,
      discharge date, time to return of bowel function and any readmission.

      Active participation in this study will last for 24 months and will involve one preoperative
      evaluation visit, one operative procedure visit, and 4 follow up visits. Participants will
      complete two brief survey questionnaires regarding quality of life, activities and pain.

      The second outcome will be to demonstrate that a macroporous light-weight polypropylene mesh
      is more cost effective strategy than a biologic prosthetic in clean-contaminated and
      contaminated abdominal wall reconstruction
    
  