
    
      Multicentre open-label, pragmatic, randomized controlled trial and a parallel prospective
      (non-randomized) cohort study conducted in ICUs and ICU enabled environments caring in
      critically ill COVID-19 patients.

      Participants will be adults who are mechanically ventilated with proven or suspected COVID-19
      disease or suffering from hypoxic lung failure. All centres will be required to randomize
      every available patient, as non-randomized participants can be entered into a parallel
      prospective cohort study to try to obtain the maximum amount of information available from
      the patients present to our ICUs.

      There will be variable randomized ratios of 2:1 or 1:2 to either an intravenous based
      sedation arm or an inhaled volatile-based sedation arm. This randomization will be dependent
      on availability of sedative drugs for both arms. Patients who cannot be randomized (secondary
      to technical or resource issues in some areas of the hospital) will receive intravenous or
      inhaled sedation as able in their designated unit. Sedation will be administered according to
      standard sedation practice and in keeping with current guidelines.

      Participants will remain within their sedation arms until the primary care team decides to
      stop sedation. Participants will be followed daily throughout their ICU stay for 30 days
      after enrollment and then at death or hospital discharge (whichever occurs first).

      Clinical information during ICU stay will be obtained from the patient chart, electronic
      medical records, or hospital databases. Participants will be followed using a provincial or
      hospital healthcare database to obtain survival, and hospital-free days at 60 days, 90 days
      and 365 days after enrollment.

      After hospital discharge, participants will be followed up at; 3 and 12 months to assess
      quality of life using the EQ-5D; and to assess disability using the WHODAS 2.0.
    
  