
    
      Subjects will be enrolled at up to 85 centers in the United States, Canada, Europe, and
      Australia. There will be up to 1,220 subjects in ACURATE IDE.

      The ACURATE IDE study cohorts include the following.

        -  Randomized Cohort: A prospective, multicenter, 1:1 randomized controlled trial (RCT;
           ACURATE versus a commercially available balloon-expandable SAPIEN 3™ Transcatheter Heart
           Valve or future iteration [SAPIEN 3; Edwards Lifesciences LLC, Irvine, CA, USA] or a
           commercially available self-expanding CoreValve® Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement
           System, CoreValve® Evolut™ R Recapturable TAVR System, EVOLUT™ PRO System, or future
           iteration [CoreValve; Medtronic, Inc., Dublin, Ireland]). There will be up to 1,050
           subjects in the RCT.

        -  Roll-In Cohort: A non-randomized roll-in phase with the test device. Centers that do not
           have implantation experience with the ACURATE neo™ Aortic Bioprosthesis (transfemoral
           delivery; Symetis SA, Ecublens, Switzerland) will perform at least 2 roll-in cases
           before commencing treatment in the randomized cohort. Centers with prior experience with
           ACURATE are not required to do roll-in cases. Data from roll-in subjects will be
           summarized separately from the randomized cohort and will not be included in the primary
           endpoint analysis.

        -  4D CT Imaging Substudy: Selected centers with the ability to perform high quality 4D
           computer tomography (CT) scans will include subjects in a 4D CT Imaging Substudy to
           assess the prevalence of reduced leaflet mobility and hypoattenuated leaflet thickening
           (HALT) and the relationship, if any, to clinical events. Subjects will be randomized to
           test (ACURATE) and control device.

      All subjects implanted will be followed at baseline, peri- and post-procedure, at discharge
      or 7 days post-procedure (whichever comes first), 30 days, 6 months, and then annually for up
      to 10 years post-procedure. Enrolled subjects who do not have a study device implanted will
      be assessed through 1-year post-procedure for safety/adverse events.
    
  