
    
      As frailty and medical comorbidity increases, the number of medications used increases. The
      resultant polypharmacy is intended to improve the health status; however, large observational
      studies refute this premise. In fact, polypharmacy (more than 3 medications) is associated
      with increased hospitalization (OR 3.79, 95% CI {1.33, 10.90}) and increased mortality (OR
      1.27, 95% CI {1.04, 1.56}). With increasing polypharmacy, the risk of adverse health outcomes
      increases so it is important that deprescribing initiatives are promoted to reduce medication
      use to improve patient outcomes.

      Numerous tools exist that can be used to identify Potentially Inappropriate Medications
      (PIM), including; Beer's list, STOPP/START, PRISCUS, LAROCHE, Medication Appropriateness
      Index (MAI), Drug Burden Index, Anticholinergic Drug Scale, Anticholinergic Cognitive Burden
      Scale, and numerous deprescribing tools from the Canadian Deprescribing Network. The
      implementation of these tools is not as high as it could or should be, as evidenced by
      polypharmacy data, such as the 2011 study that found 30% of Canadian seniors aged 65 to 79
      took at least five prescription medications concurrently. It is likely that medication use is
      greater among the oldest old.

      The literature is replete with evidence and tools to identify the medications that are the
      most likely to cause adverse events, however this information is not being translated into
      practice as medication use and PIM use persists in older adults. Deprescribing is the process
      of withdrawal of an inappropriate medication supervised by a healthcare professional with the
      goal of managing polypharmacy and improving outcomes. Healthcare practitioners self-identify
      that deprescribing is a challenging process. Primary care physicians have increasingly
      complex patient loads, which contributes to increased numbers of specialist involvement. This
      makes it challenging to know which medications are necessary and which can be discontinued
      and whose responsibility it is to initiate and monitor the deprescribing process. In Nova
      Scotia media has brought attention to PIM use with our high rates of benzodiazepine use.
      Recent publications have also identified high use of antipsychotics in Nova Scotia.

      Previous work suggests including a pharmacist or nurse in deprescribing helps with its
      success. Indeed, prior work suggests that culture change, and integrated primary care can
      make a small difference in polypharmacy, but that more targeted interventions with specific
      engagement of pharmacists is needed. Pharmacists have extensive training in medication use,
      effects, safety and toxicity. They can identify and resolve medication related issues.
      Pharmacists can carry out treatment plans in a collaborative environment working with
      prescribers to monitor medication adherence, effect, and toxicity. Meta-analysis has
      identified 13 pharmacist led interventions to reduce polypharmacy, which included nine in
      primary care and two in nursing homes.

      Society has a need for improved uptake of deprescribing to support appropriate drug use by
      adults. The tools and resources available have not led to widespread uptake/implementation.
      To date deprescribing remains one of the many demands on primary care providers (Family
      Physicians/Nurse Practitioners). The investigators consider the skill set of pharmacists as
      ideal to support and monitor patients as they move through the deprescribing process. The
      investigators recognize that deprescribing cannot happen without extensive communication with
      primary care providers so that all members of the healthcare team are aware and engaged with
      the patient and their deprescribing. In considering this collaborative practice clinics with
      pharmacists embedded in the practice have been identified as sites where pharmacist led
      deprescribing can successfully support patients through the deprescribing process. This
      pharmacist led deprescribing process will conform to the standard of care using an evidence
      supported framework for a selected number of drugs and using recognized deprescribing
      algorithms and guidelines.
    
  