
    
      In this preclinical validation study patients suspicious of prostate cancer who will undergo
      initial prostate biopsy are going to be asked for blood samples during a routine visit. Each
      patient will have had an MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) as part of the care before
      performing the biopsy. The investigators will draw a total of 49 ml peripheral blood from
      consented patients before the initial diagnostic biopsy is taken. Within this project,
      validation of liquid biopsy assays for early detection of prostate cancer patients is the
      primary goal.

      In order to determine CTC numbers, 21 ml of blood will be subjected to either CTC-Capture,
      and 28 ml for the EPIDROP analysis according to standard protocol (For analysis of
      circulating blood products plasma, analysis of tumor specific mutations or promotor
      methylation, analysis of extracellular vesicles and microRNA). The investigators will also
      analyze the Prostate Health Index marker from the additional EDTA tube (7 ml).

      The investigators will assess whether CTC counts and/or detection of tumor specific blood
      products will provide discrimination between the men with histologically proven prostate
      cancer and agematched non-cancer controls as well as identification of high-risk PCa
      patients.

      Furthermore, the investigators will compare results from tested liquid biopsy assay with
      current standard of early prostate cancer detection using both serum PSA and digital rectal
      examination, MRImp and PSA density.

      The discovery phase is a non-blind study on 70 subjects with elevated PSA, and 50 negative
      controls (Healthy patients no suspicion of prostate cancer; PSA<2.5). The 70 patients are
      patients with suspected prostate cancer and will undergo prostate biopsy.

      The samples will be tested for the 3 biomarkers (CTCs, cfDNA, exosome). The validation study
      is a non-blind study on 167 subjects with elevated PSA and designated for a biopsy (this
      biopsy may be positive (presence of cancer) or negative (no cancer revealed by the biopsy)),
      and 33 negative controls. The samples will be tested with the best biomarkers or biomarker
      combination selected in the discovery phase.
    
  