
    
      Lymphoma:

      The marginal zone lymphoma, plasma cell lymphoma, T-cell-lymphoma frequently do not present
      with an elevated FDG uptake. However, lymphoma is a frequent cancer with high CXCR4
      expression. The previous studies showed 68Ga-pentixafor-PET seems to be a highly selective
      and specific method for the in vivo quantification of CXCR4 expression. Thus, our study is
      going to investigate the value of 68Ga-pentixafor-PET/CT for the diagnosis and prognostic
      evaluation of CXCR4 expression in lymphoma.

      Multiple myeloma:

      Multiple myeloma (MM) is characterized by the neoplastic proliferation of plasma cells
      producing a monoclonal immunoglobulin. Minimal residual disease (MRD) status is an important
      predictor of clinical outcome in MM. But it is difficult to assess the accurate MRD status
      because of the significant heterogeneity characterizing with 18F-FDG PET/CT. Studies showed
      Chemokine receptor CXCR4 was expressed in MM cells and CXCR4-targeting molecular
      imaging-68Ga-Pentixafor PET/CT could be a promising technique to evaluate the extent of MM
      with higher accuracy. This prospective study is going to investigate the value of
      68Ga-Pentixafor PET/CT for the diagnosis and prognostic evaluation of CXCR4 expression in MM.

      Leukemia： Leukemia is the second largest family of hematological malignancies after the
      lymphomas, and, depending on the subtype, may show a considerable overlap of histological
      features with the latter. The four main kinds of leukemia are, in the order of their
      prevalence. Imaging has traditionally played a limited role in the work-up of leukemias, with
      regard to detection, staging, and response assessment. 18F-FDG PET/CT is not recommended for
      routine evaluation of CLL, because the disease shows low uptake in the majority of cases.
      Although, the clinical utility of MRI lies in the detection of bone marrow abnormalities that
      are suspicious for leukemia in adult and pediatric patients with unclear musculoskeletal
      symptoms with its reduced radiation dose (in comparison with PET/CT). However, it may become
      more attractive with the use of newer, non-FDG PET radiotracers. High CXCR4 expression is
      known to be associated with poor prognosis in CLL. Recently, the feasibility of
      68Ga-Pentixafor PET has also been demonstrated for CLL and AML. This prospective study is
      going to investigate the value of 68Ga-Pentixafor PET/CT for the diagnosis and prognostic
      evaluation of CXCR4 expression in leukemia.
    
  