
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects that a volitional maximal
      cardiovascular exertion test (the Bruce Treadmill Protocol) has on performance of the
      Forward-Step-Down (FSD) test, and to investigate how performance on the FSD test changes at
      multiple time points following the fatigue test.

      Our hypotheses for this study are as follows:

        -  Null (H0): Participants will not demonstrate a change in score on the FSD test after
           performance of the Bruce test at any time point.

        -  Alternate (H1): Participants will demonstrate a change in score on the FSD test after
           performance of the Bruce test at one or multiple of the repeated measurements.

      The FSD test has been shown to correlate with movement quality. Deficits in strength and
      flexibility that result in movement impairments are associated with scores on the test
      delineating "moderate" movement quality. Fatigue may play a role in increased injury risk,
      with fatigued participants in numerous studies showing compromised movement patterns that
      increase risk of injury. At this time, many of the screening tools used to determine the
      impact of fatigue on a player's ability to continue to play/practice involved dynamic or
      explosive movements, and rely on indicators such as femoral internal rotation or hip
      adduction angles at initial contact to grade movement patterns. These biomechanical
      indicators may be difficult for non-professional personnel to observe, limiting their use
      outside a clinic. There is currently no research on the role of the FSD test in assessing for
      changes in movement pattern that result from fatigue.

      The literature currently acknowledges that fatigue results in altered movement patterns.
      Several studies have investigated the impact that fatigue has on performing challenging
      movements, such as plyometric drop jumps, cutting, jumping and running, and landing. However,
      with higher level assessments such as these, there is an increased risk for injury if
      performed while fatigued. Therefore, a lower level test, such as the FSD test, would be ideal
      as a safe and effective screening tool to look at the impact of fatigue stimulus (game play)
      on a person's movement quality. As stated above, the FSD test has been validated as a measure
      of movement quality, with acceptable interrater reliability. In addition, poor movement
      quality during the FSD test has been shown to correlate with several impairments such as hip
      abductor strength and poor flexibility. Existing literature discusses the impact of the hip
      abductors on knee position and risk for knee injury. Therefore, a functional test that
      assesses not only movement quality but identifies possible causes of poor movement would be
      ideal for preventing injury. Research has shown difference in postural balance following
      aerobic fatigue depending on the time since fatigue, with poor performance immediately
      following but improved performance 10 minutes after the fatigue stimulus was stopped.
      Therefore, this study will examine the FSD test at one, five, and ten minutes following the
      cardiovascular fatigue protocol in order to discern performance differences in movement
      quality related to time/recovery. These differences may be important because if the FSD test
      can be used as a screening tool to examine a person's fatigue level, it is important to also
      know the appropriate time to use the test in order to get accurate results.

      In this study, the Bruce test is used to achieve cardiovascular fatigue. Clinically it is a
      "VO2max" (maximum volume of oxygen consumption) prediction test and is intended to continue
      to the point of failure (maximum test). In a true VO2max test, the participant performs the
      cardiovascular test until respiratory spirometry measures a plateau of the VO2, or oxygen
      consumption, between two workloads. This is indicative of that participant's maximum
      cardiovascular physiological limits. During a true VO2max test, respiratory gases are
      analyzed as well as heart rate, blood pressure, and sometimes blood lactate samples are
      obtained. Together these values determine the success in reaching a true VO2max test,
      demonstrate cardiovascular fatigue, and ensure safety of the participant. Often, this point
      is not reached in untrained or unhealthy individuals.

      Performing a true VO2max test is more expensive and time-consuming for the participant than
      performing a maximal or submaximal graded exercise test. Therefore, the Bruce protocol uses
      mathematical derivation to predict VO2max from the participant's performance on the Bruce. To
      estimate an accurate prediction of the VO2max and ensure cardiovascular fatigue, the target
      heart rate is often set at within 10 bpm of the age-predicted maximum heart rate when using a
      lower error formula such as the Tanaka formula. Therefore, in this study participants'
      age-predicted maximum heart rate will be calculated using the formula derived by Tanaka with
      an acceptable variability of within 10 bpm at the maximum heart rate measured during the
      Bruce. The Tanaka formula is accurate for a population of healthy men and women. In this
      study, "healthy" is defined as being in the "low risk" category for exercise as stated by the
      American College of Sports Medicine, and is one of the inclusion criteria for this study.

        -  Prior to performing the testing, participants will be consented and screened for
           inclusion and exclusion criteria at the end of an exercise physiology class during the
           summer 2018 semester. This will occur before the students begin their exercise testing
           labs in which the Bruce protocol is performed. Following consenting, participants will
           proceed to the testing during the four-week data collection period during the summer
           2018 semester.

        -  Each participant will perform the pre-and post-testing in the same day. The pre-fatigue
           FSD test occurs just prior to the fatigue (Bruce) protocol, and the post-testing will
           occur at one, five, and ten minutes after completion of the fatigue protocol. Initial
           resting heart rate will be measured, as will heart rate at 0, 30, and 60 seconds
           following completion of the Bruce to ensure appropriate heart rate responses to exercise
           for a healthy young adult as per the inclusion criteria of participants being "low risk"
           for adverse events during vigorous exercise.

        -  The expected duration to obtain all necessary participants is up to 4 weeks.

        -  The estimated time for the researches to perform the primary analysis is 3 months

        -  The estimated time to prepare the manuscript for publication is 1 year.

      This study will be a repeated-measures design, with all participants undergoing both pre- and
      post-fatigue FSD test assessments. Two orthopaedic specialist physical therapists will
      perform the FSD assessments. The investigators will review scoring guidelines per the Park
      article, and will practice scoring the test prior to data collection to ensure good
      interrater reliability. Scores on the FSD test from each assessor will be averaged after data
      collection and prior to data analysis, with each assessor blinded to the other's score prior
      to averaging the scores. Participants will be healthy physical therapy students. Fatigue will
      be induced via the Bruce protocol used in assessment of maximum cardiovascular capacity. The
      treadmill used is an HP Cosmos Quasar (HP Cosmos, Germany). The heart rate monitors used are
      Polar monitors (Polar Electro Inc, Bethpage, NY)

      The FSD test grades the participant on movement quality during a repeated step down from a 20
      cm step. The weight bearing leg will be the dominant leg (the leg the participant would use
      to kick a ball) as used in the Park et al experiment. The FSD test consists of five repeated
      movements of the forward step down, with one score given for the whole set of five
      repetitions. For each set of five movements, the rater observes and produces one score for
      that set of five movements. For data analysis, the investigators will use the average of each
      score for each FSD test. For example, on the pre-test for a participant, if one investigator
      scored the pre-test FSD a 2/6, and the second investigator scored the pre-test a 1/6, the
      "averaged" score for the participant's pre-test is a 1.5/6. This same procedure would be
      repeated for the three post-test FSD tests.

      The Bruce protocol is self-limited with participants stopping at maximal exertion. Maximal
      exertion will be defined as within 10 bpm of the participants predicted maximum heartrate as
      calculated by the formula "208-(0.7 x age)" derived by Tanaka from a population of healthy
      men and women. The within 10 bpm heart rate cutoff has been used as a benchmark of achieving
      maximal exertion in a maximal exercise test based off the calculated maximum heart rate using
      the Tanaka formula. The participants' Borg Rating of Perceived Exertion (RPE) will also be
      recorded as part of the Bruce protocol; however, since the participants know they will have
      to perform the FSD test following the Bruce protocol, the investigators will use heart rate
      instead of RPE as a metric for exertion due to its more objective nature and to avoid a
      possible threat to validity of the fatigue protocol. During the Bruce protocol, treadmill
      speed and incline are increased every three minutes until the subject volitionally stops the
      test at maximal exertion. Heart rate and RPE are monitored each minute during the Bruce
      protocol, with assessment of blood pressure prior and following the treadmill test as part of
      the Exercise Physiology class.
    
  