
    
      Determining optimal frequency of treatment for young children with cerebral palsy (CP) has
      implications for shaping the future of pediatric rehabilitation. There are wide variations in
      the number of hours per week of treatment in current outpatient rehabilitation programs for
      children with CP, suggesting clinical uncertainty. Usual weekly therapy at 1 - 2 hours per
      week for 6 months or longer is the most commonly implemented frequency of dose for children
      with CP 6 - 24 months of age. However, this decision about frequency is often made based on
      clinical reasoning and scheduling, not on principles of rehabilitation, child development, or
      evidence from strongly designed randomized controlled trials. The proposed study will fill
      this gap by directly comparing the effects of 3 frequency levels of therapy - concentrated
      daily, intermediate, and usual weekly in children with CP 6 - 24 months of age at the
      initiation of treatment and following these patients for 2 years.

      In this prospective longitudinal study, children with Cerebral Palsy (n=75), 6 - 24 months of
      age, will be randomly assigned to one of three groups: daily, intermediate, or weekly
      physical therapy. The treatment phase of this study design is 5 months for a total of 40
      hours of one-on-one therapy for both groups. Level 1 daily therapy is 2 hours of therapy per
      day for 20 straight weekdays. Level 2 intermediate therapy is 2 hours of therapy per day 3
      days per week for 6.6 weeks. Level 3 usual weekly therapy is 2 hours of therapy one day per
      week for 20 weeks. Researchers will directly compare the effects of 3 these frequency levels
      of therapy at the initiation of treatment and following these patients for 2 years. Results
      will provide quantitative evidence of frequency-response, which is critical for informing
      clinical decision-making, health policy, and guidelines for reimbursement.
    
  