
    
      As in the original study the main purpose of the Oswestry Disability Index is explained as to
      assess pain-related disability in persons with low back pain (LBP). The target population for
      the Oswestry are 3: acute, subacute, and chronic back pain client groups; with various
      conservative, surgical, and behavioural intervention groups.

      The Oswestry Disability Index is one of the principal condition-specific outcome measures
      used for the investigation of low back musculoskeletal disorders. It is a self-administered
      questionnaire and consists of ten sections that are designed to assess the limitations of
      various daily life activities.

      Each section is scored on a 0-5 scale, 5 is for maximum disability. The index is calculated
      by dividing the total score by the total possible score, which is multiplied by 100 and
      expressed as a percentage. Thus, for every unanswered question, the denominator is reduced by
      5. If a patient marks two or more statements in a question, the highest-scoring statement is
      recorded as a true indication of disability. The questionnaire takes 3.5-5 min to complete
      andapproximately1 min to score.

      At present worldwide there are a lot of health care workers who are using the Oswestry
      Disability Index for low back pain assessment and this scale is also providing good
      measurement but this scale is in the English language and there are a lot of people here in
      Pakistan who don't understand English. Pakistan is a country with different languages and
      cultures. The most commonly spoken and understood languages in Pakistan are Urdu the national
      language of Pakistan, Pashto, Punjabi, Sindhi, and Balochi. Therefore it is highly needed to
      translate this questioner into different languages so that the patient would be able to
      answer them easily according to their understanding. The validity and reliability of the
      translated versions will also be checked.

      The translation and cultural adaptation processes would start after obtaining approval from
      the developer of the original Oswestry Disability Index scale. This would be done according
      to WHO guidelines. Translation will be done by symmetrical category. The purpose will be to
      gain uniformity in the translation of tool in both the Target language and Source language.
      This will involve 5 steps. (Forward translation, synthesis 1, Back translation, synthesis 2
      and pilot testing.) Phase 2 would be done according to the standard guidelines in which
      psychometric properties will be measured.
    
  