
    
      BACKGROUND:

      It has been known for many years that African Americans experience twofold higher rates of
      hypertension than do whites. The underlying biological mechanisms which lead to this
      differential are still not understood, however. Despite widespread speculation that persons
      of African descent are genetically susceptible to hypertension, few direct studies have been
      carried out. Rates of hypertension remain low in West Africa, and this study will provide a
      contrast between populations of similar genetic background in a low versus high risk
      environmental setting

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A total of 240 families were identified from completed community surveys in Maywood, Illinois
      and Ibadan, Nigeria. Probands were ages 45-55 and equally divided between males and females.
      A minimum of five first-degree relatives were examined in each family to obtain information
      on the following variables: blood pressure (BP), obesity, urinary sodium and potassium,
      socioeconomic status and physical activity. In addition, plasma and DNA were collected and
      stored for future studies of relevant physiologic intermediate phenotypes and candidate genes
      for hypertension in the two contrasting populations. These data provided the basis for
      examining familial aggregation of blood pressure/hypertension and related CV risk factors.
      Three primary goals were addressed: 1) to determine whether the familial aggregation of blood
      pressure in Black populations was influenced by the overall distribution of environmental
      factors at the population level, by contrasting the distribution of familial correlations of
      blood pressure and the familial aggregation of hypertension, in Nigeria and the United
      States; to determine the significance of measured environmental correlates of blood pressure
      by comparing the magnitude of variance components for probands and relatives in each setting;
      and 3) to use path analysis to obtain estimates of genetic and cultural heritability of blood
      pressure, controlling for clustering environmental factors at the household level. Plasma and
      DNA samples collected in this study provided additional valuable resources for future
      molecular research.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  