
    
      We are recruiting 20 participants for this pilot study. Subjects are recruited from either:

      1) An ongoing study of Late-Life Depression(MH083660; PI: Reynolds) who did not meet research
      response criteria; and 2) community-dwelling individuals, at least 50 years old, who have
      tried at least two FDA-approved antidepressant medications at therapeutic doses each for at
      least 6 weeks, and who are currently in an episode of major depression.

      Overview of intervention: To guide future placebo-controlled work, at this preliminary stage
      of research we will collect data about both buprenorphine (BUP) 1) augmentation
      pharmacotherapy, and 2) monotherapy. Subjects recruited from the community will have the
      buprenorphine prescribed as augmentation to any currently prescribed antidepressant
      medication.

      BUP 0.2 mg will be used for the first week. The first dose will be administered at the clinic
      under the supervision of the PI. Because peak plasma levels occur 60 minutes after ingestion,
      subjects will be re-assessed after 1 hour for safety. Participants will be seen weekly for
      eight weeks to assess progress and monitor intervention-emergent side effects. Dosing
      increases will be guided by antidepressant response (e.g., continued MADRS scores > 10 will
      trigger an increase dose of BUP) and our protocolized use of the Frequency, Intensity, and
      Burden of Side Effect Rating (FIBSER) Scale score. For example, a score of 5 to 7 on the
      FIBSER will trigger additional assessment of side effects and require justification for
      increasing the dose, while a score of > 7 will signal no increase in dose, although specific
      side effects should be reviewed in detail before a final determination, including review if
      the UKU Side Effects Rating Scale.

      We will increase the dose by 0.2 mg/week up to 1.6 mg/day based on MADRS and FIBSER scores.
      Every time the dose is increased, the first ingestion of the higher dose will be monitored in
      the clinic as described above.

      Subjects will participate in the project at the Late-Life Depression Clinic on the 7th Floor
      of Bellefield Tower. Subjects will complete paper and pencil and clinician-administered
      psychiatric assessments before receiving the first dose of buprenorphine and at all
      subsequent visits. After the first ingestion and all subsequent first ingestions of higher
      doses of BUP, subjects will remain in the clinic for 60 minutes after ingestion and be
      re-assessed for the emergence of side effects and have vital signs re-checked. The duration
      of the first visit will be approximately 2.5 hours. If subsequent visits require observed
      ingestion of buprenorphine, they will last about 1.75 hours. If subsequent visits do not
      require observed ingestion of buprenorphine, these visits will last 30-45 minutes.

      Prior to the first ingestion, the first ingestion of subsequent higher doses, and at study
      end, subjects will complete a 15 minute battery of computerized neuropsychological tests
      assessing reaction time and attention. These tests will be repeated 60 minutes after the
      ingestion. Prior to the first ingestion and after discontinuation of the buprenorphine,
      memory will be assessed with the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test (HVLT). The HVLT takes about 10
      minutes to complete.

      The discontinuation phase will occur during weeks 9-12. To minimize the risk of withdrawal
      symptoms, we will discontinue the buprenorphine slowly by reducing the dose to 0.4 mg/day for
      7 days, then 0.2 mg/day every other day for 7 days, and then stop the buprenorphine. We will
      see subjects weekly over these four weeks.

      The final visit will occur at week 16. This will be a telephone check in of mood and
      functioning. This call will take about 15-20 minutes.
    
  