
    
      Persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN) occurs when the pulmonary vascular
      resistance fails to decrease at birth during the transition to postnatal life. The affected
      infants have severe hypoxemia, a 10% risk of mortality, and among survivors, a 30% incidence
      of long term neurodevelopmental and hearing deficits. The etiology of PPHN in the majority of
      affected infants remains unknown. Although constriction of fetal ductus arteriosus in
      response to maternal intake of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) has been
      implicated in PPHN case reports, our laboratory was the first to provide objective evidence
      for such an association. Nearly 87% of infants with PPHN were exposed to NSAID in utero. Yet
      25% of control infants also were exposed without developing PPHN. The basis for the
      biological susceptibility of some neonates to in utero NSAID exposure remains poorly
      understood. The hypothesis of this proposal is that PTGS1 genetic variation is associated
      with increased susceptibility to ductal constriction from in utero NSAID exposure and an
      increased risk of PPHN. This hypothesis will be tested through the following specific aims:
      Determine the incidence of PTGS1 sequence variants in PPHN patients versus matched controls.
      PTGS1 sequence will include all 11 exons, a minimum of 100 bp of exon flanking sequences, and
      1 kbp of upstream regulatory information. Cycle sequencing will be performed followed by
      analysis using capillary electrophoresis. Differences in the frequency of sequence variants
      will be determined using Fisher's exact test. The study will also quantify NSAID exposure in
      meconium samples using a previously established GC/MS assay and correlate exposure levels to
      both the incidence of PPHN and the presence or absence of PTGS1 sequence variants using
      regression analysis. Benefits include the ability to predict risk for PPHN based on PTGS1
      sequence and avoidance of such risk in the future, thereby reducing patient morbidity and
      mortality.
    
  