
    
      An independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) was established to review safety data
      collected during the study on an ongoing basis. At its meeting in December 2009, the DSMB
      noted a trend for increased cardiac toxicity in the experimental arm (R-CHOP + bevacizumab)
      compared with the control arm (R-CHOP + placebo). Additional efficacy analyses of data from
      720 randomized patients were presented at a DSMB meeting on May 22, 2010; they indicated no
      improvement in efficacy with the addition of bevacizumab to R-CHOP. It was noted, however,
      that there was an apparent increase in the risk of cardiotoxicity, premature treatment
      withdrawal, serious adverse events (SAEs), fatal adverse events (AEs), and perforation/ulcer
      in the experimental arm. Based on its assessment of an increased risk with unlikely benefit
      for patients randomized to the experimental arm, the DSMB recommended that further enrollment
      in the study be permanently halted and that bevacizumab be discontinued for any patients
      randomized to the experimental arm. On May 31, 2010, the sponsor took the decision to stop
      enrollment into the study and the bevacizumab treatment was terminated with immediate effect
      as recommended by the DSMB.

      The study protocol was amended. The primary objective of the study was changed from
      evaluation of efficacy to evaluation of safety and the study was extended to include an
      18-month safety follow-up period. Because enrollment was terminated prematurely resulting in
      fewer enrolled patients than planned, the outcome measure data are premature due to fewer
      than expected events.

      The time frame for the reporting of serious adverse events was modified. Serious adverse
      events (SAE) unrelated to study treatment were reported until 1 year post-treatment or until
      new anti-lymphoma treatment was initiated. SAEs judged to be related to study treatment and
      congestive heart failure events were reported at any time during the study.
    
  