
    
      Total Knee Arthroplasty (TKA) has become a common operation that greatly improves patients'
      lives by restoring mobility. Studies show that the patient rehabilitation process is critical
      to final success of the operation.

      The investigative device aids both the patient and the physician during rehabilitation by
      providing exercise feedback and providing the physician information about the patient's
      progress outside of the clinic.

      Wearable devices for fitness tracking have become increasingly popular in the last few years.
      The Consensus TracPatch utilizes similar technology and methods in an effort to enhance the
      rehabilitation experience for both patients and physicians. Accelerometers are utilized to
      recognize and record the results when patients perform standard physical therapy exercises,
      in addition to providing standard step count and high-acceleration events that may indicate a
      fall. A temperature sensor monitors the skin temperature near the joint.

      The device is attached by the patient to the shin approximately two inches below the knee
      through use of an adhesive strip similar to a standard bandage. The adhesive strip is
      disposable, allowing the device to be removed or relocated at any time.

      Data is transferred from the TracPatch to the user's blue-tooth enabled iOS or Android
      device, which then syncs to an encrypted, HIPAA compliant, database in the cloud. The patient
      or physician may access the summarized data to track progress in flexion and extension
      exercises prescribed by the physician, monitor step counts and activity, and track
      temperature.

      By having access to this data, a physician may:

        -  Notice a particular patient is not making progress on their ROM goals, allowing for
           early intervention before a more invasive procedure is required;

        -  Notice a particular patient is not performing their rehabilitation exercises, allowing
           for early intervention before a more invasive procedure is required;

        -  Notice a particular patient is too active, allowing the surgeon to follow up with a
           patient to assess their activity level;

        -  Notice a high acceleration event, allowing the surgeon to follow up with the patient to
           ensure their safety and the functionality of the implant;

        -  Utilize the temperature trend information as a potential early indicator of
           periprosthetic infection, leading the surgeon to suggest further evaluation and
           intervention before the infection becomes more severe.

      This product is an adaptation of products already commonly used throughout the world. It
      builds off the well-established technology to provide an aid to physicians and patients
      during the critical rehabilitation period. While it is not a diagnostic tool, it provides
      critical information that can help the physician use his or her professional expertise to get
      the patient mobile again and provide data relevant to post-surgical recovery.
    
  