
    
      Background:

        -  We have constructed a single retroviral vector that contains both alpha and beta chains
           of a T cell receptor (TCR) that recognizes the NY-ESO-1 (ESO) tumor antigen, which can
           be used to mediate genetic transfer of this TCR with high efficiency (> 30%) without the
           need to perform any selection.

        -  In co-cultures with human leukocyte antigen serotype within HLA-A A serotype group
           (HLA-A2) and ESO double positive tumors, anti-ESO TCR transduced T cells secreted
           significant amount of interferon (IFN)-gamma and additional secretion of cytokines with
           high specificity.

        -  Poxviruses encoding tumor antigens, similar to the replication-defective recombinant
           canarypox virus (ALVAC) ESO-1 vaccine have been shown to successfully immunize patients
           against these antigens.

      Objectives:

      Primary objectives:

        -  Determine if the administration of anti-ESO TCR engineered peripheral blood lymphocytes
           (PBL) and aldesleukin to patients following a nonmyeloablative but lymphoid depleting
           preparative regimen will result in clinical tumor regression in patients with metastatic
           cancer that expresses the ESO antigen.

        -  Determine if the administration of anti-ESO TCR engineered peripheral blood lymphocytes
           (PBL), aldesleukin, and ALVAC ESO-1 vaccine to patients following a nonmyeloablative but
           lymphoid depleting preparative regimen will result in clinical tumor regression in
           patients with metastatic cancer that expresses the ESO antigen.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Determine the in vivo survival of TCR gene-engineered cells.

        -  Determine the toxicity profile of this treatment regimen.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients who are HLA-A*0201 positive and 18 years of age or older must have:

             -  metastatic cancer whose tumors express the ESO antigen;

             -  previously received and have been a non-responder to or recurred to standard care
                for metastatic disease, except for melanoma patients;

        -  Patients may not have:

             -  contraindications for high dose aldesleukin administration.

      Design:

        -  Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) obtained by leukapheresis (approximately 5 X
           10(9) cells) will be cultured in the presence of anti-cluster of differentiation 3 (CD3)
           (OKT3) and aldesleukin in order to stimulate T-cell growth.

        -  Transduction is initiated by exposure of approximately 10(8) to 5 X 10(8) cells to
           retroviral vector supernatant containing the anti-ESO TCR genes.

        -  Patients will receive a nonmyeloablative but lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen
           consisting of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by intravenous infusion of ex
           vivo tumor reactive, TCR gene transduced PBMC plus intravenous (IV) aldesleukin (720,000
           IU/kg q8h for a maximum of 15 doses) with or without ALVAC ESO-1 vaccine. Subcutaneous
           injection of ALVAC ESO-1 vaccine will be administered on day 0 approximately 2 hours
           prior to intravenous infusion of cells and a second dose of ALVAC ESO-1 vaccine is given
           on day 14 (+/- 2 days).

        -  Patients will undergo complete evaluation of tumor with physical examination, computed
           tomography (CT) of the chest, abdomen and pelvis and clinical laboratory evaluation four
           to six weeks after treatment. If the patient has stable disease (SD) or tumor shrinkage,
           repeat complete evaluations will be performed every 1-3 months. After the first year,
           patients continuing to respond will continue to be followed with this evaluation every
           3-4 months until off study criteria are met.

      Cohorts 1 and 2:

        -  Patients will be entered into two cohorts based on histology: cohort 1 will include
           patients with metastatic melanoma or renal cell cancer; cohort 2 will include patients
           with other types of metastatic cancer.

        -  For each of the 2 strata evaluated, the study will be conducted using a phase II optimal
           design where initially 21 evaluable patients will be enrolled. For each of these two
           arms of the trial, if 0 or 1 of the 21 patients experiences a clinical response, then no
           further patients will be enrolled but if 2 or more of the first 21 evaluable patients
           enrolled have a clinical response, then accrual will continue until a total of 41
           evaluable patients have been enrolled in that stratum.

        -  For both strata, the objective will be to determine if the combination of high dose
           aldesleukin, lymphocyte depleting chemotherapy, and anti-ESO TCR-gene engineered
           lymphocytes is able to be associated with a clinical response rate that can rule out 5%
           (p0=0.05) in favor of a modest 20% partial response (PR) + complete response (CR) rate
           (p1=0.20).

      Cohorts 3 and 4:

        -  For patients receiving ALVAC ESO-1 vaccine, patients will also be entered into two
           cohorts based on histology: cohort 3 for patients with metastatic melanoma or renal cell
           cancer and cohort 4 for patients with other histologies and all patients will receive
           the treatment regimen including the ALVAC ESO-1 vaccine.

        -  For each of these 2 new strata, the study will be conducted using a phase II optimal
           design where initially 21 evaluable patients will be enrolled. For each of these two new
           cohorts of the trial, if 0 or 1 of the 21 patients experiences a clinical response, then
           no further patients will be enrolled but if 2 or more of the first 21 evaluable patients
           enrolled have a clinical response, then accrual will continue until a total of 41
           evaluable patients have been enrolled in that stratum.

        -  For both strata, the objective will be to determine if the combination of high dose
           aldesleukin, lymphocyte depleting chemotherapy, anti-ESO TCR-gene engineered
           lymphocytes, and ALVAC ESO-1 vaccine is able to be associated with a clinical response
           rate that can rule out 5% (p0=0.05) in favor of a modest 20% PR + CR rate (p1=0.20).
    
  