
    
      Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) that is of sufficient severity to require admission to an
      intensive care unit (ICU) is associated with substantial mortality.

      Patients with pneumonia who are being treated in an ICU will receive therapy that consists of
      many different treatments, as many as 20 or 30. These treatments act together to treat both
      the infection and its effects on the body. When treating a patient, doctors choose from many
      different treatments, most of which are known or believed to be safe and effective. However,
      doctors don't always know which treatment option is the better one, as individuals or groups
      of individuals may respond differently. This study aims to help doctors understand which
      treatments work best.

      This clinical study has been designed in a way that allows the information from patients
      already in the study to help new patients joining the study. Most studies aren't able to do
      that. REMAP-CAP has been designed to:

        -  Evaluate multiple treatment strategies, at the same time, in the same patient.

        -  Reach platform conclusions when sufficient data is accrued, rather than when a
           pre-specified sample size is reached

        -  Utilise data that is already accrued to increase the likelihood that patients within the
           trial are randomised to treatments that are more likely to be beneficial

        -  New questions can be substituted into the trial as initial questions are answered,
           meaning that the trial can be perpetual or open-ended

        -  Interactions between interventions in different domains can be evaluated

      It is reasonable to presume that any pandemic respiratory infection of major significance to
      public health will manifest as life-threatening respiratory infection including Severe Acute
      Respiratory illness and severe Community Acquired Pneumonia (CAP) with concomitant admission
      to hospital, and for some patients, admission to an Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Previous
      pandemics and more localized outbreaks of respiratory emerging infections have resulted in
      severe CAP and ICU admission.

      Previous pandemics and outbreaks of emerging infectious diseases have outlined the urgent
      need for evidence, preferably from Randomized Controlled Trials (RCTs), to guide best
      treatment. However, there are substantial challenges associated with being able to organize
      such trials when the time of onset of a pandemic and its exact nature are unpredictable. As
      an adaptive platform trial that enrolls patients during the interpandemic period, REMAP-CAP
      is ideally positioned to adapt, in the event of a respiratory pandemic, to evaluate existing
      treatments as well as novel approaches.
    
  