
    
      Uveitis refers to intraocular inflammatory diseases that are an important cause of visual
      loss. Standard systemic immunosuppressive medications used for uveitis can cause significant
      toxic side effects, especially with prolonged use. Consequently, an effective treatment with
      a safer side effect profile is highly desirable. Daclizumab is a humanized monoclonal
      antibody directed against the high affinity IL-2 receptor CD25 or Tac subunit. The IL-2
      receptor system plays a central role in mediating immune responses. Blocking this system
      impedes immune responses and can inhibit local inflammatory responses, including uveitis.
      Pilot studies using intravenous or subcutaneous daclizumab treatments suggest that daclizumab
      treatments at 1 mg/kg every 2-4 weeks for quiescent uveitis may effectively replace the other
      immunosuppressive medications in a majority of cases.

      Because we have little experience using daclizumab for active uveitis, this feasibility study
      will enroll five study participants that would normally be treated with systemic, high-dose
      corticosteroids or other cytotoxic, systemic immunosuppressive medications. Since daclizumab
      for other indications can be tolerated with repeated dosing at 8-10 mg/kg, we will administer
      daclizumab to reach high serum levels with a pair doses at 8 mg/kg and 4 mg/kg two weeks
      apart. The primary objective of this study is to collect preliminary information on the
      utility of acute daclizumab therapy on active ocular inflammation. The primary outcome is
      resolution of active disease defined as the reduction of vitreous haze by at least 2 steps
      (from 2+ to Trace, or 1+ to none) and is assessed at 21 days after the initial daclizumab
      injection. Secondary outcomes will include fluorescein retinal vascular leakage, CME,
      anterior chamber cells, and visual acuity. In addition all adverse events will be collected
      regardless of possible relation to daclizumab. Participants who show a 2 step reduction in
      vitreous haze at day 21 will be permitted to continue SC daclizumab maintenance treatments
      beginning at Day 28 at 2 mg/kg every 4 weeks for a year. At any time during the followup
      period, if a participant loses greater than 3 lines of visual acuity from baseline study
      treatments will be discontinued.
    
  