
    
      The field of β cell replacement therapies has progressed extensively over the last decades.
      It is well established that successful intraportal islet transplantation can restore
      endogenous β cell function to subjects with type 1 diabetes mellitus. In fact, when the graft
      function is optimal, insulin independence can be consistently prolonged for up to 5 years in
      50% of patients. Several factors influence the outcome and performance of the graft upon
      implantation. For instance, preclinical studies have confirmed the significant differences in
      utilizing several sites for the implantation of islet grafts, but the most utilized clinical
      approach is embolization into the liver. However, it has become evidently clear that the
      liver may not be the optimal environment as a recipient site for pancreatic islets, owing not
      only to immunologic, but also to anatomic and physiologic factors that may promote a decline
      in islet function. Moreover, intrahepatic islet infusion is often associated with an
      immediate blood- mediated inflammatory reaction , thrombosis and hepatic tissue ischemia with
      elevated blood liver enzymes. In addition, the cross-talk between activated coagulation and
      inflammatory mediators after implantation, dramatically affects islet cell survival and
      engraftment, resulting in β cell dysfunction or death, depicting primary nonfunction as a
      consequence of reduced functional islet mass. This intrahepatic environment appears to
      potently impair the metabolic functions of transplanted islets. Furthermore, the
      complications associated with graft recovery within the hepatic site, will further limit its
      potential applications in exploiting insulin-secreting cells obtained from alternative cell
      sources. These include xenogenic islets, immortalized β cell lines, embryonic stem cells, or
      adult progenitor cells, including β cell encapsulation.

      Restoration of β cell function is a highly desirable goal for patients with unstable
      diabetes; therefore, the search for an alternative site that is safer for islet
      transplantation is imperative.

      In man, autotransplantation of minced tissue into striated muscle following blunt dissection
      has been successfully used in parathyroid surgery for several decades. Initially demonstrated
      in rodents in the early 1980s, intramuscular islet transplantation (IMIT) has rarely been
      considered as a clinically feasible implantation site.

      This study want to provide direct evidence of the feasibility and function of autologous
      islets transplanted in the muscle
    
  