
    
      Study design and population This study is a prospective double-arm, non-pragmatic,
      cross-over, randomized controlled trial. Approximately 30 subjects will be selected
      retrospectively from the cardiology database of the Jessa Hospital Hasselt. Subjects who do
      not violate any of the predefined exclusion criteria and have provided informed consent will
      be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to the treatment strategies (AB sequence or BA sequence).

      After two months, each individual will be switched to the other treatment strategy.

      Measurements At baseline, after two months (+14 days) and after four months (+14 days), a
      clinical assessment, medical history, current medication therapy, fasting blood sample,
      maximal cardiopulmonary exercise test, pulmonary function and three completed questionnaires
      (HeartQol, IPAQ and EQ-5D) will be collected of all patients. A fourth questionnaire will be
      completed by all the patients, focusing on the usability of the HeartHab-application.

      Statistical analysis Data analysis will be performed using SPSS version 22 (SPSS Inc,
      Chicago, IL, USA) according to the intention-to-treat principle by assigned treatment group.
      Nonparametric alternatives will be used for parametric statistics in case assumptions for the
      latter are violated. The Shapiro-Wilk test will be used to assess normality. Paired t tests
      (parametric) or Wilcoxon signed rank tests (nonparametric) will be used for within-group
      analysis; independent t tests (parametric) or Mann-Whitney U tests (nonparametric) for
      between-group analysis. Chi-square tests will be used in case of categorical variables;
      Fisher's exact tests will be used when expected frequencies are small. The significance level
      for tests is 2-sided α=.05.

      The cost-effectiveness evaluation will be conducted from a society and patient perspective,
      taking into account both intervention and health care resource costs. As the majority of
      patients will be retired, productivity losses due to illness-related absence from the
      workplace will not be taken into account.

      Health care costs will be the aggregated costs of hospital admissions for cardiovascular
      reasons and also specialist visits and associated diagnostics. The cardiovascular
      rehospitalizations' related costs will be derived from invoices retrieved from the recruiting
      hospitals' financial departments. INAMI/RIZIV's nomenclature-based tariffs will define
      specialist visits and diagnostics denominations.

      Quality adjusted life years (QALYs) will be used as a generic measure of effectiveness.
      Estimates of QALYs will be derived from the EQ-5D questionnaire. The EQ-5D scores will be
      converted to utility scores. The utility estimates will be converted to adjusted mean QALYs
      by calculating the area under the curve (AUC) utility estimates for all time intervals for
      each patient, weighted by the length of follow-up at that time interval. The change from
      baseline utility (adjusted differential incremental QALYs) will then be calculated, using the
      multiple regression model to control for baseline utility differences.

      The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) will be calculated (ICER¼(Cost intervention
      group - Cost control group)/(Effectiveness intervention group - Effectiveness control group))
      to compare costs and outcomes (effectiveness) across both treatment groups. The incremental
      cost will be determined by the difference in total average cost per patient between the
      intervention group and control group. The incremental effectiveness will be estimated by the
      adjusted differential incremental QALYs.
    
  