
    
      This study will investigate the impact of punctal occlusion on the ocular microbial flora.
      Current thought is that punctal occlusion causes retention of inflammatory mediators on the
      ocular surface which may produce pathology, we hypothesize that blockage of the nasolacrimal
      drainage system may allow colonization of the ocular surface by potentially pathogenic
      ubiquitous organisms (which may produce exotoxins and other biologic products) that may be
      responsible for signs and symptoms seen in some patients. Additionally, the presence of the
      silicone foreign body(punctal plug) may act as a nidus for bacterial adhesion with biofilm
      production (which is known to occur with Pseudomonas sp and other organisms). There would
      thus be a paradigm shift of our current understanding of the pathophysiology of punctal
      occlusion. Additionally, the choice of antimicrobials for the treatment of infections in
      patients with punctal occlusion may need to be modified if the microbial flora is found to be
      different in patients with punctal occlusion.

      The ocular flora may be different inpatients with severe dry eye or other chronic pathologic
      conditions, which are frequent indications for punctal occlusion. However, from our
      retrospective review, we could not determine if there was a change in the microbial flora
      following plug placement with colonization with these "unusual organisms" since baseline
      cultures prior to punctal plug placement were not obtained.

      We will try to differentiate any effect on the microbial flora caused by the silicone plug or
      acrylic plug(as a foreign body) versus the punctal closure by thermocautery. (Punctal
      thermocauterization is an alternative method of punctal closure which is 1) the preferred
      choice by some ophthalmologists for all their cases, or 2) when the dry eye is severe and
      irreversible punctal occlusion is desired or 3) if punctal plugs can not be retained due to
      the large size of the patients punctal). The thermodynamic hydrophobic acrylic
      plug(SmartPLUG) approved by the FDA for punctal occlusion with the same indications as the
      traditional silicone plug.
    
  