
    
      HFVi was designed to provide a standardized measure of the parasympathetic component (p∑) of
      the Autonomous Nervous System (ANS). It tracts changes of the p∑ tonus induced by each
      respiratory cycle (spontaneous or artificial) to measure the relative balance of
      parasympathetic and sympathetic tone as reflected in the EKG signal.

      These rapid changes of the p∑ tonus express themselves at the sinus node level by changes of
      the time interval separating two R waves of the electrocardiogram. The following normal RR
      intervals constitute the tachogram (displayed as respiratory pattern on the monitor). The p ∑
      component is evaluated after filtering, standardization and re-sampling of the R-R series, by
      measuring the surface generated by respiratory cycles on the tachogram. Higher p∑ tonus is
      reflected as a larger measured surface area. In contrast, the measured surface decreases when
      the p∑ decreases.

      HFVi, a measure of the surface area, is expressed in the form of a dimensionless index
      ranging from 0 to 100. This index reflects the relative activity of the parasympathetic
      nervous system. It expresses the relative quantity of the present p∑ tonus compared to the
      Para and sympathetic tonus. The measure of HFVi displayed represents the average of a
      sequence of measurements: each elementary measure is realized on 64 seconds of data, updated
      each second using a sliding window.

      During development, a probabilistic interpretation of the HFVi was used to relate index
      values to a clinical state in an anesthetized subject. A significant hemodynamic response
      (increase of the heart rare or blood pressure of 20% compared to the baseline) within 10
      minutes was used as an indicator of nociception/inadequate analgesia.

      As a measure of parasympathetic tone, HFVi may be influenced by many factors and thus be
      difficult to interpret in many of the following situations:

        -  arrhythmia

        -  no breathing (ex : apnea due to intubation)

        -  Respiratory rate lower than 9 cycles/min

        -  Tidal volume variable on the measuring time, thus 64 seconds

        -  Irregular breathing (when the patient speaks, laugh or cough)

        -  pace maker (some types)

        -  heart transplantation

        -  Drug use having a significant effect on the sinus cardiac activity
    
  