
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common arrhythmia after cardiac surgery. The incidence
      of AF varies between 20 - 45 % after (coronary artery bypass grafting) CABG. It may lead to
      hemodynamic compromise, thromboembolic events, increased length of stay in the hospital and
      increased morbidity. The underlying cause of AF has been related to a variety of factors.
      Those most commonly related to the intraoperative management are the use of cardiopulmonary
      bypass (CPB), the influence of systemic inflammation, myocardial damage, intraoperative fluid
      management and the need of red blood cell transfusion.

      The purpose of the study is to find out the difference in the incidence of atrial
      fibrillation after CABG when using the conventional (CECC) or mini bypass system (MECC).
      There has been some evidence in retrospective studies comparing conventional and mini bypass
      systems that the incidence of AF after mini bypass could be statistically lower.

      With the prospective randomized study protocol patient demographic will be similar regarding
      other variables such as age, gender, previous history of AF, use of beta blockers etc. Only
      isolated CABG procedures will be included. The amount of patients needed in the study has
      been calculated so that when the investigators assume that the incidence of AF is normally 45
      % and with the mini bypass system the investigators can reduce it to 25 %, the investigators
      need 330 patients (165 in each group) to show this with the power of 0,8 (a 0,05).

      The treatment protocol is similar in both groups except the CPB method (CECC vs. MECC). In
      both methods the investigators use MAQUET tubing and oxygenator. Fluid management and the use
      of inotropic agents are standardized and followed by using pulmonary artery catheter. After
      the operation in the ICU the investigators also use a standardized treatment protocol in the
      fluid management and in the medication. Patients are ECG-monitored 48 hours after the
      operation. Possible arrhythmias are documented until the patient is discharged from the
      hospital.

      The investigators also collect special blood samples for determining most relevant factors
      found affecting in the incidence of AF (IL-6, IL-8, PAI-1).
    
  