
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the treatment-related mortality (TRM) rate at 100 days in patients with
           hematologic malignancy, metastatic renal cell carcinoma, or aplastic anemia undergoing
           nonmyeloablative allogeneic stem cell transplantation using matched unrelated donors.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the TRM at 12 months in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the 6-month engraftment rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine 1-year overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Nonmyeloablative preparative regimen: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on
           days -7 to -3, busulfan* IV over 6 hours on days -4 and -3, and anti-thymocyte globulin
           IV over 6-10 hours on days -4 to -1.

      NOTE: *Patients with aplastic anemia receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -6 to
      -3 instead of busulfan.

        -  Allogeneic stem cell reinfusion: Patients undergo allogeneic bone marrow or peripheral
           blood stem cell transplantation on day 0. Patients then receive filgrastim (G-CSF)
           subcutaneously daily beginning on day 7 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive tacrolimus orally twice daily
           or IV continuously beginning on day -2 and continuing for approximately for 6-12 months
           after transplantation. Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil orally or IV twice
           daily on days 0 to 60 and methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11**.

      NOTE: **Patients with aplastic anemia receive methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, and 6 (not day
      11).

        -  Donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI): After day 180, patients with no evidence of active GVHD
           may receive DLI. A second DLI may be infused > 8 weeks after the first in the absence of
           disease response or GVHD.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 35 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  