
    
      This will be a prospective, observational study on 200 patients. Consenting thoracic surgical
      patients presenting for open thoracotomy or VATS will be assessed pre-operatively for
      baseline cognitive status and clinically relevant risk factors for delirium.
      Intra-operatively, patients will undergo cerebral oxygenation monitoring using near infra-red
      spectroscopy cerebral oximetry. Postoperatively, patients will be assessed twice daily for
      the presence or absence of delirium using the Confusion Assessment Methodology (CAM) scoring
      system during their hospital stay.

      A clinically relevant desaturation will be defined as a 25% decrease from the patient's
      baseline saturation, which will be determined while the patient is breathing room air
      pre-operatively. The severity and duration of any desaturation will be recorded and
      subsequently analyzed for correlation with post-operative delirium. Bivariate associations
      between the risk of delirium and predictor variables will be sought. If appropriate, logistic
      regression models will be constructed with the outcome of delirium.

      Significance: Previous studies at our centre have resulted in over 35% of thoracic surgical
      patients developing significant, intra-operative cerebral desaturation. We propose to study a
      convenience sample of 200 consecutive patients. Depending on the relative risk of developing
      delirium with a significant cerebral desaturation, this study may be adequately powered to
      determine the associated risk of delirium. This study will provide background information in
      planning further interventional trials to prevent desaturation and possibly reduce the
      incidence of delirium, as well as aid in the planning of larger multi-center trials to more
      accurately assess the risk of intra-operative decreases in cerebral oxygenation and the role
      this event contributes to the occurrence of delirium.
    
  