
    
      Study Design: This is a pragmatic prospective pre-post feasibility study to assess whether
      virtual-care delivery of mental health interventions are acceptable and feasible with regard
      to recruitment and retention, participation barriers (inclusive of SDH barriers), child and
      parent acceptability, and adherence. Targeted symptoms of the intervention (e.g., child
      anxiety) will be evaluated as secondary outcomes to gather preliminary data on efficacy.

      Estimated Sample Size: In this first feasibility phase, participants will include children
      referred for treatment to Psychiatry. For the purpose of this pragmatic trial, we aim to
      recruit 20 participants for this intervention. According to Hertzog, a sample size of 20
      participants is adequate for pilot studies to examine intervention feasibility and to develop
      estimates of variance to compute power for larger studies (Hertzog, 2008).

      Data Analyses: Data for demographic variables will be summarized using counts, percentages,
      measures of central tendency (mean, median, and mode) and measures of sample variation
      (standard deviation, range). Parametric statistics (mean, standard deviation) will be used
      for interval and ratio data. To assess the feasibility and acceptability of this
      intervention, results will include analyses of recruitment, social determinant barriers and
      adherence rates and responses to satisfaction/evaluation and alliance scales. Pre-post
      analysis will also include comparing mean changes in COVID specific distress, and
      intervention specific comparisons of child anxiety.

      Knowledge Translation: Our integrated Knowledge-to-action (iKTA) approach has involved
      family, clinician and scientist engagement from the outset and will continue to do so.
      Participants will receive updates through e-newsletters and information through email.
      Knowledge gained will be presented at conferences and publications to further the impact of
      generating future hypothesis-driven research and funding support.
    
  