
    
      Addiction to illicit and prescribed drugs, alcohol and tobacco is associated with a panoply
      of brain changes that contribute to structural and micro-structural deficits, altered
      metabolism and neurotransmission, and related cognitive deficits affecting executive
      function, decision-making, reward salience and motivation. Many of these deficits may act as
      barriers to recovery, compromising the same spectrum of cognitive processes that established
      interventions (motivational enhancement, cognitive behavioral therapy, therapeutic
      communities, etc.) depend on for successful outcomes. Even where there are medications that
      target a specific addiction (e.g., methadone for opiates), meaningful, sustained recovery
      relies on the acquisition of adaptive skills and strategies. As such, there is a need to
      develop interventions for substance use disorders that have the potential to improve health
      and cognitive and psychosocial functioning, and to be embraced by the treatment community. A
      growing body of basic and clinical research suggests that physical exercise may reduce drug
      use and improve cognitive-executive function, mood, and motivation. There is also a growing
      literature on the effectiveness of positive affirmation as a cognitive-behavioral
      intervention for depression and PTSD both of which frequently co-occur with addiction.
      Building on this, we hypothesize that a combined exercise and affirmation intervention
      (IntenSati) will lead to improved cognitive and psychosocial function. To test this, we
      propose to conduct a two-arm randomized clinical trial - in adult volunteers with a history
      of longstanding substance use and who are in treatment in a residential therapeutic community
      setting (Odyssey House) - to examine cognitive and psychosocial function before, during, and
      after randomization to either a twelve-week IntenSati intervention condition or to a
      twelve-week no-exercise/no-affirmations control condition. This is a pilot study intended to
      collect data on feasibility and effect size. The population and sample size were selected on
      the basis of likelihood to benefit from the intervention, likelihood for good adherence, and
      the realities of completing a low-cost pilot study within a one-year timeframe. Overall there
      were no substantial differences between IntenSati and TAU on measures of cognition, mood, and
      psychosocial functioning. Limitations include the small sample size, limited exercise
      intensity and capacity, missed exercise classes, dropout because of placement, work schedules
      and non-study-related medical conditions.
    
  