
    
      Laparoscopic interventions are considered as minimally invasive procedures. They have both
      cosmetic and open surgery advantages in terms of surgical stress. Laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy is the most commonly performed laparoscopic upper abdominal procedure. After
      this procedure, patients often complain of excessive pain. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
      agents and opioids are used for postoperative analgesia. In addition, in the past decade, in
      the guideline of ultrasonography, peripheral block types with analgesic activity have been
      described in laparoscopic cholecystectomies as well as in many operations on the development
      of regional anesthesia and analgesia techniques. It was reported that transverse abdominis
      plane (TAP) block provided effective analgesia in these cases in the first ultrasonography
      guideline of petit triangle region in 2010. Later studies on TAP block activity, drug doses
      and concentrations in laparoscopic cholecystectomies have been conducted. There are also
      publications indicating that TAP block has been applied to the subcostal region for more
      effective analgesia. The ESP block is a new block for the treatment of thoracic neuropathic
      pain. In the following process; ESP block thoracic and breast surgery, bariatric surgery, and
      upper abdominal surgeons have also been reported to provide effective postoperative analgesia
      .

      The standard practice for post-operative pain management for laparoscopic cholecystectomy in
      Maltepe University Hospital consists of routine intravenous analgesic and rescue analgesics
      and in combination with patient-controlled analgesia (PCA).

      Given the importance of providing adequate analgesia in upper abdomen surgery and lack of
      consensus amongst surgeons and anesthesiologists for the optimal analgesic technique, the
      investigators are proposing a prospective observational study to examine the analgesic
      efficacy of the ESP block in laparoscopic cholecystectomy as a potential analgesic technique.
      The investigators are hoping the results of this study will provide framework for future
      larger comparative studies.
    
  