
    
      Although short-term administration of testosterone in replacement doses is relatively safe,
      the risks of long-term testosterone administration in older men remain poorly understood. The
      two major areas of concern include the potential for increased risk of atherosclerotic heart
      disease and exacerbation of a pre-existing, subclinical prostate cancer. There is a
      widespread perception that testosterone supplementation adversely affects plasma lipoprotein
      profile and increases the risk of atherosclerotic heart disease; this premise is not
      supported by data. Thus, the long-term consequences of testosterone supplementation on the
      risk of atherosclerosis progression remain unknown. While supraphysiological doses of
      testosterone and non-aromatizable androgens frequently employed by body-builders undoubtedly
      decrease plasma high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol levels, physiologic testosterone
      replacement in older men has been associated with only a modest or no decrease in plasma
      HDL-cholesterol. Cross-sectional studies of middle-aged men find a direct, rather than an
      inverse, relationship between serum testosterone levels and plasma HDL-cholesterol
      concentrations as well as an inverse correlation between serum testosterone levels and
      visceral fat volume. Testosterone supplementation of middle-aged men with truncal obesity is
      associated with a reduction in visceral fat volume, serum glucose concentration, blood
      pressure, and an improvement in insulin sensitivity. All of these changes are associated with
      lower risk for atherosclerosis. These data suggest that serum testosterone levels in the
      range that is mid-normal for healthy young men are consistent with an optimal cardiovascular
      risk profile at any age, and that testosterone concentrations either above or below the
      physiologic male range may increase the risk of atherosclerotic heart disease. Studies in a
      low density lipoprotein (LDL)-receptor deficient mice provide compelling evidence that
      testosterone retards early atherogenesis, and that testosterone effects on atherogenesis are
      mediated through its conversion to estradiol by the action of aromatase enzyme that is
      expressed in the vessel wall. The effects of testosterone replacement on cardiovascular risk
      in humans have never been directly examined. Therefore, the primary objective of this study
      is to examine directly the effects of testosterone replacement on atherosclerosis progression
      in men by measuring common carotid artery intima-media thickness (CCA IMT) and coronary
      artery calcification (CAC) by multidetector computed tomography (MDCT), two independent
      measurements of generalized atherosclerosis.

      The second objective of this study is to determine whether physiologic testosterone
      replacement of older men with low testosterone levels improves health-related quality of
      life. Aging-associated decline in physical, sexual, and cognitive functions contributes to
      diminished quality of life in older men. Although the pathophysiology of impairment in each
      of these subdomains of health-related quality of life is complex and multifactorial, one
      correctable cause of the diminished quality of life in older men is the decrease in serum
      testosterone concentrations. Total and free testosterone (T) levels decline with advancing
      age in normal men, with a significant number of men meeting usual criteria for hypogonadism
      by the sixth to seventh decades. Spontaneous and experimentally-induced androgen-deficiency
      in young men is associated with decreased muscle mass and strength and impaired sexual
      function. Because loss of muscle mass and function contributes to diminished health-related
      quality of life (HRQOL) in older men, anabolic therapies such as testosterone that increase
      muscle mass and strength, would be expected to improve physical function. In older men with
      low testosterone levels, testosterone might also improve sexual function and marital
      interaction. A growing body of literature suggests that testosterone impacts neuronal
      functioning and may affect cognitive performance. Because physical, sexual, and cognitive
      functions are important determinants of health-related quality of life, testosterone
      replacement of older men with low testosterone levels would be expected to improve general
      health perceptions.

      The aging of humans is a recent evolutionary event. Of the thousand generations of men and
      women who have lived on this planet, only the humans of the last two generations could have
      hoped to live past the age of 50. The population is getting proportionally older. The number
      of people 85 years of age and older today is substantially greater than at the beginning of
      the 20th century. Advancing age is associated with decreased muscle mass and strength, and
      impairment of physical, sexual, and cognitive functions. Diminished muscle mass and strength
      increases the risk of falls, disability and poor quality of life. Age-related impairment of
      sexual and cognitive functions also contributes to overall reduction in quality of life.
      Testosterone replacement, by improving some aspects of physical, sexual and cognitive
      functions, would be expected to improve health-related quality of life.

      Previous studies have established that testosterone replacement in older men with low
      testosterone levels increases muscle mass and strength. However, lack of information in two
      areas has prevented formulation of general recommendations about wider use of testosterone
      replacement in older men. First, the effectiveness of testosterone in improving physical
      function, quality of life, and other health-related outcomes has not been demonstrated.
      Second, while there is agreement that short-term administration of testosterone in
      replacement doses is safe, the long-term risks of testosterone supplementation in older men
      remain unknown. The areas of major concern are the risks of prostate cancer and heart
      disease. Because of the high prevalence, even small increases in the incidence rates of
      atherosclerotic heart disease associated with testosterone supplementation will have
      significant impact on overall morbidity and mortality, and health care costs. The study will
      evaluate one important aspect of the long-term safety of testosterone administration by
      directly examining its effects on the rate of progression of atherosclerosis. If the study
      demonstrates that testosterone retards atherosclerosis progression, then that would provide
      one additional reason for testosterone supplementation of older men with low testosterone
      levels. If the study demonstrates a neutral effect of testosterone on atherosclerosis
      progression, that information would also be reassuring and useful to regulatory agencies.
      This study will establish the efficacy of testosterone replacement in improving physical,
      sexual and cognitive functions that are major determinants of health-related quality of life
      in older men.

      In spite of the paucity of efficacy and safety data, the sales of testosterone and other
      androgenic products have witnessed explosive growth because of increased media attention and
      public interest. During the summer of 2000, testosterone-related stories were on the cover of
      Time, Newsweek, New York Times, and Los Angeles Times. The prescription sales of testosterone
      that had been growing at 25-30% annual rate since 1993, almost doubled in the year 2000, and
      have cumulatively increased 500% since 1993 (Source: IMS Sales Data, provided by Reed Selby,
      Marketing Director for ALZA Corporation). The growing testosterone use in older men, without
      a clear understanding of its benefits or long-term risks, has raised concern among regulatory
      agencies. The proposed study by providing definitive information on the effects of
      testosterone replacement on several measures of efficacy and safety in older men would
      facilitate an analysis of its risk:benefit ratio.
    
  