
    
      Research objectives are:

        1. To study the effectiveness of the drug Dalargin, a solution for inhalation, for the
           prevention of severe pulmonary complications in patients with coronavirus infection
           (SARS-COVID-19);

        2. To study the effectiveness of the drug Dalargin, a solution for inhalation, for the
           treatment of severe pulmonary complications in patients with coronavirus infection
           (SARS-COVID-19);

        3. To study the effectiveness of the drug Dalargin, a solution for intravenous and
           intramuscular administration, for the prevention of severe pulmonary complications in
           patients with coronavirus infection (SARS-COVID-19);

        4. To study the effectiveness of the drug Dalargin, a solution for intravenous and
           intramuscular administration, for the treatment of severe pulmonary complications in
           patients with coronavirus infection (SARS-COVID-19);

        5. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the use of the drug Dalargin, a solution for
           inhalation administration, for the prevention of severe pulmonary complications in
           patients with coronavirus infection (SARS-COVID-19);

        6. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the use of the drug Dalargin, a solution for
           inhalation administration, for the treatment of severe pulmonary complications in
           patients with coronavirus infection (SARS-COVID-19);

        7. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the use of the drug Dalargin, a solution for
           intravenous and intramuscular administration, for the prevention of severe pulmonary
           complications in patients with coronavirus infection (SARS-COVID-19);

        8. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the use of the drug Dalargin, a solution for
           intravenous and intramuscular administration, for the treatment of severe pulmonary
           complications in patients with coronavirus infection (SARS-COVID-19).

      Upon admission to a specialized hospital for all patients with suspected COVID-19 Polymerase
      chain reaction (PCR) is being conducted. Only patients with confirmed coronavirus infection
      are included in the study.

      It is an open, randomized clinical trial of the drug Dalargin efficacy for the prevention and
      treatment of severe pulmonary complications symptoms in patients with coronavirus infection
      (SARS-COVID-19)
    
  