
    
      The incidence of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is high in China especially in southern
      China. Radiotherapy is the mainstay of therapy for NPC and greatly improves patient survival.
      Along with promising therapeutic effects, complications such as radiation dermatitis,
      temporal lobe necrosis, cognitive impairment, and cranial nerve injury are also associated
      with radiotherapy. Previously, corticosteroids were considered conventional treatment for
      radiation-induced brain injury (RI). Unfortunately, only 20% patients with early phase RI
      seem to benefit from corticosteroid treatment. Moreover, the long-term use of steroids is
      associated with substantial adverse effects. Recently, bevacizumab, an anti-vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF) recombinant monoclonal antibody, has been introduced as an
      efficient treatment for RI. However, the risk of severe adverse effects to bevacizumab, e.g.
      severe hypertension, proteinuria, nasopharyngeal necrosis and bleeding, limits its usage in
      certain patients with RI. Apatinib mesylate tablet is an oral small molecule tyrosine kinase
      inhibitor (TKI), which can specifically bind to vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2
      (VEGFR-2) and strongly inhibit neovascularization. Apatinib is currently used as a third-line
      treatment for advanced gastric cancer. Previous studies and clinical observation showed that
      apatinib could significantly improve brain injury after radiation, reduce brain tissue
      exudation and reduce edema. In this study, investigators will discuss the therapeutic effect
      of apatinib on RI and evaluate its safety through a prospective phase II clinical trial. It
      is hopeful to explore a new and effective method for the treatment of RI.

      Primary objectives: The primary objective of this phase II, open-label, single-arm designed
      clinical trial is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of apatinib in patients with RI.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase II, open-label, single-arm designed clinical trial. Participants are
      enrolled and administrated with oral apatinib mesylate tablet for 4 weeks.

      Arm 1: Participants receive oral apatinib with a dosage of 250mg once daily for 4 weeks, in
      the absence of unacceptable toxicity or severe deterioration.
    
  