
    
      Recently, a live-attenuated vaccine (Zostavax®, Merck) to prevent herpes zoster (HZ) has been
      developed and approved for use among individuals age 50 years or older, regardless of
      previous HZ or varicella history. In a pivotal study of 38,456 older adults led by Dr.
      Michael Oxman (a co-investigator in the parent VERVE trial and this immunogenicity pilot
      sub-study), the vaccine reduced the incidence of HZ and postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) by >
      50%.

      Guidelines from the American Council on Immunization Practices (ACIP), based largely on
      expert opinion (given the absence of data), recommend that patients who use methotrexate or
      low to moderate doses of corticosteroids (up to 20mg/day prednisone) can receive this
      vaccination safely. However, theoretical concerns regarding the safety of live vaccine use in
      patients using biologic therapies have resulted in an ACIP recommendation that the vaccine is
      contraindicated in patients receiving such medications. Similarly, given a lack of data, the
      American College of Rheumatology (ACR) endorsed this contraindication in the updated ACR 2012
      recommendations for biologic and non-biologic disease modifying anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD)
      use in RA patients (led by members of the project team for this present application).

      Currently it is unknown if RA patients using biologics can safely receive this vaccine.
      Despite the demonstrated efficacy and safety of the zoster vaccine observed in non-RA
      patients, there are no prospective data critically examining the efficacy or safety of HZ
      vaccination in RA patients. The zoster vaccine was not given to immunosuppressed patients in
      the large Shingles Prevention Study (SPS); RA patients and others receiving biologics and
      immunosuppressive agents including glucocorticoids and DMARDs were excluded. However, this
      trial did show safety of the vaccine even for very elderly individuals including those older
      than 70 years of age and with little evidence of remaining VZV-specific cell mediated
      immunity (CMI). Moreover, live varicella vaccine has been safely given to children with HIV
      infection. Recently, the investigators used the administrative databases of a national U.S.
      Healthcare organization (Aetna) to conduct an observational study to examining Zostavax use
      in patients with RA and other rheumatic diseases (e.g. spondyloarthropathies). Among a total
      of 19,326 RA patients older than age 50, only 206 (1%) received zoster vaccine, suggesting
      that clinicians may be uncomfortable using the vaccine in RA patients. Additionally,
      approximately 60 vaccinated patients were using anti-TNF therapies within one month of
      vaccination, and no cases of HZ were reported during this time frame. Some studies suggest an
      elevated risk of HZ in RA patients using anti-TNF therapies, although HZ cases reported
      within these cohorts of anti-TNF users do not show increased dissemination or complications,
      suggesting that anti-TNF therapy might not necessarily increase the likelihood of VZV
      dissemination in such patients. Theoretically, however, with downregulation of
      interferon-gamma pathways associated with TNF blockade, an increase risk of HZ might be
      expected in such patients. Lastly, limited head-to-head data collected to date suggests
      abatacept might carry less risk of HZ and other opportunistic infections than does anti-TNF
      therapy. Given the widespread use of anti-TNF and other biologic therapies like abatacept,
      many RA patients and rheumatologists are unwilling to stop biologic therapy in order to
      receive Zostavax. This represents a missed opportunity with regard to HZ prevention. Clearly,
      given the high risk of HZ in the RA population, it would be highly beneficial to
      prospectively evaluate the safety and efficacy of this vaccine in patients using biologic
      therapy.
    
  