
    
      Hypertensive leg ulcers are a variety of leg ulcer characterized by very painful and
      spreading lesions, related to cutaneous microangiopathy, occurring in patients presenting
      hypertension and /or diabetes. Healing takes a mean of 4 to 12 months. Current treatment is
      difficult and usually surgical (pinch or meshed skin grafts). Growth factors release by
      autografted skin may be a significant factor in the promotion of hypertensive leg ulcer
      healing. Recombinant human platelet derived growth-factor-BB gel (becaplermin gel) has been
      shown to be effective in the treatment of diabetic ulcers related to diabetic
      microangiopathy. The objective of the study was to assess the efficacy of becaplermin gel for
      the healing of hypertensive leg ulcers. Study design: prospective, randomized, multi-centre,
      double blind, controlled, parallel groupPrimary aim: complete wound closure at week
      8Secondary aims: complete wound closure at week 12, pain and quality of life assessment
      during the treatment( W4,8,10,12), % of wound area reduction at week 8 and 12 Method:
      Inclusion of 64 patients, 32 in each group. The study population consisted of consecutive
      patients presenting with one or more leg ulcers diagnosed as hypertensive MARTORELL's ulcers:
      hypertensive and/or diabetic patients, in absence of chronic venous insufficiency (C5-C6 of
      the CEAP) or peripheral arterial occlusive disease (presence of peripheral pulses or ankle
      brachial index ≥0.8), superficial spreading necrotic ulcer, presence of spontaneous pain, and
      presence of a red purpuric margin. Treatment consists of a daily application of a continuous
      thin layer of becaplermin gel (Regranex Gel®) or Duoderm Hydrogel™, during 8 weeks. The
      amount of the gel to be applied was determined based on ulcer area at inclusion (as
      recommended for Regranex gel®), and remains identical during all the treatment. Wound was
      then recovered by a moist saline gauze and a bandage. Duoderm Hydrogel™ is a sodium
      carboxymethylcellulose aqueous-based gel, similar in composition to becaplermin excipient.At
      week 8, a pinch graft was proposed to patients whom the ulcer was not healed. Between weeks 8
      and 12, if patient had not healed and was not grafted, dressing was chosen by the
      investigator, depending on the wound stage. All patients were followed until week 12.
    
  