
    
      Multiple different surgical techniques have been established for hallux valgus surgery so
      far, each technique with its unique advantages and limitations. The distal chevron method is
      widely accepted as a surgical method for correcting mild to moderate hallux valgus
      deformities. Numerous publications presenting the radiological outcome of this surgical
      technique and the clinical outcome by means of well established score systems have been
      published and make this technique, today's benchmark in hallux surgery.

      Due to scarring and decreased range of motion of the greater toe joint after open surgery and
      increasing patients' demands several minimally invasive techniques have been brought to
      public in the last few years. These techniques claim minor soft tissue damage and reduced
      surgical time. The efficiency and stability of correction, as well as the clinical outcome of
      these techniques have been discussed controversially. However, most studies present data from
      minimally invasive surgery without specific differentiation of the type of surgery and in
      regard to the clinical and radiological outcome.

      Recently a prospective randomized study comparing the open versus the minimally invasive
      chevron technique has been published presenting data with comparable clinical and
      radiological outcome.

      Given the above-mentioned lack of evidence it was the aim of the study to compare the results
      of two different minimally invasive techniques. The investigators analyzed the Reverdin Isham
      procedure, which is known as the technique, that made minimally invasive hallux surgery
      popular and the minimally invasive chevron osteotomy. It was hypothesized that the two
      techniques would show significant differences in regard to radiological outcome (Hypothesis
      1), clinical outcome (Hypothesis 2) and development of radiological recurrence (Hypothesis
      3).
    
  