
    
      This clinical trial is a phase I/II exploratory immunogenicity and safety study of live
      attenuated Varicella (Varivax), Measles-Mumps-Rubella (MMR-II), or combination
      Varicella/Measles, Mumps/Rubella (Pro-Quad) vaccines administered to healthy children at 12
      and 18 months of age. A total of 105 healthy children, 12 months old at the time of study
      entry, will be recruited from the Palo Alto Medical Foundation clinics in Palo Alto, Fremont
      and Los Altos, California. The study is designed to focus on time of primary Varivax
      immunization and immunologic benefits of a two-dose vaccine regimen compared to a single
      Varivax dose. In addition, the investigators will evaluate the use of Varivax with and
      without concomitant administration of the MMR-II, further measuring immunologic responses to
      a two-dose MMR-II regimen. The first study objective is to determine the immunogenicity of
      one dose of Varivax administered at 12 versus 18 months of age. Participants will receive
      either MMR vaccine and Varivax, or ProQuad depending on availability of the vaccines.
      Immunogenicity to be measured as humoral responses utilizing plaque reduction neutralization
      (PRN) assay for measles and gpELISA for varicella antibodies, and T cell immunity determined
      by flow cytometric T cell assays. The second study objective is to determine the
      immunogenicity of administering two doses of Varivax and MMR-II to children at 12 and 18
      months of age compared with children receiving one dose of MMR-II at 12 months and one dose
      of Varivax at 12 or 18 months of age. Participants will receive either MMR vaccine and
      Varivax, or ProQuad depending on availability of the vaccines. The third study objective is
      to determine the safety of administering two doses of Varivax and MMR-II to children at 12
      and 18 months of age. Participants will receive either MMR vaccine and Varivax, or ProQuad
      depending on availability of the vaccine. Study personnel with documentation of all adverse
      events and serious adverse events will monitor safety using parental memory aids and
      telephone follow-up. The investigators hypothesize that infants receiving Varivax or ProQuad
      at 12 months of age will have comparable humoral immune responses to infants receiving the
      vaccine at 18 months of age, but that T cell immunity will be higher in those vaccinated at
      18 months of age. In addition, infants receiving 2 doses of Varivax or ProQuad will have
      higher humoral and cell mediated immune responses compared with children receiving only one
      dose of Varivax or ProQuad. This hypothesis would explain the post-licensure observations
      that breakthrough disease is higher in those vaccinated at 12 versus 15 months of age and in
      children who received one vaccination compared with two. The investigators predict that there
      will be no differences in the humoral immune responses when measles is given concomitantly
      with Varivax compared to Varivax alone, but the immunosuppressive effects of the measles
      virus can influence effects on T cell immunity. It is expected that two doses of Varivax or
      Proquad will be well tolerated and that there will be fewer systemic adverse reactions after
      the second dose. The Varivax package insert reports that the incidence of injection site
      redness and swelling was slightly higher post dose 2, but the incidence of systemic clinical
      complaints was lower post dose 2. The incidence of adverse experiences both locally and
      systemically following a second dose of ProQuad was equal to or less than those reactions
      seen after the first dose. The investigators will evaluate the incidence of injection site
      reactogenicity to confirm these findings.
    
  