
    
      Specific Aims:

      Hypothesis to be investigated: the integrated treatment effect of controlling inflammatory
      process through vedolizumab in active UC patients can be synergistically enhanced with a
      structured semi-vegetarian dietary intervention

      Background and Significance:

      Research of fecal microflora in UC has shown its influential role on the disease
      pathogenesis. In UC patients, the adaptive immune system is dysregulated and hyper-reactive
      to the commensal intestinal microﬂora in susceptible individuals and the diversity of
      intestinal ﬂora decreases, called dysbiosis, by 30% to 50%. For the treatment of moderate to
      severe UC, tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists, although efficacious but predispose
      patients to serious infection. Vedolizumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody that specifically
      recognizes the α4β7 heterodimer, selectively blocking the migration of leukocytes into
      inflamed intestinal tissue, has been shown to achieve clinical response and clinical
      remission in patients with moderate to severely active UC (clinical response 47% vs. 25%
      (placebo) at week 6 and clinical remission 42% vs. 16% (placebo) at week 52) in patients with
      moderate to severely active UC. In epidemiological study, western diet characterized with
      high in animal fat and low in fruits and vegetables has been found associated with an
      increased risk of IBD. In murine models, diets high saturated animal fats has been shown to
      be associated with dysbiosis, increased intestinal permeability, decreased mucus layer, and
      increased release of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Additive in processed food, such as
      emulsifiers, has been recently found with impact on the mouse gut microbiota promoting
      colitis and metabolic syndrome. Enteral nutritional therapy has been demonstrated effective
      in pediatric IBD patients; however, the application to adult IBD patients has not been widely
      accepted partly because of compliance and adherence to the diet. Recently, non-enteral
      dietary interventions, such as semi-vegetarian diet, specific carbohydrate diet, and IBD
      exclusion diet, have gained attention based on small non-randomized trials. In a small
      prospective clinical trial in CD patients, semi-vegetarian diet was well tolerated and 93%
      (16 out of 17) of patients remained in clinical remission, compared with 33% (2 out of 6
      patients) in an omnivorous diet group, at 2 years. A well-designed randomized clinical trial
      using a structured dietary intervention, which integrates the merits of previously proposed
      diets, is warranted, especially in conjunction with the current standard of care (e.g.
      vedolizumab) and the novel normalization of dysbiosis through structured semi-vegetarian
      dietary intervention.

      Research Design and Methods:

      Study Design or Overview:

      This study is a pilot study of evaluating the synergistic effect of vedolizumab in
      conjunction with structured semi-vegetarian dietary intervention on the treatment of active
      UC patients who will be under the treatment of Vedolizumab. Subjects will be screened at
      outpatient clinic visit appointments and interested, qualified subjects will be consented and
      offered participation in this trial. Once consent has been obtained, baseline values will be
      established and subjects will begin treatment. A final visit for evaluation and collection of
      lab samples will be conducted at the end of the study at week 14.

      Investigative Agent: vedolizumab in conjunction with semi-vegetarian dietary intervention:

      Single interventional group: vedolizumab (300mg) IV infusions at week 0, 2, 6, 14 (as current
      standard of care) and concurrently on structured semi-vegetarian diet Duration of Therapy: 14
      weeks; Duration of time on study: 14 weeks Structured semi-vegetarian dietary intervention
      (see supplementary material): Eligible study subjects will be counseled with a registered
      dietician and complete a Food Frequency Questionnaire to record and monitor the dietary
      pattern that the patient has at different time points, including prior to UC flare, current
      diet, diet during and after study.

      The patient will be on a structured semi-vegetarian diet described below: (Specific recipes
      and food preparation will be provided during the counselling session with a dietician).

        -  Gradually increase calories, up to 25-30 kcals/kg/day

        -  Gradually add fiber (ex. white rice 2-5 days, then mixed rice 70% white to 30% brown
           rice) in an instructed regimen

        -  Daily vegetables, fruits, legumes, potatoes, probiotic food (miso, pickled vegetables),
           plain yogurt

        -  Encourage no smoking, regular physical exercise, moderate to no use of alcohol,
           regularity of meals, no snacking

        -  Foods to strictly limit/avoid: bread, cheese, margarine, fast foods, carbonated
           beverages, highly processed foods

        -  Diet excludes completely: Animal fat and Trans saturated fats, red meat and processed
           meat, sugar, emulsifiers (CMC, PS-80)

      Sample Size:

      Since this is a pilot study, no formal study power and sample size calculation is needed. The
      investigators plan to recruit 10 study subjects for the single interventional group.

      Data Collection:

      Clinical Assessments:

      The primary outcome: Clinical response at week 6 (which is defined as ≥3 improvement in Mayo
      score (see page 4 for reference table), and a decrease of at least 30% from the baseline
      score).

      The secondary outcome: Clinical response at week 14(which is defined as ≥3 improvement in
      Mayo score (see page 4 for reference table), and a decrease of at least 30% from the baseline
      score).

      The investigators will also collect stool samples before (week -1) and after (week 14) the
      dietary interventions for microbiome study.

      Data Analysis:

      Univariate descriptive statistics and frequency distributions will be calculated, as
      appropriate for all variables including the primary and secondary outcomes. Baseline values
      for demographic, clinical, and outcome variables (primary and secondary) will be tabulated
      for the single interventional group. Primary outcome (clinical response rate at week 6) of
      this pilot study result will be non-analytically compared to the previously reported 47.1%
      from the previous clinical trial of vedolizumab alone in moderately to severe UC patients

      Feasibility and Time Frame:

      This is a pilot study and 10 study subjects will be enrolled by the end of 2017. Based on the
      current volume of eligible patients at the institution, it will be expected to complete the
      recruitment in 3 to 4 months. The completion of this study is estimated to be within 4
      months.
    
  