
    
      After approval of the Ethics Committee and signing the consent, a prospective randomized
      study was performed in patients ≥ 18 years, with locally advanced cancer and / or metastases,
      and pain intensity ≤ 6. There were excluded patients with difficulty maintaining clinical
      follow-up, cognitive impairment and prior treatment with opioids. G1 patients were treated
      according to the guidelines of the WHO analgesic ladder starting at the first step, with
      paracetamol 1g each 6 hours, maximum dose of 4 g/ day, in the second, codeine (30 mg each 4
      hours , maximum dose 360 mg / day and morphine 10 mg each 4 hours in the third step. Patients
      in G2 started with morphine 10 mg each 4 hours. Adjuvant drugs have been associated when
      indicated. According to the intensity of pain the medication was changed according to
      analgesic ladder in G1 patients and adjusted the dose in G2. The cancer therapy as palliative
      radiotherapy, chemotherapy or hormone therapy was performed by the oncologist.

      There were evaluated: pain intensity every 2 wk. by visual analogue scale (VAS), quality of
      life every 4 wk. through the brief questionnaire of quality of life of the WHO 19,
      satisfaction with treatment, physical capacity measured by the index of Eastern Cooperative
      Oncology Group (ECOG) 20, and the need for additional analgesics. Adverse effects were
      recorded. The study was considered completed with the patient's death or three months of
      follow-up.

      To calculate the minimum sample size was used the program BioEstat 2.0. There were used as
      reference means and standard deviations values of study with a similar method 5. Considering
      a confidence level of 95% study power of 80% of the minimum sample of 30 patients for each
      group, totaling 60 patients. For the statistical analysis was used GraphPad Prism ®. There
      was used the Student t test for age, weight, height, chi-square test for patient
      satisfaction, need for complementation, and adverse effects, and Mann-Whitney test for pain
      intensity, quality of life and physical capacity. A p value of ≤ 0,05 was considered
      significant. The resultas were expressed as mean ± DP.
    
  