
    
      This research study is a Phase I/II clinical trial, which has two parts. The participant will
      be asked to participate in one part of the study. The first part tests the safety of the
      combination of drugs and tries to define the appropriate dose to use for future studies. The
      second part tests whether the combination of drugs is effective in treating small cell lung
      cancer. "Investigational" means that the combination of drugs is being studied. It also means
      that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved the combination of drugs
      for Small Cell Lung Cancer.

      Olaparib (Lynparza) is FDA approved for the treatment of a type of ovarian cancer associated
      with a particular DNA change. Olaparib works by blocking the activity of a protein called
      poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) which is involved in DNA repair. Cancer cells rely on
      PARP to repair their DNA and enable them to continue dividing. Olaparib has been used in
      research studies with other cancers. Information from those other research studies suggests
      that this drug may help to treat patients with small cell lung cancer. While it is not
      approved by the FDA for small cell lung cancer, it is considered part of standard treatment
      for other cancer.

      Temozolomide (Temodar) is approved by the FDA for the treatment of a type of brain tumor,
      glioblastoma. It has been studied in small cell lung cancer in previous research studies.
      While it is not approved by the FDA for small cell lung cancer, it is considered part of
      standard treatment for relapsed disease.

      In this research study, the investigators are looking for the maximum tolerated dose or MTD
      of the combination of olaparib and temozolomide that can be given safely. The investigators
      will also begin to collect information about the effects of the combination on small cell
      lung cancer
    
  