
    
      Single-centre cross-sectional study based on prospective clinical and radiological assessment
      and retrospective risk factor analyses performed at a single hospital.

      All consecutive patients who underwent laparoscopic surgery (cholecystectomy, colon
      resection, adrenalectomy, Nissen fundoplication and appendectomy) during a four months period
      were included in the study. At least 30 months after hospital discharge, they were invited by
      telephone to participate in the study. Detailed project information was provided, and those
      who accepted received an appointment for an outpatient visit and a dynamic ultrasound.
      Informed consent was obtained from all participants. In all patients, the umbilical trocar
      wound was closed with an interrupted suture with synthetic braided absorbable 2/0 suture
      (Novosyn® or Safil®). During the postoperative outpatient visit, clinical and
      ultrasonographic examinations were performed. To increase study homogeneity, all clinical
      examinations and ultrasounds were performed by a single surgeon and a single radiology
      resident supervised by the same abdominal radiology consultant, respectively. Sonography was
      performed with an Applio 500 equipment (Toshiba, Japan) with a 3.5MHz convex probe and a 7MHz
      linear probe. The ultrasound diagnosis was based on the identification of an abdominal wall
      defect with intraabdominal tissue protrusion. The main variables of the study were clinical
      (TSIHc) and ultrasound (TSIHu) diagnosis of incisional hernia. All results and variables were
      introduced in a previous specifically designed database (File MakerPro 11.0v3 © 1984-2011
      FileMaker, Inc.). Data were collected from clinical interviews, physical and radiological
      examinations and the electronic medical record. Statistical analyses were performed using the
      SPSS statistical software (IBM SPSS® Statistics).
    
  