
    
      Initial quality control study.

      Study design.

      After discussion with senior nurses, residents, and physicians in the hospital, it was agreed
      that a baseline quality control study of patient satisfaction would be carried out on the
      medical and surgical wards. A UBC summer student was hired to administer the surveys. The
      initial stage of the study consisted of administering a previously validated questionnaire to
      families on the morning of their day of discharge. Families on the medical CTU and also
      surgical families were included. All information was obtained by face to face interview. No
      data was obtained from data bases or postal questionnaire.

      Inpatient questionnaire. The questionnaire was developed by the health services research unit
      from the University of Oxford and has subsequently been used in Canadian hospitals. The
      questionnaire contains eight sub-headings that cover different aspects of the admission
      (courtesy, communication, comfort etc). Within each sub-heading there are five questions,
      each is scored from 1 (poor) to 4 (excellent). The result is eight separate sub-scores, each
      with a maximum of 20 points, plus a total score of 160 points.

      Results.

      Over 3 months, 150 families were enrolled from the medical and surgical wards. No parents
      refused to enter the study. The results are summarized in graph 1. The pattern of responses
      in the surgical and medical patients was surprisingly similar. In general, parents are
      satisfied with their care at Children's Hospital but, as graph 1 shows, there were two
      obvious areas for improvement. The first was simple communication between health care staff
      and the parents. The second, and more serious problem, was dissatisfaction with the discharge
      process (labelled as continuity on the graph).

      Proposed prospective study of whiteboards.

      The hospital's Inpatient Model of Care committee reviewed these findings and developed a
      protocol aimed at improving both communication and discharge planning. Fortunately, there has
      been considerable interest in the results of the first study. As a result, there is
      enthusiastic support for the second stage investigation of whiteboards. Nursing and medical
      staff have been very supportive and helpful. The introduction of this new protocol will be
      studied in a prospective controlled manner - this plan forms the basis of this ethics
      application. The details of the study are as follows:

      Study Patients:

      The patient groups will be the same ones used in the initial quality control study. The
      intervention group will be medical CTU patients. The control group will be surgical patients.
      There has been full support from medical and nursing staff in both areas. All rooms in the
      hospital already have whiteboards but they are rarely used except to collect fluid balance
      data. The study will examine the effects of a formalized use of whiteboards on rounds in the
      medical wards. In the surgical wards the whiteboards are used on an occasion basis. There
      will be no change to the usual surgical ward round routine.

      Study protocol:

      The first step has been to add standardized headings to the boards. This has already been
      completed. Apart from the patient's name and target date of discharge, the board includes
      details of the care team such as, doctor, nurse, and social worker. At the bottom of the
      board there is a space for family questions, and then next to that is a space for the day's
      plan.

      The improved communication framework will consist of the following:

        1. On morning rounds, the child's management will be discussed with the family and the
           day's plan for treatment and investigations will be written on the whiteboard.

        2. The second step will be to update the whiteboard at the end of the day. The nursing team
           are fully engaged with this part of the study. The child's bed side nurse will sit with
           the family in the afternoon and review the day's plan. Anything that has been left out
           or uncompleted will be highlighted and brought up on the following morning's rounds.
           Next, the nurse will ask the family to write down any questions. These will be listed on
           the board and will be a priority to be discussed at rounds.

        3. Lastly, on the afternoon before a child's discharge, the nurse will take particular care
           to make sure the parents write down all of their concerns prior to going home. These
           specific questions concerning discharge planning will be addressed in detail at rounds
           the following morning.

      There will be no changes made to the usual ward routine for control patients on the surgical
      ward. There will be no other investigations associated with the study. In particular, there
      will be no laboratory or radiological investigations.
    
  