
    
      A double-blind RCT intervention study will be conducted to investigate the effect of a
      probiotic dietary supplement vs. a placebo, taken by healthy human participants (N = 60) for
      28 consecutive days. Both substances are administered in doses of 4.4g (powder) per day.

      The probiotic dietary supplement used in the present study is a freely available product (in
      powder form) sold under the name of Vivomixx®. Per 4.4g the powder contains 450 billion
      bacteria, composed of eight bacterial strains: Lactobacilli (L. paracasei, L. plantarum, L.
      acidophilus and L.delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus), Bifidobacteria (B. longum, B. infantis, B.
      breve), and Streptococcus thermophiles.

      This product was chosen, because a similar supplement with an identical composition of
      bacteria as Vivomixx® was found to be linked to hippocampal neurogenesis in mice. The placebo
      powder has a similar taste and consistency as the verum (Vivomixx®) powder, but contains no
      probiotic bacteria.

      First, participants will be screened online for eligibility (T0). Before and after the 28-day
      intake period, participants are asked to perform several cognitive tests and fill out
      questionnaires (T1, T2) at our laboratory (ca. 2 - 2.5 hours). Afterwards, blood samples will
      be drawn (ca. 5 minutes) and a magnet resonance tomography (MRT) session (ca. 1 - 1.5 hours)
      will be conducted, where participants will perform an object pattern separation task in the
      scanner (T1, T2). Furthermore, a follow-up after 2 months (T3), including the same
      assessments as at T1 and T2, will be conducted.

      During the intake period participants will fill out a brief questionnaire on a weekly basis,
      which includes an assessment of state depression and anxiety, defecation (control item to
      rule out adverse effects), recent (start of) intake of medication, recent (onset of) intake
      of antibiotics, and recent inter-current illness (e.g. influenza). In addition, participants
      will record their food intake (protocol) for one week (7 consecutive days) during the intake
      period.
    
  