
    
      Rationale To our knowledge, there is no existing psychometric scale to measure employee
      wellbeing and work-related stress while working remotely. As working remotely is likely to be
      a core feature for workers for the foreseeable future, either fully or in hybrid form, we
      believe this is a fruitful area for study. Additionally, there have been very few studies
      published regarding employee wellbeing while working from home, largely because the pandemic
      is a new phenomenon. Development and validation of a psychometric measure of employee
      wellbeing while working remotely is an important step in understanding the impact of remote
      working on workplace stress and wellbeing.

      Theoretical Framework The theoretical framework used in this study integrates aspects of the
      two aforementioned models based on our conceptualisation of remote working and its impact on
      employee wellbeing. We hypothesise that employee wellbeing is influenced by four domains: (1)
      environmental; (2) support; (3) social; and (4) boundaries. The environmental domain contains
      factors such as having an inadequate work environment (e.g. unsuitable chairs, diskspace,
      interruptions from family, pets, deliveries, etc.). The support domain contains factors such
      as the ability to access support through one's organization (e.g. supervisors, HR,
      occupational health, etc.) and one's team of colleagues. The social domain contains factors
      such as the ability to maintain social relationships with colleagues, and the ability to have
      informal contact like one would in an office (e.g. chatting while making a drink). The
      boundaries domain contains factors such as ability to work contracted hours, ability to take
      breaks, ability to 'switch off' and maintain distance between home and work lives.

      We further hypothesise that the influence of these domains is moderated by personal factors
      such as mood, resilience, mental health status, physical health status, etc. For example, if
      an employee already has an established back condition causing pain, an inadequate workspace
      lacking a supportive chair will worsen this condition, likely causing some distress,
      affecting employee wellbeing. Combine this with an inability to contact one's supervisor or
      HR department to correct the issues, distress is likely to be heightened, causing further
      decline in employee wellbeing.

      Quality Assurance and Protocol Compliance The research is designed to be compliant with this
      protocol. Protocol compliance will be assessed and monitored throughout the study by the lead
      researcher. Any deviations from the protocol will be recorded and evaluated. The research is
      being guided by the American Institute of Stress, although they are not the sponsors of this
      study. This also helps with quality assurance. The principal researcher and author is a
      psychology graduate with a Master's degree in Psychology, working on a freelance basis.

      Measures and Scoring:

      Work and Wellbeing Survey (UWES-9). The UWES-9 is a well-established scale to measure
      workplace wellbeing in employees. It is a shorter version of the UWES-17. The scale contains
      nine items comprising three subscales: vigour, dedication, and absorption. The scale uses a
      seven-point Likert-type scale ranging from "never (0)" to "always (every day; 6)". Scores are
      obtained by adding up the scores for each item, and then divided by three (subscales) or nine
      (total score). The maximum score is six and higher scores indicate higher work-related
      wellbeing. The measure is free to use in research, without permission. This measure is being
      used to validate our adapted measure.

      The World Health Organization Five Wellbeing Index (WHO-5). The WHO-5 is a widely used,
      non-invasive scale validated as a screening tool for depression and as an outcome measure in
      research. The scale contains five items relating to the previous two weeks. Responses are
      recorded using a six-point Likert-type scale ranging from "at no time (0)" to "all of the
      time (5)". The total score is obtained by adding up the scores from each item, with a maximum
      score of 25. A percentage score can also be gained by multiplying the total score by four.
      Higher scores indicate higher levels of wellbeing. The measure is free to use in research,
      without permission. This measure is being used to validate our adapted measure.

      The Workplace Stress Scale (WSS). The WSS is an eight-item scale validated to measure
      workplace stress. The scale uses a five-point Likert-type scale ranging from "never" to
      "always". Three of the eight items are reverse scored. The total score is obtained by adding
      up the scores from each item with a maximum score of 40. The authors produced score
      categories as follows: a score of 0-15 indicates the participant is "relatively calm", 16-20
      indicates "fairly low stress", 21-25 indicates "moderate stress", 26-30 indicates severe
      stress, and 31-40 indicates "potentially dangerous levels of stress". This measure will not
      be used in its original form within this study but will be used in its adapted form (see
      below).

      Remote Workplace Stress Scale (R-WSS; measure to be validated). The R-WSS is an adapted
      version of the Workplace Stress Scale (WSS) to include important domains related to remote
      working. The measure comprises 11 items relating to the previous week. One item was changed
      from "conditions at work are unpleasant or sometimes even unsafe" to "conditions for remote
      working are unsuitable (e.g. uncomfortable workspace noisy environment, etc.)". Three items
      were added: "I feel isolated from my work colleagues", "I worked my contracted hours", and "I
      found it difficult to schedule and take breaks while working remotely". The measure uses the
      same five-point Likert-type scale ranging from "never" to "always", with four items reverse
      scored. A total score is obtained by adding the scores from each item, with a maximum score
      of 55. The score categories are as follows: 0-20 indicates the participant is "relatively
      calm", 21-30 indicates "fairly low stress", 31-38 indicates "moderate stress", 39-48
      indicates severe stress, and 49-55 indicates "extreme stress". The American Institute of
      Stress has approved this adapted version of the WSS for this research study.

      Standard Operating Procedures Sampling and Recruitment The R-WSS contains 11 items, meaning
      that a minimum of 220 participants will be required. However, we will aim for at least 300
      participants, to account for possible attrition and missing data. This is consistent with
      previous suggestions that a minimum of 200 participants should be sought for a confirmatory
      factor analysis. The funding company (BPAi) will invite up to three corporate clients with
      large numbers of employees working remotely to take part in the pilot of the app. Upon
      agreement from the corporate clients, their employees will be invited to register with the
      app and will be presented with the information sheet and consent form to take part in this
      validation study (see 'ethical and regulatory considerations' section below and appendix 1
      for more information). Selection of the corporate clients should not impact the results of
      the study because corporate employees are the target population for both the remote workplace
      stress measure and the MyBuddy app.

      Data Collection When participants log into the app for the first time, they will be presented
      with an information sheet and a consent form, to take part in the research (see below section
      and subsection 'Sample and recruitment: Consent'). Once the participants have consented to
      take part, they will be prompted to complete the baseline measures online through the app.

      The questionnaire responses will be extracted from the app anonymously (i.e. the
      participant's responses will not be linked to any identifiable information). Anonymous
      demographic data will also be collected (e.g. gender, age, highest level of education
      completed), along with app use data (i.e. how often the app was used within the month). The
      questionnaire responses will then be held securely by the researcher in a password protected
      Excel spreadsheet ready to be prepared for data analysis. Participants will then be prompted
      to complete the measures one month after their initial login; they will be able to complete
      the measures as often as they wish during the app pilot phase.

      Data Analysis The statistical software package IBM's SPSS will be used to analyse the data
      from the study. Descriptive statistics will be produced to indicate means and standard
      deviations for the measures and demographic data. Internal consistency will be measured used
      Cronbach's alpha coefficient with a minimum level of 0.7.

      A confirmatory factor analysis and correlation analysis will be conducted to confirm the
      factor structure and help to validate the measure. If the data analysis suggests that any
      items or factors are inconsistent, the measure will be adapted, and re-tested with another
      sample. If the measure is validated, analyses will be conducted with a new sample to confirm
      construct validity.

      Assessment and Management of Risk The MyBuddy app is designed to complement existing employee
      wellbeing risk assessment and management procedures within an organisation. It is designed as
      a tool for employees to assess, monitor, and track their wellbeing, as well as facilitate
      access to their organisation's wellbeing support.

      The app is designed as an assessment tool, rather than a wellbeing intervention. This means
      it signposts employees to existing wellbeing support in their organisation and notifies
      employers of their employees' wellbeing scores. As such, we do not anticipate high levels of
      risk. However, the study asks participants to rate their current wellbeing levels and will
      provide them with a score and some explanation of their score. There is a risk that people
      that score highly on the stress measure may become concerned or distressed regarding their
      wellbeing. In this instance, the app will notify their manager, who is ultimately responsible
      for managing these risks.

      Plan for Missing Data Any instances where data is missing or where participants do not
      complete all measures at baseline and follow-up, will not be included in the study. This will
      be reported clearly in the form of an attrition rate in the manuscript.

      Data protection and patient confidentiality As described above, participant data will be held
      securely in the app, and anonymised questionnaire responses, along with some non-identifiable
      demographic information, will be extracted from the app for data analysis. This data will be
      held securely by the lead researcher on a password protected Excel spreadsheet.

      Participants will be assigned a random participant ID code when they first login, which will
      be available for them to view again within the app. Their questionnaire responses and
      non-identifiable demographic information will be linked to their unique participant ID code
      when the data is extracted from the app. If any of the participants wish to withdraw, they
      must contact the lead researcher and provide their unique participant code to identify their
      information for removal from the dataset.
    
  