
    
      Specific aims are to:

      I) Determine the effects of the intervention upon completion, in relation to preparedness for
      caregiving, competence for caregiving, reward of II) Determine the effects of the
      intervention in a 2-month follow-up, in relation to preparedness for caregiving, competence
      for caregiving, reward of caregiving, health, anxiety, depressive symptoms, and caregiver
      burden III) Determine the effects of the intervention 6-month after the death of the patient,
      in relation to the family caregiver's health, anxiety, depressive symptoms and grief IV)
      Identify characteristics of family caregivers who do not respond to the intervention and
      describe support needs for these individuals V) Investigate associations between preparedness
      for caregiving (main outcome) and competence for caregiving, reward of caregiving, health,
      anxiety, depressive symptoms, caregiver burden and grief (secondary outcomes) VI) Evaluate
      intervention processes from the perspective of family caregivers and health care
      professionals VII) Investigate the influences of the caregiver intervention, for the patients
      with advanced cancer disease

      A psycho-educational intervention was developed based on the theoretical framework of
      Andershed and Ternestedt relating to the principal support needs of family caregivers. The
      framework describes family caregivers' involvement in caregiving, and focuses on knowing,
      being and doing. Knowing is considered crucial for family caregivers, and is connected to an
      awareness of the nature of the caregiving role: knowing what to expect and what to do. Being
      is related to the management of one's own emotions and those of one's relative. Doing covers
      the practical care acts including a range of activities. It is assumed that insight will
      increase family caregivers' possibilities for making choices and for their involvement in
      caregiving.

      The aim of the intervention is to increase family caregivers' feelings of preparedness for
      caregiving, to support their wellbeing, and to decrease negative consequences associated with
      caregiving. Preparedness refers to how ready family caregivers perceive they are for the
      tasks and demands of the caregiving role, such as providing physical care, providing
      emotional support and dealing with the stress of caregiving. It is suggested that
      preparedness could support wellbeing and protect against negative consequences in relation to
      caregiving. The intervention is delivered as a programme in a group format and its
      components, design, acceptability, feasibility and potential effects have been confirmed in a
      series of previous studies. During the development process, slight modifications concerning
      the content and structure have been done based on participant experiences.

      Family caregivers were invited to meet in a group for 2 hours once a week for 3 weeks. Each
      meeting had a specific topic presented by a health care professional of the palliative care
      team (physician, nurse and social worker). The meetings addressed multi-dimensional issues in
      dialogue with the participants. A nurse acted as group leader and participated in all
      meetings. The intervention included both supportive and educational components. Each meeting
      began with a presentation based on a specific topic (palliative care, practical care and
      emotional reactions). This was followed by reflection and conversation, and finally a
      relaxation exercise

      The intervention was conducted at ten specialized palliative home care units in the Greater
      Stockholm area. These settings provide palliative care mainly for patients with advanced
      cancer disease and complex needs and limited survival expectancy. The needs of the patients
      include symptom management, emotional and spiritual support, and assistance with personal
      nursing care.

      All settings delivered 24-hours-a-day services and were staffed by multi-professional teams
      including physicians, nurses, social workers, occupational therapists and physiotherapists.
      The intervention was delivered altogether 21 times during 2013 and 2014. To ensure
      consistency, the content and structure of the intervention followed a manual that was
      developed in collaboration between researchers and staff. In order to strengthen this
      consistency, all team members involved in delivering the intervention participated in a 1-day
      workshop covering the theoretical basis of the intervention and how it should be conducted.
      In addition, several meetings between researchers and health care professionals were held
      pre-intervention, and during and after the intervention. The researchers also arranged
      meetings to give health care professionals from the various settings a chance to meet and
      share experiences related to delivering the intervention.

      Both patients and family caregivers were included in the study. The inclusion criteria for
      patients were: being in receipt of palliative care, and having a limited life expectancy that
      was nevertheless assumed to be >5 weeks. Patients were not included in active data
      collection, but were asked to consent to the use of specific information from their medical
      record, including diagnosis and illness duration. Patients were also asked for approval for
      and preferences of which family caregiver(s) were to be asked to participate in the study.
      The inclusion criteria for family caregivers were: being ≥18 years old, and being able to
      understand and speak Swedish. All participants were consecutively approached by health care
      professionals and received written study information from the researchers. Family caregivers
      who agreed to participate were randomized to either the intervention or a control group (i.e.
      standard care).

      In total, 270 family caregivers have been included and have been requested to answer a
      questionnaire to determine the effects of the intervention at four time points: at baseline,
      upon completion, 2 month after completion of the intervention and 6 months after the
      patient's death.

      Inclusion and baseline assessment was completed in March 2014 with an end of intervention
      delivery in April 2014. The 2-month follow-up assessments for these participants were
      completed in June 2014. The long-term assessment may be extended since its timing is
      dependent on the time of death of the patient. All data collection will, however, be
      finalized by December 2015. Data has been collected from family caregivers, patients and
      health care professionals in order to evaluate the intervention and its influences as well as
      intervention delivery

      To determine the effects of the intervention, participant assessments are made at four time
      points: before randomization (i.e. at baseline), upon completion of the intervention, 2
      months after the intervention and 6 months after the patient's death

      The questionnaire includes background characteristics such as age, sex, living conditions,
      level of education, relationship with the patient, marital status, financial situation,
      morbidity, and health care needs. It also includes scales with documented validity and
      reliability. The primary outcome variable is measured using the Preparedness for Caregiving
      Scale (PCS). The secondary outcome variables are measured using the Caregiver Competence
      Scale (CCS), Reward of Caregiving Scale (RCS), Caregiver Burden Scale (CBS), Health Index
      (HI), and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). Social support is measured using the
      Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support (MSPSS), grief is measured using the
      Anticipatory Grief Scale (AGS) & Texas Revised Inventory of Grief (TRIG)), and background
      data are assessed to identify characteristics for family caregivers who will not respond to
      the intervention

      Interviews have been conducted with the aim to evaluate intervention processes from the
      perspective of family caregivers and describe influences for patients. With the aim of
      describing the need for support among family caregivers who do not respond to the
      intervention, interviews are being planned. Focus group interviews have been conducted with
      the aim to evaluate the intervention processes from the perspective of care professionals.
      The number of participants for experiential explorative studies were based on sampling
      principles for qualitative methods and included: 19 interviews with family caregivers 25
      Health care professionals. Approximately 20 interviews with family caregivers who do not
      respond to the intervention will be held.

      Data analysis To secure the statistical power for the regression analyses, sample size
      calculations were made. A sample of 110 would be sufficiently large to detect a medium effect
      size.

      Descriptive statistics, χ2 statistics for categorical variables, and Student's t-test
      (unpaired) for continuous data (or equivalent non-parametric tests) were used to describe the
      characteristics of the participants and to compare the intervention and control group at
      baseline. Due to violations of the assumption of independence multiple linear regression
      analysis based on robust variance estimates was conducted to test the short and longer-term
      effects of the intervention (at baseline, upon completion of the intervention and two months
      following the intervention) and 6 months after the patient's death.

      Participants from the intervention group will be categorized into those who demonstrate
      improvement and those who do not and descriptive statistics will be used to identify
      characteristics associated with this distinction. Age, sex, living conditions, educational
      level, relation to the patient, marital status, financial situation, morbidity, health care
      needs, social support, and anticipatory grief will be included as predictor variables.

      Multiple linear regression analyses will be used to investigate the association between study
      outcome variables.

      Analyses of interviews and focus group data were conducted with interpretive descriptive
      analysis during data Collection.

      Ethical considerations A guiding ethical principle is not to harm the study participants,
      whether they participate in the intervention or in the control group. We have considered that
      answering the questionnaire and participating in the interviews may be associated with strong
      emotions. In addition, we have considered the stressful situation for caregivers. For this
      reason, the written and oral information emphasizes the voluntary nature of participation and
      the right to withdraw from the study at any time point. Ethics approval for the project and
      the extended project has been obtained from the regional ethical review board in Stockholm
      (2012/377-31, 2012/2191-32, 2013/934-32).

      Significance and clinical relevance The Project is based on an RCT design contributing to
      high evidence value results. It was hypothesized that a psycho-educational intervention
      delivered by health care professionals during ongoing palliative care would support family
      caregivers of patients with advanced cancer disease, sustain their wellbeing and decrease the
      negative consequences of caregiving. The project will expand the knowledge about short and
      long-term effects as well as intervention processes and influences of the intervention from
      the perspective of family caregivers, health care professionals and patients. The studies can
      thereby prepare for implementing the intervention in clinical settings. The intervention was
      planned, designed and conducted in cooperation with the health care professionals who were
      responsible for its delivery at ten specialized palliative home care units. This will further
      facilitate implementation of the intervention and research results - not only at the study
      settings, but also at other specialized palliative home care units. The RCT design should
      enhance the generalizability of the results and make the intervention applicable to implement
      as a tool in clinical practice. The project also has the potential to generate results that
      will contribute to the development of support for family caregivers in other contexts, for
      example elderly care and general home care services. Overall, the project has a potential to
      contribute to the body of knowledge about intervention development, delivery, and evaluation
      during ongoing palliative care.
    
  