
    
      Rationale:

      Cardiac transplantation remains the main intervention for those with end-stage heart failure.
      Maintenance immunosuppression is given to all transplant recipients to prevent acute
      rejection and loss of the allograft. Despite great improvements in immunosuppressive
      therapies, acute rejection remains a clinical problem and occurs at varying severity in
      20-30% of patients within the first 3 months post-transplant. Timely detection of moderate
      rejection allows for treatment to be modified, preventing organ damage, graft failure and
      patient death. The current method to monitor for rejection remains the endomyocardial biopsy
      (EMB), a highly invasive and costly procedure that poses physical risks and emotional stress
      to patients, who must undergo 12-15 such tests during the first year post-transplant. EMB
      detects rejection only when tissue damage has occurred, and lacks sensitivity as it provides
      information about tiny pieces of the endomyocardium. Clearly, patients and clinicians would
      benefit from an effective, cheaper, less invasive diagnostic test that can indicate when an
      EMB is not needed.

      Our team used unbiased omics strategies and computational tools to identify potential
      biomarkers of treatable acute rejection (ISHLT grade 2R or higher) in peripheral blood. We
      hypothesize that there are distinctive RNA and protein signatures in blood that can be
      developed into a simple test to accurately indicate when heart transplant patients do not
      require EMB, and that studying these biomarkers in a clinically relevant setting will
      facilitate clinical adoption.

      Our Specific Aims are to:

        1. Evaluate the performance of HEARTBiT, a custom 9-mRNA biomarker test developed on the
           NanoString platform, in an environment suitable for clinical translation, on >4000 newly
           collected samples from 400 patients across North America

        2. Examine the biomarker panel score and individual biomarkers serially across the first
           year post-transplant to identify predictive signatures of rejection and characterize
           underlying biology

        3. Develop and assess 5 promising protein biomarker candidates on NanoString, test 7
           candidate miRNAs, and evaluate combinatorial RNA-protein classifier performance metrics
           to improve HEARTBiT

      Expertise: Our team at the Centre of Excellence for Prevention of Organ Failure has over 10
      years experience in computational analysis of omics and clinical data to create biomarker
      tests that out-perform current gold standards. Our Biomarkers in Transplantation (BiT) study
      has been continuously funded by competitive grants, philanthropy and industry between
      2004-2017 and has generated many publications related to heart and kidney transplant
      rejection. Via our collaborators, we will have access to a Canadian Blood Services facility
      for testing our biomarkers, and patient samples from 5 major transplant sites (St.
      Paul's/Vancouver, Toronto, Nebraska, Newark Beth Israel, Duke).

      Outcomes: The HEARTBiT test will be ready for clinical utility studies. The test will have
      significant clinical and socioeconomic value by reducing EMBs for transplant patients and
      enabling the tailoring of therapy. Insights into the biology of immune rejection will also be
      enhanced.
    
  