
    
      Malaria in pregnancy remains a major challenge in Africa, where approximately 50 million
      women are at risk for P. falciparum infection during pregnancy each year. Among pregnant
      women living in malaria endemic areas symptomatic disease is uncommon, but infection with
      malaria parasites is associated with maternal anemia and adverse birth outcomes including
      abortions, stillbirth, preterm birth, low birth weight (LBW), and infant mortality. The World
      Health Organization (WHO) recommends the use of long-lasting insecticidal nets (LLINs) and
      intermittent preventive treatment with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (IPTp-SP) for the prevention
      of malaria in pregnancy in endemic areas of Africa. However, there is concern for diminishing
      efficacy of these interventions due to the spread of vector resistance to the pyrethroid
      insecticides used in LLINs and parasite resistance to SP. Thus, there is an urgent need for
      new strategies for the prevention of malaria in pregnancy and improving birth outcomes.
      Artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) are now the standard treatment for malaria in
      Africa. Dihydroartemisin-piperaquine (DP) is a fixed-dose ACT and an attractive alternative
      to SP for IPTp. DP is highly efficacious, and the long half-life of piperaquine provides at
      least 4 weeks of post-treatment prophylaxis. Recent randomized controlled trials showed that,
      compared to IPTp with SP, IPTp with DP dramatically reduced risks of malaria-specific
      outcomes but there were minimal differences between the SP and DP groups in risks of adverse
      birth outcomes. The key question for this study is why IPTp with either SP or DP is
      associated with similar risks of adverse birth outcomes despite the far superior antimalarial
      activity of DP. The likely explanation is that SP, a broad-spectrum antibiotic, protects
      against non-malarial causes of LBW and preterm birth. The central hypothesis is that SP
      improves birth outcomes independent of its antimalarial activity and that IPTp with a
      combination of SP+DP will offer antimalarial and non-antimalarial benefits, thus providing
      superior prevention of adverse birth outcomes compared to either drug used alone. To test
      this hypothesis, a double-blinded randomized clinical trial will conducted in a rural area of
      Uganda with very high malaria transmission intensity, where there is already an established
      infrastructure for clinical research. Specific aims will be (1) to compare the risk of
      adverse birth outcomes among pregnant women randomized to receive monthly IPTp with SP vs. DP
      vs. SP+DP, (2) To compare safety and tolerability of IPTp regimens among pregnant women
      randomized to receive monthly IPTp with SP vs. DP vs. SP+DP, and (3) to compare risks of
      malaria-specific and non-malarial outcomes among pregnant women randomized to receive monthly
      IPTp with SP vs. DP vs. SP+DP. This study will be the first to evaluate the efficacy and
      safety of a novel combination of well-studied drugs for improving birth outcomes and findings
      may well have important policy implications, with a change in standard practice for millions
      of pregnant women in Africa.
    
  