
    
      The reasons for conducting this study in a clinical setting is threefold.

        1. This is group of adolescents that has a high risk for transmitting STIs to the
           community. Prior to this intervention, the investigators did a preliminary study and
           found a high number of sex partners (median: 4, range: 1-25) and high prevalence of
           unprotected sex (90%) and STIs (60%) in this group. Other factors in this group that
           facilitate the transmission of STIs is that 36% continued to engage in unprotected sex
           and half of the boys (49%) and three quarters of the girls (77%) delayed seeking
           treatment for more than a week after experiencing symptoms of STIs. The rate at which
           STIs spread in a population depends upon the average number of new cases of infection
           generated by an infected person (the basic or case reproduction ratio (Ro). This ratio,
           in turn, depends upon the efficiency of transmission, (b), the mean rate of change of
           sexual partners (c), and the average duration of infectiousness (D) as expressed in the
           form: Ro=b*c*D. Given their high number of sex partners and the long duration of
           infectiousness owing to their delay in seeking treatment, they would form an important
           group for spreading STIs to the general population.

        2. The investigators are able to adopt a rigorous study design, that is, a randomized
           controlled trial in a clinical setting to evaluate the efficacy of the intervention, and
           validate self-reported behaviors with laboratory tests for STIs. In contrast, it is less
           feasible to conduct the study in schools presently because of the sensitivity of the
           topic, conservative attitudes of parents and possible biases of self-reported sexual
           behavior in schools. School-based interventions will also exclude school drop outs, who
           were found in this ongoing study, to be significantly, more likely to engage in sexual
           activity.

        3. The investigators have conducted needs assessment of this group and this would help in
           developing interventions specifically for them. For instance, the investigators found
           that both males and females lack the confidence of using condoms correctly. The
           investigators incorporated a session on instilling skills for condom use in our
           intervention.
    
  