
    
      This is a multicenter, prospective, randomised, controlled, single-blind post-market clinical
      follow-up (PMCF) study whereby patients undergoing routine cataract surgery will have
      bilateral implantation of Enhanced Depth of Focus intraocular lenses (Isopure 1.2.3.) or
      monofocal lenses (Micropure 1.2.3.). The patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to
      receive the study or control lenses. Both IOLs, investigational device and control device,
      are CE approved and commercially available in the countries this clinical investigation is
      being carried out. The investigational device and all study products, including the devices
      used for the study examinations, will be used within the intended use specifications from the
      manufacturer. In addition, no invasive or other burdening examinations will occur for the
      patient.

      The study will be carried out in up to five clinical centers in Europe and Asia.

      The device under investigation (Isopure 1.2.3.) is a hydrophobic, glistening-free, acrylic
      EDOF intraocular lens (IOL) manufactured by the sponsor of this study, PhysIOL sa/nv. The
      control lens is the parent IOL, belonging to the same IOL family of this manufacturer. It is
      a hydrophobic, glistening-free, acrylic monofocal IOL (Micropure 1.2.3.). The IOLs will be
      implanted as part of the routine cataract surgery on patients suffering from cataract
      development.

      Subjects participating in the trial will attend a total of maximum 11 study visits (1
      preoperative, 1 or 2 operative and up to 8 postoperative) over a period of 12 months. If
      local requirements allow, preoperative and operative visit can be done on the same day.
      Subjects would have the option for unscheduled visits if required medically.

      Primary endpoint data will be collected at the 120-180 days follow up visit. Secondary
      endpoint data will be collected at the 330-420 days follow up visit. Data interim analyses
      will be done after the last patient finished the 120-180 days postoperative examination to
      support the study publication plan.
    
  