
    
      The objective of this study is to test the efficacy Inesfly 5AIGRNG TM containing
      Alphacypermethrin 0.7%; D-Allethin 1.0% and Pyriproxyphen (0.063%), and other intervention
      with control group. The formulation is vinyl paint with an aqueous base, with the active
      ingredients residing within Ca CO3 and resin microcapsules, allowing a gradual release of
      active ingredients. Microcapsules range from one to several hundred micrometers in size.
      Inesfly has been tested for control of malaria and chagas disease vector with encouraging
      results. The product is effective even against vectors, resistant to pyrethroids.

      A randomized control trial will be performed with Inesfly 5AIGRNG TM containing
      Alphacypermethrin 0.7%; D-Allethin 1.0% and Pyriproxyphen (0.063%), commercial available
      durable wall lining (DWL), impregnated of existing bed-net with insecticide tablet, KO TAB
      123, indoor residual spraying (IRS) with Delthamethrin against a control group (study with 5
      arms). The study will be carried out in villages located in Mymensingh District , one of the
      high VL endemic district in Bangladesh. The VL burden of the villages will be estimated using
      the VL case reports in the last 12 months. Four high endemic villages will be selected for
      the study. As per sample size calculation the investigators need minimum 31 households to see
      the efficacy of the interventions (see sample size calculation part below). The investigators
      will include 50 households for each intervention and 50 for control (No intervention).
      Twenty-five households (HHs) from each village will be selected randomly which will be
      considered as a cluster. Field Research Assistant will be listed all the study households.
      Only subjects who agree to participate and freely signed the consent form will be included in
      the study. Household roster and household head interview for socio-demographic,
      socio-economic and knowledge about VL and VL vectors will be done. Based on sample size
      calculation, 18 HHs from each cluster will be selected randomly for entomological analysis
      which includes sand fly density measurement (base line and 1, 3, 6, 9,12, 15, 18, 21 and 24
      months after intervention), WHO Cone bioassay on the intervention surfaces and control
      surfaces at 1, 3, 6, 9,12, 15, 18, 21 and 24 months after intervention After performing
      baseline sand fly density measurements, clusters will be redefined with High density (sand
      fly density =>50th percentile), and low (sand fly density (<50th percentile). One cluster
      will be selected randomly from each density group for the intervention with Inesfly,
      commercial DWL, and the control group with no intervention. All groups will receive the
      routine vector control services by the national program. Acceptability survey of the
      intervention will be conducted at 6 weeks since intervention to see the community acceptance
      of the intervention.

      Entomological methods:

      Sand fly collection and density measurement For the entomological activities for objective 2
      and objective 3 HH head will be informed and his/her informed, written voluntary consent will
      be obtained before the start of any activities. HH head and members will be requested one day
      before by the research team to make space for conduct installation of DWL / wall paining with
      Inesfly by removing materials including furniture to a safe place. They also will be informed
      that for entomological activities i.e. for collection of sand fly by CDC light trap research
      team will visit the HH for two consecutive days as on day one they will visit in the evening
      to place CDC light trap in a corner of the main room and to take it out on the following
      morning. As sand fly collection will be done before intervention and at 1 month, 6 months and
      12 months after intervention research team will visit the HH 4 times for sand fly collection.
      In addition to conduct the WHO Cone bioassay test which will be done again at 1 month, 3
      months and 12 months since intervention the HH will be visited again 3 times by the research
      team.

      Sand flies will be collected on two consecutive nights with CDC light traps by trained
      personnel with guidance from a member of the study team. Light traps will be kept in a corner
      from 6 pm to 6 am, 2 inch away from the wall with a distance of 6 inches between the floor
      and the bottom of the sac. The sand fly density will be expressed as number of P. argentipes
      per light trap per night. Sand fly identification will be done as follows:

        -  Upon collection, sand flies will be segregated and labeled by batch indicating the date
           and the pre-printed batch numbers. Sand fly numbers and sex will be identified under
           microscope.

        -  Morphological identification will be done in the field using the following criteria:

      vi. Phlebotomus argentipes Pa: Black thorax+silvering shining of the tarsal tip of the
      leg+3mm.

      vii. Phlebotomus papatasi Pp: Brown to yellow thorax+3mm. viii. Sergentomyia sp Sr:I1-2mm c.
      Sex and physiological status ix. Males: external genitalia with claspers x. Females: without
      claspers, Blood-fed, unfed, gravid (no undigested blood).

      WHO Cone Bioassay Test The WHO cone bioassays will be performed using the cone method (WHOPES
      2005.11) on treated and non-treated bed-nets with wild caught (manually collected) sandflies
      at 1 month, 6 months and 12 months after intervention. Bioassays will be carried out at room
      temperature at 25o- 29oC and 75-85% humidity. Resting sandflies will be collected manually by
      aspirator during early morning and evening. In each net, 10-12 female sand flies will be
      introduced in each of the cones placed against the DWL / Wall for 30 minutes. The sand flies
      will be then transferred from each cone to a paper cup for observation. They will be observed
      over 24 hours to calculate the mortality. The mortality rates of sand flies will be corrected
      with Abbot's formula (WHOPES 2005.11).

      Measurement of efficacy of interventions: Efficacy will be defined by the reduction of
      sandfly density by intervention compared to control measured by sandfly density at 1 months,
      6 months and 12 months after intervention; percentage mortality of sand-fly assessed by WHO
      Cone Bioassay test on DWL and wall after 1 months, 6 months and 12 months following
      intervention.
    
  