
    
      Non-adherence to the heart failure (HF) plan of care after hospital discharge has been
      associated with clinical outcomes, including the combined endpoint of all-cause mortality and
      rehospitalization for decompensated HF. Most patients are discharged with a complex set of
      instructions that include multiple medications (and differing mediation administration
      plans), sodium restricted diet, fluid management actions (daily weight monitoring and in some
      cases, fluid restriction), monitoring signs and symptoms of HF, activity and exercise, and
      when to return for follow-up. At discharge, patients (and their families) may not understand
      that HF is chronic. Improvement in quality of life may be dependent on patients' acceptance
      of HF as a chronic, irreversible condition that requires self-care monitoring and behaviors
      (for example, becoming or staying physically active), even when they feel fine. To decrease
      the complexity of understanding HF, patients receive a HF handbook and a "zones" 1-page
      handout before discharge. In addition, they can watch multiple video clips of many HF topics
      and discuss HF self-care with the hospital healthcare team. However, patients may not read
      (or view) education materials due to health literacy issues, cognitive decline, eyesight
      issues, fatigue or depression. Patients may rely on lay (family) caregivers to understand
      self-car expectations and be active partners in care. Caregivers engaged in patients' care
      may not be present at discharge or may have preconceived or inaccurate ideas about HF
      self-care after discharge. A recorded message that could be repeatedly played by patients and
      caregivers might increase adherence to post-discharge self-care behaviors and 7-day follow-up
      appointments, and have clinical benefits related to a reduction in all-cause mortality and
      rehospitalization. The purposes of this randomized, controlled study are to examine the
      effects of use of a novel MyROAD (Recordable On-Demand Audio Discharge) card, given to
      patients at discharge. The aims of this single-blind, placebo-controlled study are to examine
      the effects of recorded messages that can be replayed post discharge (delivered via the
      MyROAD card) on (1) 45-, 90-, and 180-day first occurrence and (2) time to first occurrence
      of all-cause and HF-related hospitalization, ED visits and death/ cardiac
      transplantation/ventricular assist device, (3) 45-day quality of life (KCCQ), symptoms
      (investigator initiated tool; used in previous research), functional status (DASI) and
      perceived adherence to activity recommendations (investigator initiated tool; used in
      previous research), and (4) 7-day follow-up appointment with the healthcare provider assigned
      before discharge. A total of 1066 patients (968 + 10% attrition) with decompensated HF will
      be randomized to either usual care or usual care and receiving a MyROAD card at discharge.
    
  