
    
      Pleural infection is a condition that requires hospitalization for management and is
      associated with significant in-hospital morbidity and mortality. Predictors of poor outcome
      include advancing age, poor nutrition, hospital-acquired infection and impaired renal
      function. Medical management is centred on appropriate antibiotic treatment and fluid
      drainage usually by the means of an intercostal tube. Up to 30% of patients fail medical
      treatment and referred for surgery. A recent systematic review of adults patient with pleural
      infection has shown that the demographics of patients with pleural infection are different in
      patients from high-income vs lower income countries; the latter being of younger age and
      lower comorbidity burden. However, the results of the review did not show significant
      differences in patient outcomes. The same systematic review pointed to the need for more data
      from patients residing in lower income countries given that the majority of data is
      contributed by studies from higher income countries.

      This platform study aims to prospectively investigate the incidence of pleural infection in a
      large tertiary centre gathering demographic and clinical data about patients recruited. In
      addition, the study will examine the different treatment offered and how this related to
      in-hospital outcomes (length of hospital stay, rate of referral to surgery and mortality).

      The study will be designed as a modified trial within cohort (TwiC) study. PICS will
      primarily aim to recruit patients prospectively to gather clinical and demographic data on
      patients admitted with pleural infection in addition to clinical data on tests performed and
      treatments received as part of the standard care. The in-patient outcomes will be recorded at
      the time of discharge data or death, whichever is earlier. Within the TWIC design, PICS will
      be a platform for recruiting patients to interventional trials for eligible patients within
      the cohort. As a planned sub-study, pleural antiseptics will be trialed within a subset of
      patients enrolled.

      The antiseptic povidone-iodine can safely be instilled into the pleural for the purpose of
      pleurodesis. Pleural irrigation with antiseptics is used in adults with open drainage for
      chronic empyema and has been described in the acute management of paediatric pleural
      infection.

      This sub-study will investigate the safety and usefulness of povidone-iodine pleural
      irrigation in 15 eligible adult patients recruited to PICS with acute pleural infection. A
      matched control group will be used and will be composed of 15 patients previously recruited
      to PICS without receiving povidone-iodine pleural irrigation.
    
  