
    
      In hypoxic respiratory failure, placing patients in the prone position improves ventilation
      to perfusion matching, alveolar recruitment, and alveolar to arterial oxygen gradients.
      Specifically, in Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome ARDS, proning intubated patients
      improves overall mortality. With the emergence of SARS-COV-2, hospitals around the world have
      seen a marked increase in patients with acute hypoxic respiratory failure and ARDS. This
      surge in cases has prompted a search for more effective strategies to reduce intubation and
      improve patient morbidity and mortality. One such strategy is that of voluntary proning, in
      which awake patients are instructed to prone themselves (Early PP With High Flow Nasal
      Cannula (HFNC) Versus HFNC in COVID-19 Induced Moderate to Severe ARDS) (COVID-19
      smArtphone-based Trial of Non-ICU Admission Prone Positioning (CATNAP)).

      This trial proposes a voluntary proning strategy in patients admitted to the hospital, not
      yet requiring mechanical ventilation. Given the clear evidence that proning improves outcomes
      in ARDS, investigators hypothesize that early, voluntary self-proning may prevent intubation
      and improve mortality in patients with SARS-COV-2.

      Methods

      This is a pilot study of up to 100 participants at UCHealth facilities.

      Patients will be assessed if they can self prone safely and be assessed against inclusion and
      exclusion criteria within 12 hours of admission and randomized to either prone or supine
      positioning. Baseline labs will be measured and all participants will be monitored
      continuously via pulse oximetry.

      The Standard Supine Control Group will utilize standard oxygen (O2) device in supine position
      at approximately 30-60 degrees to target peripheral capillary oxygen saturation (SpO2) >90%
      and the participant or nurse will document time in non-supine position.

      The Prone Experimental Group will position patient in approximately 15-degree reverse
      trendelenburg and prone using pillows for comfort. The participant will be asked to rotate to
      prone positioning every 2 hours while awake and encourage to sleep prone overnight as
      possible with a goal of 10-12 hours daily. Patient to log all time prone.

      Treatment Failure may occur and termination of Intermittent Prone Positioning will occur.
      This is defined as respiratory distress or a decrease in O2 saturations <90% for more than 2
      minutes as determined by bedside nursing or per virtual pulse oximetry monitoring
      notifications during the study on two consecutive occasions. The participant will be returned
      to supine positioning and follow standard supine oxygenation. The participant can be
      re-challenged in the prone position after the participant stabilizes for 2 hours. The
      participant can also choose to stop proning and would be considered a treatment failures.

      Statistical Analysis and Sample Size In New York City the intubation rate has been reported
      at 1/3 of COVID-19 positive patients admitted to the hospital. The table below shows the
      sample size needed for a binomial outcome of intubation when 50% of the sample is randomized
      to Prone Positioning (PP):

      Alpha 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 Beta 0.80 0.80 0.80 0.80 Probability of intubation with PP 0.05
      0.10 0.15 0.20 Probability of intubation 0.33 0.33 0.33 0.33 Proportion receiving PP 0.50
      0.50 0.50 0.50 Sample size 33 39 56 97

      Expecting a 13% decrease in intubations with the prone position, investigators will use a
      sample size of N = 100 (50 per group) in order to have 80% power with a two-sided alpha =
      0.05 for logistic regression. ANCOVA will be used to evaluate continuous, secondary variables
      in order to adjust for covariates. The study is powered for the primary outcome of intubation
      or no intubation. No adjustments will be made for the secondary endpoints.

      The investigators and statistician will validate the data and the study will be subject to
      institutional quality assurance reviews.
    
  