
    
      This pilot study is a prospective randomized open-label study examining the efficacy of
      Drawtex速 Hydroconductive wound dressing and negative pressure wound therapy(NPWT) in
      pilonidal cystectomy wound healing by secondary intention.

      Pilonidal disease has a significant impact on the active duty demographic and the treatments
      for this disease result in a substantial cost to the military in both duty days lost and for
      the medical care provided. This study examines Negative Pressure Wound Therapy (NPWT) and the
      Drawtex速 Hydroconductive Dressing for the treatment of surgical wounds resulting from limited
      excision of pilonidal disease. This clinical trial is a prospective, randomized open label
      examination of two standard wound therapy modalities with the goal of determining which
      treatment promotes the most rapid wound healing by secondary intention. Secondary goals
      include determining which treatment is most cost effective and is most acceptable to
      patients.

      Active duty, retired, and dependent adults (age 18-60 years) who are scheduled to undergo
      limited surgical cyst excision will be recruited from patients who are referred to the
      General Surgery Department at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center (WRNMMC). Health
      care providers in the General Surgery Department will be informed about the study and
      requested to refer appropriate patients to the study Investigators for evaluation and
      potential inclusion in the study. The informed consent process will occur at WRNMMC, General
      Surgery Clinic during the pre-operative clinic visit(s). If the patient consents to screening
      for inclusion in the study, then they will be assigned a subject number and randomly assigned
      to a study arm, either NPWT or Drawtex速, preoperatively. The subject will then undergo a
      limited excision of the pilonidal cyst. If the resulting wound post-surgery meets enrollment
      criteria, then the subject will be enrolled in the study. At this point, the randomization
      arm will be revealed either NPWT or Drawtex速 dressing. Wound care will be done at the wound
      care clinic two times a week (biweekly) for approximately 4 weeks or until there is 75%
      epithelialization, and then on a weekly and then on a monthly basis until 100%
      epithelialization of the wound or 270 days of follow up are reached. Wound healing progress
      will be evaluated objectively using a digital planimetry analysis system and blinded
      evaluators. Secondary objectives include adverse events, bacterial load, expression of
      inflammatory markers, cost to military and patient satisfaction assessments,
    
  