
    
      Cambodia's economy has improved remarkably in the last decade, yet 80% of households
      experience some form of poverty, and 20% are severely impoverished. Food insecurity and its
      sequelae remain a problem, especially among rural farmers. As a solution Helen Keller
      International (HKI) implements a Enhanced Homestead Food Production (EHFP) model in Cambodia.
      EHFP, focusing on women farmers, fosters year-round environmentally sustainable production of
      nutrient-rich fruits, vegetables and animal-source foods. The program provides initial
      farming inputs coupled with technical assistance, nutrition education, and training on
      marketing and gender equity.

      In 2012, HKI together with the University of British Columbia (UBC), conducted a 22-month
      randomized control trial of EHFP, known as 'Fish on Farms'. Using HKI's approach, 900 women
      farmers were randomized to three groups: 1) plant-based EHFP; 2) EHFP plus fishponds; or 3) a
      control. Remarkably, in less than two years working with women farmers, Fish on Farms
      established 300 fishponds and 600 gardens. In the fishponds, small nutrient-rich fish were
      raised for household consumption and larger fish were raised for consumption or sale. After
      two years, households in both EHFP arms saw improvements in food production, income
      generation, food security, dietary diversity, and dietary intake of certain micronutrients
      relative to the control. However, the randomized-control trial (RCT) approach did have a
      number of issues, and gaps that need to be addressed were identified. Attrition was high,
      perhaps in part because of better opportunities for women, but also because women were not
      given a choice in the type of HFP activity to participate in. Further, the project provided
      many inputs for free so the women were not as invested as they might have otherwise been.
      Other issues identified were a lack of market access for sale of produce and fish, gender
      inequities, and a need to better capture the seasonality of food production and consumption
      at the household level.

      Building on lessons learned from the pilot study (Fish on Farms), this pragmatic
      delayed-intervention cluster randomized control study includes rigorous monitoring of
      production throughout the agricultural cycle as well as multiple 24-hour dietary recalls with
      improved methodology and frequency to better capture dietary intake. Women are self-selecting
      to participate, and are provided access to micro-credit institutions or other cost-sharing
      options so that women have a greater financial stake in EHFP leading to more successful
      farmers. Participants will also able to select from more EHFP options that include home
      gardens, poultry and fish.

      The ultimate goal of the program is to provide evidence of an integrated model of EHFP that
      has scalability and sustainability to improve the livelihoods of Cambodians and possibly the
      larger region.
    
  