
    
      The application of low-level light therapy has aroused considerable research interest in
      recent years for the treatment of a variety of clinical indications. These range from pain
      management to wound healing and most recently to hair regrowth. All have demonstrated
      biological effects in living organisms. In 1967 Endre Mester, a physician practicing in
      Budapest Hungary, decided to test the effects of laser radiation on mice and its possible
      link to resultant cancer. To his great surprise, the mice regrew the shaved hair in half the
      time of non-radiated mice. This was the first reference to LLLT and hair growth.

      This study on LLLT, aims to confirm the established safety and physiologic effects that occur
      when the human hair follicle and surrounding tissue structures are exposed to this type of
      radiation. Thus far, all reports on the efficacy of low level light therapy (LED) in this
      area, have been, in large part, consistent in outcome results, as supported by multi-center,
      randomized, double blind, controlled studies. This has been in the form of analysis of the
      non-radiated and radiated tissues as determined by terminal hair counts from baseline to post
      treatment counts. The theory that is widely accepted is that the mitochondria are the
      powerhouse of the stem cells that cause hair growth. The LLLT "turns on" the nutrient pump
      process that energizes the mitochondria, which leads to an increase in ATP and subsequent
      reversal of hair follicles from the dormant stage of growth called telogen, to the active
      growth stage called anagen.

      This specific light system is unclassified by the FDA, from a radiation standpoint, because
      the agency has not developed class designations for LEDs. Currently, it is classified as a
      class II medical device and will be designated as an Over-the-Counter device. It may be
      marketed for hair regrowth, as defined by an increase in terminal hairs and wellness, which
      can be defined as thicker, denser, more supple and darker hair shafts.
    
  