
    
      Objectives: This study is designed to determine whether spironolactone at a dose of 25 mg per
      day in patients with implanted cardioverter defibrillators (ICD) will 1) Reduce the incidence
      of ventricular tachycardia (VT) and ventricular fibrillation (VF), 2) Improve health related
      quality of life, 3) Reduce the need for hospitalization, and 4) Change ventricular
      refractoriness.

      Plan: The study was a randomized double blind placebo controlled multi-center trial. Patients
      were randomized to either 25 mg per day of spironolactone or placebo and followed for 2 years
      each. The primary endpoint is time to the first episode of VT/VF. Secondary endpoints will
      include changes in health related quality of life, frequency of hospitalization, and in a
      subset of patients the effect of spironolactone on the ventricular effective refractory
      period measured through the ICD 3 months after starting the study medication. All data
      analyses will be conducted on intent to treat basis.

      Methods: Patients were recruited at the Portland VA ICD clinics, the Seattle VA ICD clinics,
      Oregon Health and Sciences University ICD clinics and the Little Rock, Arkansas VA ICD
      clinics. Randomization and drug preparation were done by the Portland VA Medical Center
      research pharmacy. For safety purposes serum potassium will be measured at 1, 2, 3, 6, 12,
      18, and 24 months. Patients will undergo ICD interrogation to document the occurrence of ICD
      therapy for VT or VF and will be screened for potential drug side effects every 3 months
      during the study. Health related quality of life will be measured at baseline, 3, 6, 12, 18,
      and 24 months using Short Form Health Survey adapted for veterans (SF36V) Veterans Health
      Study Version, the Patients Concerns Assessment, and the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy
      Questionnaire. Hospitalizations will be tracked throughout the study. In the subset of
      patient enrolled at the Portland VA the ventricular effective refractory period will be
      measured via single extra stimuli pacing through the ICD at 3 months after randomization.
    
  