
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine excellent clinical response rates (pathologic complete response [pCR]/residual
      cancer burden [RCB]-0 or minimal residual disease [RCB-I]) in patients with
      anthracycline-based chemotherapy insensitive, localized triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC)
      who receive 4 cycles of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride, bevacizumab, and
      everolimus (DAE) following anthracycline-based chemotherapy in the neoadjuvant setting.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine response rate after 4 cycles of DAE using radiographic imaging. II. Determine
      toxicity associated 4 cycles of DAE in the neoadjuvant setting. III. Pathologic response
      rates to 4 cycles of DAE in mesenchymal tumors versus (vs.) non-mesenchymal tumors.

      V. Compare pathologic response rates in mesenchymal tumors to 4 cycles of DAE vs. 12 weeks of
      weekly paclitaxel (using data collected from standard of care treatment).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the correlation between vimentin expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and
      the presence of mesenchymal gene signatures at the time of initial tumor biopsy prior to
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT).

      II. Determine the correlation between mutations in PIK3CA, PTEN or NF2 or PTEN loss by IHC
      and the presence of mesenchymal gene signatures at the time of initial tumor biopsy prior to
      NACT.

      III. Determine rates of pCR in patients with mesenchymal tumors identified by gene signatures
      and compare to pCR rates in non-mesenchymal tumors.

      IV. Correlate pathologic response with degree of vimentin expression as measured by IHC.

      V. Determine rates of pCR in patients whose tumors contain mutations in PIK3CA, PTEN or NF2
      or PTEN loss by IHC and compare to pCR rates in patients whose tumors lacks mutations in
      these genes.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over about
      3 hours on day 1, bevacizumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1, and everolimus orally (PO) once
      daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients will not receive bevacizumab during
      cycle 4 of therapy. Patients then undergo surgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 30 days of surgery.
    
  