
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To define the safety and toxicity of anti-VEGF small molecule PTC299 in patients with
           HIV-related Kaposi sarcoma.

        -  To establish the maximum tolerated dose of this drug in these patients.

        -  To estimate the response rate in patients treated with this drug.

      Secondary

        -  To describe the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients.

        -  To describe the effects of this drug on serum and plasma VEGF, VEGFR, and cytokine
           profiles in these patients.

        -  To describe the effects of this drug on HIV and KSHV viral loads in these patients.

        -  To describe the effects of this drug on T-lymphocyte subsets (i.e., CD4 and CD8) in
           these patients.

        -  To describe the effects of this drug on VEGF, VEGFR-2 and -3, phospho-Akt, p53, and
           HIF-1α expression and tumor cell proliferation, as measured by Ki-67 staining, in tumor
           biopsy samples obtained from these patients.

        -  To describe the effects of this drug on viral gene expression and cellular gene
           transcription, as measured by real-time quantitative PCR-based profiling, in tumor
           biopsy samples obtained from these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I dose-escalation study of anti-VEGF small molecule
      PTC299 followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive oral anti-VEGF small molecule PTC299 twice daily on days 1-28. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients who do not demonstrate an objective response of their Kaposi
      sarcoma (KS) lesions after 6 courses of treatment are removed from the study.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection and punch biopsies periodically during study for
      correlative laboratory studies. Biopsy samples are assessed for VEGF, VEGFR-2, VEGFR-3,
      phospho-Akt, KSHV LANA, orf59, p53, and HIF-1α expression by IHC; tumor cell proliferation by
      Ki-67 staining; and viral gene expression at the messenger RNA level and KSHV transcription
      by real-time quantitative PCR-based profiling. Blood samples are assessed for
      pharmacokinetics and levels of secreted cytokines or other potential serum markers
      characteristic for KS.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 30 days.
    
  