
    
      Chronic sleep disorders result from multiple pathophysiological mechanisms and are often
      associated with severe hypersomnolence, responsible for major disability. Hypersomnolence may
      be secondary to sleep disturbances at night by sleep fragmentation, both overall in restless
      leg syndrome (RLS) or specific to slow or paradoxical sleep in parasomnias (sleepwalking,
      sleep behavior disorder). paradoxical). Attention-Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is
      another cause of secondary hypersomnolence, unsolved pathophysiology, leading to a major
      disturbance of alertness. More rarely, hypersomnolence may be primary (central hypersomnia),
      representing then the most severe form existing in humans. The best-known central hypersomnia
      is narcolepsy type 1 (NT1), affecting 0.02% of the population. It is thanks to the existence
      of well-characterized clinical, biological and neuropathological patients that its
      pathophysiology is better understood. It is due to a selective loss of hypothalamic neurons
      secreting orexin / hypocretin, in connection with a probable autoimmune process, in
      genetically predisposed subjects. Narcolepsy type 2 (NT2), idiopathic hypersomnia (HI) and
      Kleine-Levin syndrome (SKL), are rarer forms of central hypersomnia, the pathophysiology of
      which is still unknown, due to the small number of patients studied.

      Chronic sleep disorders result from multiple pathophysiological mechanisms and the
      constitution of a clinical, neurophysiological and biological cohort, monocentric. Patients
      (minors or adults) suffering from chronic sleep disorders responsible for hypersomnolence
      will be recruited, followed by the Sleep Disorders Unit (UTSE) and the National Reference
      Center for Rare Hypersomnia (CNRH) in Montpellier. The number of topics to include depends on
      feasibility criteria including the rarity of certain sleep disorders and recruitment
      opportunities. At a minimum, 150 subjects per group will be recruited according to the
      following ratio: NT1 (33%), other central hypersomnias (NT2, HI, SKL, 33%), and
      hypersomnolence secondary to a neurological sleep or vigilance disorder (ADHD, RLS,
      parasomnias, 33%). A match on age and sex will be considered
    
  