
    
      The PONDER-ICU trial aims to generate large-scale, experimental evidence regarding the
      real-world effectiveness of two different electronic health record (EHR) behavioral
      interventions in improving a number of patient- and family-centered processes and outcomes of
      care among seriously ill hospitalized patients. The interventions are designed to increase
      intensive care unit (ICU) physicians' and advanced practitioners' (physician assistants and
      nurse practitioners) engagement of critically ill patients and caregivers in discussions
      about alternative treatment options, including care focused on comfort. To achieve this goal,
      the investigators will conduct a 33-month pragmatic, stepped-wedge cluster randomized
      clinical trial at 17 ICUs within 10 Atrium Health System hospitals. The investigators
      hypothesize that outcomes can be improved without raising costs by requiring ICU clinicians
      to (i) document a prognostic estimate (Intervention A) and (ii) provide a justification if
      they choose not to offer patients the option of comfort-oriented care (Intervention B).
      Approximately 4,750 adult patients (1) with chronic life-limiting illness and receiving
      continuous mechanical ventilation for ≥48 hours will be enrolled. Participating hospitals
      will be randomized into 5 clusters of 2 hospitals each. Each hospital will first contribute a
      minimum of 5 months of data collection during usual care in a control phase. Then, using the
      step-wedge design, all hospitals will implement the two EHR-based interventions. The order in
      which the interventions will be adopted and the timing of adoption at each hospital will both
      be determined by random assignment. After 12 months of utilizing Intervention A or
      Intervention B, each hospital will adopt and implement the second intervention in combination
      with the other. By the end of the trial, all hospitals will have utilized the combined
      interventions for at least 4 months. The primary outcome is a composite measure of hospital
      length of stay and mortality. Secondary outcomes include an array of clinical outcomes, as
      well as palliative care-related process measures.
    
  