
    
      This is an observational pilot study investigating the effectiveness, safety and specific
      immunological mechanisms of Specific Oral Tolerance Induction (SOTI) in children aged 2-16
      years with IgE-mediated wheat allergy. The study will be conducted in the Department of
      Allergy and Clinical Immunology, 2nd University Pediatric Clinic of "Panagiotis & Aglaia
      Kyriakou" Children's Hospital, Athens, Greece.

      The study will include 10 patients with persistent IgE-mediated allergy to wheat, who will
      undergo 1-year home SOTI, defined as SOTI group. Moreover, 5 patients with IgE-mediated
      allergy to wheat will be followed for 1-year period after their diagnosis, without any
      intervention, either because of denial or due to positive history of severe anaphylaxis to
      very low doses of wheat during baseline Oral Food Challenge / OFC or home ingestion in the
      preceding 3 months. These will be defined as historical control group.

      Well-cooked wheat spaghetti will be given daily to patients with a programmed weekly dose
      increment for 27 weeks (up-dosing phase). Three different home starting doses will be
      pre-determined in accordance to each individual's reactivity threshold during baseline OFC to
      wheat. Each proposed starting dose will be associated with a different weekly stable increase
      ratio of wheat intake, so that all patients reach an equal predefined maintenance dose at
      week 27 of up-dosing phase.

      Subsequently, wheat protein maintenance dose (spaghetti or equivalent quantity of wheat
      protein of other wheat product) will be received daily for additional 6 months (maintenance
      phase), while afterwards patients will be clinically assessed and a 2nd OFC at a higher
      cumulative dose of wheat protein will be performed, in order to assess patients'
      desensitization to wheat.

      Skin Prick Tests (SPTs) to wheat, blood sampling for the determination of total IgE, wheat
      specific IgEs (f4, f79, f98, f416, f433) and wheat Basophil Activation Test (BAT) will be
      performed at baseline, when patients reach the maintenance dose and before the 2nd OFC.
      Additionally, blood sampling for determination of the levels of anti-tissue transglutaminase
      (tTG)-IgA/IgG and anti-endomysial (EMA)-IgA antibodies at baseline and post study completion
      will be performed.

      Regarding historical control group the same testing (except anti-tTG and anti-EMA) will be
      performed at baseline visit and at re-evaluation (post 12 months). All children and / or
      their parents / legal guardians will be trained in the use of self-injectable epinephrine in
      case of severe allergic reactions and a detailed treatment plan will be given by the study
      doctors. Written information sheet will be provided and written consent will be obtained from
      all parents/legal guardians.
    
  