
    
      Rationale:

      Adhesions are fibrous bands that connect tissue surfaces where anatomical connections do not
      normally exist. Adhesion tenacity appears to be related to maturity, as they can be filmy or
      heavily vascularized with sensory nerve fibers. Adhesions are formed after a tissue surface
      has been injured (abrasion, desiccation, lysis, etc.) and the subsequent process of
      fibrinolysis is interrupted. Adhesions develop in more than 90% of patients undergoing an
      intra-abdominal surgical procedure. The clinically relevant symptoms of adhesion formation
      are small bowel obstruction, secondary infertility and pain. Other consequences and
      complications of postsurgical intra-abdominal adhesion formation include inadvertent
      enterotomy and increased dissection time due to adhesiolysis during repeat surgery. The
      C-Qur™ Film offers reduction of adhesion formation and the corresponding potential reductions
      in small bowel obstruction, secondary infertility, pain and incidence of enterotomies and
      prolonged dissection time during subsequent abdominal surgery.

      Objective:

      The primary objective is to assess whether the use of C-Qur™ Film decreases the incidence of
      adhesion formation in subjects undergoing colorectal surgery with a temporary loop ileostomy
      or loop/split colostomy. Treatment with the application of C-Qur™ Film as an adhesion
      prevention barrier for colorectal surgery will be compared with the control group at the
      second stage ostomy takedown procedure. The primary outcome evaluation will be assessment of
      adhesions to the incision site.

      Safety objective is to assess the number and type of post-operative complications.

      Study design:

      This is a prospective, physician initiated, randomized, controlled, multicenter trial.
      Eligible subjects undergoing colorectal resection requiring temporary loop ileostomy or
      loop/split colostomy by laparotomy or hand assisted laparoscopy will be included in the
      trial. Before closure, patients are randomized 1:1 to either the treatment arm (C-Qur™ Film)
      or control arm (no adhesion barrier). Subjects will return 8-16 weeks post-colorectal
      resection to have their loop ileostomy or colostomy surgically taken down. During the loop
      ileostomy/colostomy takedown, adhesions will be evaluated for incidence, extent, and
      severity.

      Study population:

      Males and females 18 years of age or older, undergoing elective open or hand assisted
      laparoscopic colorectal resection for any colorectal disease with the formation of a
      temporary loop ileostomy or loop/split colostomy.

      Intervention:

      In subjects assigned to the treatment arm, the C-Qur™ Film must be applied under the
      incision. Preferably it is also applied to other areas considered to be adhesiogenic, except
      the anastomosis. The number of C-Qur™ Film sheets placed in the abdomen is limited to a
      maximum area of coverage of 774cm2 (Please refer to Table 2 in section 6.6 for the maximum
      number of sheets for each size).

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      The primary endpoint is the incidence of adhesions to the incision site in subjects
      undergoing colorectal surgery with a temporary loop ileostomy or loop/split colostomy.

      Secondary endpoints include:

        -  Incidence of adhesions to the loop ileostomy or colostomy site

        -  Extent and severity of adhesions to the incision site

        -  Extent and severity of adhesions to the loop ileostomy or colostomy sites

        -  Duration of ileostomy takedown from the start of the takedown to the time the bowel is
           repositioned in the abdomen

        -  Percentage (%) of abdominal wall with adhesions

      Safety:

      • Type and frequency of surgical and medical complications, including all types of surgical
      site infections
    
  