
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate and compare the percent change in mammographic breast density (using Cumulus
      software) from baseline to month 12 in women applying 4mg afimoxifene (4-hydroxytamoxifen
      [4-OHT]) gel per breast versus placebo.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the Cumulus versus (vs.) Volpara breast density measurement methods to estimate
      percent change in mammographic breast density from baseline to month 12 in women applying 4mg
      of 4-OHT gel per breast vs. placebo.

      II. To compare the percentage of women who underwent a change in Breast Imaging Reporting and
      Data System (BIRADS) category, comparing pre-and post- treatment measurements, for recipients
      of active agent versus placebo.

      III. To estimate percentage of women with >= 10% absolute decrease in quantitative
      mammographic density percentage between baseline and 12 months, comparing between treated
      group 4mg per breast 4-OHT gel to placebo.

      IV. To describe symptoms assessed by breast cancer prevention trial (BCPT) eight symptom
      scale (BESS) questionnaire and laboratory toxicity assessment (factor VIII [F VIII], Von
      Willebrand [vWB] factor, sex hormone-binding globulin [SHBG], lipid profile).

      V. To evaluate serum measurements of 4-OHT and related metabolite levels and factors related
      to tamoxifen exposures, such as insulin-like growth factor (IGF) pathway members, C-reactive
      protein (CRP), estradiol.

      VI. To evaluate tissue biomarkers (among women undergoing optional pre- and post-treatment
      biopsies): terminal duct lobular unit (TDLU) involution; collagen structural changes;
      SETER/PR index: estrogen related transcription, Ki-67, COX-2, p16, CD68.

      VII. To examine whether any reductions in mammographic density seen after 1 year of 4-OHT vs.
      placebo gel application persist at 24 months, one year after gel application has stopped.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients apply placebo gel topically to each breast once daily (QD) for up to 52
      weeks.

      ARM B: Patients apply afimoxifene gel topically to each breast QD for up to 52 weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 24 months.
    
  