
    
      Purpose This study aims to provide new information about compliance with medications amongst
      children and adolescents in an outpatient Ophthalmic setting.

      Previous studies have demonstrated in other conditions that adherence to eye drop regimes is
      extremely varied (50% to 90% of prescribed drops (Tan 2005)) in a range of paediatric
      conditions including myopia, amblyopia, herpes simplex keratitis, allergic conjunctivitis.
      There has not been any research into eye drop adherence in the paediatric uveitis population.
      Previous enquiries into quality of life in JIA have not included questions about drop
      adherence, frequency of flare ups or drop side effects (van Dijkhuizen 2018). Although this
      condition is not common, the prevalence of paediatric uveitis is 27.9 per 100,000
      (Päivönsalo-Hietanen 2000), it has severe sight threatening complications despite modern
      treatment. The burden of disease can be substantial due to eye drops up to six times daily
      and weekly appointments during active episodes, as well as surveillance every 3-4 months in
      between flares.

      There are certain issues that are specific to uveitis which require investigation. These
      include the high frequency of steroid drops, changes in frequency on a week by week basis,
      and the fact that it is an asymptomatic condition in the early stages. Other studies
      reporting drop adherence in the paediatric population are limited because definitions of
      adherence and its measurement is inconsistent, and often not the primary outcome of a study.
      Parents and clinicians have expressed concerns about how achievable very frequent dosing is.
      If a threshold above which eye drop adherence becomes very unreliable exists, for instance
      more than four times each day, then clinicans could adjust treatment regimes to reflect this.
      This may encourage clinicans to be able to confidently advocate moving on to alternative
      therapies, such as biological treatment rather than increasing drop frequency.

      By measuring and understanding medication adherence in the paediatric and adolescent
      population helps design interventions to improve compliance and assess their success.
      Evidence of paediatric specific issues may also lead to the development of age adapted
      formulations or trial of existing products in novel ways, for instance slow release steroid
      inserts following paediatric cataract surgery (SY Lee 2002).

      Design Treatment will not be impacted by the study. There is no randomisation. Compliance may
      be impacted by awareness of being involved in a study. This is a major limitation of the
      study.

      However previous studies have been conducted investigating compliance and their finding have
      been held to be valid.

      A effort has been made in the design of PIS to provide patients with information about the
      study while limiting the impression that their medication compliance is under scrutiny.
      Additional vague questions have been added to the questionnaire to obscure the focus of the
      questions.
    
  