
    
      Study Design: This is a Phase I open-label, dose escalation study to evaluate the dose,
      safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of VRC-FLUNPF081-00-VP (HA-F A/Sing) vaccine alone
      or in prime-boost regimens with VRC-FLUDNA082-00-VP (DNA A/Sing) vaccine. The hypotheses are
      that VRC-FLUNPF081-00-VP and VRC-FLUDNA082-00-VP vaccines are safe, well-tolerated, and
      induce an immune response to the H2 antigen. The primary objectives are to evaluate the
      safety and tolerability of two different doses of the HA-F A/Sing vaccine alone and in
      prime-boost regimens in healthy adults. Secondary objectives are related to the evaluation of
      the immunogenicity of the HA-F A/Sing and DNA A/Sing vaccines in prime-boost regimens.

      Study Products: The investigational HA-F A/Sing vaccine, developed by the Vaccine Research
      Center (VRC), National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), is composed of
      Helicobacter pylori non-haem ferritin with an influenza virus H2 hemagglutinin (HA) insert to
      form a nanoparticle displaying eight HA trimers from A/Singapore/1/57 (H2N2) influenza.

      The investigational DNA A/Sing vaccine, developed by the VRC, NIAID, is composed of a single
      closed-circular DNA plasmid that encodes the H2 protein of A/Singapore/1/57 influenza.

      Subjects: Up to 80 healthy adults ages 18-70 could be enrolled; adults born between 1966 and
      1969 were excluded from the trial.

      Study Plan: Vaccines were administered intramuscularly (IM) in the deltoid muscle. This study
      has two parts:

      Part I evaluated the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of 1 or 2 doses of the HA-F
      A/Sing vaccine in a dose-escalation design. In Group 1, five subjects received a 20 mcg dose
      of the HA-F A/Sing vaccine via needle and syringe on Day 0. If this dose was assessed as safe
      and well tolerated, enrollment began for Group 2. In Group 2, five subjects received the
      higher 60 mcg dose of the HA-F A/Sing vaccine via needle and syringe on Day 0 and Week 16. If
      this higher dose was assessed as safe, enrollment began for Part II.

      Part II evaluated the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of HA-F A/Sing vaccine in
      prime-boost regimens. Subjects were stratified by age and randomized equally into Groups 3
      and Group 4. In Group 3, subjects received DNA A/Sing vaccine via a PharmaJet Needle-Free
      Injector on Day 0 and HA-F A/Sing vaccine via needle and syringe on Week 16. In Group 4,
      subjects received HA-F A/Sing vaccine via needle and syringe on Day 0 and Week 16.

      For Group 1, the protocol required about 8 clinic visits and 1 telephone follow up contact
      after the injection.

      For Group 2, Group 3 and Group 4, the protocol required about 10 clinic visits and 2
      telephone follow-up contacts after each injection.

      For all Groups, solicited reactogenicity were evaluated using a 7-day diary card. Assessment
      of vaccine safety included clinical observation and monitoring of hematological and chemical
      parameters at clinical visits throughout the study.

      Study Duration: Subjects were evaluated for 40 weeks following the first vaccine
      administration.
    
  