
    
      A major challenge in the development of antifungal therapies for invasive fungal infections
      is the difficulty in assessing early treatment response and clinical prognosis. Mycological
      endpoints are often unreliable, reflected by the low sensitivity of fungal cultures to
      diagnose infection (20% for aspergillosis). Radiographic endpoints can be misleading,
      particularly when assessed early following treatment initiation. Clinical endpoints can be
      ambiguous indicators of treatment response, and generally include categorization of patient
      outcome as better, stable or worse. Furthermore, clinical assessments are likely confounded
      by the underlying diseases predisposing to fungal infection. Thus, a biomarker interposed
      between the initiation of antifungal therapy and patient outcome would bring much needed
      precision in the evaluation of novel antifungal drugs and thus serve as a valuable tool to
      guide decision-taking regarding ineffective treatments and dose selection in product
      development. The current absence of such biomarkers represents a critical capability gap. To
      date, only few studies have examined the prognostic value of fungal biomarkers in invasive
      aspergillosis on clinical outcome and have been limited by sample seize. To address this
      issue, the current study will examine the correlation between the fungal biomarkers
      galactomannan and beta-D-glucan with clinical outcome in invasive aspergillosis. The study
      will also incorporate C-reactive protein (CRP) levels, as they seem to be a useful surrogate
      marker of IL-6 production.

      The investigator contains a sample database of 100+ patients with either probable or proven
      invasive aspergillosis for which daily marker levels and CRP (during the first two weeks of
      antifungal therapy) were measured and clinical assessment data at (2, 4 and ) 6 weeks
      post-treatment.

      The study will evaluate whether serial serum measurements of galactomannan/beta-D-glucan
      during the first week(s) of antifungal therapy can distinguish between successful clinical
      outcome and failed clinical outcome at 6 weeks in patients with proven and probable invasive
      aspergillosis.

      The study aims also at exploring various cut points for galactomannan/beta-D-glucan
      measurements at two weeks after initiation of antifungal therapy and at exploring the
      sensitivity and specificity for predicting clinical outcome at 6 and 12 weeks in patients
      with proven and probable invasive aspergillosis.
    
  