
    
      Serious games (SG), are digital applications specialized for purpose other than entertaining.
      These technology devices could help to overcome the limits of traditional paper-and-pencil
      approaches. These traditional interventions, even if particular familiar to older patients,
      involve indeed some disadvantages, such as data management and analysis particularly complex
      for therapists; possible learning effects related to stimuli, boredom and reduction of the
      patient's compliance.

      Conversely, SG uses motivational cues and provides real-time feedback; task complexity and
      response time demands may change frequently during and across sessions, in accordance with
      changes in individual performance. This allows to avoid over- or under-stimulation and to
      train areas of relative weakness. Computer support also saves time for therapists in the
      preparation of exercises and allows to record all session parameters for further statistics.
      Talking about disadvantages, the more critical is that elderly people might have poor
      information technology skills with a consequent lack of familiarity with technological
      devices. These difficulties derive from the fact that most of the SG used have been developed
      for entertainment purposes (e.g., the Nintendo Wii Fit, Wii Sports, and Big Brain Academy)
      and for a "typical healthy user" in mind. Some practical recommendations for the usability
      and usefulness of SG as clinical tools in dementia-related disorders were collected, but
      there is still no a general consensus about how, when and for what purpose these digital
      games should be developed. In fact, in the contest of neurodegenerative disease, cognitive
      intervention to be effective must be proportionate to the degree of cognitive deterioration
      and consequently it is necessary to take into account the phases of the disease, the speciﬁc
      disease characteristics and the speciﬁc cognitive domains affected. Some studies suggested
      that computerized CT is efficacious at the early phases of the disease, or where MCI is
      present, while it may not be beneficial at the dementia stage. Though these emerging results
      are encouraging, some issue about the use of this computer-based solution as clinical tools
      remain unresolved.

      In this frame, we develop a computer-based CT (CoRe software) for the training of
      logical-executive and working-memory functions. We aim to assess the efficacy of this
      computer-supported CT compared to a paper-and-pencil CoRe version. This could be useful for
      two main reasons: 1) understand the comparability of the two interventions; 2) explore
      possible extra advantages of the CoRe software with respect to the paper-and-pencil version
      that could make it more suitable for the clinical routine.

      CoRe is an ontology-based software tool that allows several degrees of personalization and
      the possibility to generate different patient-tailored exercises; for a more detailed
      description see previous papers.

      Inpatients with idiopathic PD are recruited from the Neurorehabilitation Unit of the IRCCS
      Mondino Foundation. The diagnosis of mild dementia or PD-MCI is formulated on the basis of a
      comprehensive neuropsychological evaluation (baseline cognitive assessment - T0) according to
      the guidelines presented in the literature. The following standardized tests assessing
      different domains are used:

        -  global cognitive function: Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Montreal Montreal
           Overall Cognitive Assessment (MoCA);

        -  memory: verbal (Verbal Span; Digit Span) and spatial (Corsi's blocktapping test - CBTT)
           span; verbal long-term memory (Logical Memory Test immediate and delayed recall; Rey's
           15-word test immediate and delayed recall); spatial long-term memory (Rey Complex Figure
           delayed recall - RCF-dr);

        -  logical-executive functions: non-verbal reasoning; frontal functionality (Frontal
           Assessment Battery - FAB); semantic fluency (animals, fruits, car brands), phonological
           fluency (FAS);

        -  attention: visual selective attention (Attentive Matrices); simple speed processing and
           complex attention (Trail Making Test parts A - TMT A and part B - TMT B);

        -  visuospatial abilities: constructive apraxia Rey Complex Figure copy - RCF-copy.

      The same battery is also used at the post-training assessment (T1) and at the follow-up
      visits six months (T2) and one year after (T3). Parallel versions are applied when available
      (verbal long-term memory tests), in order to avoid the learning effect. All the test scores
      are corrected for age, sex, and education and compared with the values available for the
      Italian population.

      At the baseline, the cognitive reserve is assessed using Cognitive Reserve Index
      questionnaire (CRIq). The patients' functional status is assessed using Activities of Daily
      Living (ADL) and Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL) at the baseline and at the
      last follow-up visit after one year (T3). Moreover, mood is assessed using the Beck
      Depression Inventory (BDI) at the baseline and at the follow-up visits (T1, T2 and T3), while
      quality of life is assessed using the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey questionnaire (SF-36)
      at the baseline and at the follow-up visits six months (T2) and one year (T3) after training.

      This study is a prospective, double-blind Randomized Controlled Trial. All the patients
      recruited undergo baseline cognitive assessment (T0). Patients who meet the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria are enrolled and randomly assigned to the experimental group (CoRe
      software) or control group (paper-and-pencil CoRe version). CT program consists of 12
      individual sessions (3 sessions/week) each lasting 45 minutes of computer-based or
      paper-and-pencil logical-executive and working-memory tasks.

      All the patients are evaluated at the end of the 3-weeks training (T1), to detect the
      training effect, and six month (T2) and one year (T3) after the end of CT to assess the
      persistence of the training-related improvement and also to evaluate the impact of CT on the
      evolution of cognitive decline.
    
  