
    
      Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) with its accompanying adverse sequelae remains one of the
      most common causes of morbidity and mortality in the world .

      Reperfusion therapy is by far the most important therapy for the treatment of acute MI.
      Reperfusion of the ischemic myocardium reduces the infarct size and improves left ventricular
      function, both of which contribute to an improved clinical outcome in patients with acute MI
      .

      Using primary PCI has reduced the mortality of patients with acute MI . However, the
      increased survival rate resulted in the increased incidence of cardio vascular events mainly
      due to LV remodeling and congestive heart failure .

      Post-infarct ventricular remodeling develops in about 30% of patients with a history of
      myocardial infarction. Ventricular remodeling is a predictor of heart failure and for this
      reason it assumes a negative prognostic value .

      Left ventricular remodeling after ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) treated
      with primary percutaneous coronary intervention is a major determinant for the short-term and
      long-term clinical outcomes . Adverse left ventricular remodeling refers to alterations in
      ventricular architecture involving both the infarcted and non-infarcted zones leading to
      progressive increase in systolic and diastolic left ventricular volumes.

      Left ventricular remodeling following a ST-segment elevated myocardial infarction (STEMI) is
      an adaptive response to maintain the cardiac output despite myocardial tissue loss. Limited
      studies have evaluated long term ventricular function after STEMI.

      Left Ventricular remodeling, both positive and negative, is an ongoing process and continues
      at least up to 2 years after STEMI, involving the infarct zone and remote zones. Long-term
      left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) deterioration is characterized by an increase in
      end-systolic volume and less wall thickening in the remote zones. Patients with long-term
      LVEF improvement exhibit an increase in left ventricular wall thickening both in the
      transmural infarct and remote zones. For elucidation of long term effects of left ventricular
      remodeling, the current study is conducted.
    
  