
    
      At present, the commonest available options for CBD closure include repair over T-tube drain,
      primary closure and repair after antegrade biliary stenting. All three methods present
      speciﬁc technical performance features, require different postoperative management protocols,
      and are charged with speciﬁc morbidity related to the procedure and therefore should not be
      considered exactly the same procedure in the context of LCBDE.

      Repair over T-tube is the traditional surgical technique. It has many advantages as
      post-operative distal CBD decompression, trans-tubal cholangiography, and availability of
      retained CBD stones extraction. However, it has a number of potential complications up to 10%
      of patients. The most frequent complications are bile leakage, tract infection, T-tube
      dislodgement, electrolyte and nutritional disturbances, cholangitis, or acute renal failure
      from dehydration due to inadequate water ingestion. It also causes discomfort and persistent
      pain to the patient along with increased hospital admission and thus economic burden to the
      country. Primary closure of CBD has been described in literature to overcome these adverse
      consequences of the T-tube. However, it has a number of potential complications as a
      potential bile leak and CBD stricture which may occur owing to papillary edema and
      insufficient bile duct expansion. There are conflicting results regarding significant
      differences in the morbidity and mortality between primary closure and T-tube drainage. There
      is no conclusive evidence displaying whether primary closure is better or worse than T-tube
      drainage after CBD exploration.

      In order to decrease the two complications, using biliary stent in primary closure is an
      effective method, which can reduce biliary pressure without bile loss. Although, there are
      some available drainage options after LCBDE, a consensus on the optimal drainage is yet to be
      reached.
    
  