
    
      Leukemias and the related disorders myelodysplastic syndrome and myeloproliferative diseases
      represent a wide group of bone marrow stem cell malignancies. Some patients can be cured with
      chemotherapy or by allogeneic stem cell transplantation. However, standard treatment
      approaches are not effective for patients who become refractory to chemotherapy, those who
      relapse after transplantation and those with progressive disease. The management of such
      patients remains unsatisfactory and requires new treatment approaches other than
      chemotherapy.

      The immunological graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effect seen after allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation suggests that stimulating the patient's own T cell responses to hematological
      malignancies might also retard disease progression and even achieve disease remissions.
      Wilm's Tumor 1 (WT1) was identified as a target vaccine antigen because this antigen is
      over-expressed by cluster of differentiation 34 (CD34) plus stem cells of most patients with
      myeloid and lymphoid malignancies but not by normal marrow cells. A human leukocyte antigen
      (HLA-A0201) restricted peptide derived from the Wilm's Tumor (WT) protein is anticipated to
      induce T cell response against MDS and leukemic cells while sparing normal cells. Of note,
      about 40% of the population is HLA-A0201 positive.

      Therefore we propose this Phase II trial, the second in a series of planned peptide vaccine
      research, which will evaluate the safety associated with an immunotherapy approach of
      lymphodepletion, lymphocyte infusion, and WT1 vaccination in select patients diagnosed with
      MDS, AML, ALL and CML. The WT1 vaccination will comprise of 9 doses of WT-1 peptide vaccines
      (in Montanide adjuvant) administered concomitantly with granulocyte macrophage- colony
      stimulating factor (GM-CSF) (Sargramostim).

      The primary objectives will be to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity associated with the
      immunotherapy approach of lymphodepletion, lymphocyte infusion, and WT1 vaccination in
      selected patients with hematological malignancies.

      Secondary objectives will include evaluation of disease response by following the numbers of
      WT1 expressing cells in blood, hematological measurements (reduction in marrow blast cells,
      changes in blood counts), transfusion dependence, and time to disease progression and
      survival.

      The primary endpoint will be the side effects of treatment (toxicity and number of
      circulating WT1 specific T cells (efficacy ) measured through week 16 of the study (7 weeks
      after the last dose of vaccine).
    
  