
    
      Heart Failure (HF) is a highly prevalent disease that also carries high morbidity and
      mortality. Improvements in mortality and healthcare utilization, including hospitalizations
      of HF still remain the gold standard outcomes for HF drug approval. However, it is difficult
      to improve mortality as the only endpoint due to the variation in the age groups and
      comorbidities of the population and ineffectiveness to alter all-cause mortality,
      particularly in patients with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF).
      Considering these issues, there is a need for exploration of complimentary endpoints. The
      Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recognizes the importance of developing patient-centric
      endpoints that are relevant to patients beyond mortality and hospitalizations. Patients with
      HF have reduced function capacity and quality of life (QoL) and hence it is imperative to
      explore interventions that impact endpoints that directly measure how a patient feels or
      functions on a daily basis. Although functional status can be objectively measured by peak
      exercise oxygen consumption, it is difficult and impractical to implement in large clinical
      studies, especially in an ambulatory real-world setting. Other objective measures of
      functional status include a 6-minute walk test (6MWT) and potentially measures of activity
      using implanted or wearable sensors. Patient-reported outcomes (PROMs) can also be used to
      record and quantify symptoms but are cumbersome and impractical since significant resources
      are required to contact patients and administer questionnaires. It is also particularly
      difficult to record these and correlate with physiologic signals in real-time.

      Recently, new mobile health technologies have emerged as clinical tools and offer an
      opportunity to overcome these challenges in measuring functional capacity and recording
      symptoms. These technologies are able to capture and integrate data from disparate sources
      from individual patients reflecting their functional status and symptomatology. These data
      can potentially serve as surrogate endpoints for approval of new HF therapies. A novel mobile
      health platform (BiovitalsHF, developed by Biofourmis) enables continuous acquisition and
      monitoring of multiple physiologic data (for e.g. electrocardiogram, heart rate, respiration
      rate, activity intensity, 3-axis accelerometer and sleep) using readily available biosensors
      (Everion® MD and Apple Watch will be used for this study). The BiovitalsHF smartphone app is
      capable of capturing patient's physiology, functional capacity (using activity patterns,
      including guided mobile-based 6MWT) and assessment of QoL through validated PROs.
    
  