
    
      Headaches and epilepsy are chronic disorders with episodic manifestations characterized by
      recurrent attacks of nervous system dysfunction with a return to baseline between attacks.
      Although it is not uncommon that patients with epilepsy suffer from headaches, the relations
      between seizures and headaches is multi-factorial. Headaches may occur immediately before
      (preictal), during (ictal), or after (postictal) a seizure. In addition to seizure-associated
      headaches, patients often experience headaches that are not temporally related to
      seizures-interictal headaches. Moreover, epidemiological studies indicate an association of
      migraine and epilepsy with an increased prevalence of migraine in patients with epilepsy. Up
      to now, there is still limited information about the relationship between the frequency of
      seizure attacks and headache occurrences. Thus, we purpose this study to investigate the
      incidence of headaches, to explore the relationship between seizure attacks and headache
      occurrences, to classify the headache, and to document the frequency, characteristics, and
      effects of migraine and headaches among patients with epilepsy. This study is a multi-centre
      survey to collect data from patients who are diagnosed with epilepsy and are followed up in
      epilepsy clinics. Patients can only participate in this study after signing and dating the
      inform consents. There are two stages of this study: Stage I: On enrollment, data on
      demographic characteristics, epilepsy profile, seizure frequencies, and epilepsy treatment
      would be obtained. Body weight and height would be measured. Information of prior headache
      occurrences and their relationships with seizures would also be collected. Stage II: Patients
      enrolled into this study will be divided into three group: patients who are seizure free for
      past 6 months, patients with > 1 attack every month within past 6 months, and other patients.
      Participants of each group will be enrolled into Stage II for 24-week follow-up. Information
      of seizure attacks, headache occurrences, and treatment will be collected. This is an
      observational study and no study drug is administered.
    
  