
    
      A protective loop ileostomy (LI) is applied to protect a critical anastomosis after left
      sided colorectal resections. It is routinely indicated after low anterior rectal resection
      because this location carries a high risk for anastomotic insufficiency due to poor blood
      supply and tension of the bowel itself. A LI is also used to protect a primary anastomosis
      after other colorectal resections, if the surgeon in charge deems it necessary. However, the
      LI does not reduce the rate of insufficiencies (between 8-18%), but decreases the rate and
      severity of the associated complications and its mortality.

      Furthermore, the LI is associated with complications of its own. Stoma malfunction due to
      torsion may cause a bowel obstruction, local complications may lead to an abscess or wound
      dehiscence, and in the long term follow-up surgical interventions due to hernias at the stoma
      site or adhesions with a consecutive ileus may become necessary.

      Additionally, many patients are traumatized by the thought of a stoma. Thus, the routine
      application of a LI is currently critically discussed and its need re-evaluated.

      A Ghost ileostomy (GI) is an alternative. Instead of a real diverting stoma the suitable
      small bowel loop is marked with a silicon strap, which is externalized through the abdominal
      wall and fixed with sutures. No real stoma outlet needs to be formed. In case of an
      anastomotic leakage (AL) the GI is easily converted to a LI by extracting the marked bowel
      loop through the abdominal wall. Besides increasing patients' comfort, ileostomy-related
      morbidity, hospital re-admissions for the closure of the ileostomy, and health care expenses
      related to the stoma supply and complications can be avoided.

      In a recent systematic review of the existing literature Baloyiannis et al. identified 11
      studies with altogether 554 patients. They found a total complication rate of 13.9%, with
      2,1% GI-specific adverse events. Although it is a safe and comfortable option for low- and
      medium-risk patients it is still not established routinely.

      Aim of the study:

      The study wants to examen whether the routine use of a GI after colorectal resection with
      primary anastomosis can reduce the number of LI needed. This should avoid the stoma
      associated complications and the re-hospitalization for the stoma closure. A further endpoint
      is the routine use of GI as an alternative has to ensure patients safety. No further risk
      should result from this new intervention.

      Study design:

      Prospective clinical observational study

      Method:

      All patients after a colorectal resection with a primary anastomosis are offered the option
      of a GI as an alternative to a LI preoperatively. They have to consent in a stoma, if the
      surgeon in charge deems this necessary during the procedure. Written informed consent is
      obtained prior to surgery. At the end of the colorectal resection the surgeon in charge
      decided whether to shape a GI, a LI or no outlet. General criteria for a stoma are a redo
      anastomosis, an ultralow rectal resection, peritonitis at the site of the anastomosis, or an
      extended endometriosis resection in the pelvis. In case of emergency surgery a Hartman
      procedure may become necessary due to the critical condition of the patient. A GI is only
      applied in cases, who would have received a LI otherwise.

      Technically, a silicon loop (Roeser Loops super maxi, Ref No 10.11522; Roeser Medical GmbH,
      Bochum, Germany; conformity european (CE) 0481) marks a suitable terminal ileum loop and is
      externalized through the 5 m trocar site regularly placed in the right upper quadrant of the
      abdomen or a similar mini-incision in cases of open surgery. The loop is fixed with two
      penetrating, non-absorbable sutures and closed with a wound dressing.

      Postoperatively patients are observed on the intensive care unit (ICU) for 12-48 hours.
      Further action - ultrasound, CT scan, and/or colonoscopy - is taken in cases of fever,
      laboratory signs of inflammation (leucocyte count >15x1000ul, procalcitonin >1 ng/ml, or
      C-reactive protein more than three times the initial value). Pelvic fluid collection, bowel
      malfunction, or signs of anastomotic leakage will lead to a re-operation converting the GI to
      a LI and an abdominal lavage with drainage, if necessary. In all other cases of GI the
      silicon strap will be removed after the initiation of bowel function.

      All patients included will be asked about their well being and medical treatments related to
      their colorectal resection after their dismission in a follow-up phone call 6 months after
      surgery. The study ends with this last survey.
    
  