
    
      Background: Suboptimal health status (SHS) is a dynamic state. The term refers to an existing
      condition of ill health that could lead to a pathological condition but could also be
      eliminated, enabling the individual in question to return to a state of good health.

      Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) emphasizes the importance of health care and the idea that
      preventive treatment for diseases is superior to curative treatment. Therefore, TCM
      intervention will be eliminated SHS becoming to a chronic disease. According to previous
      studies, people with SHS without sports habits have 8 times risk of developing hypertension.
      In addition, people with SHS have more rates of sleep disorders, which are associated with
      obstructive sleep apnea due to decreased oxygen maturation during sleep, than healthy
      subjects.

      A cloud TCM health-care model, which is combined with constitution patterns in TCM and
      physiological parameters, applied to Taiwanese with SHS. Taiwanese with SHS, no matter yang
      deficiency, Ying deficiency or Phlegm-stasis patterns, have decreased cardiac parasympathetic
      activity and high frequency change in pulse power spectrum analysis at right Chi. This
      phenomenon implied that people with SHS reduced convergence of the ministerial fire in the
      gate of life and then developed a disharmonic status between "Heart" and "Kidney" in TCM.
      This theory can explain why SHS has sleep disorders and prehypertension.

      Laser acupuncture (LA) has been used in preventive diseases and many effects. Modern
      researches showed LA improved insomnia, circulation, analgesia and metabolism. However, it is
      still lacking evidences of objective parameters of sleep and there are no studies about TCM
      patterns change in SHS by LA.

      In this study, the effects of 8 weeks' LA intervention on people with SHS presented with
      pre-hypertension and/or sleep disorders by a cloud health-care system combined with TCM
      patterns and physiological parameters will be investigated by 2-years protocols. The result
      will be helpful to establish the role of LA for preventive medicine in Taiwan.

      Hypothesis: Regular LA intervention can improve sleep quality and regulate blood pressure and
      autonomic nervous function of sub-healthy people. Moreover, combining the cloud-based TCM
      body constitution and physical healthcare system can help sub-healthy people manage their own
      health better.

      Material and Methods: Thirty SHS subjects with pre-hypertension or/and insomnia or/and
      obesity will be enrolled and will be assigned into a experiment group and a control group
      randomly in the first year protocol. One week before the start of the experiment, we will use
      questionnaires and mobile cloud-based devices to assess the physical status, such as blood
      pressure, body mass index, waist girth, hips girth, blood oxygen saturation, physical
      activity, pulse signal, autonomic nervous function, and sleep patterns. The subjects in the
      treatment groups received LA and those in control group received sham LA for 15 minutes per
      session twice a week for 8 weeks (16 sessions totally). All questionnaires will assessed in
      treatment group and control group before the first session and after the 16th session. In
      addition, we using mobile cloud-based devices to assess the physical status, such as blood
      pressure, blood oxygen saturation, physical activity, pulse signal, tongue examination, and
      autonomic nervous function before and after each sessions. Furthermore, sleep patterns will
      assessed for at least 2 days.

      In the second year protocol, seventy SHS subjects with pre-hypertension or/and insomnia
      or/and obesity will be enrolled. and assigned into a experiment group and a control group
      randomly. The evaluation methods are the same as the first year protocol. Besides, we will
      build up the cloudy system to present body constitution scores and objective parameters. The
      auto-feedback function will be established in the second year protocol.
    
  