
    
      Main objective / secondary:

      Feasibility of addressing the topic of advance directives (% of patients agreeing to answer
      the questionnaire) during vascular medicine clinic in town.

      Assessing preferences for editorial context to enable to present the project in optimal
      circumstances.

      Assess felt an evolution of the doctor-patient relationship by patients in the context of
      advance directives.

      Assess the reactions according to the characteristics of the study population to help develop
      different "profiles" and adapt the introduction of the topic of advance directives.

      Methodology :

      Design: prospective, single-center, non-interventional kind opinion survey Study duration: 6
      months

      Acquisition of data:

      The characteristics of the population obtained will be studied to try to understand the
      feelings of patients, to better target patients to talk to about advance directives in
      vascular medicine and evaluate some extent if the topic of advance directives contributes to
      "modernize "the doctor-patient relationship.

        -  List of data gathered: cf. attached questionnaire

        -  Statistical analysis: local management (GHPSJ) from the patient profile

        -  Anonymity of data: an identifier for each subject will be awarded (first name and
           surname - year of birth) and the data will be entered on a computer file which will be
           sent to the statistician in charge of analyzing the GHPSJ site. There will be no
           personally identifiable data exchange.

      Development of the study:

        -  Describe how the study: after information transmitted orally by the doctor (Dr
           P.Priollet) and patient's consent to participate, patients will be interviewed (attached
           schedule) and data gathered during consultations of office visits to Dr. Priollet city
           by Dr. Priollet assisted by Hélène Samson (internal medicine), anonymized and handled
           within the vascular medicine department of Dr. Priollet to GHPSJ.

        -  Expected duration of patient recruitment: 3 months

        -  Number of patients to recruit 100 patients, 15 minutes per patient. At all times
           patients can freely return to the subject in subsequent consultations with Dr. Priollet.
    
  