
    
      Hospital Information

      Hospital Information The data was collected by Zhongshan City People's Hospital Clinical
      Investigator Team at Zhongshan City People's Hospital, No.2 Sunwen Dong Road, Zhongshan,
      Guangdong 528403, P. R. China.

      Investigator: Dr. Cao Yuedong, Leader; Li Qidong, Nurse A; Chen Wenqian, Nurse B.

      Contact Dr. Cao Yuedong Tel: +86 760 88823818

      Used Equipments DUT (Device Under Test): Transtek Wrist Blood Pressure Monitor, TMB-1117
      Reference Device: Yuyue Medical Blood Pressure Meter, YYBP-212, accuracy: ±1 mmHg and range:
      0-300 mmHg.

      Test Protocol

        1. Test Purpose:

           The aim of clinical test is to determine, for the purpose of design qualification, the
           overall performance of the system meeting the following requirement: For systolic and
           diastolic pressures, treated separately, the mean difference of the paired measurement
           of the test system and the comparison system shall be ± 5 mmHg or less, with standard
           deviation of 8 mmHg or less.

        2. Target Subject:

      1) The subject database shall contain at least 85 subjects. 2) The distribution of blood
      pressure of the subjects required to be: At least 10 percent below 100 mmHg systolic; at
      least 10 percent above 160 mmHg systolic; at least 10 percent below 60 mmHg diastolic; at
      least 10 percent above 100 mmHg diastolic; with the remainder distributed between these outer
      limits.

      3. Identification and precision of equipment used According to ANSI/AAMI SP10, the maximum
      measurement error of the non-automatic sphygmomanometers used in the comparing test shall not
      exceed 1.0mmHg at the temperature of the test. The manometer was used to verify its accuracy
      before test.

      The clinical study was conducted according to the protocol described in the ANSI/AAMI SP10
      with 85 subjects.

      4. Test procedures (auscultatory method, same-limb sequential measurement was chosen)

        1. Record the age, gender, and circumference of the left wrist of the subject.

        2. Let subject seated or supine calmly for five minutes before test.

        3. Measure heart rate in one minute by palpation on radial artery, record it.

        4. Two observers shall make simultaneous, blinded, blood pressure determination on the
           subject's left arm. Each nurse will write down the reading on a small piece of paper,
           make a tick if there is an auscultatory gap and then submit to the recorder.

        5. The two readings separately from two observers will be recorded, and if two observers
           agree that they find an auscultatory gap this time, it will also be recorded. The wrist
           cuff will be take off, after 90 seconds rest, TMB-1117 cuff will be taken on and tested,
           and the readings (systolic, diastolic, mean BP and Heart rate) be recorded.

        6. For each subject, repeat 3) and 5) to get 3 measurements.

        7. Repeat step 1) to 6) for every subject.

      5. Note:

        1. No motion and speaking are allowed during the measurement.

        2. The reference device's cuff release at the rate about 3 mmHg/s so to ensure an accurate
           reading of observer.

        3. The arm, wrist and the haear of subject to keep on the same height when measurement.

        4. Test environment: Temperature: 20±1 ℃; Relative humidity: 40~50%.
    
  