
    
      This randomized, double-blind, flexible-dose, placebo-controlled, parallel group study is
      designed to evaluate Aptensio XR® compared to placebo in preschool age children with ADHD.
      Male and female children ages 4 years, 0 months to 5 years, 8 months with a diagnosis of ADHD
      (combined, inattentive or hyperactive/impulsive presentation) based on the Diagnostic and
      Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders Fifth Edition (DSM-5) criteria will be enrolled.
      Diagnosis will be determined using the Kiddie-Sads-Present and Lifetime Version (K-SADS-PL),
      which has been used in this age group.11 ADHD-RS IV ratings obtained at screening will
      include the 6-months immediately prior to screening.

      There will be 6 phases in this study: a screening phase of up to 4 weeks, which will include
      washout if applicable, an enrollment & parent training phase lasting 4 weeks, an eligibility
      phase of up to 2 weeks to determine eligibility for the open-label phase, a 6-week open-label
      dose titration phase, a 2 week double-blind phase for Aptensio XR® responders, and a two-week
      follow-up call after study completion or early discontinuation to assess for ongoing adverse
      events and concomitant medications.

      Up to 150 subjects will be enrolled in this trial to allow for subjects who improve
      significantly during the behavior training phase and drop-outs. Once 74 subjects have
      completed the double-blind phase, no additional subjects will be enrolled in the trial.
      Subjects who are already enrolled at that time will be allowed to complete the trial.

      Phase 1: Screening Screening /washout period can last up to 4 weeks (28 days). Written
      informed consent will be obtained from the parent/legal guardian prior to performing any
      study related procedures. Assent will be obtained from subjects as appropriate. Current
      medications and those taken during the 30 days prior to the date of informed consent will be
      recorded.

      Due to the length of assessments, screening may be conducted during more than one visit. The
      K-SADS-PL, a semi-structured interview, will be administered by qualified and trained
      clinicians to confirm ADHD diagnosis and determine whether psychiatric comorbidities are
      present. See Section 6.1.1 for a detailed list of procedures to be performed during
      screening.

      If a subject meets all inclusion and exclusion criteria requirements after ECG results are
      obtained, a phone call will be made to the parent/legal guardian to determine whether
      inclusion and exclusion criteria are still met. If the subject continues to be eligible to
      participate in the trial, instructions to discontinue ADHD medications will be given if
      applicable. A minimum of a 3- day stimulant washout is required prior to Visit 2.

      Phase 2: Enrolment & Behavior Management Training At Visit 2 families will begin a
      standardized course of behavior management training. The purpose of this phase will be to
      ensure that non-pharmacological intervention is attempted prior to initiation of study
      medication. Four visits, each of 90 minutes duration (Study Visits 2-5), will be conducted
      over a period of 2-4 weeks. Families will be expected to complete all 4 sessions of
      behavioural training within a 4 week period. Primary caregivers will be the primary attendees
      for these sessions and content will include education regarding ADHD, and behavior management
      techniques, including the proper use of contingency management, time-out, and response cost.
      Session content will be adapted from several well-established and empirically validated
      interventions.

      Participants will be allowed to skip the Parent Training Phase if either of the following
      criteria are met: 1) the patient and her/his primary caregiver have participated in the last
      12 months in a documented course of non-pharmacological treatment and resulted in minimal
      benefit; and/or 2) the patient exhibits ADHD symptoms and impairment that are severe enough
      to warrant moving immediately to the medication phase of the study. Each of these criteria
      will be assessed by the site investigator in consultation with the study medical monitor and
      a coordinating investigator. See Section 6.1.1 for a detailed list of procedures. The
      initiation of any additional psychotherapy during the study will not be permitted. However,
      patients that are already participating in psychotherapy that was initiated prior to the
      study will be permitted to continue in these programs.

      Phase 3: Eligibility for Open-Label Phase Following completion of the Parent Training Phase,
      participants and their caregivers will attend two Baseline Visits (Study Visits 6 & 7) to
      assess continued eligibility and to start open-label treatment. At Visit 6, clinical status
      (including AEs) will be assessed and the ADHD-RS-IV and CGI-S and CGI-I will be administered.
      Criteria for continuation to the Open-Label Phase will be less than a 30% improvement from
      Screening on the total score of the Investigator administered ADHD-RS-IV (Preschool
      Version)11 and a Clinical Global Impression-Improvement (CGI-I) of 3 (minimally improved or
      less). For patients who are still eligible for continuation to the Open-Label Phase, a
      medical evaluation will be conducted, including vital signs, and collection of blood for
      routine blood chemistry/hematology assessment. Urine for urinalysis and urine drug screen
      will also be obtained.

      Once laboratory results are received, eligible subjects will be scheduled for Study Visit 7.
      At Visit 7, subjects must continue to meet ADHD-RS-IV eligibility criteria. Subjects who can
      continue in the trial will begin open-label treatment, study drug will be dispensed, and
      participants will be scheduled for their next visit. See Section 6.1.1 for a detailed list of
      procedures.

      Phase 4: Six-week Open-Label Phase Subjects will begin Aptensio XR® 10 mg at the morning
      following Visit 7. Dosing should occur prior to 10 am each morning. At weekly visits (Visits
      8-13), dosing may be maintained or increased until an optimal dose or the maximum dose is
      reached. The ADHD-RS-IV rating scale will be used to determine optimal dose. An optimal dose
      is a dose that produces a reduction from Visit 7 of ADHD symptoms of at least 30% and a CGI-I
      compared to Visit 7 of "much improved" or "very much improved" with tolerable side effects.
      Subjects who meet improvement criteria but may benefit from additional dose increases, may
      have their dose further optimized. If a higher dose is not tolerated, subjects may step down
      one dose level. See Section 6.1.1 for a detailed list of procedures.

      Phase 5: Two-week Double-Blind phase Eligible subjects who have found an optimized dose
      during Phase 4, see above, will be randomized to receive their best dose of Aptensio XR® or
      matching placebo and will enter the two-week parallel Double-Blind Phase. Blinded study drug
      will be dispensed at visit 13 and double-blind treatment will follow on the morning after
      Visit 13.

      Subjects who have a ≥50% worsening of symptoms on the ADHD-RS-IV at Visit 14 (compared to
      Visit 13, one week into the Double-Blind Phase) and a CGI-I of "much worse" or "very much
      worse" compared to Visit 13 will be eligible to discontinue the Double-Blind Phase and enter
      the Open-Label Extension Study at the investigator's discretion, after completing end of
      study (Visit 15) procedures.

      At study Visit 15, in the ADHD-RS-IV, CGI-S, CGI-I, adverse event collection and a physical
      exam will be repeated along with an ECG. Subjects not completing Visit 15 procedures will not
      be eligible for the Open-Label - Extension Study

      Phase 6: Follow-up Phone Call A follow-up phone call will occur approximately two weeks after
      treatment discontinuation to assess for ongoing adverse events and concomitant medications.
    
  