
    
      This is an open-label (all people involved know the identity of the intervention), single
      arm, multicenter Phase IV study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of
      etravirine (ETR) in combination with antiretroviral (ARV) therapy other than darunavir (DRV)
      + ritonavir (rtv). In addition, the antiviral activity and the
      pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic profile, and safety of ETR will be assessed. The study will
      consist of a screening period of maximum 6 weeks, a baseline visit, and a 48-week treatment
      period. After the end of the treatment period, patients with ongoing adverse events (AEs)
      will be followed for an additional 4 weeks. At least 200 ARV treatment-experienced human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infected patients will be enrolled in this study. Patients
      will be considered ARV treatment-experienced if they have been on their current stable highly
      active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) regimen for at least 8 weeks prior to screening. The
      study population will consist of patients who need to change their current HAART regimen due
      to any of the following reasons: (1) patients experiencing virologic failure (with a
      screening viral load value >=500 HIV-1 RNA copies/mL), or (2) patients switching due to
      simplification of their current regimen or due to AEs and/or tolerability reasons (with a
      screening viral load value <50 HIV-1 RNA copies/mL). Patients will receive ETR 200 mg twice
      daily in combination with an investigator-selected background regimen. In addition to ETR,
      which needs to be active based on resistance testing, the background regimen should consist
      of at least 1 active ARV resulting in a treatment regimen with at least 2 active ARVs. The
      following exceptions to this are: (1) if raltegravir (RAL) or atazanavir/ritonavir (ATV/rtv)
      are part of the background regimen, the number of active ARVs in this background regimen
      should be at least 2; (2) low-dose ritonavir should not be counted as an active ARV. DRV/rtv
      will not be allowed in the background regimen in order to evaluate the safety and
      pharmacokinetics of ETR in combination with ARVs other than DRV/rtv. Furthermore, a
      background regimen consisting of nucleoside transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) only will not be
      allowed. The background regimen cannot be modified until the end of the treatment period with
      the following exception: switches within the ARV class will be allowed for well documented
      tolerability/toxicity reasons. For patients who, in the opinion of the investigator, are
      deriving clinical benefit from ETR, and to whom ETR is not commercially available in his/her
      country, is not reimbursed or cannot be accessed from another source (e.g., access program,
      government program) in the region the patient is living in, the possibility to extend their
      ETR treatment period will be provided. The ETR tablets are to be taken orally twice daily
      after a meal. A total daily dose of 400 mg is to be taken for 48 weeks.
    
  