
    
      This is a randomized open-label study. Participants will be randomized 1:1 in blocks of 5 to
      either continued intravenous antimicrobial therapy or oral antimicrobial therapy after a
      minimum of 10 days of IV therapy. The antimicrobial choice will be based on antimicrobial
      susceptibility. All oral regimens for gram-positive organisms will include 2 different
      agents. Gram-negative pathogens will be treated with oral quinolones if susceptibility
      results are compatible. Decisions regarding ongoing inpatient or outpatient therapy will be
      made at the discretion of the attending physician. Outpatient follow up will be once weekly
      for 6 weeks and then at 3 months. At each follow-up visit, participants will undergo a
      general physical exam, and their adherence to therapy and general wellbeing will be assessed
      as well. Blood samples will be sent for a complete blood count, creatinine, C-reactive
      protein by the investigators to ensure continued improvement in response to therapy. Within
      72 hours of stopping therapy, a transthoracic echocardiogram will be performed to determine
      response to therapy and to establish a new baseline to which subsequent echocardiograms if
      medically indicated would be compared to assess for relapse or development of a new IE. All
      lab tests are done at our affiliated hospitals. Investigators plan first on performing a
      feasibility study. In the feasibility study, investigators recruit a total of 50 patients and
      randomize 25 in each arm. Baseline characteristics, of clinical interest with a potential
      impact on prognosis, and patients' outcomes will be compared using the Chi-square test for
      categorical variables and the t-test and the Mann-Whitney test for continuous variables, when
      appropriate. To examine the association between oral antimicrobial therapy and 90-day
      mortality, investigators plan to perform a multivariable logistic regression analysis with
      oral therapy being the independent variable. The model will also include variables of
      clinical interest: diabetes, renal impairment, immune-compromising condition, age > 50, and
      evidence of embolization.
    
  