
    
      Air leaks are the most common problem after a lung biopsy. Air leaks can be mild to severe.
      Mild air leaks are monitored by chest x-ray and may go away by themselves. Air leaks can
      cause pain and require repeated x-rays, and in some cases the need for a tube to be inserted
      into the chest for drainage of the air.

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a
      coin) to 1of 2 groups. Participants in one group will receive the experimental lung plug
      after the lung biopsy. Participants in the other group will just have the standard lung
      biopsy without placement of the plug. There is an equal chance of being assigned to either
      group.

      All participants will have the routine lung biopsy performed by their doctor with the aid of
      a computerized tomography (CT) scan. During a lung biopsy, a needle is inserted into the mass
      in the lung using the CT for guidance. A smaller needle is then inserted through the first
      needle to collect a sample of the tissue.

      If you are assigned to receive the lung plug, it will be inserted into the track left when
      the biopsy needle is removed. The smaller sampling needle is removed, and the lung plug is
      inserted through the larger needle using a delivery tool that has a plunger to push the plug
      in place. The lung plug remains in the track left when the larger needle is removed.

      Regardless of which group you are assigned to, you will be receive the same follow-up
      treatment. The rates of air leaks after the lung biopsy will be compared between 2 groups of
      participants. This will provide researchers with the data to learn if the lung plug should be
      used for all patients receiving a lung biopsy to decrease the number of air leaks.

      Your doctor will watch you carefully for air leaks. You will have a chest x-ray about 1 hour
      after the procedure to again check for air leaks. If a leak is detected, you will receive the
      normal treatment for air leaks, which includes chest x-rays on a regular basis. If the air
      leak grows, you may need a chest tube placed for drainage. It is possible that this may
      require you to stay in the hospital overnight. In the most extreme cases, additional surgery
      may be needed to stop the air leak. Over time, your body will absorb the plug. A final x-ray
      will be taken 1 month after the biopsy to be sure that an air leak has not developed.

      You will be asked to be in the study for 30 days. This will include the time you spend in the
      hospital for the biopsy and, if you have an air leak, the entire time you spend in the
      hospital, if it needs to be treated. In addition, you will return to your doctor the day
      following the biopsy and 30 days later to have a chest x-ray to look for any late air leaks.
    
  