
    
      The Investigators developed a novel psychosocial intervention called "Cognitive Reappraisal
      Intervention for Suicide Prevention (CRISP)," which aims to improve cognitive reappraisal
      ability (i.e. the ability to modify the appraisal of a situation to alter its emotional
      significance) (target), and reduce suicide risk (outcome). The conceptual framework views
      suicidal ideation and behavior as failed attempts to regulate negative emotions and by
      improving cognitive reappraisal, an effective emotion regulation strategy, the investigators
      expect to reduce suicide risk. This theory is supported by studies showing that unsuccessful
      attempts to regulate negative emotions and decreased cognitive reappraisal are associated
      with increased suicidal ideation and behavior.

      The R61 phase is a proof-of-principle phase and its goals are to optimize CRISP and test its
      engagement with cognitive reappraisal. Certified social workers will administer 12 weekly
      sessions of CRISP to 40 middle-aged and older adults (50-90 years old) after a
      suicide-related hospitalization. Research assistants, unaware of the study aims, will conduct
      assessments at study entry (hospital admission), discharge, 6 and 12 weeks post-discharge.
      Target engagement will be assessed with EEG assessments during a standard pictured-based
      stimuli and our novel cognitive reappraisal paradigm.

      The R33 phase aims to provide further evidence of target engagement of the optimized CRISP in
      a larger sample, evaluate the relationship of cognitive reappraisal with suicide risk as
      measured with Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS) and estimate implementation
      parameters for a large-scale clinical trial. A different sample of 90 middle-aged and older
      adults (using the same inclusion/exclusion criteria as for the R61 phase) will be randomized
      to CRISP or to Supportive Therapy (ST, a control treatment not designed to improve emotion
      regulation). Assessments will be conducted on admission, at discharge, and at 6, 12 and 24
      weeks post-discharge. Primary aims are: 1) CRISP participants will show improvement in
      cognitive reappraisal ability from discharge to end of treatment; and 2) improvement in
      cognitive reappraisal ability will be associated with suicide risk over 24 weeks.
    
  