
    
      FAI Syndrome is a morphological hip condition that can cause hip/groin pain and impaired
      performance.1 FAI Syndrome is caused by abnormal morphology of the femoral head (referred to
      as cam FAI Syndrome), excessive acetabular coverage of the femoral head (referred to as
      pincer FAI Syndrome) or a combination of the two (mixed FAI Syndrome).2 Not only can FAI
      Syndrome give rise to symptoms and impair function, the repetitive bony contact can also lead
      to a cascade of structural damage including tearing at the chondrolabral junction, full
      thickness cartilage delamination, and potentially hip osteoarthritis.

      Presently, there is uncertainty involving the best treatment approach for symptomatic FAI
      Syndrome.2 The principal two management options are 1) physical therapy management of
      impairments and function and/or 2) surgery. Although presently, both modalities have been
      shown to improve symptoms in the short term,2 surgery is by far the most commonly
      incorporated approach.1, The incidence of the surgery has notably increased in recent years.
      There has been an 18-fold increase in surgical procedures for FAI Syndrome between 1999 and
      2009, varying by geographic region in the USA.3

      As an elective procedure, surgery for correction of FAI Syndrome is likely influenced by
      patients' perspectives and expectations of outcome.4 The extent to which these expectations
      influence specific treatment choices, as well as subsequent outcomes is currently unclear,
      although recent findings suggest that across various pathologies both patients5 and
      clinicians6 rarely have accurate expectations of treatment benefits or harms.

      Non-operative, conservative treatments may have a role in managing FAI Syndrome to alleviate
      symptoms, potentially resulting in postponement or avoidance of surgery. Bony morphological
      changes can be present without symptoms, and nearly all participants with symptomatic FAI
      Syndrome undergo a variable asymptomatic period in the presence of structural FAI Syndrome.
      Recent studies have been hampered by retrospective and case cohort design, very small sample
      sizes, short-term follow up, and self-report measures only.4 A recent systematic review
      stated "although the available literature with experimental data is limited, there is a
      suggestion that physical therapy and activity modification confer some benefit to patients.
      Non-operative treatment regimens, particularly physical therapy, need to be evaluated more
      extensively and rigorously".6 Further, it is well known that patient expectations can mediate
      outcomes. Those who have high expectations about the potential benefit of the conservative
      approach are more likely to experience improvements. Conversely, those who have low
      expectations are more likely to fail to see improvement.

      4. Design & Procedures: Reporting of the study will conform to STROBE guidelines for
      observational studies. The proposed study is a prospective case series:

      1) Patients will receive:

        1. A prescription of progressive rehabilitation exercises designed to strengthen weakened
           muscle groups and stretch joint movements that demonstrate range of motion limitations.
           Treatment is based on clinical presentation and identification of impairments by the
           treating clinician.

        2. Education on progression of exercise based on scientific exercise progression principle.
           Participants will be seen for 3 visits over 6 weeks (with weekly contact with the
           patient via email or phone call) and a final visit 1 year post-surgery for those
           electing to undergo surgery.
    
  