
    
      STUDY DESIGN

        -  Screening

           - Assessment of the subject's eligibility to participate as determined by the
           inclusion/exclusion criteria.

        -  Biopsy schedule

           - Subjects will be biopsied according to the schedule in Section 7.

        -  Induction

             -  The recommended induction dose of ipilimumab is 3 mg/kg administered intravenously
                over a 90-minute period every 3 weeks for a total of four doses, as tolerated.

             -  Laboratory evaluations should be performed and the results examined before
                administration of each ipilimumab dose.

             -  As durable disease stabilization and/or objective tumor response can be seen after
                early progression before Week 12, it is recommended that, in the absence of
                dose-limiting toxicities (eg, serious immune-mediated adverse reactions), all four
                doses of ipilimumab be administered over the initial 12 weeks even in the setting
                of apparent clinical progression, providing the subject's performance status
                remains stable.

             -  All subjects who enter the induction period, including those who may have
                discontinued treatment for drug-related AEs and/or who have evidence of clinical
                progression during the induction period, should obtain a 12-week tumor assessment.

             -  Based on clinical experience in the ongoing and completed melanoma studies, the
                following recommendations apply for subject management in light of the Week 12 or
                later tumor assessments:

        -  The appearance of new lesions in subjects with other stable or shrinking baseline tumor
           burden may be experiencing clinical benefit and should continue in follow-up and/or
           maintenance therapy before alternative anti-cancer agents are considered. These subjects
           can be seen to have continued tumor shrinkage in follow-up scans.

        -  As long as overall tumor burden is stable or decreasing, subjects should remain in
           follow-up and/or maintenance (see below), even in the presence of new lesions.

        -  Clinical progression warranting alternative anti-cancer treatment should be considered
           only in subjects whose overall tumor burden appears to be substantially increased and/or
           in subjects whose performance status is decreased.

        -  Patients are eligible for retreatment treatments with ipilimumab on this protocol

        -  Follow-up

           - Subjects will be required to attend a follow-up visit within 90 days of the last
           ipilimumab treatment.

        -  Re-treatment

      Patients who received ipilimumab at any dose in a prior/parent study and have met each of the
      following criteria:

        -  Had no unacceptable toxicity requiring ipilimumab discontinuation; OR

        -  Patients who permanently discontinued treatment due to select irAEs as follows:

             1. Reversible autoimmune hepatitis

             2. Medically manageable endocrinopathy

             3. Reversible dermatological toxicity AND

        -  Have experienced documented disease progression after demonstrating expanded clinical
           benefit.

      Expanded clinical benefit is defined as:

        -  Patients whose disease is responding (partial response, complete response); or

        -  Patients whose disease was stable more than or equal to 3 months.

        -  Patients who demonstrated mixed or delayed response.

      The mixed or delayed response is defined as follows:

      Patients with Mixed Response: defined as at least 50% reduction in the bidimensional size of
      one or more non-cystic lesions, even in the presence of any new lesions.

      Patients with Delayed Response: defined as objective response (PR or CR) following
      progressive disease, occurring any time after Week 12 in the prior/parent protocol, in
      patients who have not received therapy with a non ipilimumab anti-cancer agent (approved or
      experimental) between the PD and objective response.

      Patients with select irAEs related to ipilimumab that have completely resolved with
      immunosuppressive therapy or are adequately controlled with hormone therapy, may be
      considered for further re-treatment with ipilimumab under this study, at the time of disease
      progression. The list of completely reversible or medically managed immune-related adverse
      events (irAEs) eligible for consideration are:

        -  Reversible autoimmune hepatitis

        -  Medically managed endocrinopathy

        -  Reversible dermatological toxicity All other irAEs are not considered eligible for
           re-treatment, including, but not limited to, greater or equal Grade 3 colitis or
           diarrhea, or uveitis of any grade.
    
  