
    
      Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disorder of altered ion transport across cell membranes
      which is characterised by the production of thickened bodily secretions, affecting the
      function of organs such as the pancreas and the lungs. Within the lungs, thickened mucus
      alters normal mucocillary clearance mechanisms resulting in airway obstruction, mucus
      plugging and recurrent infections. The cycle of recurrent infections and subsequent
      inflammation is thought to be the major mechanism towards damage to lung tissue and the
      occurrence of fibrosis, which decreases lung function, lowers tissue oxygenation and
      eventually leads to respiratory failure and death. Optimisation of the removal of airway
      secretions is therefore an integral part of the management of CF in order to try and prevent
      these complications. Traditionally, a variety of approaches are usually combined including
      mucolytic or hydrator therapy to make the secretions less viscous, and chest physiotherapy to
      mobilise secretions and improve airway clearance.

      There are many chest physiotherapy or airway clearance techniques (ACT) available including
      breathing methods such as the Active Cycle of Breathing Techniques (ACBT) or Autogenic
      Drainage (AD) and adjuncts such as Positive Expiratory Pressure (PEP), High Frequency Chest
      Oscillation (the "Vest"), or oscillatory devices such as the Flutter or Acapella. Research
      has shown there to be no difference in effectiveness between techniques, as long as they are
      performed correctly and regularly, and therefore choice of ACT depends upon assessment of the
      patient by a trained physiotherapist and discussions with the individual. With advancing
      disease or infections, often the effectiveness of ACTs can decrease due to patient fatigue,
      shortness of breath or overwhelming amount of secretions. At this time it is necessary to
      re-assess ACTs, and the addition of positive pressure to airway clearance techniques has been
      shown to decrease patient fatigue and respiratory rates during clearance. One of these
      studies also demonstrated improvements in oxygenation and respiratory muscle strength after
      the use of positive pressure with ACT. While no studies have reported an increase in sputum
      expectorated with the addition of positive pressure, the ability to augment greater tidal
      volumes through positive pressure is thought to be a mechanism which could improve sputum
      clearance. Clinical experience at the Royal Brompton hospital has indicated that with
      alterations in pressure and flow rates from resting settings, sputum clearance appears to be
      easier and more effective; the investigators aim to explore this observation objectively in
      this study.

      Research Question:

      Does the addition of non-invasive ventilation (Breas, I-Sleep 25) as supplementary positive
      pressure to normal airway clearance techniques improve sputum clearance in stable adult
      patients with cystic fibrosis?

      Hypothesis

      The inclusion of non-invasive ventilation in addition to a patient's normal airway clearance
      technique will lead to improvements in subjective ease of clearance and work of breathing
      during airway clearance and objectively increase sputum clearance, as well as being well
      tolerated in patients as an adjunct to airway clearance.
    
  