
    
      Infertility is a growing issue for many couples all over the world. Nowadays, Assisted
      reproductive technology is widely used to treat couples affected by infertility, but, the
      success rate is still very low. Recurrent implantation failure is an important cause of
      repeated IVF failure. In addition to the embryo quality, a functioning and receptive
      endometrium is crucial for embryo implantation. There is a growing amount of evidence shows
      that uterine perfusion playing an important part in regulating endometrial receptivity and in
      successful pregnancy.

      Recently, transvaginal ultrasonography is often used to examine endometrial thickness,
      pattern and blood flow status to predict uterine receptivity. Some studies have demonstrated
      that uterine artery blood flow resistance in RM (Recurrent miscarriage) patients is
      significantly higher than in normal fertile patients. It has been postulated that abnormal
      uterine perfusion could be related to the reproductive failure, enhancing the uterine
      perfusion may improve the successful pregnancy. In accordance with this hypothesis, some
      therapeutic approaches including low dose aspirin (LDA), nitric oxide donor, low molecular
      weight heparin, sildenafil are applying in clinic. Low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) is
      derived from unfractionated heparin. It also has anticoagulation or the antithrombin effect.
      Aspirin has analgesic, antipyretic, and anti-inflammatory properties. Initially, aspirin and
      low molecular weight heparin have been used either as single agents or in combination to
      treat patients with recurrent miscarriage, diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome. The
      treatment confers a significant benefit in live births rate. Furthermore, various studies
      have shown that thrombophilia are more common in women with RIF compared with healthy fertile
      controls. In these women, heparin treatment could potentially enhance the implantation
      process, and may finally improve the live birth rate. The aim of the study is to investigate
      whether Low Dose Aspirin and Low Molecular Weight Heparin could increase the uterine
      perfusion, and finally improve the implantation and pregnancy rates in patients with
      unexplained recurrent implantation failure.
    
  