
    
      The clinical management of pain in prescription opioid abusers presents a challenge to the
      health care professional. Investigators have novel pilot data showing that the GABA-agonist
      gabapentin (GPN) significantly decreases opioid-induced hyperalgesia (OIH) in methadone
      patients (Compton et al., 2009), providing the first empirical evidence of a pharmacotherapy
      for OIH in opioid abusers. The work of Gore and colleagues (2011) showed that pregabalin
      (PGB), a GABA analogue succeeding GPN, was shown to decrease opioid use in patients with
      neuropathic pain in patients, suggesting an anti-hyperalgesia effect not observed in the
      matched cohort receiving GPN. The proposed research will comprehensively evaluate the
      efficacy of PGB in treating opioid-induced hyperalgesia (OIH) in a well-described population
      of prescription opioid abusers (POAs) with chronic pain and on Suboxone (buprenorphine) or
      methadone therapy. A pressing need for such investigation is presented by the rising number
      of POAs presenting for treatment (SAMHSA, 2010; 2011), and for whom, chronic pain is a common
      co-morbidity. The proposed work is anticipated to provide vital and timely information on the
      efficacy of PGB in the treatment of OIH in prescription opioid abusers on Suboxone or
      methadone therapy.

      Following recruitment and screening, 75 subjects assigned to the active medication group will
      receive pregabalin 400 mg/day, a dose well-within published guidelines of 300-600 mg/day for
      the treatment of neuropathic pain (http://www.pfizerpro.com/hcp/lyrica/phndosing). During the
      first week of treatment, subjects will be quickly titrated up to the assigned daily PGB dose
      of 400 mg/day PO (50mg BID x 2 days; 100mg BID x 2 days; 150mg BID x 2 days, with full dosage
      of 400mg administered on day 7 ), or maximum dose tolerated) for six weeks. 75 subjects will
      be assigned to receive matched and undergo identical titration and study activities under
      double-blind conditions. Study staff will evaluate subjects daily by phone during titration;
      thereafter they will be seen weekly at study sessions. Tapering of medication will begin at
      the end of week 6. The severity of chronic pain will be measured at each time point using two
      standardized self report tools which report on pain severity (McGill Pain Questionnaire) and
      pain-related disability (Brief Pain Inventory). Opioid-induced hyperalgesia will be measured
      at each time point using a standardized cold pressor trial, and performance at baseline will
      be compared to performance following PGB/placebo administration over time.
    
  