
    
      The objective of this clinical investigation is to assess the safety and efficacy of the
      Supera Vascular Mimetic Implant for the treatment of stenotic or restenotic lesions of the
      common femoral artery. Furthermore, a non-inferiority hypothesis in terms of efficacy and a
      superiority in terms of safety will be tested with the endovascular treatment with Supera
      compared to surgical endarterectomy of the common femoral artery.

      The patients will be selected based on the investigator's assessment, evaluation of the
      underlying disease and the eligibility criteria. The patient's medical condition should be
      stable, with no underlying medical condition which would prevent them from performing the
      required testing or from completing the study. Patients should be geographically stable,
      willing and able to cooperate in this clinical study, and remain available for long term
      follow-up. The patient is considered enrolled in the study after obtaining the patients
      informed consent, if there is full compliance with the study eligibility criteria and after
      successful guidewire passage through the study target lesion.

      Prior to the index procedure the following will be collected: an informed consent for data
      collection, demographics, medical history, medication record, physical examination, clinical
      category of acute limb ischemia (Rutherford category), the resting ankle-brachial index (ABI)
      or toe-brachial index (TBI), blood sample test (complete blood count, comprehensive metabolic
      panel and if applicable pregnancy test) and a walking impairment questionnaire. Randomization
      will also occur prior to the procedure.

      During the procedure patients that are randomized within the endarterectomy group will be
      treated according to the institutions standard of care. For patients that are randomized
      within the Supera arm, the guidewire will cross the entire study lesion after which the
      lesion will be assessed through angiography. Pre-dilatation of the target lesion with an
      uncoated PTA-balloon is mandatory and will be followed by stenting with the Supera stent
      according to the instructions for use. Postdilatation of the stent is allowed but not
      mandatory.

      The regular follow-up is necessary to monitor the condition of the patient and the results of
      the procedure. The patients will be invited for the following required follow-up visits at 1,
      6, 12, 24 and 36 months. During these visit the following data will be collected: medication
      record, physical exam, target limb ABI/TBI and Rutherford classification, duplex ultrasound
      of target vessel, walking impairment questionnaire and possible adverse events.
    
  