
    
      The purpose of this project, which consists of three studies, is to investigate whether
      insufficient protein in breastmilk and / or inadequate intra oral vacuum of the infant can
      explain early breastfeeding cessation in the premature infant. Furthermore to test whether
      the breastfeeding period may be extended by oral stimulation.

      The rate of breastfeeding in mothers of infants born prematurely is lower than in mothers who
      give birth on time. A Danish survey shows that about 70% of premature are on exclusive
      breastfeeding at discharge and that this rate is decreasing to about 30% six weeks after
      discharge. Breastmilk is the healthiest nutrition for the newborn and based on WHO's strategy
      for the feeding of infants Board of Health recommends that newborn infants, including
      premature, as far as possible are exclusively breastfed for six months. Exclusively
      breastfeeding means that the infant only gets the breastmilk of the mother. Exclusively
      breastfeeding has health implications for both mother and infant. Breastfeeding reduces
      lactation incidence of infectious diseases, improves cognitive development and visual
      function in the infant and reduces the risk of developing later obesity. In addition, the
      level of immune protective factors and anti-inflammatory elements is high in the mother's
      milk to the preterm infant and therefore reduce the infant's increased risk of early and
      severe infections, and death late effects. Furthermore, breastfeeding may reduce the risk of
      premature infant's abnormal vessel growth in the eye, and appears to have a protective effect
      on the disease being of significant excess mortality primarily attack the intestines of the
      preterm infant (necrotizing enterocolitis).

      Problem Area / factors in milk composition with the importance of breastfeeding Breastmilk
      contains the necessary nutritional components and energy that the infant needs. Therefore,
      the milk of the mother delivering early have a higher content of fat and protein, and thereby
      a higher level of energy comparing with the milk from the mother who have given birth to
      term. The content of protein in the milk of the mother who gives birth prematurely is about
      12 grams per liter and thus approximately one-third higher than that from the mother who
      gives birth on time. The nutritional composition of breastmilk vary considerably over time
      and the content of protein is decreasing why the premature infant are at risk of protein
      deficiency and thereby insufficient growth. During the hospital stay, and while the infant
      are feed by tube this decreasing protein content are made up by adding, while it is more
      difficult when the infant breastfeed exclusively. Protein is important for the infant's
      growth and strength and a local statement from Hvidovre Hospital found that 18% of all
      hospitalized preterm infants in 2014 were added additional protein to breastmilk, because
      growth was not sufficient. The question is whether reduced protein content in breastmilk has
      a correlation with the number of days where preterm infants are exclusively breastfed?

      Problem Area / intra oral vacuum strength of the infant with significance for breastfeeding
      The period from birth to the premature infant feed exclusively at the breast without
      supplementary tube feeding varies from weeks to months, depending on how early the infant is
      born. The premature infant is characterized as being immature and with low muscle tone and
      therefore, a decreased ability to breastfeed the first time. The transfer of milk from mother
      to infant is an interaction between the mother and her milk ejection reflex creates a
      positive pressure on the milk and the infant creates a vacuum. If the infant not create a
      vacuum at the back of the mouth, the nipple of the mother is just pushed together and the
      infant is not transferred milk from the breast to the oral cavity. The amount of milk is
      regulated in relation to demand and a weak or shortage of vacuum will cause a shortage of
      milk transfer, which in turn physiologically will lead to less milk production and thereby
      decreasing amount. Studies that investigates this process and measured intra oral vacuum,
      shows all the importance of the infant's contribution by milk transfer, but does not answer
      to the extent the premature infants ability to create vacuum importance of breastfeeding
      establishment and maintaining. The question is whether the premature infants sucking strength
      is too weak to establish sufficient intraoral vacuum to ensure milk transfer from the breast
      to the infant and it can be related to a fewer number of days where the infant is exclusively
      breastfed.

      In addition to the premature infants muscle tone has its immaturity also affect the
      organization and quality of body movements. Organization and quality in the movements may be
      referred to neuro motor processes and form among others the oral motor base supporting the
      movements involving the infant's ability to create vacuum. The processes preceding the
      creation of vacuum and studies have shown that by early intervention with oral stimulation in
      the form of stimulation of the nerves and muscles in and around the mouth, it can be oral
      motor basis strengthened. Studies where the infant carefully is stimulated with a finger,
      showing that the premature infant's muscles and sucking reflex can be influenced so that it
      is able to suck a larger volume in a shorter time in the bottle compared to the infant that
      is not stimulated orally. This presents an opportunity to influence the premature infant´s
      strength and maybe increase the ability to create intra oral vacuum affected by oral
      stimulation as a skill the infant preserves. The question is whether oral stimulation can
      increase the premature infant's ability to create vacuum and thus increase the power to
      transfer milk from the breast and thereby extending the number of days when with exclusively
      breastfed? The 3 studies are based on the same cohort. The cohort is identified and recruited
      at the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit at Hvidovre Hospital and relevant families where the
      mother delivers prematurely are included consecutively in accordance to the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. The cohort will be demographically representative of everyday life in
      clinical practice with various family formation, education levels and socio-economic
      background conditions.

      Power calculations are based primary outcome: exclusively breastfeeding duration and made to
      show effect on exclusively breastfeeding duration between the intervention- and the control
      group. Requirements for power calculation are a mean value of the vacuum set at 100% with a
      standard deviation (SD) of 26%. To detect the smallest clinically relevant difference of 13%,
      equivalent to half a SD and with an expected drop out of 20%, which included 200 infants (100
      infants in each group) in the study (alpha = 0.05 and beta = 0.1 ). There hospitalized
      annually on average 300 preterm infants in the neonatal section. It is expected about 100
      infants to meet the criteria for inclusion, thus achieved at approximately 2 year.

      By inclusion the family is anonymized by allocating an ID number. When multiple assigned each
      infant this ID number and a one of letters a, b or c. All data and all measurements is
      obtained / made and recorded as far as possible of the project manager or alternatively the
      project nurse.

      6 weeks after the date for the expected terminator date either the family are visiting the
      Neonatal section or the project manager/project nurse visiting the family in order to a
      status of breastfeeding, vacuum measurement and the infant's growth. In addition the family
      is contact by telephone the week in which the infant's postnatal age is 6 months. Here is
      recorded breastfeeding status, the time of any termination of exclusive breastfeeding and the
      infant's weight at GP visit 5 month old. The infant's growth is defined by its naked weight,
      Length and head circumference. Previous studies show a number of factors which affect
      breastfeeding duration. Features concerning socio-demographic background variables, perinatal
      and psychosocial conditions will gathered by the project manager or project nurse using a
      questionnaire in an interview with the family and form data in the analyzes. Participation in
      the project is safe and not associated with risk or discomfort for either mother or infant.

      STUDY 1 / PROTEIN IN BREASTMILK Data are obtained in the human milk section at the hospital.
      Volume is obtained in milliliter (ml.) and protein content in gram pr. 100 ml. by using Miris
      Human Milk Analyzer according to the usual practice. Miri is the only European equipment that
      analyzes human milk. The test sample is 10 milliliters and the result given within a minute
      and logged into the machine and then transferred to the project database. When the mother is
      exclusively breastfeeding, we ask for 10 ml. Manual hand compressed breast milk. The analyzed
      milk can´t be reused and is therefore destroyed.

      STUDY 2 / WEEK STRENGTH ASSESSMENT BY VACUUM MEASUREMENT Sucking strength of the premature
      infant is defined as the ability to create intra oral vacuum during sucking.

      The intra oral vacuum of the premature infant is assessed by measuring the vacuum in the unit
      of mBar and are primary made by the project manager which is blinded to know if the infant
      has received oral stimulation or not. The measurement is made when the infant is awake and
      show readiness to suck. For vacuum measurement is a manometer selected with a bottle
      pacifier, which fits a Calmaflaske made by the firm Medela. The pacifier is shaped and is
      similar in function a breast and extra small so that it matches the premature mouth of a
      premature infant. As in a completely closed system the sucking of the infant is registered on
      this connected manometer. In order to obtain a measure of reproducibility of the method all
      vacuum measurements is carried out at 3 consecutive measurements. The advantage of the 3
      measurements within a short time is to determine the intra-individual variability, but only
      if the infant is motivated and show redlines for measurement 3 times. The equipment is
      developed in cooperation with the Technical University of Denmark.

      STUDY 3 / randomized INTERVENTION STUDY / ORAL STIMULATION Infants whose mothers is included
      in the cohort is randomized to receive / not receive oral stimulation when the infant's
      postnatal age is at least 32 + 0 weeks, as it is the time when the infant is able to
      coordinate sucking and swallowing reflex. In multiple birth all infants is randomized to the
      same group. The list is generated block randomized in blocks of 10

      Families were randomized to the intervention group granted in total one hour instructions in
      a program of oral stimulation by one of two occupational therapists with experience in oral
      stimulation of preterm infants. The program is in collaboration with the project team
      developed and described by the Department of Physiology and Occupational therapy at Hvidovre
      Hospital. The first guidance for parents has duration of approximately half an hour and then
      follow-up once or twice, depending on the needs of the family. To maintain consistent
      intervention over time is the program of oral stimulation written in a script, where the
      family also must record the following variables: date and time of oral stimulation. In
      occupational therapy the guidance and in the script examines the signs that the infant
      exhibits when it is ready / not ready for stimulation. The family also sees a movie where
      these signs and the program of oral stimulation review auditory and visual. Families in the
      control group is not seeing the movie, do not receive the script or the supervision of
      occupational therapists and these infants do not get oral stimulation. Both groups receive
      instructions after usual practice i.e. guidance and elements that promote breastfeeding
      example, skin to skin contact and compression.
    
  