
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      There are 3 weeks in Cycle 1 and 2 weeks in Cycles 2 and beyond.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive ISA101 by
      injection on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, and 4. You will be closely watched for the first 3 hours
      after each dose in order to check for any allergic reactions. Each time, you will receive 2
      injections. One may be in your arm and one in your leg.

      You will receive nivolumab by vein over 60 minutes on Day 8 of Cycle 1 and Day 1 of Cycles 2
      and beyond.

      Study Visits:

      On Days 1 and 8 of Cycle 1 and Day 1 of every cycle after that:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 1 and then 1 time a month after that, if you can become pregnant, blood
      (about 1 teaspoon) or urine will be collected for a pregnancy test.

      At Week 11 and every 6 weeks after that, you will have a CT scan or MRI to check the status
      of the disease.

      Additional Research Tests:

      Blood (up to 20 teaspoons each time) will be drawn before you begin to receive the study
      treatment, before you receive ISA101 at Weeks 3 and 7, before you receive nivolumab at Weeks
      9 and 11, then every 12 weeks after that. If the doctor thinks it is needed because of white
      blood cell recovery from stored cells, one of the every 12 week blood draws may be done
      earlier. These blood samples will be used for biomarker tests and tests of the immune system.

      Length of Treatment:

      You may take ISA101 for up to 3 doses. You may continue taking nivolumab for as long as the
      doctor thinks it is in your best interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drug
      if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      If the disease seems like it has gotten worse, you may decide to continue to receive
      nivolumab, if you are still eligible. It is possible the study drug may be working even
      though the tumor(s) got larger. However, there are risks of continuing to receive the study
      drug because the disease may actually be getting worse. This is described in the side effects
      section below.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up.

      Follow-up Visits:

      At about 30 days and 70 days after the last study drug dose, and then as often as the doctor
      decides as needed, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      At about 30 days, 70 days, and every 6 weeks after that (if you stop the study drug[s] for
      reasons other than the disease getting worse), you will have a CT or MRI scan to check the
      status of the disease. If the disease gets worse, these scans will stop.

      Every 3 months for up to 3 years after your last study drug dose, you will be asked how you
      are doing (either at a visit or by phone). The calls should last about 10 minutes.
    
  