
    
      BACKGROUND Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) pain is major public health issue globally causing
      locomotor disability affecting around 251 million people worldwide according to the Global
      Burden of Disease 2010 Study. In Malaysia, KOA prevalence is 10% to 20% of the elderly
      population and negatively affects physical function especially limitation in walking (22%),
      carrying objects (18.6%), and dressing (12.8%). Mild to moderate KOA pain is managed with
      anti-inflammatory drugs and knee replacement surgery is recommended when pharmacotherapy
      fails. However, 81% of the patients would refrain from undergoing surgery as it is expensive.
      Currently there is no effective pharmaceutical treatments for KOA pain & functional
      disability. Most studies with regards to adductor canal block for KOA pain are done in the
      immediate post-operative period with only 3 studies looking into ACB in the chronic KOA
      population: 1 case report and 2 retrospective studies. Thus, there is a need for head to head
      comparison between Adductor Canal Block (ACB) and Intra-Articular Steroid and Lignocaine
      (IASL).

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective:

        1. Investigate the reduction in pain score following adductor canal block in comparison to
           intra-articular steroid and lignocaine in chronic Knee Osteoarthritis (KOA) pain.

           Secondary objectives:

        2. To ascertain the functional improvement following Adductor Canal Block versus
           Intra-Articular Steroid and Lignocaine for chronic Knee Osteoarthritis (KOA)

        3. To evaluate the Quality of life improvement following Adductor Canal Block versus
           Intra-Articular Steroid and Lignocaine for chronic Knee Osteoarthritis

      METHOD

      A prospective, single blinded interventional study will be conducted in the Rehabilitation
      Medicine Clinic, University Malaya Medical Center for a duration of 1 year. Eligible subjects
      will be enrolled from all referrals of chronic knee osteoarthritis, following
      computer-generated randomization they will be allocated to either Adductor Canal Block
      (intervention) or Intra-Articular Steroid and Lignocaine (control) groups. The assessor is
      blinded to the intervention received, which will be performed by an experienced
      interventionist, not participating in randomization or data collection and analysis.
      Demographics of participants, duration of symptoms, Numerical Rating Score (NRS) pain score
      and Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) questionnaire score will be recorded
      prior to injection, 1 week, 1 month and 3 months post injection. Mann-Whitney U tests and
      Chi-Square test of association will be used as appropriate to compare groups at baseline.
      Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) pre and post intervention will be analyzed using paired t-test.
      Functional outcome and Quality of Life (QoL) subset of Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome
      Score (KOOS) Questionnaire pre and post intervention will be analyzed using paired t-test as
      well.
    
  