
    
      Protection and promotion of breastfeeding is considered a priority in Europe where only 22%
      of children less than 6 months old are exclusively breastfed. In Spain this percentage
      reaches 24.8% but in our city it falls to 18.26%. Various studies emphasise that the
      improvement of these results falls upon the training of health professionals. Following the
      recommendations of a breastfeeding guide can modify professional practice and improve results
      with respect to patients.

      Aim:to determine whether an implementation strategy for a breastfeeding guide is more
      effective than the usual practice (simple circulation of the guide) in terms of increasing
      the percentage of children receiving exclusive or preferential breastfeeding at 6 months age.

      Method/Design: The present work involves a community, clinical trial, randomised by clusters
      in Primary Health Care Centres in Madrid Region (Spain). The project aims at determining
      whether the use of implementation strategy (including training session, information
      distribution, an opinion leader) of Breastfeeding CPG in primary care is more effective than
      the usual practice of mere circulation.

      Number of patients required will be 240 (n=120 in the intervention group and control group),
      all mothers of children born during the study period (6 months), who come to the health
      centre on the first visit of child attention programme and give their consent to participate.

      The main outcome variable is age at which breastfeeding ceases; secondary outcome variables
      include sex, age, educational level.

      Analysis of main effectiveness will be done, comparing the proportion of patients with
      breastfeeding completed at 6 months in the two study groups. All statistical tests will be
      performed with intention to treat. Logistic regression with random effects will be used to
      adjust for prognostic factors. Confounding factors or factors that might alter the effect
      recorded will be taken into account in this analysis.
    
  