
    
      Effects of mindfulness interventions customized for prehypertensive/hypertensive patients are
      poorly understood. Until methodologically rigorous studies to evaluate customized
      interventions for hypertension are performed, it will be unknown whether the observed
      preliminary effects of general mindfulness interventions on blood pressure reduction could be
      much more effective with a tailored approach. Consequently, this study proposes to conduct a
      behavioral intervention study to evaluate whether Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR)
      customized to prehypertensive and hypertensive patients has the potential to provide
      clinically relevant reductions in blood pressure. This customized intervention is called
      Mindfulness-Based Blood Pressure Reduction (MB-BP). The study follows the NIH Stage Model for
      Behavioral Intervention Development, where targets likely proximally affected by the
      intervention are identified, that should also have effect on the longer-term outcomes (e.g.
      blood pressure, mortality). The selected targets, consistent with theoretical frameworks and
      early evidence how mindfulness interventions could influence mental and physical health
      outcomes, are measures of self-regulation including (1) attention control (specifically the
      Sustained Attention Response Task and Mindful Attention Awareness Scale), (2) emotion
      regulation (specifically the Pittsburgh Stress Battery and the Perceived Stress Scale), and
      (3) self-awareness (specifically the Heart Beat Detection Task and Multidimensional
      Assessment of Interoceptive Awareness). Based on the degree of target engagement, MB-BP can
      be further customized to better engage with the targets as needed.

      Specific aims are as follows.

      The primary aim is to evaluate impacts of MB-BP vs. enhanced usual care control on systolic
      blood pressure at 6 months. Follow-up time periods include 10 weeks and 6 months.

      Secondary aims include evaluating impacts of MB-BP vs. enhanced usual care control on
      self-regulation mechanistic target engagement, including (1) attention control (specifically
      the Sustained Attention Response Task and Mindful Attention Awareness Scale), (2) emotion
      regulation (specifically the Pittsburgh Stress Battery and the Perceived Stress Scale), and
      (3) self-awareness (specifically the Heart Beat Detection Task and Multidimensional
      Assessment of Interoceptive Awareness). Further secondary aims include evaluating impacts of
      MB-BP vs. active control on medical regimen adherence, including (1) physical activity, (2)
      Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH)-consistent diet, (3) alcohol consumption, (4)
      body mass index, and (5) antihypertensive medication use and adherence. Secondary blood
      pressure outcomes include diastolic blood pressure.

      This study is a randomized controlled trial, with blinding of staff performing participant
      assessments and data analysts performing statistical analyses.
    
  