
    
      Prostate cancer is the most common solid tumor, with approximately 200,000 new cases
      diagnosed per year. Several different local therapies are available for treatment, including
      surgery and radiotherapy. Significant advances have been made which have improved the cancer
      control outcomes and treatment. Despite these significant advances, approximately 30% of
      patients treated with definitive local therapy experience recurrent disease. Recurrent
      (returning) disease usually displays rising Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) (a blood test for
      prostate cancer). The PSA level is often of limited use in differentiating local recurrence
      (i.e. recurrence in the prostate bed) from recurrence outside of the prostate bed
      (extra-prostatic recurrence). Imaging plays a central role in the detection of recurrent
      prostate carcinoma in the prostate bed and in the differentiation of prostatic from
      extraprostatic recurrence. There are newer methods of imaging such as magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) with molecular radiotracers that are
      currently under study for the imaging of post-therapy recurrence.

      One PET radiotracer which has shown promise in the staging and restaging of patients with
      prostate carcinoma is anti-1-amino-3-[18F]fluorocyclobutane-1-carboxylic acid
      (anti-3-[18F]FACBC) which is a synthetic amino acid analog. FACBC demonstrated higher
      accuracy compared with other methods in the restaging of patients with suspected recurrent
      prostate carcinoma. FACBC has been tested in over 140 subjects in other studies in the Emory
      system including 128 subjects with prostate cancer.

      The investigators will perform a study with 25 patients in whom the investigators have a
      strong suspicion of prostate cancer that has returned to the body after having an initial
      treatment. The major goal of the investigation is to see whether anti-[18F] FACBC PET-CT and
      MRI imaging individually will be useful in the detection of local and extraprostatic
      recurrence of prostate cancer. Routine blood test will be done on the day of the FACBC scan
      and one week later as required by the FDA.

      All patients will undergo biopsy of the prostate as clinically appropriate per standard of
      care. If either the FACBC or MRI scans indicate cancer recurrence, the subject's cancer
      site(s) will also be biopsied as clinically appropriate. Biopsy of the suspected recurrence
      sites will be scheduled at the subjects' convenience as soon as possible after the scans.

      Tissue obtained from the biopsy will undergo standard analysis to determine if prostate
      carcinoma cells are present. The secondary aim is to use left-over biopsy material to
      determine if there are genotypic differences between prostate carcinoma recurrence confined
      to the prostate bed and extraprostatic recurrence
    
  