
    
      RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS

        1. SPECIFIC AIM 1: To assess the efficacy of sertraline in preventing posttraumatic stress
           disorder in children aged 6-20 after a burn, injury or reconstructive surgery following
           a burn injury.

        2. SPECIFIC AIM 2: To assess the efficacy of sertraline in preventing co-morbid depression
           in children aged 6-20 after a burn, injury or reconstructive surgery following a burn
           injury.

      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE Prevention of posttraumatic stress symptoms is a priority in
      psychiatric practice today. This is the first controlled study of any medication to prevent
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in children and adolescents. The purpose of the study is
      to use sertraline to prevent PTSD and co-morbid depression from developing in 6-20 year old
      children hospitalized with a burn, injury, or reconstructive surgery following a burn injury.
      If this intervention is successful, it will help to prevent psychiatric and developmental
      disorders in injured children as well as those who undergo reconstructive procedures. While
      we have found no studies that have investigated the efficacy of sertraline in treating PTSD
      in children and adolescents, research indicates that sertraline is effective in treating
      other anxiety disorders and depression in children and adolescents. Research also indicates
      that sertraline is effective in treating PTSD in adults.

      RECRUITMENT PROCEDURES Families of children aged 6-20 admitted with an acute burn or for
      reconstructive surgery are contacted by study staff within 3 days of admission or when
      medically stable, and asked to participate in the study. In addition, 6-17 year old patients
      admitted for an injury are asked to participate.

      CONSENT PROCEDURES: A licensed physician investigator explains the nature of the study and
      requests consent from the child's primary caregiver or legal guardian as soon as possible
      after hospital admission. Once consent is given, the research coordinator obtains the
      baseline data.

      Ninety children will be enrolled in the study. These children must a) be a burn patient
      between the ages of 6 and 20 or an injured patient between the ages of 6-17, b) have
      responded to the burn, injury, or surgery with fear, helplessness, or horror, and c) be
      proficient in English or Spanish. If a child has no memory of the injury, currently uses
      antidepressants, or has a known sensitivity to sertraline, diagnosis of Bipolar disorder,
      diagnosis of PTSD, mental retardation, Traumatic Brain Injury, or a new onset of seizures or
      marked worsening of a seizure disorder, he/she will not be included in the study.

      STUDY PROCEDURES After the child is enrolled, he/she is randomly assigned to receive either
      sertraline or placebo. Neither the family nor the investigator will know which group the
      child is assigned to. If at any time this information becomes medically necessary, it will be
      made available to the child's doctor.

      The child takes the study medication every day for 12 weeks. If the child is in the
      sertraline group, the dose of medication may be increased gradually until a satisfactory
      response is achieved. If the child is in the placebo group, he/she may receive sertraline
      after 12 weeks if clinically indicated. After 12 weeks, the medication or placebo will be
      tapered at a rate of 25 mg every three days.

      All children and families are assessed at six points: Early in their acute hospitalization
      (Baseline), at again at weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, and 24. The baseline and follow-up assessments of
      8, 12, and 24 weeks include child and parent interviews. During each assessment, the child
      and parent complete several questionnaires examining how the child is functioning. Check up
      assessments are completed as recommended by the FDA. The assessments take place in the
      hospital, at home, or by the telephone after the child had been discharged.

      EQUITABLE SELECTION OF SUBJECTS Proficiency in English or Spanish is needed in order to be
      included in the study as the study instruments are not validated for non-English and
      non-Spanish speaking populations.

      PRIVACY AND CONFIDENTIALITY Parents/guardians are informed that the information gathered in
      the study is confidential and will not adversely affect their child's treatment in any way.
      The child is assigned a research identification number and this number, not their name, will
      be placed on the study questionnaires. The document that matches name with identification
      number is kept in a locked cabinet that is accessible only to study staff. The data stored in
      the computer is password protected and computer access is limited to study staff. All
      interview and questionnaire data is kept in a locked cabinet. Families are also told prior to
      entering the study that certain information (i.e., suspicions of child abuse or neglect)
      cannot be confidential.

      EXPECTED BENEFITS The child's psychiatric symptoms may potentially decrease as a result of
      taking sertraline. If sertraline is found to prevent PTSD, the patient and other children
      will benefit from its use. In addition, the child may benefit from on-going psychological
      follow-up over the course of 24-weeks. At the conclusion of the study, the family has an
      opportunity to meet with one of the investigators and discuss the results of the evaluation.

      Potential benefits to society: This study may be helpful in scientifically understanding the
      effect of sertraline on children's psychological and physiological responses to stress. It
      may be satisfying to families to learn that they are contributing to a body of knowledge that
      may help children/adolescents who are burned or injured in other ways. It is our hope that
      sertraline will help to prevent the debilitating symptoms of PTSD among burned and injured
      children and adolescents. Because PTSD can have long-lasting impacts both on the developing
      brain as well as on functional development, the successful prevention of the development of
      these symptoms would have far-reaching beneficial implications for children suffering burn
      injuries, as well as those suffering other forms of physical and psychological trauma.

      FORESEEABLE RISKS AND DISCOMFORTS Sertraline has been shown to be well tolerated by both
      children and adolescents. Its side effects may include nausea, headache, stomach distress,
      diarrhea, dry mouth, insomnia, sexual dysfunction, sleepiness, dizziness, tremor, and
      fatigue. Most side effects appear early in treatment, and for about 10% of people it leads to
      stopping treatment. After tapering off the sertraline, these side effects will gradually stop
      also.

      Because drugs that affect the nervous system can affect judgment, thinking or coordination,
      subjects will be warned to be cautious about operating hazardous machinery, including
      automobiles, until there is reasonable certainty that subjects are not affected adversely by
      this drug treatment.

      We ask subjects to avoid alcoholic beverages during this study. It is possible that the
      combination of alcohol and medication may cause unknown side effects. Use of illegal drugs is
      prohibited.

      Stopping the medication abruptly may be dangerous, hence, we inform the subjects that a
      gradual decrease in medication dose will be necessary for medication discontinuation. The
      risks of suddenly stopping the mediation include the possibility of nausea, malaise, muscle
      aches, headaches, mood changes, and unusual sensations (numbness and tingling). Subjects
      should contact the investigator before discontinuing the medication.

      If the side effects of the medication are too uncomfortable and remain so, the sertraline may
      be decreased, or tapered and stopped, and alternative treatments will be offered, including
      counseling and/or alternative medications. If a subject remains distressed, doctors are
      available to help for as long as the subject is in the hospital. If, after the subject leaves
      the hospital and needs more treatment, the study doctors will refer him/her to a mental
      health professional in the community. If during this study the subject becomes distressed,
      he/she will have the opportunity to call and be evaluated by study staff.

      Individuals with bipolar disorder (manic-depressive illness) cannot participate in the study
      because of the risk of inducing mania or hypomania with anti-depressants.

      Due to potential for fatal interaction, subjects should avoid taking monoamine oxidase
      inhibitors (MAOIs) within at least 30 days of taking sertraline, and should avoid starting
      MAOI treatment until at least 30 days after discontinuation of treatment with sertraline.

      Subjects may experience an allergic reaction to sertraline, or placebo ingredients. If a
      subject experiences allergy symptoms such as rash, hives or itching, he/she should notify
      their doctor immediately. Untreated allergy symptoms can lead to a medical emergency. Since
      this is a research study and the treatments or procedures are relatively new, there may be
      additional risks or side effects that we do not know about at this time, but which might
      occur during the study or later. Subjects will be informed of any significant new information
      regarding sertraline that may affect their willingness to continue participation in the
      study. If subjects plan to take any drug other than the study medication or undergo any
      medical treatment, then we ask them to notify the study doctor before starting the drug or
      treatment. This applies to prescription drugs, over-the-counter drugs such as cough and cold
      remedies, antacids, investigational drugs/procedures, and sleeping medications. If surgery or
      a diagnostic procedure is planned, then the study doctor has to be notified before the
      procedure is performed.

      Pregnant women and nursing mothers cannot participate in this study. It is important that
      subjects avoid pregnancy throughout this study because the use of any drug during pregnancy
      has the potential to harm the embryo or the fetus. We will instruct women of childbearing
      potential that they must reliably practice an approved form of birth control while
      participating in the study. If a subject does become pregnant, she must tell the study doctor
      immediately. Her participation in the study may end and she may need counseling for her
      pregnancy. If a subject becomes pregnant during the study or 15 days after her last dose of
      the medication and her pregnancy is carried to term, the investigator will ask her permission
      to follow the course of her pregnancy and delivery as well as the condition of her newborn.
      If a subject misses a period or thinks she might be pregnant during the study, she must
      notify her study doctor immediately so that she can be withdrawn from the study.

      MINIMIZATION OF RISKS AND SAFETY MONITORING Source data is monitored by the co-investigators
      in the study. Safety and outcomes monitoring are conducted in accord with the rules and
      regulations of the Massachusetts General Hospital. Adverse events monitoring is conducted in
      accord with the policies and procedures of the Massachusetts General Hospital, and reported
      to the Human Research Committee of the Massachusetts General Hospital, in accord with
      Partners Human Research Committee Adverse Event Reporting Guidelines.
    
  