
    
      According to international estimations, there will be an increase in the aging population
      worldwide; with projections of a growth in the population older than 60 years from 900
      million in 2015 to two billion in 2050. This means that the older population will move from
      12% to 22% of the global population. In Mexico, in the year 2000, people aged 60 and older
      represented 6.8% of the total population, and an increase of 28% was expected by the year
      2050; and only in Baja California State, there were 183,577 inhabitants 65 yr. old and older
      (Men = 46.3%, Women = 53.7%). Data from a census in Baja California's cities of Mexicali and
      Tijuana municipalities in 2015, showed the highest cluster of older adults above 65 yr.,
      especially women. In Tijuana, there were 78,019 inhabitants over 65 years; with a projected
      population by 2020 of 101,574, and 176,134 inhabitants by 2030. The healthy life expectancy
      of the Mexican older adult is 65.8 years. This means that if the population's life expectancy
      in general is 74.4 years, the population meeting that age is at increased risk of developing
      some disease or dependence during approximately nine years of their life. For the population
      over 60 years, the three most frequent health conditions reported were hypertension (40.0%),
      diabetes (24.3%) and hypercholesterolemia (20.4%). These diseases affect all body systems and
      prevent them from carrying out daily life activities such as walking, eating, preparing or
      buying food, and bathing, among others. In this sense, the search for a healthy lifestyle is
      necessary, which includes a healthy diet that includes supplementation with nutraceuticals
      and the daily practice of physical activity.

      Regarding supplementation with nutraceuticals, the cyanobacterium S. maxima is an important
      source of antioxidants, currently associated with cardiovascular protection properties. For
      centuries it has been cultivated and used as a nutritional supplement due to its content of
      amino acids and essential fatty acids, vitamin C, vitamin E, carotenoids and phycocyanins.
      Recently, studies on S. maxima have focused on verifying the biological activity of its
      components, including hypolipidemic effects. However, most studies have been conducted in
      animal models, with only a few studies focused on the biological effect in humans. However,
      most studies have been conducted in animal models, with scarce studies focused on its effects
      on humans. Previous researches have shown smaller adipose depots, lower blood lipid
      concentrations, and lower body mass gain in mice administered with a high-fat diet and S.
      maxima than in an high-fat diet mice control. Some studies have found a decrease in body
      mass, waist circumference, plasma lipid levels, inflammation, and oxidative stress in
      hypertensive obese patients with S. maxima supplementation (2 g for three months). However,
      controlled studies focused on the effect of the administration of S. maxima and a systematic
      exercise program in humans, have not yet been reported.

      Studies on the potential effects of nutraceutical supplements are increasing in number. There
      have been reported the effect of 2 g/day of S. maxima supplementation on 40 hypertension
      subjects in a double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized trial for three months. After the
      intervention, they reported a significant reduction of body weight, BMI, and blood pressure
      in the group supplemented with S. maxima, compared with that of the placebo group. Some
      investigators studied the effect of Spirulina supplementation (1 g/day) during three months
      on the body weight, BMI, and lipid profile in patients with dyslipidemia and reported a
      significant decrease in total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG), and cholesterol
      associated with low-density lipoproteins (LDL-C).

      Some Spirulina compounds can reduce the macrophages infiltration into visceral fat and
      prevent the accumulation of liver lipids, resulting in weight reduction, specifically body
      fat, and there has been proved the effect of Spirulina supplementation (2 g/day) during two
      months on the serum lipid profile of 15 patients affected by type II diabetes mellitus,
      resulting in a significant reduction of TG, TC, LDL-C, and free fatty acid in blood
      concentrations. By means of a better-structured trial.

      Many of the beneficial effects of Spirulina are attributed to its nutritional content, but
      its action mechanisms are poorly understood. Some authors suggest that a possible component
      responsible of the S. maxima hypolipidemic effect is C-phycocyanin protein, which improves
      the blood lipid profile. Some authors suggest that C-phycocyanin increases endogenous enzymes
      activity, scavenging free radicals, and downregulates cofactors in fat metabolism like
      adenine dinucleotide phosphate. Spirulina hypolipidemic effects can be attributed to the fact
      that dietary supplementation with the cyanobacteria seems to have decreased the intestinal
      assimilation of cholesterol, probably because Spirulina compounds bind to bile acids in the
      jejunum, affecting the micellar solubility of cholesterol before suppressing the cholesterol
      absorption. However, these studies were conducted in animal models and therefore their
      results cannot be extrapolated to humans, and clinical studies conducted in humans are still
      very scarce and appropriate clinical trials are needed to elucidate this.

      Furthermore, it is known that the practice of systematic physical exercise ameliorates the
      risk of hypertension, diabetes and hypercholesterolemia, physical exercise of moderate
      intensity has the best protective effect, mainly due to physiological adaptations. Exercise
      has been also included as part of multicomponent interventions targeting physical function in
      socioeconomically vulnerable older adults in rural communities. Korean older adults (n= 187)
      performed a 24-week program that included group exercise, nutritional supplementation and
      depression management, among other components. Physical function and depression were measured
      before and after the intervention, with significant improvements following the intervention.
      Thus, appropriate exercise programs need to be implemented.
    
  