
    
      Patients with cT3-4 or cN+ and cM0 by pelvic MR and chest + abdominal CT scan will be
      randomized to the following three groups:

      Group A: Traditional chemoradiation.

      Fluorouracil 225 mg/m2/day continuous intravenous infusion on weekdays for five weeks; local
      irradiation 2GY/day on weekdays, totally 50GY.

      At the end of chemoradiation, patients will receive an evaluation with MR and CT scan.

      If the efficacy is defined as CR, PR or SD, the TME will be performed in 6-8 weeks since the
      last irradiation.

      If the disease progress with the possibility of R0 resection, the operation will be given
      soon.

      If the tumor progress to impossible for R0 resection, the salvage chemotherapy will be given
      accordingly.

      Adjuvant chemotherapy of 6-8 cycles of mFOLFOX will be administered 3-4 weeks after R0
      resection.

      Group B: Short-term mFOLFOXIRI.

      Oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 on day 1; irinotecan 150 mg/m2 on day 1; leucovorin 400 mg/m2 on day 1;
      fluorouracil 2400 mg/m2 civ over 46h; treatment will be repeated every 14 days; prophylactic
      G-CSF support is recommended.

      Patients are planned to receive 4 cycles of mFOLFOXIRI regimen preoperatively and
      postoperatively, respectively.

      Before operation, efficacy evaluations will be performed every two cycles by CT and MR scan.

      If the evaluation is defined as no progression without severe toxicity, the next 2 cycles
      will be given.

      If the primary lesion progress without distant metastasis, patients will be assigned to group
      A.

      If distant metastasis occurr during chemotherapy, patients will withdraw from the trial and
      be treated further at the discretion of attending physicians.

      Postoperative chemotherapy will initiate 3-4 weeks after R0 resection.

      Group C: Long-term mFOLFOX.

      Oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 on day 1; leucovorin 400 mg/m2 on day 1; fluorouracil 400 mg/m2 bolus
      and 2400 mg/m2 civ over 46h; treatment will be repeated every 14 days.

      Patients are planned to receive 8-9 cycles of mFOLFOX regimen preoperatively and 3-4 cycles
      postoperatively.

      Efficacy evaluations will be performed every three cycles by CT and MR scan before TME.

      If the evaluation is defined as no progression without severe toxicity, the next 3 cycles of
      mFOLFOX will be given with the maximum of 9 cyces.

      If the primary lesion progress without distant metastasis, patients will be assigned to group
      A.

      If distant metastasis occurr during chemotherapy, patients will withdraw from the trial and
      be treated further at the discretion of attending physicians.

      Postoperative chemotherapy will initiate 3-4 weeks after R0 resection.
    
  