
    
      According to information provided by the British Heart Foundation, there are approximately
      2.3 million men and women living with angina in the United Kingdom (UK). In 2014, there were
      ~247,363 coronary angiograms performed, mostly for the investigation of known or suspected
      angina, but only about half of the patients have obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD)
      identified by the angiogram. Considering CT coronary angiography (CTCA), <=1 in 4 patients
      referred to the Chest Pain Clinic with chest pain of suspected cardiac origin have
      obstructive CAD identified by the CTCA scan. The explanation for the cause(s) of the chest
      pain are often unclear, which can be frustrating to patients and clinicians. Small vessel
      disease, i.e. microvascular or vasospastic angina may be one explanation.

      Anatomical imaging of the coronary arteries non-invasively by CTCA or invasively is an
      insensitive approach for the assessment of coronary function, and even visual assessment of
      the angiogram for obstructive CAD by invasive angiography or CTCA, may sometimes lead to
      mis-diagnosis and sub-optimal outcomes. Novel adjunctive tests of coronary function may have
      incremental diagnostic value to further inform medical decisions. Taken together, the
      literature and practice guidelines suggest a clinical problem of unmet need, with the
      potential for benefits to patients and healthcare providers if the diagnostic management can
      be improved. Our proposal addresses the evidence gap, by exploiting advances in diagnostic
      tests to gather information on the prevalence of microvascular and vasospastic disorders in
      patients with angina in whom obstructive CAD has been ruled out. By implementing a diagnostic
      management strategy in the context of a randomised, blinded, controlled trial, the
      investigators aim to determine whether use of coronary function tests in relevant patients
      might be beneficial.

      Angina in patients without obstructive CAD and insights from contemporary clinical trials:
      The Fractional Flow Reserve versus Angiography for Multivessel Evaluation 2 (FAME-2),
      Scottish COmputed Tomography of the HEART (SCOT-HEART), Prospective Multicenter Imaging Study
      for Evaluation of Chest Pain (PROMISE), and Clinical Evaluation of Magnetic Resonance Imaging
      in Coronary Heart Disease 2 (CE-MARC 2) 2 trials focused on the diagnosis and treatment of
      angina due to obstructive CAD. Paradoxically, the findings in these trials have diagnosed
      considerable numbers of patients with angina without obstructive CAD. In FAME-2, of 1220
      patients with stable CAD, 332 (27%) had non-flow limiting (FFR>0.80) CAD. The distribution of
      the Canadian Cardiovascular Society angina classes was similar between the randomised
      patients and those in the registry (p=0.64), as was the prevalence of silent ischaemia (16%;
      p=0.96). The registry patients were treated with medical therapy and the MACE rate was 9% at
      2 years.

      In SCOT-HEART, of 4146 patients with suspected angina assessed at the Chest Pain Clinic, 2450
      (59%) had confirmed angina (typical or atypical), yet considering the prevalence of
      obstructive CAD as revealed by CTCA (>70% stenosis in ≥1 major branches or 50% in the left
      main stem), just 25% had obstructive CAD. In the PROMISE trial, 10,003 participants (n=8939
      (89.4%) with typical or atypical angina) were randomised to a strategy of initial anatomical
      testing with CTCA or to a strategy of functional testing (exercise ECG or stress imaging).
      Using similar diagnostic criteria as in SCOT-HEART, only 517 (10.7%) of the 4996 participants
      in the CTCA group had a 'positive' result. No further data were provided to explain the
      aetiology of the angina in the patients without obstructive CAD.

      Most recently, the CE-MARC 2 trial compared diagnostic strategies in patients referred to the
      Chest Pain Clinic with a pre-test likelihood of CAD of 10% to 90%. All (n=1202) of the
      participants had a history of angina, with 401 (33.4%) having typical angina. Only a minority
      of participants had a positive non-invasive test (12.4% in the CMR group, 18.2% in the
      myocardial perfusion scintigraphy (MPS) group and 13.4% in the NICE Guideline group).
      Invasive coronary angiography was performed within 12 months of randomisation in 265 (22%)
      patients. The primary outcome of unnecessary angiography (defined as an FFR>0.8 or
      quantitative coronary analysis showing no stenosis ≥70% in 1 view or ≥50% in 2 orthogonal
      views in all coronary vessels ≥2.5 mm diameter), occurred in 139 subjects (12%): 7.5% in the
      CMR group, 7.1% in the MPS group and 28.8% of participants in the NICE guidelines group.
      CEMARC 2 was a pragmatic trial and since invasive angiography was not performed in all of the
      subjects, the causes of the angina in patients with 'negative' non-invasive imaging tests
      were unclear. Finally, the ISCHEMIA trial investigators have observed that some of the
      participants enrolled with moderate-severe myocardial ischemia on stress testing (% left
      ventricular (LV) mass) do not have obstructive CAD. The Changes in Ischemia and Angina over
      One year among ISCHEMIA trial screen failures with no obstructive coronary artery disease on
      coronary CT angiography (CIAO-ISCHEMIA) study has been instigated to investigate these
      patients in greater detail.

      In the SCOT-HEART trial, symptoms and quality of life assessed at baseline and 6 months
      improved less in patients assigned to the CTCA-guided strategy as compared to standard care.
      This analysis refuted the hypothesis that symptoms and quality of life would improve with a
      CTCA-guided strategy and it conflicts with the NICE-95 guideline recommendations. Patients in
      the CTCA group with a change in diagnosis confirming obstructive CAD or excluding CAD had the
      greatest improvement in symptoms. By contrast, patients with non-obstructive CAD had the
      least improvement in symptoms. There could be several reasons to explain this finding.
      Firstly, patient satisfaction may be greater with a definitive diagnosis and treatment plan
      i.e. 1) normal coronaries - stop treatment, 2) obstructive CAD - percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI) or coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG), while a result of intermediate
      CAD with no change in treatment may result in lower patient satisfaction. Secondly, a false
      negative CTCA result may have occurred in some patients with flow limiting CAD (since
      objective assessments of flow limiting CAD and/or ischaemia were not performed). Finally,
      some patients with non-obstructive CAD may have had microvascular disease. Since clinicians
      may have stopped angina treatment in patients without obstructive CAD, the symptoms of
      patients who had microvascular angina (and a negative CTCA scan) may have deteriorated.

      The design of our study includes a multicentre, observational study involving novel
      diagnostic tests of coronary function in order to provide information on the prevalence of
      microvascular and/or vasospastic disease in patients with angina but non obstructive CAD as
      revealed by CTCA. The CTCA protocol will be undertaken according optimal standards i.e. heart
      rate control with beta-blocker medication, administration of sublingual nitrate before the
      CTCA scan, etc. The clinical relevance of additional tests of coronary function will be
      assessed through a nested randomised strategy trial of management (diagnosis and treatment)
      guided by the coronary function test results versus standard care guided by angiography. The
      possibility of occasional CAD misclassification by CTCA (i.e. false negative, obstructive
      CAD) will also be assessed. Follow-up will include assessments of health, well-being and
      treatment satisfaction. The wider adoption of anatomical imaging with CTCA as a first-line
      diagnostic test for the assessment of stable chest pain (NICE-95 guideline update, November
      2016), supports the rationale for this research.
    
  