
    
      Impact: Findings from this project will improve the mental health and well-being of Veterans
      with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) by refining and evaluating the first post-trauma
      focused therapy (TFT) intervention designed to help Veterans increase self-efficacy for
      managing their PTSD symptoms, maintain or build upon gains made in TFT, and increase
      community engagement. The current VA / Department of Defense PTSD clinical practice
      guidelines recommend decreasing the frequency and intensity of care (e.g. stepping-down)
      following successful TFT completion; this project is the initial step in developing the first
      evidence-based intervention for this important process. The project will advance RR&D's
      missions of evaluating interventions designed to maximize psychological recovery and
      prioritizing functional outcomes and societal engagement. Finally, the project will advance
      the scientific literature by being the first examination of a self-management intervention
      designed to be used to step down from an intensive course of therapy for PTSD.

      Background: TFTs reduce the suffering associated with PTSD; a majority of Veterans who
      complete prolonged exposure or cognitive processing therapy report improvements in PTSD
      symptomology, quality of life, and functioning. Despite their effectiveness, emerging data
      suggest that Veterans who complete TFTs continue to perceive a need for mental health
      treatment; the investigators' pilot data demonstrated that the primary post-TFT mental health
      treatment need among completers who experienced at least a partial improvement in PTSD
      symptoms is support for additional practice and reinforcement of skills learned in TFT.
      Veterans expressed low self-efficacy for maintaining or building upon their existing gains
      and believed continued contact with their TFT therapist would increase their likelihood of
      success. These treatment needs are particularly well-suited to a therapist-assisted
      self-management approach. Self-management protocols teach patients to be responsible for the
      day-to-day management of their symptoms, thereby emphasizing patients' roles in wellness. The
      existing literature on self-management interventions for PTSD has demonstrated that such
      approaches are acceptable, safe, and effective; however, they have exclusively been used as
      stand-alone treatments or as the first step up in a stepped-care model. Therefore, the
      investigators are proposing the first examination of a self-management intervention designed
      to be used to step down from an intensive course of TFT for PTSD.

      Objectives: The objective of this study is to complete stages 1A and 1B of the Stage Model of
      Treatment Development for the self-management program for Veterans who have recently
      completed a course of TFT for PTSD. Specifically, the investigators will: (1) Refine a
      self-management treatment protocol through eliciting feedback from experienced TFT providers,
      (2) Conduct a pilot open trial to assess the (a) acceptability of the self-management program
      components, structure, and materials and (b) feasibility of the self-management program
      (retention and intervention fidelity) and study approach (screening, recruitment, assessment
      process), and (3) Explore the effects of the program on Veterans' confidence in managing
      their PTSD (self-efficacy), functioning, quality of life, community engagement, and mental
      health symptoms.

      Methods: To achieve Aim 1, the investigators will conduct semi-structured individual
      interviews with a sample of TFT providers (n = 10-12), during which participants will be
      asked to provide feedback on the planned components and structure of the self-management
      program. To achieve Aims 2 and 3, the investigators will enroll twelve Veterans in a
      non-randomized, open-trial pilot test of the intervention at the Minneapolis VA Healthcare
      Systems (VAHCS). Enrolled Veterans will complete survey batteries immediately post-TFT, and
      survey batteries and qualitative interviews two weeks after the final self-management program
      therapist contact. Findings from this project will strongly position us to apply for Merit
      funding to conduct a randomized clinical trial (Stage 2 of the Stage Model of Treatment
      Development) of this innovative self-management program.
    
  