
    
      Bone graft obtained from a patient's own bone (autogenous), usually around the pelvis, is
      currently considered the gold standard for bone grafting material. It provides a structural
      scaffold on which the patient's own bone may grow into (osteoconduction), growth factors that
      can stimulate healing (osteoinduction), and primitive cells (progenitors) that can stimulate
      bone formation directly (osteogenesis). It readily regains a blood supply from the
      surrounding tissues (revascularization) and is incorporated into the recipient site. However,
      there are significant disadvantages in the use of the patient's own bone graft including
      complications where the bone is taken from (donor site morbidity), limited availability and
      expense. For defects created by scraping (curettage) of non-cancerous (benign) bone lesions,
      a structural scaffold (osteoconduction) is generally considered the minimal necessary role
      that the graft material must serve to allow healing of the defect. Hence, human donor bone
      procured at the time of death (allografts) and synthetic bone fillers have been used as an
      alternative to the patient's own bone (autogenous bone graft).

      The question that remains is whether additional growth factors that can stimulate bone
      formation (osteoinductive property) and/or cells that form bone directly (osteogenic
      property) facilitate healing of these defects when added to a material other than the
      patient's own bone graft source. In our experience with the use of the synthetic bone graft
      substitute ultraporous beta-tricalcium phosphate (TCP) (Vitoss, Orthovita, Inc.) over the
      last 3 years, the graft material, when combined with local blood alone, has performed well
      clinically but has persisted for a year or longer radiographically in some cases. Prolonged
      persistence of the graft material may serve as a potential stress riser, although we did not
      observe any untoward late effects in our published work. Several authors have studied the
      effects of composite grafts formed from a combination of bone graft substitutes and the
      patient's own bone marrow in animal models with promising results. There are no studies in
      the current literature evaluating the effects of healing in composite ultraporous
      beta-tricalcium phosphate and bone marrow aspirate (BMA) in defects after scraping of benign
      tumors (cavitary defects) in humans. The purpose of this study is to prospectively examine
      healing of cavitary defects treated with TCP alone versus those treated with TCP combined
      with BMA. Our hypothesis is that both graft resorption and trabeculation (radiographic
      measures of incorporation of the synthetic material by the native bone) will be more advanced
      at each time point in those patients that receive BMA plus TCP compared to those that receive
      TCP alone. Patients with any type of benign bone lesion indicated for surgical curettage
      would be offered inclusion in the study and followed for a minimum of 2 years
      post-operatively. Bone marrow aspiration would be obtained by a needle inserted through the
      skin (percutaneous aspiration) from the large bone of the pelvis (iliac crest) using a
      standard bone marrow aspiration needle. Patients with infection, bone marrow disorders, or
      other conditions that preclude use of supplementary the patient's bone marrow as well as
      those who prefer to use their own bone graft material (autograft) or donated human bone graft
      (allograft) alone would be excluded. Each patient will undergo radiographic evaluation of the
      lesion at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, 18 months and 2 years post operatively. At one
      time point (1 year) a computerized tomogram (CT) of the grafted region will be obtained for
      each patient. Two qualified, blinded, independent reviewers will evaluate the radiographs and
      CT scans for six criteria:

        1. presence of graft within the soft tissues,

        2. presence of a rim of radiolucency surrounding the grafted defect,

        3. size/circumference of the rim of radiolucency,

        4. resorption of graft material,

        5. trabeculation through the defect and

        6. persistence of graft material in the lesion.

      Kappa statistics have shown good agreement for these parameters in our retrospective
      preliminary analysis of results for the TCP use without bone marrow over the first 2 years of
      its use by the PI.
    
  