
    
      The TandemHeart or LifeSPARC percutaneous extracorporeal life support system is used to
      support circulation. The percutaneous cannulas facilitate access to the venous and arterial
      circulatory vessels. When connected to the TandemHeart or LifeSPARC centrifugal pump,
      mechanical support is provided with sufficient cardiac power to perfuse the organs of the
      body.

      It is anticipated that THEME Registry™ analysis will provide insight into disease defining
      characteristics resulting in the clinical decision to use the TandemHeart or LifeSPARC System
      for mechanical support and enhance knowledge of best practice regarding clinical management,
      weaning and removal. The progression of the illness prior to, during and following support
      will be collected. The THEME Registry will collect descriptive data regarding patient
      selection criteria and the clinical management of the patient including strategies used to
      wean and remove the device. Specifically the objectives of the THEME Registry are:

        -  Summarize the characteristics of the patients who receive the System for temporary
           percutaneous mechanical support with or without an oxygenator, including demographics,
           pre-implant medical history, details of present illness, exit strategy.

        -  Evaluate the timing of initiation of System support in relation to the progression of
           the presenting illness and the association of this with clinical outcomes.

        -  Collect descriptive data related to clinical management of the patient while on
           mechanical support, including procedural details, duration of support, anticoagulation,
           hemodynamics and biochemical parameters to define trends in clinical care and the
           association of this decision-making with clinical outcomes.

        -  Collect hospital discharge information including Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and Hospital
           length of stay (LOS).

        -  Collect survival and exit strategy status at 30 and 180 days post-initial System
           insertion.

        -  Collect serious adverse events from the time of Pump insertion through removal of the
           System (or Pump).

        -  Provide data regarding patient characteristics and outcomes.
    
  