
    
      A randomized clinical trial, where it will be established, treatment in hospitalized asthma
      patients in the infirmary and Emergency Room of the Hospital Infantil Cândido Fontoura.

      The children eligible for the Protocol, after signing the terms of consent and assent, will
      be randomized for treatment in 2 groups (GI - bilevel and GII - High Flow Nasal Cannula).
      After the evaluations are started: Feb1, Volume expired in the first second; Peak Flow, vital
      signs and calculated Pulmonary Asthma Score, Pulmonary Asthma Severity Score, Pulmonary Index
      Score, and therapy application. The N to be considered for the study of 20 individuals per
      group. Group therapy I will be applied in diaphragmatic re-education exercises 3 x 10
      breaths, after non-invasive ventilation, with parameters 12 cm H2O Ipap and Epap 8 cm H2O,
      for 45 minutes, according to patient tolerance, interface, with full face mask After
      treatment, reassessment of vital signs and measurements of Peak Flow, Fev1 and Severity
      Scores.

      The GII will be established therapy with high-flow nasal cannula with dosage and cannula
      calculated according to the child's weight and respiratory rate at the time of evaluation,
      ranging from 2 l / min to 30 l / min. flow. The therapy will begin with diaphragmatic
      exercises 3 x 10 breaths, after 45 minutes of the installation of the therapy that is
      continuous, will be performed a reassessment of vital signs and Peak Flow, Feb, Severity
      Scores.

      During the hospitalization time of the child will be carried out the daily treatment, therapy
      chosen for each patient for 45 minutes in the case of GI and the GII group daily follow-up
      and adjustment of flow dosage, also evaluated the vital signs, vital signs and Peak Flow,
      Feb, Gravity Scores.

      At the time of hospital discharge, the evaluations will be performed and data such as inhaled
      corticosteroid use, oxygen use in days and inspired fraction, hospitalization days, hospital
      costs, as well as vital signs, vital signs and Peak Flow, Fev, Scores of Gravity.
    
  