
    
      There is a lack of studies evaluating the effect of interventions for bereaved parents. Thus,
      there is a need for accessible interventions with documented efficacy for preventing or
      reducing negative mental health consequences after the loss of a child. Today, many
      individuals carry smartphones and these devices can be used to access self-help interventions
      aiming to improve both physical and mental health. Currently, there are an excess of apps
      available for smartphone users that assert that they help people with their physical or
      mental health. However, for most of these apps, there is a lack of empirical support, i.e.,
      their efficacy is unknown. It is therefore important to evaluate mobile apps in scientific
      studies with rigorous designs. In addition, before conducting rigorous studies of novel
      psychosocial interventions, such as a mobile app, it is important to conduct more basic work
      evaluating development and feasibility of the intervention. One such self-help app, the PTSD
      Coach, has been evaluated in a randomized controlled trial conducted with traumatized
      participants recruited from the community, which found that access to the PTSD Coach app was
      associated with improvements in posttraumatic stress (PTS) symptoms, depression, and
      psychosocial functioning. The PTSD Coach app is based on cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT)
      principles and there is a growing body of evidence that elements of CBT are effective
      interventions for prolonged grief. Thus, an app targeting prolonged grief using elements of
      CBT could potentially be effective in improving the mental health in bereaved parents. To our
      knowledge no such app has been developed and evaluated. The Grief Coach app will be based on
      the smartphone app PTSD Coach. A Swedish version of the PTSD Coach has been developed and a
      pilot study has been conducted as well as an ongoing RCT. Consultant programmers at Uppsala
      University will develop the mobile app. The content of the app will be developed together
      with experts in the field of grief, inspired by other grief apps and CBT therapy manuals, to
      modify parts of the PTSD Coach app to grief.

      The main aim of this study is to examine the effectiveness of the app My Grief as compared to
      a waiting list comparison in reducing symptoms of prolonged grief in bereaved parents. The
      primary hypothesis is that the parents in the intervention group will report decreased levels
      of prolonged grief symptoms after having used the app. A second aim is to examine the effect
      of the app on related mental health problems (posttraumatic stress symptoms, depression
      symptoms, quality of life) and cognitive behavioral variables putatively explaining the
      effect of CBT techniques (i.e., grief avoidance, grief rumination and negative grief
      cognitions). The secondary hypotheses are that the parents in the intervention group will
      report improved mental health (i.e., lower symptom levels of depression and posttraumatic
      stress, higher quality of life), and lower grief avoidance, grief rumination, negative
      grief-related cognitions. A third aim is to evaluate the feasibility of the app, including
      participant satisfaction, evaluation of the app's strengths and weaknesses, and adverse
      events.

      Potential participants are identified using the Swedish Childhood Cancer Registry, the Cause
      of Death Registry, and the Swedish Population Register at the Swedish Tax Agency. By linking
      the Cause of Death Registry with the Swedish Childhood Cancer Registry, children diagnosed
      with a malignancy and who died due to the malignancy 1 to 10 years previously will be
      identified. Next, the children's parents/caregivers are identified through the Swedish
      Population Register and will be sent a letter with an invitation to participate in the study.
      Participants will complete a web based pre-assessment and then given access to the app for
      three months followed by a web based post-assessment and an interview via telephone regarding
      their experiences of using the app, with follow-ups att 6 and 12 months.
    
  