
    
      X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets (XLH) is an X-linked dominant genetic disorder. Common
      findings are low serum phosphate and inadequate 1,25(OH)2 vitamin D production. It is
      generally believed that the primary defect in XLH is impaired renal tubular transport of
      phosphate coupled with abnormal regulation of the enzyme responsible for the 1-alfa
      hydroxylation of 25(OH) vitamin D. The current treatment of children with XLH is large oral
      doses of phosphate and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D. There are two common side effects to this
      treatment; nephrocalcinosis and secondary hyperparathyroidism (HPT). The latter at times may
      cause hypertension, hypercalcemia, and permanent renal damage. The complication of secondary
      hyperparathyroidism is seen in 20% of the patients. The release of PTH from the glands into
      the circulation is tightly regulated by serum calcium concentration. The glands "read" serum
      calcium concentration via Ca sensing receptors (CaR) which are located at the surface of the
      glands. Calcimimetics are compounds that allosterically modulate the CaR, thereby enhancing
      its sensitivity to circulating serum calcium concentrations and consequently decreasing PTH
      secretion. When used in primary HPT, they rapidly reduce PTH level and normalize serum
      calcium concentration.

      Cinacalcet is a calcimimetic agent recently approved by the FDA for treating hypercalcemia in
      patients with parathyroid carcinoma and secondary HPT in patients with chronic renal disease.
      Cinacalcet was found to be effective in decreasing both PTH level and the calcium X
      phosphorous ion product in dialysis patients.

      The goal of our proposed acute study is to see whether concomitant administration of
      Cinacalcet and phosphate, to patients with XLH, will block completely or partially secretion
      of PTH (day 2), expected to be seen following administration of phosphate alone (day 1). We
      will also monitor serum phosphate, total calcium, and ionized calcium concentration to learn
      to what extent, if any, blockage of PTH secretion affects mineral homeostasis under this
      condition.

      If found to be effective in blocking PTH secretion, Cinacalcet will become a candidate for a
      long-term study in children with XLH to protect them from developing secondary
      hyperparathyroidism.
    
  