
    
      Spectacle independence is one of the main aims in modern cataract surgery. Although bilateral
      monofocal IOL implantation, aiming for emmetropia or low myopia, leads to high levels of
      patient satisfaction in distance vision, spectacle dependence for intermediate vision,
      reading and other near vision tasks is the usual result.

      There are different techniques to reduce spectacle dependence, the most common one is the use
      of multifocal IOLs. However, a variable number of patients complain of problems, such as
      glare or haloes (positive dysphotopsia symptoms). Dysphotopsia symptoms may vary
      significantly from patient to patient. The real incidence of dysphotopsia like symptoms after
      cataract surgery and multifocal IOL is unknown and the implantation of multifocal IOLs is a
      commonly accepted contraindication in patients who are night drivers. Another characteristic
      of many multifocal IOLs is that it can provide patients with excellent near and distance
      vision but lack in the intermediate range.

      One option to enhance intermediate vision and to leave patients with good contrast
      sensitivity is the use of low-add multifocal IOLs. These IOLs are adequate to expectations a
      lot of patients have, who were used to have a good distance vision and who were wearing
      spectacles when performing near vision tasks before surgery. Many of these patients would
      prefer to keep their reading spectacles after surgery and ideally would like to function well
      at distance and intermediate (60 to 80 cm - computer distance, household work…) range without
      glasses.

      One example of these low-add multifocal IOLs is the LENTIS Comfort MF15 with a near add of
      1.50D (on IOL plane). Its single, blended transition zone works to deliver patients the same
      kind of distance vision as a monofocal IOL with the addition of enhanced intermediate vision.
      In particular, this design provides improved vision at a distance of 60 cm and more.
      Additional key features of the Comfort IOL include good contrast sensitivity for twilight
      vision, optimized depth of focus, and natural imaging quality and color sensitivity.
      Especially this type of IOL may lead to more tolerance of postoperative refractive errors due
      to biometry and IOL power calculation imprecision. This should result in better unaided
      distance vision and therefore higher patient satisfaction after cataract surgery.
    
  