
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      Patient will receive bendamustine by vein over 30 minutes twice a day on Days 1-4 of every
      study cycle. The length of each study cycle will depend on how the disease responds to the
      study drug. Each cycle will last 3 to 10 weeks.

      Study Visits:

      Before each cycle, patient will have a physical exam, including measurement of vital signs.

      One (1) time each week, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. These
      blood draws will no longer be drawn every week if at any point the disease appears to be
      getting better. After that, this blood will only be drawn every 2-4 weeks while patient is
      receiving the study drug. These blood draws can be performed by a doctor near the patient and
      the results will be reported to the study doctor.

      On Day 21 of Cycle 1, then every 4 weeks, patient will have a bone marrow aspirate and/or
      biopsy to check the status of the disease. If patient's doctor thinks it is needed, bone
      marrow aspirates and/or biopsies may be collected more or less often, depending on the status
      of the disease.

      Length of Treatment:

      Patient may receive up to 12 cycles of the study drug. Patient will be taken off study early
      if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if the study doctor thinks
      it is in patient's best interest. Patient's participation in the study will be over after
      they complete the follow-up visits.

      Follow-up Visits:

      Patient will be asked to return to the clinic every 3 to 6 months for up to 5 years after
      they stop receiving the study drug. Patient will be asked about any side effects or symptoms
      they may be having. If patient is are unable to return to MD Anderson, the follow-up visits
      may be conducted over the phone. Each call should last about 5 minutes.

      Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will also be drawn for routine tests every 4-8 weeks during this
      follow-up period.

      This is an investigational study. Bendamustine is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

      Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  