
    
      Patients usually discover they have food allergies after consuming a given food and
      experiencing a subsequent allergic reaction. The majority of patients (75%) will then consult
      a food allergist for formal diagnosis and treatment information.1 With respect to patient
      quality of life, there is tremendous benefit in having a confirmed diagnosis of food allergy
      as often patients are unsure of the source of their reaction outside the office. Allergists
      will conduct Skin Prick Test (SPT) and assess serum specific IgE levels to screen for
      specific food protein sensitivities. However, a positive response in SPT and specific IgE
      will confirm only sensitivity, and in more than 70% of cases patients that respond positively
      to SPT and specific IgE testing will NOT manifest an allergic response to food consumption.2
      To address this issue, most food allergists will recommend an oral food challenge in a
      controlled setting to confirm the allergic response from consuming the suspected foods. The
      oral food challenge (OFC) consists of consuming escalating levels of the suspect food,
      (usually mixed in applesauce or controlled baked goods), until either a reaction manifests or
      until the challenge is complete with no reaction. The food challenge process poses
      significant risk to the patient. In 5% of cases, the patient experiences a severe allergic
      response which requires the use of epinephrine.2,3 These responses typically consist of
      severe reactions in GI or respiratory and arise from challenging patients with higher doses
      of food allergen then is necessary to prove a mild allergic response. The reason an allergist
      would give an increased dose that the patient reacts to with severity results from
      misdiagnosing the mild forms of the reaction during the titrated challenge. It is this
      shortcoming in diagnosis that could be addressed by identifying high-risk patient populations
      through conjunctival allergen challenge and through the development of additional objective
      diagnostic endpoints.

      We hypothesize that conjunctival allergen challenge (CAC) may be able to predict which
      patients are likely to experience an adverse event during a food allergen challenge. The
      appearance of severe ocular response following CAC (level II on a 0-2 Scale) has been shown
      to correlate well with a positive food response during escalating food challenge, and
      represented a better predictor of food allergen than skin test and serum specific IgE
      combined.4 We hypothesize that the severity of the ocular response to CAC titration, or the
      appearance of related non-ocular signs and symptoms of systemic response to CAC (itchy
      palate, wheezing, FEV1 reduction) could correlate with the likelihood of experiencing a
      severe adverse event during food challenge. In order to mitigate the occurrence of severe
      adverse events during food challenge, and to determine if the CAC response can serve as a
      useful tool for informing the clinician of anticipated patient response patterns to oral food
      allergen challenge, we will perform CAC titration on a population of food allergy patients
      that previously underwent oral food escalating challenge. Any patterns in CAC response will
      be compared to historical food allergen reactivity and occurrence of severe adverse responses
      to evaluate the potential of the CAC as a predictive tool that could add value to the oral
      food challenge model.
    
  