
    
      Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder of the central nervous system, of
      genetic etiology. It manifests itself in motor, cognitive and psychiatric disorders, which
      progressively worsen until the patient is grabbed. Motor speech performance disorders are
      present from the early stage of the disease. These difficulties, which progressively worsen
      until the end of the patient's life, lead to a communication disorder and constitute a major
      handicap with social withdrawal, loss of self-esteem and isolation, which are always very
      painfully experienced by patients and their entourage. Dysarthria in the HD has been very
      little studied, which makes its speech therapy uncodified. According to the most widely used
      classification by speech therapists and neurologists, the Darley classification (1975), the
      speech disorders observed in the HD are included in the heterogeneous group of hyperkinetic
      dysarthria, whose contours and properties are ill-defined. In this context, a more precise
      knowledge of speech disorders in the HD appears necessary to identify and characterize the
      different types of dysarthria and the dysfunctions associated with each level of production
      (respiration, phonation, resonance, articulation, prosody) and thus improve speech language
      therapy.

      The investigators propose to use an acoustic evaluation to support the perceptual evaluation,
      available in the MonPaGe protocol, to describe the fine characteristics of the speech
      disorders in the HD and to define objective markers of dysarthria in this disease for
      francophone patients.

      Each patient is seen in the framework of his annual follow-up consultation in the Competence
      Center mdH of Bordeaux University Hospital or in the Reference Center mdH of the hospital
      Henri Mondor of Créteil, for an evaluation of his speech with the computerized tool MonPaGe.
      A first speech evaluation with the BECD (Auzou, 2006) during 30 minutes is proposed to
      exclude very severe dysarthria. At the end of this rapid test subtest, the subjects who
      obtain a perceptive score <16 are offered the complete assesment of the MonPaGe computerized
      protocol (30 minutes).The application records directly and anonymously stores speech
      productions made by the patient.The productions are transmitted to the Phonetics and
      Phonology Laboratory of Paris (UMR 7018 CNRS / Sorbonne Nouvelle), via a secure large data
      exchange server and are subject to a perceptual and acoustic evaluation a posteriori.
    
  