
    
      The purpose of this cluster randomized controlled trial is to study the effectiveness of
      reminders to support the sustainability of an affordable mobility innovation by healthcare
      aides in supportive living and long-term care facilities. Using a stratified 2x2 factorial
      design, we will determine which combination of frequency and intensity of reminders is
      required to sustain a mobility innovation, the sit-to-stand activity. Four research questions
      guide our study: 1) Do more frequent reminders (every month) improve the sustainability of
      the innovation by healthcare aides in supportive living and long-term care facilities
      compared with less frequent reminders (every 3 months)? 2) Do high-intensity reminders
      (paper-based reminders plus peer reminders) improve the sustainability of the innovation by
      healthcare aides in supportive living and long-term care facilities compared with low
      intensity reminders (paper-based reminders only)? 3) Do more frequent reminders plus
      high-intensity reminders synergistically improve the sustainability of the innovation by
      healthcare aides in supportive living and long-term care facilities? 4) What are the
      processes associated with the ongoing uptake of the innovation over a year of follow-up?

      We propose to study the effect of varying levels (frequency and intensity) of reminders on
      the sustainability of a mobility innovation by healthcare aides. Frequency: Our Alberta
      Health Services collaborators advised that monthly modification of the paper reminders would
      be frequent yet feasible while aligning with the rhythm of other monthly managerial
      responsibilities; in contrast, every three months would be infrequent but would align with
      quarterly managerial responsibilities. Intensity: They agreed that paper-based reminders are
      low intensity and commonly used in clinical settings. For the high intensity reminder they
      favored a socially-based "peer reminder". To summarize, the level of reminders will vary in
      frequency (monthly versus every three months) and intensity (paper reminders versus paper
      reminders + peer reminders).

      Project Plan:

      Facility assessment: Eligible facilities will have a minimum of 30 designated supportive
      living beds or long-term care beds in the Edmonton zone. In the first six months, we will
      conduct a facility assessment with 24 potential facilities using the Alberta Context Tool,
      the Work and Well Being Survey, and the Resident Assessment Instrument Minimum Data Set 2.0.
      Data from this assessment will be used to stratify the facilities into three 'equivalent'
      groups for randomization. As part of the organizational eligibility, all participating
      facilities will agree to incorporate the mobility innovation as a best practice policy for
      their clients.

      Education sessions: In collaboration with the facility-based educator, a study educator will
      complete 20-minute education sessions to train healthcare aides working day and evening
      shifts to complete the innovation.

      Randomization: A stratified blocked randomization procedure will assign facilities to four
      intervention arms.

      Immediately following randomization, we will introduce a simple set of paper-based reminders
      to all sites. The low intensity paper-based reminders include: a) affixing stickers to doors,
      walls, or bathrooms; b) posting reminder signs in prominent locations; and c) placing colored
      flags on the documentation flowsheets. Every month for the high frequency sites, and once
      every three months for the low frequency sites, we will modify the color or shape of the
      paper-based reminders. For the high intensity reminders, we will identify healthcare aides to
      offer peer reminders. These healthcare aides will provide formal and informal peer reminders
      about the innovation; the formal reminders will take place either monthly or every three
      months during change of shift meetings, while the informal reminders will be provided as
      opportunities arise during the work day. Every month for the high frequency sites and every
      three months for the low frequency sites, the study educator will coach the healthcare aides
      providing peer reminders.

      As the purpose of this study is to examine the effectiveness of reminders to support the
      sustainability of an innovation by healthcare aides, our primary outcome is healthcare aide
      uptake as operationalized by the number of completed mobility occasions. We have validated a
      documentation flowsheet for use by healthcare aides. They will record on this flowsheet the
      number of mobility repetitions that the client completes on each of two occasions on the day
      shift and on the evening shift (i.e. four occasions per day).

      The secondary outcome measure will be client mobility, as assessed using the 30-second
      sit-to-stand test. Clients will be timed to see how many repetitions of standing up and
      sitting down they can complete in 30-seconds. This measure will be gathered once at baseline
      for all participating clients, and again 1 year later.

      Process Evaluation (Research Question 4): The goal of the process evaluation is to understand
      how facility processes and reminders affect the sustainability of healthcare aide uptake of
      the innovation. We will examine how the reminders are implemented and perceived by
      participants, as well as how healthcare aides providing peer reminders are identified,
      received by their peers and supported by their supervisors. This data will gathered using
      observations, questionnaires and interviews. Observations: Anytime research staff enter a
      study facility, they will be alert to observe responses of facility staff or clients to the
      reminder interventions. Upon exiting the facilities, they will record fieldnotes. Research
      staff will be instructed to include only general information in their fieldnotes, and not
      include information that would identify specific site staff or clients. Educators' fieldnotes
      will be useful for understanding processes of and responses to coaching the healthcare aides
      that provide reminders. Questionnaire: We will survey a licensed practical nurse and a
      manager from each facility using a questionnaire to elicit perceptions of the reminders.
      Interviews-Healthcare Aides: To understand healthcare aides' views of the reminders we will
      use interviews rather than written questionnaires, as many healthcare aides speak English as
      a second language. We will interview approximately 6 healthcare aides from purposively
      sampled facilities until we achieve saturation. Four facilities (2 positive & 2 negative
      extreme cases; one from each arm) will be sampled based on facility assessments.
      Interviews-Peer Reminders: To understand the peer reminder experience we will interview
      approximately 6 healthcare aides providing peer reminders from each high intensity reminder
      arm until saturation is achieved.
    
  