
    
      Antiretroviral therapy (ART) has a significant impact on HIV disease; however, HIV cannot be
      cured with current drug regimens. While the majority of patients initially benefit from ART,
      drug regimens subsequently fail for many patients due to drug resistance, poor adherence, or
      toxicity. If given while HIV replication is kept in check by ART, an HIV vaccine may be able
      to generate an effective long-term immune response capable of controlling the virus, even if
      ART is discontinued.

      The MRK Ad5 HIV-1 gag vaccine uses a replication-defective adenovirus vector and has been
      found safe in clinical trials of both HIV infected and HIV uninfected adults. This study will
      evaluate the ability of immunization with the MRK Ad5 HIV-1 gag vaccine to control HIV
      replication in individuals undergoing treatment interruption. The study will enroll
      individuals whose HIV replication has been successfully suppressed with ART for at least 2
      years.

      Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to receive either vaccine or placebo.
      Both vaccine and placebo will be injected into the upper arm muscle. Participants will take
      their antiretroviral medications during the first 3 months of the study. Injections will be
      given on Day 1, Week 4, and Week 26. A study nurse will call participants 1 or 2 days after
      each injection and participants will be asked to fill out a card with any reactions they have
      to the injections. About 3 months after the third injection, participants will stop taking
      their antiretroviral medications for 4 months. Participants will have study visits every 2 to
      3 weeks while off medication. After 4 months, participants will have the option of restarting
      antiretroviral medications or continuing without medication. Participants will then have
      study visits every 2 months for 8 months. Study visits will include physical exams and blood
      collection.

      All participants will continue to see their primary care provider for HIV treatment and will
      be restarted on antiretroviral medications if clinically indicated. Participants or their
      primary care provider will be contacted by phone for updates every 6 months for an additional
      3.5 years.
    
  