
    
      Background:

      A significant proportion of people with substance abuse do not seek help for their problems
      and therefore do not receive the necessary help at an early stage. An important reason for
      this is the stigma associated with substance abuse. Therapist-guided Internet treatment has
      been developed and tested in recent years as an approach that increases access to effective
      treatment for a variety of mental and substance-related problems and disorders.
      Internet-based interventions increase the patient's choice of type of treatment and give the
      patient an experience of having control over their own behavior change. Moreover, such
      treatment is independent of where you live, and you do not need to attend a clinic. In
      addition, by offering therapist-guided Internet treatment, therapists can treat far more
      patients compared to regular face-to-face treatment. In this way, the health services, which
      are already under severe pressure due to many new and competing tasks, are relieved.

      Research questions:

        1. Is therapist-guided Internet treatment for hazardous and harmful alcohol use feasible
           for self-referred persons?

        2. What factors contribute/do not contribute to the feasibility of treatment?

        3. Can the intervention help people change risky drinking habits before it develops into
           problems that are more serious?

        4. How do participants experience the intervention?

      Methods:

      Participants:

      A total of 30 participants will be recruited through announcements in social media,
      newspapers and through GP's and other health care services. Participants will be recruited
      from the catchment area of Haukeland University Hospital, Western Norway, and Vestfold
      Hospital, Eastern Norway.

      Design:

      The study will be conducted as an open, 6-months follow-up study, to assess whether the
      design is suitable for a randomized controlled trial in the next round. Both quantitative and
      qualitative methods will be used to investigate the feasibility of the treatment program.

      Data collection:

      Assessments will be carried out at start of treatment (T1), through the treatment course (T2)
      and at the end of treatment (T3) and at follow-up (T4). Qualitative interviews will be
      conducted at the end of treatment.

      Intervention:

      The treatment program is developed at Vestfold Hospital, Norway. It is based on Internet-
      based cognitive behavior therapy (ICBT). The treatment program consists of eight text-based
      self-help modules on the Internet that participants can access via secure login using Bank
      identification (ID) (security level 4). The self-help modules include psychoeducation, tasks
      and exercises. The therapist guidance is secondary to the self-help modules. The therapist
      provides feedback to the patient online in the secured program once a week.

      Statistics:

      Sample size:

      Since this is a feasibility study primarily intended to test the feasibility of
      therapist-guided Internet treatment for hazardous and harmful alcohol use, the sample will be
      limited to 30 participants. Therefore, power analysis is not performed.

      Statistical methods:

      Both statistical and interpretative methods will be used. Descriptive statistics
      (percentages, means, standard deviations), as well as statistical and clinical change.
      Qualitative in-depth interviews will be analyzed using thematic content analysis.

      Plan for activities and dissemination:

      Scheduled start of data collection is September 2020. The data collection will continue until
      the summer of 2021. The follow-up period will be completed by the end of 2021.

      The results of the feasibility study will be published in peer-reviewed journals.
      Furthermore, the results will be disseminated to the public through media (including social
      media), and as information aimed at both health and social care professionals, patient groups
      and user forums.
    
  