
    
      Hepatocytes from more than one donor may be required to provide sufficient numbers of cells
      for transplantation to correct the disease process. We have previously estimated that the
      hepatic mass of a recipient approaches 4 x 10 to the 9th power hepatocytes/kg. However, this
      is just an estimate and the true mass may be twice this number. Our goal is to attempt to
      infuse at least 2x10 to the 8th power cells/kg. Once it has been determined that IND release
      criteria for the hepatocytes has been met, the patient will then receive Intensity-Modulated
      Radiation Therapy (IMRT), and the hepatocyte transplant will begin.

      Preparative Liver Irradiation: A portion of the right hepatic lobe comprising between 35-50%
      of the entire liver volume will be irradiated to a dose of 10 Gy in a single fraction using a
      linear accelerator-based stereotactic radiosurgery system with intensity-modulated radiation
      therapy planning (IMRT). Respiratory gating will be used to further increase the accuracy of
      delivering the dose to a specified volume and limiting the exposure to adjacent tissues.
      After hepatic irradiation, the right or main portal vein will be occluded transiently (0-90
      min) to provide a compensatory mitotic signal to donor hepatocytes. Transient portal vein
      occlusion or embolization has been shown in primates to provide the appropriate mitotic
      signals necessary for donor cell proliferation. At that time, donor hepatocytes will be
      transplanted into the irradiated portion of the recipient's liver.

      The number of infusions from each donor liver will depend on the tolerance of the patient to
      infusion (avoidance of portal vein thrombosis and portal vein to systemic venous system
      shunting), and viability of donor hepatocytes. The hepatocytes from each donor liver will be
      given over three to four infusions, every 6 to 8 hours, until the cells are no longer viable,
      approximately twenty-four hours after initial preparation. Ideally, the infusion catheter
      will be maintained just outside the portal circulation in the umbilical vein remnant so the
      patient can be potentially discharged from the hospital until the next donor liver is
      available. Since we do not yet know from our experience the number of cells needed for
      transplant in order to improve function so that a metabolic disease is cured, we will
      continue to infuse hepatocytes as donors become available until reaching the goal volume of
      hepatocytes and until viability of cells has expired. Using hepatocytes from multiple donors
      will help to ensure that an adequate number of cells is infused while maintaining portal
      pressure in the normal range.Phe levels will be collected once a week by the subject, using a
      capillary blood sample on a newborn screening filter paper, and mailed to CHP. Phe levels
      will also be collected in a venous sample monthly. During months when a Follow-Up Visit is
      scheduled, both a venous and capillary sample will be collected.

      Subjects will receive careful dietary observation post-transplant through the UPMC Children's
      Hospital of Pittsburgh Division of Medical Genetics research dietician. Three-day diet
      records will be completed once a month for six months, then every three months thereafter.
      Diet should remain unchanged throughout the study, unless directed by study staff.

      Subjects will undergo a repeat neuropsychological assessment at 6, 12 and 24 months
      post-transplant (Visits 4 and 6 and the End of Study Visit) which will be compared to results
      obtained pre-transplant to determine whether an improvement in assessment scoring is
      associated with the transplant procedure.

      Isotopic monitoring of whole body Phe oxidation will be performed at every follow-up visit
      following the final hepatocyte infusion. An additional Phe oxidation test may also be
      completed in the event of suspected graft rejection.

      Liver biopsies will be performed at 3 and 12 months post-transplant to assess for the
      presence of donor hepatocytes, and may be completed in the event of suspected graft
      rejection.
    
  