
    
      The purpose of the study is to investigate whether lidoderm patch (lidocain 5% patch) cream
      decreases tinnitus by comparing pretrial questionnaires to post trial questionnaires.

      first the investigators are going to invite tinnitus patients for the first visit.

      the participants will get full explanation about the trial. in the first visit the
      investigators will confirm that the participants are suitable for the trial -

        1. no exclusion criteria are present

        2. the participant will perform 2 screening tests-

             -  minimental state examination (MMSE) to evaluate patients cognitive ability to
                participate in this trial. performance under 24 points is an exclusion criteria

             -  Beck depression test- to evaluate patient's ability to be influenced by the
                lidoderm patch. performance above 24 points is an exclusion criteria the
                participant will sign on an informed consent form and fulfill a demographic and
                personal details form.

      the participant will undergo ear investigation to exclude ear inflammation, perform
      audiometry and tinnitus characteristic test to prove sensorineural hearing loss and to get
      details about the tinnitus characteristics. then the participant will fill 4 questionnaires
      that reflect the tinnitus loudness and show how much the participant does suffer from this
      conditions.

        1. tinnitus handicap inventory.which estimates the degree that tinnitus affects patients
           life. it contains 25 questions . The minimum score is 0 and the maximum is 100.

        2. Pittsburgh sleep quality index - A 9 questions exam that measures the quality of sleep.
           the range of results goes between 0-24. The higher the score- the worse is the quality
           of sleep.

        3. visual analogue scale (VAS) for tinnitus subjective loudness evaluation (how much the
           patient evaluates the loudness of the tinnitus)

        4. visual analogue scale (VAS) for tinnitus severity evaluation. (patient's estimation of
           the amount that tinnitus causes him subjective suffering) Then the investigators will
           perform randomization: one group will get first the lidoderm patch and later that week
           the tegaderm patch, the other group will get first the tegaderm patch and later on the
           lidoderm patch.

      Later that day (in the evening), the participant will come to the department (second visit)
      and the ear nose and throat (ENT) doctor will attach 3 patches on his back for 12 hours
      (either lidoderm or tegaderm patches).

      The participant will be instructed to call the chief investigator When any kind of side
      effect occurs (topical/ systemic).

      in the next morning the participant will come back to our department. (third visit) he will-

        1. fill the 4 questionnaires (tinnitus handicap inventory, pittsburgh sleeping scale, VAS
           severity scale and VAS loudness scale)

        2. blood test for lidocaine serum level check will be carried out by a nurse that is
           authorized to perform blood tests.

        3. removal of the patches from the patient's back. 60 hours after the third visit, the
           participant will attend our department (forth visit). An ENT doctor will attach 3
           patches to his back (the second type of patches: participant that had already in the
           previous visit lidoderm patches will now have the tegaderm patches and vice versa). 12
           hours later the participant comes back for his fifth visit. The same 3 steps that were
           performed in the third visit will be performed again (4 questionnaires, patches removal,
           blood test for lidocain serum determination).

      The investigators hypotheses that lidoderm patches decreases tinnitus as can be estimated by
      the score of the 4 questionnaires that measure tinnitus aspects.
    
  