
    
      Head and neck cancer (HNC) is a significant health issue in Veterans. In fact, Veterans have
      up to a two-fold increase in the incidence of HNC when compared to the general population.
      Further, they often suffer profound functional deficits associated with surgical ablation and
      toxicity from medical treatments used to cure or control local disease. Dysphagia (swallowing
      impairment) is common after such treatments, and has life-altering consequences [on health,
      quality-of-life, the ability to eat and drink normally, cost, and burden of care]. Despite
      important advancements in medical and surgical treatments that prolong survival, many
      Veterans with HNC, are faced with chronic, intractable dysphagia resulting in persistent
      drastic alterations in diet, the need for feeding tubes, and increased risk for aspiration
      pneumonia - a life threatening infection. The investigators must devote research and clinical
      efforts to mitigate these devastating impairments because the investigators' current
      rehabilitative intervention options are severely limited. As such, and in keeping with the
      VHA's Blueprint for Excellence Transformative Actions, the need for the development of
      effective swallowing interventions that show potential for rapid translation to clinical
      practice is imperative.

      Coordination of respiration and swallowing is an essential element of airway protection
      during swallowing and facilitates many critical aspects of swallowing physiology. This key,
      coordinative event is significantly disrupted in patients with dysphagia following medical
      and surgical treatments for HNC. The investigators' previous trial in patients with severe
      and resistant dysphagia after cancer treatment and traditional swallowing therapy showed that
      targeting and recalibrating respiratory-swallow phase patterning directly through an
      innovative respiratory-swallow training (RST) method significantly improved aspects of
      swallowing physiology crucial for airway protection and clearance of ingested materials
      through the pharynx. These exciting new results led us to consider an expanded study with
      refined methods and a home practice (HP) component that will extend beyond physiologic
      efficacy and include more rigorous assessments of the clinical impact of RST. As with the
      investigators' preliminary trial, the investigators' prediction is that these innovative
      intervention methods will not only improve swallowing physiology and quality-of-life, but
      will also result in significant functional improvements in every day eating and drinking in
      Veterans with chronic, severe dysphagia that has been otherwise refractory to traditional
      swallowing intervention(s). The benefit of RST training is that it is a simple,
      straightforward method for patients to easily learn, and, when combined with the HP program,
      it is designed to facilitate patient compliance and maintenance of intervention effects. The
      investigators are also using commercially available and simple to use recording and analysis
      hardware and software that can easily be expanded to mobile technology for more widespread
      application to the many thousands of patients with dysphagia consequent to HNC.

      A total of 88 subjects will be recruited and randomly assigned 1:1 to either RST
      (intervention arm) or no active treatment (control arm), which is considered standard of care
      in this patient population. Data obtained will be used to evaluate clinical efficacy and
      durability. Data obtained from [an additional 11] subjects randomized to RST + home practice
      (HP) will be used to assess the feasibility of adjuvant HP program and to obtain preliminary
      data on its added impact on efficacy and response durability. The primary efficacy endpoint
      is physiologic function metrics of the oropharyngeal swallow. The investigators will also
      elaborate on the impact of RST by detailing the airway protective, oral intake status, and
      quality of life changes that occur. The investigators will use reproducible, reliable, and
      validated metrics that include the Modified Barium Swallow Impairment Profile,
      Penetration-Aspiration Scale, the functional oral intake scale, and performance status scale
      for head and neck cancer, to distinguish the mechanistic effects of RST. Further, adherence
      to a novel HP component using self-guided practice will be introduced and tested for
      feasibility and contribution to the degree and durability of the RST intervention effect.

      The goal of this current study is to extend the investigator's preliminary trial that yielded
      compelling physiologic changes with potential to improve the impact and durability of RST on
      clinical outcomes essential for eating, drinking, health, and quality-of-life. The
      investigators' overarching goal is to provide two parallel tracks of knowledge generation: 1)
      provide immediate clinical translation of experimental findings to improve the lives of
      Veterans, and 2) drive model generation on fundamental mechanisms of motor coordination.
      Basic knowledge will drive clinical application and vice-a-versa. As such, this is an ideal
      experimental and clinical context that will fuel knowledge generation in this highly
      significant area of science and clinical practice.
    
  