
    
      Introduction

      Total knee Arthroplasty (TKA) is the standard treatment for knee osteoarthritis, which
      affects millions of people world wide. In 2008, more than 600,000 TKAs were performed in the
      United States. This number represents more than double the number performed in 1999 and is
      estimated to increase by more than 500 % (from the 1999 value) by 2020.

      Severe postoperative pain occurs in 60% and moderate pain in 30% of patients undergoing TKA.
      In addition, the intensity of acute postoperative pain correlates with the risk of developing
      a persistent post surgical pain which can be chronic and debilitating. Thus, the management
      of pain following TKA is an important determinant of a patient's long term functional
      outcome. In addition, recovery from TKA requires extensive and effective postoperative
      physiotherapy (PT), itself a painful event following TKA. Physiotherapy ensures good range of
      motion and prevents complications such as tissue retraction, adhesion formation and muscle
      atrophy, all of which may compromise achievement of long term recovery milestones. Thus, the
      anesthesiologist caring for patients undergoing TKA attempts to provide a postoperative
      analgesic regimen which ensures that the patient is as pain free as possible while ensuring
      that the patient has sufficient motor strength to participate actively in PT.

      The need to find non-narcotic alternatives for post surgical pain management has become even
      more urgent recently due to the recent epidemic of narcotic-related deaths. In the United
      States the number of opioid related deaths since 1999 has reached almost half a million which
      represents a four fold increase in incidence, and at least half of opioid related deaths
      involve prescription drugs. Hence effective non-narcotic approaches to pain management hold
      great importance not only for clinical care but also for public health on a larger scale.

      Previously, intravenous, intrathecal or oral opioids were the mainstay of postoperative
      analgesia following TKA. Although variably effective, the resulting analgesia is associated
      with well recognized adverse effects including nausea, vomiting, pruritus and sedation. Each
      adverse effect is unpleasant and likely to impede recovery and participation in PT. Epidural
      catheters and femoral nerve blocks have both been used for postoperative analgesia in this
      setting, but each is associated with lower limb motor weakness which hinders early
      implementation of PT and may increase the risk of falls.

      Recently, adductor canal block (ACB) has been reported as an effective means of providing
      post-operative analgesia for TKA. The ACB is not a new block, having been first described by
      van der Wal over 20 years ago. The adductor canal block, in the context of analgesia
      following TKA, is relatively recent, being first described by Tsai et al in 2010.
      Infiltration of local anesthetic into the adductor canal blocks primarily the saphenous
      nerve, a sensory nerve, which supplies the medial and anteromedial aspects of the knee via an
      infra patellar branch.

      Postoperative pain following TKA extends well beyond the 8-12 hour duration of a single bolus
      injection of local anesthetic. Continuous peripheral nerve blockade (PNB) can facilitate
      early discharge and better rehabilitation in the early postoperative period. In addition, PNB
      decreases opioid consumption, its associated side effects and is also associated with greater
      patient satisfaction .

      The investigators hypothesized that patients receiving continuous adductor canal block would
      achieve a greater degree of active knee flexion on POD 2 following TKA than those who receive
      a single injection ACB.

      METHODS Subjects With Institutional ethical approval from the Clinical Research Ethics
      Committee of the Cork Teaching Hospitals, 40 consecutive patients scheduled for unilateral
      Total Knee Arthroplasty who met the study criteria and provided written informed consent,
      were enrolled in a double blind, randomized clinical trial.

      Patients were randomly allocated to receive either an ACB followed by catheter placement
      (n=20) or an adductor canal block followed by sham catheter placement (n=20). The sham
      catheter was placed on the surface of the leg and covered by an opaque dressing to conceal
      the insertion site. (A similar dressing was placed on real catheter insertions to conceal
      group assignment from both patient and assessor.) All patients had the proximal end of their
      catheter attached to a Pajunk 350 ml FuserPump (FuserPumps are portable elastomeric infusion
      pumps) concealed in opaque bags to prevent patients and assessors from determining which
      pumps were actually functioning. These pumps function without a motor and so make no sound.
      Computer generated randomization was performed for patient group assignment at the time of
      enrolment in the study. Randomization assignments were done in blocks of 10 in a 1:1 ratio
      with assignments placed in sealed numbered opaque envelopes. Only the anesthesiologist
      responsible for performing the block was aware of the group to which a given patient was
      assigned. The researchers responsible for data collection were unaware of the group to which
      each patient was assigned .

      Preoperative Preparation Potential patients were provided information on the study during the
      preoperative physiotherapy assessment several weeks before their scheduled surgery. At this
      time, baseline values for knee flexion and the TUG test were obtained. On the day of surgery,
      after obtaining written informed consent, patients were assigned to a study group by
      attaching a sealed randomization envelope to their charts.

      After registration on the day of surgery patients were brought to the pre-anesthetic area
      where IV cannulation was performed and standard anesthetic monitors applied. Patients
      received intravenous sedation prior to placement of the spinal anesthetic at the discretion
      of the responsible consultant anesthesiologist. A spinal anesthetic was performed under
      standard aseptic conditions in the usual fashion. The choice of local anesthetic (either
      isobaric bupivacaine 0.5% or hyperbaric bupivacaine 0.5%.) used to perform the spinal
      anesthetic was at the discretion of the responsible consultant anesthesiologist.

      Intraoperative Period Patients received intraoperative sedation at the discretion of the
      consultant anesthesiologist using fentanyl, midazolam and propofol as deemed clinically
      appropriate. At the conclusion of the procedure, the patients received 30 ml 0.5% bupivacaine
      diluted with 70 ml 0.9% saline local infiltration analgesia (LIA) injected into the layers of
      soft tissue around the knee joint by the surgeon. .

      Postoperative Period All blocks were performed in the Post Anaesthesia Care Unit immediately
      after surgery with standard anesthetic monitoring and an IV cannula in place. No subcutaneous
      local anesthetic or sedation were required as the spinal anesthetic was still effective. All
      patients received an adductor canal block under ultrasound guidance using a high frequency
      probe at the mid thigh level. After appropriate asepsis local anesthesia to the skin was
      placed at the level of the mid femur on the medial aspect of the thigh. Using ultrasound
      guidance (General Electric Venue 40, 3050 Lake Drive, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24,
      Ireland) with a high frequency L12 linear transducer the femoral artery was visualized in
      cross section and the ultrasound needle (B Braun Contiplex D ultrasound needle and catheter
      set, B Braun Melsungen AG, 34209 Melsungen, Germany) placed using in-plane visualization
      below the Sartorius muscle and just lateral to the femoral artery and medial to the Vastus
      Medialis. All patients received an injection of bupivacaine 0.5% 10 ml. For patients
      allocated to receive a continuous infusion postoperatively, a catheter was inserted
      immediately after injection of the initial bolus of local anesthetic. Patients allocated to
      the single injection group received the injection of local anesthetic followed by placement
      of a sham catheter on the skin, covered with a large opaque dressing. (Figure 3) In both
      groups, patients' catheters were attached to the concealed in opaque bags. The sham pumps
      were filled with normal saline. The pumps containing local anesthetic contained 0.15625%
      bupivacaine 350 ml were set to run at 8 ml/ hour (the equivalent of 0.125 % bupivacaine
      running at 10 ml/hour) All blocks were placed by Consultant anesthesiologists with fellowship
      training in Regional Anaesthesia.

      All patients received multimodal oral analgesia which included Paracetamol 1g po every 6
      hours, oxycodone (oxycontin) po twice a day (10 mg/dose for patients >70 years and 20 mg/dose
      for those <70 years) , pregabalin 50 mg po 3 times a day, and oxycodone (oxynorm) 5-10mg 4
      hourly po as required for breakthrough pain (Pain score > 4/10)

      Recordings and Measurements Research personnel unaware of patient randomization performed all
      clinical assessments. General Demographic data collected included: age, gender, height,
      weight, American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) Status and BMI.

      Assessment of block function was made by checking for sensory changes to pain and temperature
      (using a blunt needle and ethyl chloride spray) in the distribution of the saphenous nerve at
      20:00 on POD 0. A functioning adductor canal block with bupivacaine will last at least 8-12
      hours. Thus all blocks,( i.e. both with and without a continuous infusion) were anticipated
      to still be effective at 20:00H on the day of surgery, as no blocks were performed before 10
      AM. Decreased sensation in the extremity receiving the block compared with the unblocked one
      at the level of the medial malleolus was accepted as evidence of a functioning block.

      Adverse Events Each day the assessor inquired about complications that could be attributable
      to the study, such as patient falls or symptoms or signs of local anesthetic toxicity. Any
      such events were documented. The common adverse effects of opioids (i.e. nausea, vomiting)
      were not recorded. However, there were no episodes of respiratory depression that required
      resuscitation.

      Statistical Methodology Sample size was determined based on an unpublished retrospective
      review of knee flexion in patients who had undergone TKA at the investigators institution
      having received a single injection ACB. From this review, a mean maximum knee flexion of 82
      (SD = 2) degrees on the second day postoperatively was assumed. A 20% difference in knee
      flexion was considered to be clinically significant. To achieve an 80% power and to detect a
      20% difference in knee flexion with a 2-sided Type I error rate of 0.05, the calculated
      minimum sample was 9 patients per group. To prevent loss of power due to early withdrawal of
      patients, incomplete data, non-functional adductor canal blocks and absence of statistical
      information on a comparable continuous infusion group, 20 patients in each were included
      group. General demographic data in both groups were compared using unpaired, two tailed
      t-tests for independent samples for continuous variables, and the Chi squared test (or
      Fisher's Exact test as appropriate) for categorical variables. Basic statistical tools were
      employed to describe the data: mean, median and standard deviation. Cumulative oxycodone
      consumption was compared between groups using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) adjusted for
      age, gender and ASA status.
    
  