
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of vorinostat in patients with newly
      diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) and gliosarcomas, who are also receiving concomitant
      radiation therapy (RT) and temozolomide (TMZ). (Phase I) II. To define the safety of
      vorinostat with RT and TMZ in this population. (Phase II) III. To determine the efficacy of
      vorinostat in combination with RT and TMZ followed by vorinostat in combination with TMZ in
      patients with newly-diagnosed GBM and gliosarcomas as measured by overall survival at 15
      months (OS15). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine progression-free survival in newly diagnosed GBM and gliosarcoma patients
      treated with the study regimen. (Phase II) II. To further evaluate the safety profile of
      vorinostat in combination with RT and TMZ in this patient population. (Phase II) III.
      Determine the neurocognitive effects in patients treated on this protocol and correlate these
      results with outcome endpoints. (Phase II)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the extent to which the tumor's molecular characteristics and expression
      profile correlate with outcome.

      II. Evaluate potential mechanisms of therapy resistance in tumor samples obtained at the time
      of tumor progression.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of vorinostat followed by a phase II study.

      Patients undergo radiotherapy and receive vorinostat orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5,
      8-12, 15-19, 22-26, 29-33, and 36-40. Patients also receive temozolomide PO QD on days 1-42.
      Beginning 4-6 weeks later, patients receive vorinostat PO QD on days 1-7 and 15-21 and
      temozolomide PO QD on days 1-5. Treatment with vorinostat and temozolomide repeats every 28
      days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months for 1 year,
      every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  