
    
      Aim 1. Validate an Urgency Meter and quantify urgency-volume relationship. Test the
      hypothesis that the tension sensor output of urinary urgency can be objectively measured and
      is reflected by the input of filling volume.

      Aim 2. Quantify the bladder geometry-urgency relationship. Test the hypothesis that bladder
      geometry (wall thickness, surface area, and shape) affects the load on the detrusor tension
      sensor as reflected by objective changes in the output of urgency.

      Aim 3. Quantify the dynamic compliance-urgency relationship. Test the hypothesis that dynamic
      compliance (strain-history and activation-history dependent compliance) affects the load on
      the detrusor tension sensor as reflected by objective changes in the output of urgency.

      Aim 4. Quantify the spontaneous rhythmic contraction-urgency relationship. Test the
      hypothesis that spontaneous rhythmic contractions affect the load on the detrusor tension
      sensor as reflected by objective changes in the output of urgency.

      Urinary urgency is the key symptom in Overactive Bladder (OAB) that occurs during the filling
      phase of micturition, and increased detrusor wall tension is thought to be a critical factor
      in the pathophysiology of OAB. However, because pressure increases little during bladder
      filling and does not reflect changes in detrusor wall tension, true filling phase physiology
      cannot be evaluated during clinical cystometrics. Thus, objective assessments of OAB using
      standard clinical cystometric testing is difficult or impossible. Furthermore, evaluation of
      OAB using verbal sensory thresholds recommended by the International Continence Society are
      subjective and poorly defined. Thus, there is a pressing need for a mechanistically relevant
      diagnostic test of OAB that incorporates objective metrics for the direct evaluation of
      detrusor wall tension.

      Using a systems model of the filling phase of micturition, the detrusor smooth muscle and its
      in-series tension sensitive afferent nerves can be represented as a tension sensor with a
      definable input (volume), an objectively measurable output (urgency), and objectively
      measurable biomechanical parameters that affect the load on the tension sensor. Based on our
      previous investigations and the work of others, we have identified the following
      biomechanical parameters that can directly affect the load on the detrusor tension sensor
      during filling: bladder geometry, dynamic compliance, and spontaneous rhythmic contractions.
      In the current proposal, we will develop novel cystometric tests to assess bladder geometry,
      dynamic compliance, and spontaneous rhythmic contractions during the filling phase of
      micturition. Our new cystometrics will include 1) a sliding scale Urgency Meter that will
      allow patients to continuously record the tension sensor output of urgency, 2) two and three
      dimensional bladder ultrasonography to provide real-time measurements of bladder geometry
      that will be used to measure the effect of geometry and used for dynamic compliance
      calculations, and 3) Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) analysis to objectively measure filling
      phase spontaneous rhythmic contractions

      These new metrics will provide a quantitative mechanistic link between OAB symptomatology and
      detrusor function, and we will use these new metrics to identify tension-mediated and
      non-tension mediated sub-groups of OAB. In this proposal, our central hypothesis, that
      measurable biomechanical parameters can directly affect the output (urgency) of the detrusor
      tension sensor, will be tested in clinical experiments involving accelerated hydration,
      abbreviated cystometrics, and repeat-fill cystometrics, and extended-hold cystometrics.
      Successful completion of this multi-PI proposal involving the combined skill sets of a
      neuro-urologist and a mechanical engineer will allow for the development of novel cystometric
      tests for the improved diagnosis and treatment of OAB and for the potential identification of
      novel mechanistic targets in the pathophysiology of OAB.
    
  