
    
      After completion of the phone screen, eligible participants will be brought into the
      laboratory, given a description of the study, and assessed on inclusion and exclusion
      criteria by research personnel. Details pertaining to the cognitive measures, pain measures,
      and methadone manipulation will be discussed and informed consent will be obtained along with
      a signed release to allow study personnel to monitor opioid maintenance. Information on
      medical, psychiatric and drug use histories will be collected. Individuals with a history of
      vascular problems or high blood pressure will be evaluated by the research physician. In
      addition, laboratory tests collecting information on blood alcohol content and urine
      toxicology will be conducted. Participants will be deemed ineligible to participate if they
      are not medically cleared by research clinician. Veterans who have a positive BAC will be
      rescheduled and the methadone maintenance program's clinical protocol will be implemented.

      All sessions will be conducted at the West Haven VA Connecticut Healthcare Campus.
      Participants will be asked to complete two sessions, approximately 2-15 days apart. Order of
      peak and trough sessions will be counterbalanced between participants. Each session will last
      approximately four hours. Prior to each testing session, participants will be asked to
      refrain from caffeine for at least one hour. They will be served a standardized breakfast
      (i.e., bagel and cream cheese) and offered one smoke break prior to beginning the
      experimental session. They will be asked to refrain from smoking until the completion of the
      study protocol. Methadone administration will be coordinated with methadone maintenance
      treatment staff to relay information about which condition the participant will complete on a
      given session. At the start of each session, participants will complete computerized
      cognitive assessments and self-report questionnaires. The computerized cognitive measures
      will repeated at hours 0, 1.5, and 3. Several state questionnaires will be administered at
      hours every 30 minutes. Participants will also complete a pain sensitivity measure (i.e.,
      cold pressor task) to assess baseline threshold and tolerance at hour 0 and hour 4.
    
  