
    
      Aim: To evaluate the relative feasibility and healing efficacy of two eight-week telehealth
      interventions for individuals with combat-related PTSD: (1) Mindfulness and (2)
      Psychoeducation.

      Objectives:

        1. The first short-term objective is to determine whether two eight-week telehealth
           interventions are:

             1. feasible to conduct in a population of veterans with symptoms of combat-related
                PTSD;

             2. effective at promoting healing specific to combat survivors as evidenced by
                reductions in symptoms of PTSD;

             3. effective at promoting more generalized healing in combat veterans as evidenced by
                reductions in symptoms that are often co-morbid with PTSD (e.g., depression,
                anxiety, and substance abuse problem severity); and

             4. effective at promoting healing beyond a symptom level in combat veterans as
                evidenced by increases in quality of life after the interventions.

        2. The second short-term objective of this study is to determine whether a Mindfulness
           intervention will be more effective at promoting healing than a Psychoeducation
           intervention. This comparison will be made on the levels of specific PTSD symptoms, more
           general co-morbid symptoms, and global quality of life.

        3. The long-term objectives of this line of research are to identify mechanisms of action
           in a Mindfulness Telehealth Intervention that allow healing and promote increased
           quality of life in individuals with PTSD.

        4. An additional long-term objective of this project is to contribute to the development of
           efficacious wellness interventions that can promote healing after combat exposure in
           veterans returning from current military conflicts (e.g. Iraq and Afghanistan).

      Hypotheses:

        1. It is hypothesized that both eight-week telehealth interventions (Mindfulness and
           Psychoeducation) will be feasible in a population of veterans with symptoms of
           combat-related PTSD. Specifically, satisfaction and compliance with the interventions is
           predicted to be high.

        2. It is hypothesized that both eight-week telehealth interventions (Mindfulness and
           Psychoeducation) will be effective at promoting healing and reducing symptoms of PTSD.
           Specifically, it is predicted that levels of PTSD measured post-intervention will be
           lower than levels measured pre-intervention.

        3. It is hypothesized that both eight-week telehealth interventions (Mindfulness and
           Psychoeducation) will be effective at promoting healing and reducing symptoms co-morbid
           with PTSD. Specifically, it is predicted that levels of depression, anxiety, and
           substance abuse problem severity measured post-intervention will be lower than levels
           measured pre-intervention.

        4. It is hypothesized that both eight-week telehealth interventions (Mindfulness and
           Psychoeducation) will be effective at improving quality of life. Specifically, it is
           predicted that levels of quality of life measured post-intervention will be higher than
           levels measured pre-intervention.

        5. Although it is hypothesized that both eight-week interventions will be effective at
           healing for veterans with PTSD symptoms, the holistic Mindfulness intervention is
           hypothesized to be more effective at promoting healing and reducing symptoms of PTSD and
           co-morbid disorders and improving quality of life than the Psychoeducation intervention.
           Specifically, it is predicted that levels of PTSD, depression, anxiety, and substance
           abuse problem severity will be lower post-intervention and quality of life will be
           higher for those individuals in the Mindfulness condition than for those in the
           Psychoeducation condition.
    
  