
    
      There is growing evidence to suggest that pathophysiology of OSA may lead to atherosclerosis,
      independent of confounding variables which are often present in these subjects with OSA. Many
      mechanisms have been reported to contribute to vasculopathy in OSA, but whether increased
      AGEs formation contribute significantly to the pathogenesis of cardiovascular morbidity in
      OSA remains to be determined.

      Advanced glycation product is formed by non-enzymatic reaction of reducing sugars such as
      glucose with the amino groups of proteins, and subsequent glycoxidation. AGEs can form on
      long-lived extracellular proteins as well as short-lived molecules, cytoplasmic proteins and
      nuclear acids. AGEs cause a number of adverse cellular events and they have been demonstrated
      in fatty streaks and atherosclerotic plaques. The formation and tissue accumulation of AGE is
      shown to be enhanced by hyperglycemia and/or increased oxidative stress. There is increasing
      evidence to support this as an important mechanism of vascular and other end organ damage in
      diabetes and some other diseases. In OSA, there is evidence to support an increased insulin
      resistance and excessive oxidative stress, both of which may predispose to AGE formation. We
      have preliminary data to suggest increased levels of circulating AGE in non-diabetic OSA
      subjects. Since insulin resistance with elevated blood glucose levels, albeit not up to
      diabetic thresholds, may partially contribute to increase in AGE.

      Many potential mechanisms of atherosclerosis have been reported, but direct evidence for
      atherosclerosis is still lacking. Subjects with OSA also have comorbidities which may give
      rise to atherosclerosis. With the advancement of non-invasive techniques for detection of
      vascular endothelial damage and early atherosclerosis, it is possible to detect early
      vascular abnormalities in otherwise healthy OSA subjects. This hypothesis underlies our
      objectives to explore the relationship between AGE and the markers of endothelial dysfunction
      and early atherosclerosis. Some of these early changes, especially at endothelial level, may
      be reversible if the insult of OSA is removed. Thus a longitudinal comparison of OSA-treated
      and OSA-untreated subjects on such changes would further help to clarify the issue.
    
  