
    
      Background: The VA is the largest provider of HIV care in the United States. The ~31,000
      Veterans with HIV use significantly more healthcare and have up to 2x higher risk of
      atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) compared to uninfected Veterans. The HIV
      treatment cascade model includes care steps; once people obtain remission, providers should
      focus on preventing ASCVD. The investigators will extend the HIV treatment cascade and focus
      on reducing ASCVD risk among people with HIV. Veterans with HIV have low perceived risk for
      ASCVD and uptake of guideline-based treatment for BP is low.

      Significance/Impact: The proposed intervention has the potential to reduce ASCVD events in
      this population by more than a quarter and meet VA strategic priorities of: 1) improve
      timeliness of services; 2) focus resources more efficiently as well as address HSR&D research
      priorities: 1) patient centered care, care management, and health promotion; 2) healthcare
      access; 3) aging; 4) virtual care.

      Innovation: The study is innovative: Cascade Model. By leveraging the HIV treatment cascade
      model, the investigators will create a pathway for ASCVD risk reduction to be added into
      widespread quality improvement initiatives. Stakeholder-engaged design process. The
      investigators will employ stakeholder-engaged research methods to ensure the intervention
      meets the needs of patients and healthcare providers. Multi-component nurse-led intervention.
      While each of the components of the intervention have an evidence base, they have not been
      tested together in an HIV context. Telehealth. The investigators will use VA Video Connect
      (VVC) to monitor CVD risk factors.

      Specific Aims: Aim 1a: Conduct qualitative interviews with Veterans and healthcare providers
      to ascertain perceptions regarding HIV and CVD risk reductions to inform intervention
      adaptation.

      Aim 1b: Adapt the intervention to the VA HIV clinic context with key stakeholder input.

      Aim 2: Evaluate the 12-month efficacy of a nurse intervention to improve systolic blood
      pressure in Veterans with HIV. Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that the
      intervention will result in a clinically significant 6mmHg reduction in SBP over 12 months
      compared to those receiving [enhanced education + usual care] only. Aim 3: Conduct an
      evaluation of the prevention nurse intervention. Exploratory aim: If effective, [the
      investigators will conduct a budget impact analysis] and simulate 10-year cost-effectiveness
      of the nurse intervention.

      Methodology: The investigators will conduct qualitative interviews with care team and
      Veterans to adapt the intervention in an iterative design process. The investigators will
      then conduct a RCT to evaluate an intervention to reduce ASCVD risk. The study will be
      conducted in 3 clinics among HIV+ Veterans (n=300) on suppressive ART with confirmed SBP >140
      mmHg, stratified by clinic site and randomized 1:1 to intervention vs. education control. The
      intervention will involve 4 evidence-based components based on the investigators' prior
      studies and adapted to Veterans with HIV: (1) nurse-led care coordination, (2) nurse-managed
      medication and adherence support (3) home BP monitoring, and (4) administered VA Video
      Connect (VVC). The education control will receive enhanced education and usual care. Primary
      outcome: difference in 12-month systolic BP in the intervention arm vs control. Secondary
      outcome: 12-month difference in non-HDL cholesterol. The investigators will use a
      mixed-methods design to evaluate fidelity, dose delivered/received, reach, recruitment, and
      context of the intervention.

      Implementation/Next Steps: The investigators designed the intervention with downstream
      implementation in view. This includes: a fully remote delivery of the intervention to
      facilitate access and widespread implementation, and guidance for selection of nurses with
      education / experience levels that match those of health coaches delivering interventions
      within the VA. The investigators will work with operational partners from the Office of
      Connected Care and Office of HIV/AIDS care regarding implementation plans. The investigators
      will disseminate a clinical program, including scripts, and description of all intervention
      processes, to facilitate implementation within the VA.
    
  