
    
      The primary objective of this study is to demonstrate the superiority of 2L®ALERG over
      placebo in terms of efficacy on the symptoms of allergic rhinitis and allergic
      rhinoconjunctivitis in patients with seasonal allergy to grass pollen, corrected according to
      rescue medication intake. The secondary objectives are to compare the allergy symptoms, the
      rescue medication intake, the quality of life and the safety in patients treated with
      2L®ALERG or with a placebo.

      This is a multicentre, randomized, double-blind, two-parallel group, interventional
      placebo-controlled study with a notified homeopathic medication, marketed since 2002.

      Fifty patients will be recruited per group to achieve 40 cases completed per group, i.e., a
      total of 100 patients included for 80 cases completed.

      Screening will be done before the peak of pollination and the treatment will be set up two
      months before traditional pollen peak, then visits at 3 months and 6 months, or end of the
      peak.

      The treatment will consist of 1 capsule daily, fasting morning, following the numerical order
      of 1 to 10 capsules for 6 months.

      The placebo will have the same form, colour, taste and aspect. The allowed concomitant
      treatments are the already established treatments for associated pathologies not liable to
      have an impact on the proper conduct of the study and the rescue medications allowed in the
      first-line adjuvant treatment (oral or topical antihistamines [nasal or eye] and eye
      cromoglycate, topical nasal corticosteroids [in case of failure or insufficiency of those
      above]).

      The prohibited treatments are the oral or injectable corticosteroids and the
      anti-leukotrienes.

      The following demographic data will be collected during the first visit: date of birth,
      gender, ethnic group, weight, height, smoking habits and alcohol use status.

      Medical history, treatment history, concomitant treatments and patient's physical examination
      will also be documented during V0.

      The allergy must be confirmed by positive skin test and/or the presence of IgE for grasses
      (prick test defined as positive if higher than or equal to half the negative control; IgE are
      positive if at least class 3 (≥ 3.5 kU / L); these tests must have been made at the latest
      during the first visit.

      A patient diary will be given to each patient:

        -  For evaluation of the total 5 symptoms score T5SS and rescue medication RS, it is
           essential that patients note every day the symptoms (sneezing, rhinorrhoea, nasal
           pruritus, itching and/or eye tearing and nasal obstruction) intensity, and the rescue
           medications, in their patient diary.

        -  It is also essential that the patient takes note every day of his/her QoL by filling in
           three questions included in his/her diary card: Did you sleep well? - Can you work
           normally? - How do you feel?

        -  It is also imperative that patients note the date of the start of treatment and the date
           of onset of symptoms.

      This patient diary will be given to the patient at each visit, and will be brought back at
      the next visit, it will be reviewed and validated by the investigator and will be part of the
      Case Report Form.

      All relevant (related to allergy) concomitant medications taken by the patient during the
      study period will be recorded at each visit in the CRF.

      The AEs and SAEs will be recorded at V1 and V2 in order to assess safety.
    
  