
    
      Ocular surface optimization is a pre-operative necessity. In cataract surgery patients, an
      unstable tear film reduces the quality of corneal reflections and therefore can compromise K
      readings, which in turn can affect the accuracy of IOL calculations and result in suboptimum
      refractive results. To obtain accurate measurements, patients are routinely pre-treated with
      a variety of medications and therapies. However, these therapies can take time, which may
      lead to surgical delays.

      Steroids can positively impact the stability of the tear film by inhibiting and preventing
      ocular surface inflammation. Punctal plugs are also widely used for the treatment of dry eye
      manifestations, by blocking the tear drainage, increasing tear film and eye moisture.
      Dextenza is a sustained-release dexamethasone intracanalicular insert recently approved by
      the FDA for pain and inflammation post ophthalmic surgery. It is placed into the canaliculus
      via the lower punctum and is designed to release steroid medication for 30 days.

      Previous studies have demonstrated that ocular surface disease affects the reliability of IOL
      calculations, potentially affecting outcomes. The insert of a punctal plug that can deliver a
      sustained release of dexamethasone to the eye 2 weeks (+/- 2 days) prior to final
      preoperative measurements may provide adequate therapy, improving the ocular surface status
      and, therefore, improve the reliability of IOL selection in patients undergoing cataract
      surgery, in a comparatively short amount of time, without introducing patient compliance
      barriers.

      Pre-surgical measurements, IOL calculations, and surgical plans prior to the insertion of the
      insert will be compared to measurements, IOL calculations, and surgical plans at 2 weeks
      following intracanalicular dexamethasone insertion. Surgery will proceed with data from the
      post-insert measurements. Final refractive outcomes at one month from the second eye surgery
      will be compared to pre-insert data to determine refractive accuracy.
    
  