
    
      Introduction. Mechanical respiratory support of preterm neonates with respiratory distress
      syndrome (RDS) and/or apnoea of prematurity (AOP) might be associated with adverse effects as
      a consequence of positive pressure use (barotrauma), excessive gas delivery (volutrauma) or
      inadequate volume (atelectrauma). All these factors could give rise to an increase in the
      alveolo-capillary membrane permeability, alveoli oedema, hyaline membrane formation and
      epithelial cells desquamation. These phenomena eventually could lead to activation of
      inflammatory mediators (biotrauma) with local and systemic noxious effects.

      During assisted ventilation, the lack of synchrony between patient efforts and ventilator
      support increases patient discomfort, favouring "fighting" the machine, and increases the
      risk of air trapping and lung overdistension. Even in patients with non-invasive ventilation
      (NIV), uneasiness and respiratory distress would cause air hunger, developing intrapleural
      negative pressure with risk of lung overinflation despite using low airway positive
      pressures. The use of neuromuscular blockade in adults with acute respiratory distress
      syndrome (ARDS) has been associated with a decrease in serum cytokine levels and 90 days
      adjusted mortality.

      NAVA uses the diaphragmatic electrical activity (Edi) as a signal to start the rise in
      pressure of the ventilator. Likewise, it allows automatic adjustment of peak inspiratory
      pressure (PIP) to the patient's effort, providing variable tidal volume according to his/her
      needs. Finally, the system allows the inspiratory cycling off with Edi decline (normally set
      at 70% of Edi Peak), that is, with diaphragmatic relaxation. NAVA has shown a faster response
      time and a better level of synchronization than traditional flow or pressure systems,
      achieving greater comfort levels in adults and paediatric patients. Some paediatric and
      neonatal studies have shown a reduction in PIP, without changes in mean airway pressure
      (MAP), and a reduction in oxygen requirement (FiO2). These changes were not associated with
      major complications (intraventricular haemorrhage, pneumothorax, or necrotizing
      enterocolitis).

      A relevant target in neonatal ventilatory support is to minimize the aggression to the lungs
      and respiratory system using NIV whenever possible, and/or extubating patients as soon as
      possible. For this reason, profound sedation, analgesia, or neuromuscular blockade are rarely
      indicated in the newborn period. NAVA synchronization might improve patient comfort,
      preventing patient-ventilator fighting, and lung overinflation episodes (volutrauma),
      ultimately reducing biotrauma. To the knowledge of the investigators, studies evaluating this
      new ventilatory modality (NAVA) in the newborn period are still scarce, and its potential to
      reduce inflammation has not been tested.

      Objectives.

      To determine if NIV-NAVA compared to unsynchronized modalities (nCPAP/nIPPV), in infants born
      < 32 weeks GA with respiratory distress syndrome or requiring prophylactic NIV (immaturity,
      apnoea):

        1. Reduces systemic inflammation, measured by serum cytokines concentration.

        2. Reduces the need for oxygen and respiratory support.

        3. Increases the probabilities of survival without bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD).

      Design. Single centre, prospective and controlled randomized clinical trial.

      Setting. Tertiary Hospital with near 6000 births per year and a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit
      (NICU) with 15 beds and approximately 250 admissions per year.

      Methods. Informed consent (IC) will be obtained before birth, during mothers' admission with
      threatened preterm labour. Once the IC is obtained and after the infant's birth, patients
      will be randomized by a random numbers table, kept in sealed envelops, to "Group A" (NAVA) or
      "Group B" (conventional strategies).

      In all cases meeting inclusion criteria, a cord blood sample will be collected to determine
      the level of cytokines: Tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF - α), interleukin (IL) 1 beta
      (IL-1ß), IL-6, and IL-8.

      The decision to intubate in delivery room or to provide NIV will be carried out by the
      attending neonatologist at time of birth based on clinical criteria. In our unit, standard
      care is intubation and prophylactic surfactant administration in delivery room in neonates <
      25 weeks GA, or older babies that did not received antenatal steroid and need intubation
      during resuscitation. Neonates 26 - 29 weeks GA with adequate respiratory effort are
      resuscitated and transferred to NICU with NIV (Neo-puff ®). Preterm babies > 29 weeks GA
      receive respiratory support (invasive or NIV) only when clinically indicated.

      After admission to NICU, patients requiring invasive mechanical ventilation will be supported
      according to theirs needs and the criteria of the attending neonatologist. In our unit, modes
      with volume guarantee (VG) or volume control are currently used: Assist/Control+VG,
      Synchronized - Intermittent Mandatory Ventilation (S-IMV)+VG, and Pressure Regulated Volume
      Control (PRVC). After extubation and in patients supported non-invasively since the
      beginning, NIV will be provided according to randomization group:

      Group A: With the ventilator SERVO-n (Maquet, Solna, Sweden), in NIV-NAVA mode. The
      ventilation parameters (PEEP, FiO2, NAVA level, etc.) will be established and adjusted by the
      attending clinician according to the patient's needs.

      Group B: With the Infant Flow device (CareFusion) in nCPAP or non-synchronised Biphasic mode.
      The ventilation parameters (Flow, PEEP, FiO2, PIP level, etc.) will be established and
      adjusted by the attending clinician according to the patient's needs.

      Surfactant (Curosurf ®, 100 mg/kg) will be administered according to clinical indications
      following the Unit's protocol. In general, if the patient did not receive it in delivery
      room, it is administered as soon as possible in the NICU when the patient needs FiO2 >0.3.
      Intubated patients will receive surfactant through a double lumen tube, and those with NIV by
      a minimally invasive method, or by the Insure (intubate, surfactant, and extubated) method.

      Quantitative cytokine determination will be carried out simultaneously in all samples by
      X-MAP technology using the Bioplex cytometer (Biorad) which allows the simultaneous measure
      of multiple analytes.
    
  