
    
      Recently, different groups have discovered that miRNAs can be detected in body fluids such as
      plasma, serum or saliva. These cell-free miRNAs are secreted by cells under different forms.
      Levels of these circulating miRNAs (circ miRNA), like tissue miRNA, were closely related to
      pathologies and could be used as diagnostic or prognostic tools for several pathologies,
      including cancer. Furthermore, a recent report showed that circ miRNAs released by tumor
      cells have the ability to transfer their metastatic potential to nonmetastatic cells. The
      detection and analysis of circulating miRNA represent a new step towards non-invasive
      diagnostic screening and early cancer detection.

      Circulating tumor cells also hold promise as biological markers, which can be assessed
      noninvasively. As more than 90% of cancer deaths are associated with metastasis, it is
      crucial to understand the mechanisms of dissemination of cancer cells. During the past
      decade, a multitude of techniques have been developed to track down and to characterize CTC.
      Clinical studies in various cancers reveal the potential of CTC as prognostic and predictive
      markers. The characterization of CTC will help to design personalized treatment to eradicate
      the sub-clones of the primary tumour, which give rise to metastasis. Also, the numbers of CTC
      in patient blood can be followed to monitor the efficacy of the neoadjuvant treatment.

      Most of the research in esophageal cancer has been done on squamous cell cancer as this is
      the dominant cell type worldwide. However, beginning the in 1980s Esophageal Adenocarcinoma
      (EAC) has increased in frequency such that it now represents 80% of esophageal cancer in
      North America and Europe. There is an urgent need to develop new techniques and diagnostic
      tests to combat EAC. By combining circ miRNA and CTC, we not only combine 2 promising
      clinical biomarkers, we will also be able to access new data that will complement tissue
      biopsy data. Furthermore, by acquiring a blood sample during various time points of patient
      treatment, we will be able to create a dynamic CTC and circ miRNA profile.
    
  