
    
      The main aim of this pilot study is to allow for the implementation of active hospital-based
      surveillance for IS in children <1 year of age in IMSS hospitals with pediatric medical care,
      and LRTI-related post-neonatal deaths among children between 29 days and 1 year of age
      participating in the IMSS system. Surveillance will be conducted in each of the approximately
      230 IMSS hospitals with pediatric medical care (tertiary care and secondary care hospitals),
      which have 40 million affiliates and an annual birth cohort of 575,000.

      During the pilot phase the completeness and validity of electronic vaccination and
      demographic data contained in the IMSS dataset will be assessed to determine whether or not
      these data will be used during the actual post licensure study implementation. Study
      participation for database validation will include parental/guardian/legal representative
      interview and review of vaccination records.

      Study staff at each of the approximately 230 IMSS hospitals will review medical records daily
      for potential cases of IS in children <1 year of age.

      Medical records of potential IS cases will be reviewed to determine eligibility, in terms of
      IS, based on the Brighton criteria Parents/guardians/legal representative of definite IS
      cases will be contacted by study staff to recruit their child into the study.

      After the informed consent is signed, the parental/guardian interview will be conducted.

      Additional medical information will be collected through medical record review during
      hospitalization and after the child has been discharged.

      A central Information Coordinator (IMSS staff member) will perform monthly reviews of the
      IMSS database to search for definite IS cases.

      A cross-check will be performed with IMSS database to identify definite IS cases not yet
      enrolled. In that situation, parents/guardians/legal representative will be contacted by
      study staff to recruit their child into the study. Either in-hospital interviews or in-home
      interviews will be arranged to collect data.

      Study staff will perform the same review as above but for LTRI-related deaths in children
      between 29 days and 1 year of age. They will also review morgue records for LRTI-related
      deaths.

      A central Information Coordinator (IMSS staff member) will perform monthly reviews of the
      IMSS database for post-neonatal LRTI-related deaths.

      Study staff will contact the parents/guardians/legal representative of the deceased child to
      explain the study and request enrollment.

      After informed consent is obtained, an interview will be conducted with
      parents/guardians/legal representative.

      IMSS medical records will be reviewed by study staff. All LTRI related post-neonatal deaths
      will be reported to the Principal Investigator (PI) and to the Safety Review Expert Committee
      (SReC).

      The SReC, which is completely independent from GSK Biologicals, will assign causes of death
      (CoD) for all enrolled LTRI-related post-neonatal death cases.

      All definite IS cases and LTRI related post-neonatal fatalities will be reported to the GSK
      local operating company within 24 hours of identification. In addition all SAEs, deemed to be
      related to a GSK vaccine will be reported based on discharged diagnosis only.

      The completeness of key demographic data (date of birth, hospital of birth, gender, and
      residential address) will be assessed for a sample of children in the IMSS dataset in a
      single annual birth cohort.

      A random sample (N=1,200) of children from a single annual birth cohort will be selected from
      the IMSS dataset for verification of demographic data and vaccination history (the selection
      process will continue until informed consent has been obtained for a total of 1,200
      children). In-home interviews will be conducted with parents/guardians/legal representative
      of all 1200 subjects to gather demographic and vaccination history (EPI card - Cartilla
      Nacional de Vacunacion).

      Demographic data collected in the interview will be compared to that in the IMSS dataset.

      Vaccine history (two doses of DTP) collected from the EPI vaccination cards will be compared
      to that in the IMSS dataset. The agreement for DTP will be assessed.

      All IS episodes in a single annual birth cohort of children in the IMSS dataset will be
      identified. Data necessary for selection of matched controls (date of birth, hospital of
      birth, and gender) will be extracted for these children.

      Five controls for identified IS cases will be selected from the IMSS dataset based on the
      ability to fulfil the matching criteria. Statistics on the number of matched controls and the
      quality of the match will be assessed by IMSS and Rixensart statisticians.

      Primary outcome measure: occurrence of IS by passive (IMSS database) and active (RDE)
      surveillance and of LRTI-related post-neonatal deaths by passive and active surveillance.

      Secondary outcome measure: demography data of IMSS affiliate, from IMSS record and parent
      interview; DTP history from IMSS dataset and EPI
    
  