
    
      Presently, surgical resection offers the only therapeutic means of cure. However only 15%-20%
      of patients are found to have resectable disease at time of initial diagnosis. Of the
      patients who undergo curative surgery, most will relapse and eventually succumb to the
      disease. 5-year survival rates for node-negative and -positive disease at time of pancreatic
      duodenectomy are 25%-30% and 10%, respectively.

      Although early phase trials have not offered great success in the metastatic setting for
      patients with pancreas adenocarcinoma (PDA), interim analysis of a multicenter, phase 1 trial
      with durvalumab presented at European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) indicated a disease
      control rate of 21%. As mentioned previously, PD-L1 expression correlates with poor prognosis
      and decreased CD4+ and CD8+ T cell infiltration within the tumor. Targeting PD-L1 in the
      micrometastatic setting (resectable disease), when robust mature immunosuppressive pathways
      may not have yet formed, may be the optimum time to investigate anti-PD-L1 therapy. This arm
      of the study aims to test if atezolizumab is able to modulate CD8+ T-cell infiltration
      compared to historical matched controls. As a secondary endpoint we will also evaluate how
      clinical outcomes compare to matched historical controls.

      Neoplastic, immune, and stromal cells within PDA reside in a highly dense desmoplastic
      environment composed of an extracellular matrix of which hyaluronidase (HA) is an abundant
      component. HA is a linear glycosaminoglycan and an integral component of not only PDA tumors,
      but has also been shown to accumulate in many solid tumors and is associated with a poor
      prognosis and increased immunosuppression. In a preclinical autochthonous mouse model of PDA,
      Sunil Hingorani's group demonstrated that the interstitial fluid pressures were unusually
      high within tumors that exhibited a high HA content. Furthermore, high HA tumors contained
      low vascularity, which compromised delivery of chemotherapeutic agents, such as gemcitabine.
      Mice treated with hyaluronidase resulted in decreased HA content and microvasculature
      re-expansion within tumors which led to a survival benefit. These preclinical studies led to
      early phase clinical studies in metastatic PDA where addition of PEGPH20 to gemcitabine and
      nab-paclitaxel (GA) in a randomized phase 2 study demonstrated a survival benefit in patients
      with HA-high tumors. The objective response rate for patients who were treated with a
      combination of PEGPH20 and GA compared to GA alone was 45% versus 31%, respectively, and the
      median overall survival was 11.5 versus 8.5 months, respectively (hazard ratio (HR), 0.96;
      95% Confidence Interval (CI), 0.57 to 1.61). A large phase 3 randomized clinical trial in the
      high HA stage IV PDA population in the first line setting is ongoing.

      PDA likely invokes multiple immune evading mechanisms which result in its aggressive
      behavior; it is expected that multiple agents will likely be needed to develop effective
      therapies. One such rationale is the combination of PEGPH20 and immune checkpoint blockade to
      allow increased cytotoxic T-cell infiltration by increasing vascular permeability and
      decreasing interstitial pressure. In a breast cancer preclinical model, PEGPH20 resulted in
      an increase accumulation of CD8+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) by 176% (p=0.0025) and
      improved tumor growth inhibition by 38% relative to anti-PD-L1 alone (86% vs 62.4%,
      p=0.0024). Other preclinical studies are also demonstrating increased CD8+ T-cell
      infiltration with addition of PEGPH20 and improved tumor control in combination with immune
      checkpoint blockade. These and other preclinical studies suggest that this combination is
      worth pursuing in patients with resectable PDA. The combination is hoped to increase CD8+
      T-cell infiltration within the primary tumor for improved immune mediated cytotoxicity and
      decreased interstitial pressure to allow improved surgical resections. Hypothetically, the
      combination should also be effective in foci of micrometastasis, where the tumor
      microenvironment (TME) may not be as mature.

      Identified risks for PEGPH20 include musculoskeletal events (MSEs), infusion-related
      reactions (IRRs), and thromboembolic (TE) events.
    
  