
    
      Numerous chemotherapeutic regimens have been tested for use against hepatocellular carcinoma
      (HCC). HCC is, however, highly resistant to chemotherapy; doxorubicin and 5- fluorouracil
      containing regimens, alone or in combinations, results in less than a 20% response, with a
      median survival of less than 4 months. Furthermore even the objective responses are
      short-lasting. In a metaanalysis of the published randomized studies on HCC, neither
      doxorubicin nor any chemotherapeutic agent has been shown to have any survival benefit for
      HCC patients.

      Sorafenib (Bay 43-9006) is a novel signal transduction inhibitor that prevent tumor cell
      proliferation and angiogenesis through blockade of the Raf/Mek/Erk pathway at the level of
      Raf Kinase and the receptor tyrosine kinases VEGFR-2 and PDGFR-beta.

      Recent preclinical studies have shown the activation of Mek-1/2 and its downstream target
      MAPK in HCC tumors. In a phase II study 137 patients advanced primary liver cancer with have
      been treated with Sorafenib administered as a single agent. Investigators reported seven
      patients with partial responses, five minor responses and 59 with stable disease for at least
      4 months. Median overall survival was 9.2 months and median time to progression 4.2 months.
      This study showed that Sorafenib was well tolerated and side-effects were manageable and
      reversible.

      Rationale

      5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is a widely used agent for patients with unresectable advanced HCC,
      with objective responses rates around 10%. Compared to bolus administration, infusional 5-FU
      in metastatic colorectal cancers has demonstrated increased activity with less toxicity.

      Sorafenib as single agent in HCC has demonstrated activity in terms of objective responses
      and promising duration of stable disease.

      The combination of Sorafenib and 5-FU was evaluated in a phase I study where the drug is
      associated with different 5FU based schedules with good toxicity profile and objectives
      responses in particular in colorectal carcinoma.

      Based on these data our purpose is to study infusional 5-FU with Sorafenib to evaluate the
      activity, efficacy, safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of this combination.

      Study design and duration of treatment

      5-FU 3000 mg/sqm 48 hours continuous infusion every 14 days Sorafenib 400 mg bid orally
      continuously 5-FU will be administered for a maximum of 12 cycles. Sorafenib will be
      administered from the start of treatment in combination with 5-FU until progression of
      disease.
    
  