
    
      After a multiple sclerosis (MS) diagnosis, uncertainty and psychological stress may have a
      negative effect on the disease course, while psychological counselling may reduce
      inflammatory activity. Therefore, especially newly diagnosed patients require intensive and
      individual support to deal with the disease and to initiate lifestyle changes. This is hardly
      available in standard care. Systematic, evidence-based patient information on the value of
      lifestyle change is not available either.

      POWER@MS1 aims to encourage patients with MS to find the best way of dealing with the disease
      on the basis of evidence-based patient information (EBPI) and a complex behaviour change
      intervention. The platform will serve as a disease accompanying empowerment programme.
      Various modules will be provided to accompany patients with MS (pwMS) at an early stage of
      the disease. The multicomponent intervention will offer comprehensive support after
      diagnosis, which includes, firstly, an immunotherapy decision-support programme aligned with
      principles of shared decision-making (SDM), and, secondly, a behaviour-change intervention
      promoting disease management and lifestyle habits over a period of one year. Ideally,
      POWER@MS1 leads to a more targeted immunotherapy start, and consequently to better adherence
      and optimization of a preventive effective lifestyle.

      Primary objective:

      To determine if a web-based behavioural intervention on immunotherapy decision making,
      disease management, and lifestyle can reduce the inflammatory disease activity in MS (a
      relapse or - as a surrogate for inflammatory disease activity - new T2 lesions on magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI)).

      Secondary objectives:

      The secondary objectives are to determine if the web-based intervention can

        -  strengthen patient autonomy and empowerment,

        -  promote informed decisions on immunotherapy,

        -  improve quality of life,

        -  reduce anxiety and depression,

        -  increase physical activity and a healthy diet,

        -  increase effectiveness of neurologists encounters,

        -  and save health care costs.

      In order to develop and evaluate the intervention, a multiphase mixed-methods study covering
      the first three phases of the Medical Research Council Framework for complex interventions
      will be conducted. After development, the intervention programme will be pretested and
      piloted with experts and persons with MS (pwMS). The intervention will be evaluated in a
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) with 328 patients with early MS (< 12 months), who have at
      least two MS-typical lesions. Study participants will be recruited in 16 MS centres across
      Germany and randomised to an intervention group with access to an evidence-based information
      platform or to a control group with optimised standard care based on material of the German
      Multiple Sclerosis Society (DMSG). The primary endpoint will be reached if new T2 lesions or
      relapses occur. Furthermore, a mixed methods process evaluation and a health economic
      evaluation will be carried out.
    
  