
    
      The flow of procedures and study visits is as follows:

        1. Recruitment and screening: Participants experiencing depressive symptoms and not taking
           any psychiatric medications as determined by a 5 half life wash out period will be
           recruited from the community, including students and employees at Stanford. Recruitment
           will come primarily from Facebook ads, which will use only IRB approved material. The
           flyer will also be physically posted on boards in public locations in order to include a
           variety of sources for the study.

        2. Individuals will need to participate in 2 to 3 screening visits (screening visit 2 and 3
           can be combined) in order to enroll in the study. During the first visit, participants
           will go over informed consent, be administered a clinical interview and complete
           cognitive testing.

        3. The second visit will be a medical screen in order to ensure participants are safe to
           continue and will include blood samples, medical history, vitals and a urine drug test
           and can be combined with visit three, detailed in step 4 below.

        4. If the participant meets medical and cognitive criteria, scans for functional MRI will
           be undertaken at another study visit (or in combination with the medical screen) at the
           CNI on the Stanford campus. All MRI scans, including the optional MRI scan at week 6,
           will last 1.5 hours. If a participant's task-evoked activity in the DLPFC falls within
           the highest or lowest quartiles derived from a large data set of healthy volunteers, the
           participant will be able to proceed with medication

        5. Participants will be randomized to either receive active medication treatment with
           guanfacine or placebo in a double blinded fashion. Randomization will be generated using
           a random number generator computer program. The probability for random assignment to
           each treatment is 50% chance randomized to active treatment with guanfacine and 50%
           chance randomized to placebo. A prescription lasting a period of 4 weeks will be sent to
           the Stanford Psychiatry Department from Mariner pharmacy. The pharmacist will provide a
           research coordinator in the lab with the randomization information, but this research
           coordinator will not be involved in patient interaction. The packaging of the medication
           itself will not identify drug or otherwise, but have an ID only.

        6. At weeks 1, 3 and 5 when subject is not seen by the study MD, the participant will be
           monitored by an appropriately trained clinical research coordinator. All subjects will
           have an fMRI scan during week 4 and an optional week 6 fMRI scan. During in-person
           visits and phone monitoring, participants will be assessed for changes to physical
           health and treatment physical side-effects, anthropometrics and vital signs, changes to
           current medications (other than GIR), compliance to GIR treatment, alcohol and drug use
           abstinence compliance, birth control usage compliance and likelihood of pregnancy
           (female participants of child bearing potential), mood changes (QIDS-SR), suicidality
           (C-SSRS), clinical global impression severity (CGI-S) and improvement (CGI-I), Barratt
           Impulsiveness Scale (BIS). We will also have participants complete the following
           cognitive measures described below on a weekly basis during the treatment period in the
           form of an online battery (aka Webneuro): Choice reaction time, emotion test, digit
           span, GoNoGo, Verbal Interference, CPT, and Maze.

      DETAILS

        1. Participants: Volunteers will be aged 18-65 years old. The effect size of guanfacine vs.
           placebo on ADHD symptoms, including symptoms of inattention, has been estimated to be
           between 0.43 and 0.86. Using the most conservative of these values (0.43) and assuming
           an alpha of 0.05 with 4 groups, a total of 64 patients will be needed to provide a power
           of 80%. This would result in 32 subjects in each of the highest and lowest quartile
           groups of DLPFC activity.

        2. Randomization: Participants will undergo fMRI scanning using tasks described below,
           including the N-back Working Memory Task. A region of interest (ROI) analysis will be
           performed using our established methods, to identify BOLD- dependent signal change in
           the DPLPC (right, left). Beta values for each ROI will be extracted for each subject and
           used to determine eligibility for the study. If a subject falls with the extreme
           quartiles of either the right or left DLPFC or both, this individual be randomized in a
           double blind fashion into one of two groups: placebo or guanfacine.

        3. Suicidal thoughts or psychotic symptoms: Established procedures are in place for direct
           and immediate referral and intervention when suicidality and/or psychosis are
           identified.

        4. Participants wishing to participate in this study will be screened with a psychiatric
           interview, an in-person physical exam (height, weight, vital signs, systems assessment,
           general appearance), medical history (history of disorders, diseases and allergies), lab
           tests (hematology: hemoglobin, hematocrit, total and differential WBC count, platelet
           count; chemistry: sodium, potassium, chloride, CO2, glucose, creatinine, BUN/urea; liver
           panel: albumin, total bilirubin, direct bilirubin, AST, ALT, ALP, total protein;
           endocrine: TSH; pregnancy test; full urine toxicology).

        5. Participants will be prescribed tabs containing either placebo or guanfacine immediate
           release to be taken for 4 weeks and will be monitored by one of the study psychiatrists.
           Subjects randomized to GIR will start with 0.25mg GIR upon waking and increase by 0.25mg
           every other day with a goal dose of 2mg. If intolerance is encountered with a dosage
           increase, the dosage will be reduced to the prior level for a length to be determined by
           the treating psychiatrist and then raised again if/when tolerated. Dosing schedule may
           be slowed at the discretion of the physician based on participant's reaction to the
           drug. Decision to terminate guanfacine treatment will be made by clinicians based on
           side effects or lack of response or at patient's request. Follow up care for 2 weeks
           will be provided and transfer of care arranged at week 6 according to patients'
           decisions. At 4 weeks, the blind will be broken and those taking GIR may choose to
           continue this medication or taper off. If patients select to continue, a fMRI scan will
           be offered at week 6. Abrupt discontinuation of GIR (either due to side effects or to
           study end) will be avoided to prevent rebound hypertension and withdrawal symptoms.
           Participants will be seen by the study's psychiatrists at treatment weeks 2, 4, and 6.
    
  