
    
      If self- generation can be successfully adapted and applied to a treatment program for
      individuals with MS, it has the potential to improve their rehabilitation and treatment by
      facilitating new learning and memory. In addition, if treatment and rehabilitation are
      successful and productive, it is expected that the application of self-generation strategy to
      improve learning/ relearning will help to improve the ability of individuals with MS to
      maintain their current lifestyles at home, work, and within the community. We expect that
      persons with MS who complete the proposed treatment will acquire the trained strategy,
      recognize the everyday situations in which the trained strategy could be applied and then map
      and adapt the trained strategy to real-world situations.

      Fourty participants with clinically definite MS and objectively documented impairment in
      verbal new learning will be included in the study. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      either the treatment group (n=20) or the control group (n=20). Participants will be enrolled
      only following an informed consent procedure, with the expectation of being able to
      participate for the full duration of the study (6 treatment sessions and two assessment
      sessions). All participants enrolled in the study will undergo pre and post treatment
      assessment to assess their levels of cognitive, emotional, and functional performance.
      Treatment for both experimental and control groups will consist of 6 individualized treatment
      sessions, 2 x per week for 3 weeks. Each session will last for approximately 45 minutes, and
      will include various memory tasks that will range from learning list of words to learning
      tasks related to everyday life. Participants in the control group will only be asked to
      perform the same memory tasks as the treatment group. The treatment for the experimental
      group will couple self-generated learning with awareness-training techniques, which are
      geared toward helping patients self-discover their performance strengths and limitations
      through integration of direct and personal experiences. Personal experience will be gained by
      practicing various memory tasks using self-generation strategy. This proposed self-generation
      program is expected to increase memory, task specific awareness and functional performance;
      ultimately improving quality of life and self-regulation.
    
  