
    
      The specific aim of this research is to establish the scientific validity of an evaluation
      assessment tool that will measure the functional level of the visually challenged population.
      For this study a quantitative, self-evaluation tool has been designed to assess the
      functional skills at performing a variety of activities. It is called the Functional
      Assessment Questionnaire. The questionnaire is an innovative approach to measuring the level
      of these functional skills. It also includes critical benchmarks of real-world success that
      are not considered in assessing functional levels of the visually challenged, but are
      measures of evidence-based outcomes. It is a comprehensive measurement tool covering many
      areas of daily living, including:

        1. Education Level

        2. Employment Level

        3. Income Level

        4. Personal Living Skills

        5. Kitchen Skills

        6. Mobility Level

        7. Reading/Writing Skills

        8. Oral Communication Skills

        9. Social Skills

       10. Technology Level

       11. Financial Management Skills

       12. Recreation Skills

       13. Organizational Skills

       14. Independence Level

      Each of these categories include a progressive scale of 10 activities, 1 being the lowest
      level of functionality and 10 being the highest level of functionality. Most of the
      categories are easily self-evaluated, though some will require one-on-one discussion with the
      test administrator. At the completion of the Functional Assessment Questionnaire, a
      functionality score, ranging between 14 and 140 is tabulated for each individual.

      In order to maintain scientific integrity of the Functional Assessment Questionnaire, certain
      non-identifiable information will be collected on each human subject. This information
      includes:

        1. Age

        2. Sex

        3. Visual Acuity (BCVA)

        4. Peripheral Field

        5. Diagnosed Eye Condition

      Comparative statistical analysis will be performed with the Functional Assessment
      Questionnaire results and the widely used SF-36 (36-Item Short Form Health Survey Instrument)
      and NEI-VFQ-25 with Appendix (National Eye Institute/Visual Function Questionnaire-25)
      questionnaires. The goal will be to check which questionnaire is more sensitive and accurate
      in measuring functional level outcomes both prior to (low-functioning individuals) and after
      (high functioning individuals) vision rehabilitation program participation.
    
  