
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the progression-free survival of letrozole therapy alone with the combination
      of letrozole therapy plus bevacizumab as first-line treatment in women with estrogen- and/or
      progesterone-receptor-positive advanced breast cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the proportion of patients receiving letrozole alone, who remain
      progression-free at 6 and 12 months, to those receiving letrozole plus bevacizumab.

      II. To compare the incidence of objective response (complete response [CR] + partial response
      [PR]) in patients receiving letrozole with and without bevacizumab, as determined by Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, excluding patients with non-measurable
      disease.

      III. To compare the incidence of clinical benefit (CR + PR + stable disease >= 6 months) in
      patients receiving letrozole with and without bevacizumab.

      IV. To compare the duration of objective response in patients receiving letrozole with and
      without bevacizumab.

      V. To compare the time to treatment failure in patients receiving letrozole with and without
      bevacizumab.

      VI. To compare the overall survival of patients receiving letrozole with and without
      bevacizumab, including the probability of survival until 36 months.

      VII. To compare toxicity levels between the bevacizumab arm and the arm without bevacizumab
      in both the letrozole-treated patients and in the tamoxifen-treated patients.

      VIII. To compare progression-free survival and overall survival of all patients receiving
      endocrine therapy with and without bevacizumab (by combining both letrozole and tamoxifen*
      patient subgroups).

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare baseline and changes in serial levels of circulating endothelial cells and
      circulating tumor cells in patients treated with endocrine therapy alone or endocrine therapy
      plus bevacizumab, and to explore the relationship of these markers with progression free
      survival.

      II. To conduct proteomic analysis of longitudinal samples from patients with advanced-stage
      disease undergoing hormonal therapy to define new serum-based biomarkers related to disease
      activity.

      III. To identify biologic correlates that will predict progression-free survival (PFS) and
      response to therapy.

      IV. To conduct pharmacogenomic assessment of candidate variants in the VEGF, CYP2D6, and
      CYP19 genes and evaluate their association with PFS and other study outcomes.

      V. To identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with progression free
      survival in the genome-wide approach (GWAS).

      VI. To identify factors other than chronological age that predict the risk of grade 3, 4 or 5
      toxicity with bevacizumab and endocrine therapy by means of functional age assessment
      measures.

      VII. To perform an exploratory analysis of the ability of the other factors included in the
      functional age assessment (either individual or in combination), to predict the risk of grade
      3, 4 or 5 toxicity.

      VIII. To evaluate longitudinal changes in the parameters of the factors described in
      objective VI while on therapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      NOTE: The placebo-controlled portion of the study was canceled on 5-15-10.

      ARM I: Patients receive endocrine therapy* (tamoxifen citrate or letrozole) orally (PO) once
      daily (QD) on days 1-21 and bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive endocrine therapy* (tamoxifen citrate or letrozole) PO QD on days
      1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 6 months for the first 2
      years and then annually for up to 3 years.

      * NOTE: As of 5/15/2011, patients only receive letrozole.
    
  