
    
      Auditory encoding enables accurate representation of incoming speech signals, and can be
      measured by neural phase-locking to the frequencies of the speech stimulus via the frequency
      following response (FFR) (e.g., Wong et al., 2007). FFR measures are associated with a range
      of language processes including speech (Thompson et al., 2019) and literacy (White-Schwoch et
      al., 2015). Music intervention can lead to an enhanced FFR and auditory encoding in older
      children with poor language ability (e.g., Kraus et al., 2014). We therefore hypothesize that
      music intervention prescribed to young children (infants and toddlers) can also enhance FFR
      which will in turn enhance language and communication skills.

      Participants: Cantonese-learning children between 8 to 12 months of age and their caregivers
      will participate in this research. All should report to be born healthy with gestational age
      of at least 37 weeks and birth weight of at least 2500g. We will enroll 48 children who will
      be randomized into the treatment or active control group (50% in each group) via blocked
      randomized (The Concise Encyclopedia of Statistics, 2008). Informed consent will be obtained
      from each family.

      General Procedures: Within 2 weeks before and after treatment, children and families will
      undergo assessment (see outcome measures). Treatment will last for 10 weeks in a hybrid
      online and in-person delivery mode (see treatment procedures).

      Outcome Measures: Infants will undergo EEG testing using an EEG system to elicit two types of
      responses, each lasting up to 10 minutes: 1) auditory encoding while they listen to auditory
      stimuli (e.g., Wong et al., 2007) and 2) resting-state EEG (e.g., Wilkinson et al., 2020). We
      will follow published procedures to derive neurophysiological metrics from the FFR signals
      such as pitch strength for speech encoding, and EEG spectral power analysis for amplitude of
      frequency bands at rest. The entire protocol will last under 30 min. Behavioral measures will
      include the MacArthur-Bates Communicative Development Inventories (MCDI)-Cantonese version
      (Tardif & Fletcher, 2008).

      Treatment Procedures: Both treatment (music) and active control (arts and crafts) groups will
      consist of 10 weeks of training to take place online and in-person, led by a trained
      instructor. In addition, home practice will be assigned. Both will consist of a set of
      prescribed activities and materials and songs (for music treatment). For music, parents will
      be taught to use songs to implement activities to promote the child's auditory skills. For
      arts and crafts, a series of activities will promote visual perception (color, shape) and
      motor skills and encourage art making. A teach-model-coach-review approach (Roberts et al.,
      2014) will be implemented, with an important goal of teaching parents to implement the play
      sessions at home. Each family is required to complete a set of prescribed home practice
      activities and provide evidence of completion. These home activities will allow them to
      implement what they learn in the child's natural home environment and will encourage them to
      continue the activities they learn even after the completion of the treatment period.

      Data Analysis: For each outcome measure, we will conduct a group x time ANOVA and expect a
      significant interaction. Posthoc analysis will reveal a larger, positive change in outcome
      measures for the treatment group relative to the control group.
    
  