
    
      Although metformin is not directly nephrotoxic, it has been postulated that can impair
      gluconeogenesis from lactate, which may lead to lactate accumulation under circumstances such
      as acute renal failure. In diabetic patients receiving metformin, this condition can be
      encountered in the setting of acute renal failure following contrast media administration,
      during coronary angiography i.e. contrast-induced nephropathy. As a result, it has been a
      part of routine clinical practice to discontinue metformin before angiography to prevent
      metformin-associated lactic acidosis (MALA). However, there is no general consensus regarding
      the incidence of MALA and evidence for such intervention is poor. On the other hand,
      discontinuation of metformin can be associated with detrimental effects on glycemic control
      and thereby may increase cardiovascular risk in diabetic patients undergoing percutaneous
      coronary interventions. Consequently, questions have been raised recently regarding the
      routine discontinuation of metformin, in low-risk patients undergoing coronary angiography.

      The present study was designed to assess the role of metformin in lactate production in a
      group of diabetic patients with normal renal function; and to address the questions about
      significance of routine discontinuation of metformin in low risk patients undergoing coronary
      angiography.

      Iodixanol will be the only contrast media in all patients, because of its low nephrotoxicity.
      Serum blood urea nitrogen and creatinin; as well as arterial blood gases will be evaluated
      prior to angiography, and repeated 24 and 48 hours after the procedure. Glomerular filtration
      rate (GFR) is calculated using Cockcroft-Gault formula {GFR= 0.85 (for women)}.

      Contrast-induced acute kidney injury is defined as a 25-50% or 0.3-0.5 mg/dl net increase in
      creatinine concentration compared to the baseline values. Metformin-associated lactic
      acidosis (MALA) is defined as an arterial pH (potential of hydrogen)<7.35 and plasma lactate
      concentration >5 mmolâ„L. In the M (-) group metformin will re-started 48 hours after
      angiography, albeit in the absence of evidence of lactic acidosis and GFR of >60 mL/min per
      1.73 m2.

      A written informed consent is taken from all participants and institutional review board has
      already approved the trial.
    
  