
    
      New treatment strategies are needed to improve the clinical outcome in breast cancer patients
      at high risk of tumor recurrence. Even with the best present combination chemotherapy,
      radiotherapy and surgery, the five-year rate of disease recurrence and death is at least 60%
      in patients with locally advanced breast cancer. Recent advances that may improve clinical
      outcome include the use of taxanes (paclitaxel and docetaxel), a new class of cytotoxic
      agents, with reported higher response rates than standard anthracycline-based chemotherapy.
      Understanding the in vivo mechanism of action of chemotherapeutic agents would also allow for
      rational combination of agents. For example, if apoptosis is the main mechanism of
      therapeutic action, then future developments in restoring function of p53 by gene therapy or
      treatment with apoptosis regulating molecules may prove to be important future advances in
      the treatment of cancer. If specific therapeutic targets and pathways are identified, new
      molecules with selective action against these targets may be developed, which may have
      potential for decreased toxicity with increased efficacy.

      To this end, we undertook a Phase II clinical trial of neoadjuvant docetaxel (Taxotere) in
      patients with locally advanced breast cancer (H-8448), with the primary goal of defining the
      clinical efficacy and the biologic effects of docetaxel. The secondary aim of the study was
      to identify distinctive gene expression patterns predictive of response to docetaxel
      chemotherapy. For this, we proposed to use microarray expression technology (Affymetrix U95A)
      and allied validation technologies (e.g., IHC, western blot, quantitative RT-PCR) to identify
      and validate patterns of gene expression associated with chemotherapy sensitivity or
      resistance.

      The purpose of this Phase II extension study is to determine the biologic effects of
      docetaxel (Taxotere), to identify gene expression profiles predictive of response, and to
      further describe the efficacy of Taxotere in women with locally advanced breast cancer. In
      addition to surgical operability and clinical response, the endpoints will include the
      comparison of histologic and molecular markers from sequential core biopsies of primary
      breast cancers of patients receiving Taxotere. Expression arrays will be used to identify and
      validate patterns of gene expression associated with Taxotere sensitivity or resistance.

      Clinical study: A diagnostic core biopsy will be performed prestudy, and tissue obtained from
      this will be available for analysis. Other required baseline investigations, including CBC,
      kidney function tests, liver function tests, EKG, and pregnancy tests, are part of the
      standard of care. Docetaxel (Taxotere) 100 mg/m2 is to be administered on day 1. A core
      biopsy is to be performed one day after chemotherapy (day 2) and on days 8, 15 and 22. On day
      22, after repeat core biopsy, a second cycle of docetaxel (Taxotere) chemotherapy (100 mg/m2)
      will be given. Docetaxel (Taxotere) will be given three-weekly for a total of four cycles.
      Primary surgery will then be conducted, if operable, following completion of neoadjuvant
      treatment. Adjuvant AC (doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 and cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2, every three
      weeks) for four cycles will then be administered. Adjuvant radiotherapy will be considered
      following completion of AC chemotherapy. Patients whose tumors were ER and/or PgR positive
      would be commenced on tamoxifen for five years after completion of AC chemotherapy.

      Core biopsies: Core biopsies for biologic marker evaluation will be performed prestudy
      (excess from diagnostic biopsy), and on days 2, 8, 15, and 22 following entry into study.
      Tissue for analysis will also be obtained at surgery. Prestudy biopsy and specimen at surgery
      will be part of standard of care, while four additional biopsies will be performed solely for
      research purposes only. Thus, a total of six biopsies will be obtained: prestudy, day 2, day
      8, day 15, day 22, and at surgery.

      Biologic markers to be assessed: Docetaxel (Taxotere) may produce a therapeutic response by
      induction of programmed cell death or by inhibition of cell division. Hence, apoptosis by
      TUNEL assay and other regulatory molecules (p53, bcl-2 and bax) will be measured.
      Proliferation will be assessed by measuring Ki67. From animal models, antiangiogenic effects
      with docetaxel (Taxotere) have been described, and this would be assessed in these clinical
      samples by measuring VEGF and microvessel counting (CD31). Remaining frozen tissue will be
      snap frozen and stored temporarily in liquid nitrogen for microarray analysis.

      Side effects with chemotherapy are part of standard of care. The chemotherapy treatments used
      in this protocol have all been widely used in breast cancer patients and represent some of
      the most effective treatments for this condition. Some known effects for all chemotherapy
      include neutropenia, infections, anemia, cardiotoxicity, congestive heart failure, alopecia,
      nail discoloration, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, and loss of appetite.

      Side effects from core biopsies: Risks associated with breast biopsy include bleeding,
      bruising, mild discomfort, and infection. Discomfort and minor complications from the four
      additional biopsy procedures will be minimized by use of experienced personnel.
    
  