
    
      Despite their clear vulnerability and demonstrated need, preschool children and their
      families have been the subject of very little research on traumatic stress following all
      types of injuries including burns (Stoddard & Saxe, 2001). This lack of research is even more
      critical in an age in which tragic and traumatic events are increasing in frequency and
      severity.

      Early identification of young burn survivors who also have elevated heart rates, high levels
      of pain and/or exhibit other symptoms of PTSD may help to prevent the development of later
      psychopathology. If assessment of stress is improved, then early interventions may be
      designed to prevent or reduce the later emergence of PTSD including phobias and associated
      symptoms. As of this time, however, no early interventions are available for very young
      burned children.

      The intervention is driven by the findings of our previous study of 1-4 year olds that
      suggested that the child's PTSD symptoms could be reduced by improved pain and anxiety
      control and by reduced parental PTSD. The current study aims to advance the science of
      prevention of pathological stress responses in preschool children and their parents,
      strengthen both child and parent resilience after burn trauma and its treatments, and provide
      interventions for the children with posttraumatic symptoms such as re-experiencing,
      hyperarousal, avoidance, insomnia, nightmares, or regressions in social abilities like
      smiling and/or vocalization.

      Our goal is not only to set up an intervention that will be effective in reducing stress for
      young children with burns and their families, we also want to assure that the intervention is
      feasible and sustainable for implementation in Shriners Hospital Boston, other Shriners
      Hospitals, and other Level I Pediatric Burn Centers after the end of this project.

      The models for intervention are:

      - COPE (Creating Opportunities for Parent Empowerment)

      The psychosocial intervention which holds the greatest promise as a treatment for young
      burned children and their families is the COPE (Creating Opportunities for Parent
      Empowerment) program. COPE was designed to be implemented in a tertiary care center with
      seriously ill children. It has been shown in more than a dozen studies to significantly
      reduce symptoms of stress in both children and their parents. In one study, Melnyk et al
      (2004) delivered the COPE program with audiotapes and matching written information, and a
      parent-child workbook that helped implement the audiotaped information. It focused on
      increasing: 1) parents' knowledge and understanding the range of behaviors and emotions that
      young children typically display during and after hospitalization and 2) direct parent
      participation in their children's' emotional and physical care. In collaboration with COPE's
      senior author, B. M. Melnyk, the COPE intervention and materials will be tailored for a
      population of young burned children at Shriners Hospitals for Children-Boston.

      Melnyk and her colleagues (2004; 1997; 2006) developed COPE as a "theory-based
      educational-behavioral program that consists of two types of educational information: (a)
      child behavioral information that teaches parents about the most typical emotions and
      behavioral responses that young children manifest as they cope with illness or trauma and
      hospitalization, and (b) parental role information that provides parents with suggestions
      regarding how they can best help their children to cope with the hospital experience"
      (Melnyk, Feinstein, Alpert-Gillis et al., 2006, p. 475). The COPE program was developed to
      target two major stressors that parents experience when their children are hospitalized: 1)
      their children's emotions, behaviors, and physical characteristics and 2) the loss of the
      parental role/control. COPE also contains a behavioral component to help parents to carry out
      the recommendations provided to them in the educational information.

      There are now three versions of the COPE program: (a) COPE for parents of young hospitalized
      children, 1 to 7 years of age, (b) COPE: PICU for parents of 2 to 7-year- old critically ill
      young children, and (c) COPE: NICU for parents of low-birth-weight (LBW) premature infants.
      Each of these versions of the COPE program is essentially self-administered to parents via
      audio tapes and activity workbooks, generally in three brief (15 minute) sessions over a two
      day period during a pediatric hospitalization. Examples of workbook activities are teaching
      their children about how to express their feelings through play with their children and
      reading the Jenny's Wish book (i.e., a story about a small child who copes successfully with
      a critical care hospitalization). The suggested administration times are: 6-16 hours after
      admission to PICU, 2-16 hours after transfer to general pediatric unit, and 2-3 days after
      discharge from hospital.

      Multiple studies have shown the validity of COPE (Melnyk, 1994, 1995; Melnyk et al., 2004;
      Melnyk et al., 2001; Melnyk et al., 1997; Melnyk, Feinstein, & Fairbanks, 2006; Melnyk &
      Feinstein, 2001; Melnyk, Feinstein, Alpert-Gillis et al., 2006; Vulcan & Nikulich-Barrett,
      1988). The 2004 paper describes an RCT design with 174 mother-child dyads that showed
      significant reductions in parental and child symptoms of stress at six and twelve months
      after the intervention.

      - The Pediatric Medical Traumatic Stress Toolkit for Health Care Providers

      The Pediatric Medical Traumatic Stress Toolkit for Health Care Providers provides another way
      to reduce unnecessary stress in medically ill children. Created by the National Child
      Traumatic Stress Network ("National Child Traumatic Stress Network (NCTSN) Toolkit for Health
      Care Providers,"; Stuber, Schneider, Kassam-Adams, Kazak, & Saxe, 2006), the Toolkit is
      another innovation that could provide a platform not only for identifying children and
      families who are most in need of the COPE intervention but also for interventions not
      addressed by COPE like finding additional parental support, providing additional pain,
      anxiety, or depression medication for children or parents, or designing more targeted
      interventions for children and families whose stress levels may be lower overall but high
      only in certain areas.

      The Toolkit contains a protocol called 'D-E-F' that helps clinicians to assess medically
      traumatized children and their families and to plan specific interventions for them. The idea
      of the Toolkit is that after the standard ABC's (Airways, Breathing, Circulation) of medical
      problems have been dealt with, clinicians should attend to the next most important issues,
      the 'DEF's of problems. The DEF acronym stands for Distress, Emotional Support, and Family
      Functioning. As described later in this proposal, the DEF protocol will be the basis for the
      initial assessment and clinical intervention recommendations provided by child psychiatry
      staff as part of a new program being developed at SBH Boston. The Toolkit contains handouts
      to help parents understand the stresses their medically ill children are facing and to help
      their children to cope with them as well as an overarching framework for mental health and
      medical clinicians to use in assessing and intervening to minimize post traumatic stress
      reactions.

      The Toolkit materials are designed primarily for hospital-based heath care providers like
      physicians and nurses, and for parents. The Toolkit promotes "trauma-informed practice of
      pediatric health care in hospital settings across the continuum of care… - e.g., from
      emergency care, to the ICU, to specialized inpatient units, to general pediatrics". The NCTSN
      Toolkit for Health Care Providers provides an overarching framework for healthcare workers to
      use for both assessment and intervention for PTSD in children and parents.

      Working within the NCTSN, many medical and psychosocial professionals, including Drs. Saxe
      and Stoddard, spent several years formulating this approach to working with children who have
      injuries and medically related traumas (Stuber et al., 2006). The Toolkit was released in
      late 2004 and although it shows a great deal of promise, it has yet to be validated and
      applied as a part of routine clinical care. The proposed project will be the first to
      empirically test it as a part of an intervention strategy.
    
  