
    
      Patients admitted to intensive care units and inpatient units will be evaluated, divided into
      two groups: Study Group (SG) - Patients who receive oral hygiene using the tongue cleaning
      device, and Control Group (CG) - Patients who are cared for According to the routine of
      hospital nursing.

      The criteria for inclusion of elements of the research will follow the criteria of dependence
      of patients on mechanical ventilation, if they are or not. Patients fully or partially
      dependent care are patients who can not make your oral hygiene alone and dependent on another
      individual to do so, if a hospital staff member health. Exclusion criteria will be based on
      condition of dependency of the patient, intubation period under 48 hours and if one refuses
      to participate in the research.

      Patients will first be evaluated by a dentist, doctor and nursing, which together decide on
      the inclusion of patients in the study based on the criterion of seriousness of the patient
      by APACHE. The assessment will follow the clinical criterion of presence or absence of tongue
      biofilm (Adachi 2005), and the collection swab with biofilm lingual to perform culture and
      sensitivity. These assessments take place twice within five days, being held in the first and
      fifth days. During this period the patients participating in the GE will hygienic tongue
      using tongue cleaner (Tepe ®) and other standardized oral hygiene care by the nursing team
      previously coached by dentist. CG patients receive the standard oral hygiene care with a
      spatula and gauze soaked in mouthwash and tongue will not use the tongue cleaner.

      For the assessment of plaque and tongue of sample qualitative material for culture and
      sensitivity attend three calibrated dentists.

      For this study 25 patients will be assessed for EG and 25 for GC, a total of 50 patients
      evaluated, and 100 samples of material collected.
    
  