
    
      Objectives:

      Most alcohol and drug treatment programs do not systematically address cigarette smoking
      during treatment. One obstacle is a concern that smoking cessation early in recovery might
      increase risk of alcohol relapse. This study followed patients enrolled in intensive
      outpatient alcohol treatment to compare the effects of a Concurrent Smoking Cessation (CSC)
      intervention to a Deferred Smoking Cessation (DSC) control group on process measures
      reflecting risk of alcohol relapse.

      Research Design:

      Participants were enrolled in intensive outpatient alcohol treatment and then randomized to
      CSC or DSC groups in a 2:1 ratio. The CSC group received smoking treatment concurrent with
      intensive alcohol treatment and the DSC group received smoking treatment three months after
      alcohol treatment. The smoking treatment protocol included behavioral counseling, contingency
      management with voucher rewards for verified smoking abstinence, and prescribed nicotine
      patch and gum. During a three-month period after the CSC target smoking quit date, both
      groups of subjects were asked to participate in a prospective daily monitoring procedure,
      calling into an Interactive Voice Response system once a day to complete self-report
      assessments of relapse risk factors. By comparing participants in the CSC group composed of
      many participants who have stopped smoking with the DSC group who are expected to continue
      smoking during this daily monitoring period, we will determine the impact of smoking
      cessation on alcohol relapse risk factors.

      Methodology:

      This study was conducted in the substance abuse day treatment programs located at Newington
      and West Haven campuses of VA Connecticut Healthcare System. These are three-week treatment
      programs meeting Monday-Friday for 4-5 hrs/day. Participants were recruited either before or
      soon after day program admission. Participants 151 individuals that are 18 years of age or
      older, meet Diagnostic and Statistical Manual-IV (DSM-IV) criteria for current alcohol abuse
      or dependence, report currently smoking 1 or more cigarettes per day, and are screened for
      medical contraindications for nicotine patch and gum use. Dependent variables are process
      assessments reflecting alcohol relapse risk obtained using daily Interactive Voice Response
      (IVR) technology. These relapse risk processes include alcohol craving, negative affect,
      alcohol abstinence self efficacy, alcohol outcome expectancies, motivation for alcohol
      abstinence, and self-control demands. Given the mixed results from previous clinical trials,
      we conducted bidirectional tests of the hypothesis that smoking cessation has an impact on
      alcohol relapse risk factors, examining whether smoking cessation leads to increased or
      decreased alcohol relapse risk.
    
  