
    
      Introduction:

      Chronic hepatitis C (HCV) infection can be complicated with liver cirrhosis and subsequently
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). HCC develops at an annual rate of 1% to 4%, although higher
      rates up to 7% have been reported in Japan. Recently; Reig et al; noticed that there was an
      unexpected high rate of early tumor recurrence in patients with HCV-related HCC undergoing
      interferon-free therapy (1). After this report; many publications have discussed the issue of
      HCC development and recurrence in HCV patients treated with interferon free regimens. Results
      of these trials are controversial with no definite conclusion till today. There is an unmet
      need for further study the effect of interferon free regimens on development of de novo HCC,
      recurrence of HCC and behavior of HCC in chronic HCV patients.

      Aim of the study:

      Investigators aim to study the effect of direct acting antiviral agents (DAAs) on behavior of
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and overall survival in patients with chronic hepatitis C
      (CHC).

      Materials & methods:

      Study Design: Prospective case control study

        -  Setting: Multicenter study

        -  Patients: 300 patients will be recruited in 2 groups assignment .

        -  Methods:

      Procedure of data collection

      The following data will be collected at base line for each patient:

        1. Medical history: including current and previous treatment with stress on History of
           treatment by DAAs (date started, used regimen, duration of treatment and treatment
           response)

        2. Full clinical examination

        3. Laboratory Investigations:

             1. Complete blood picture (CBC):

             2. Liver profile: alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST),
                albumin, total and direct bilirubin, prothrombin time and international normalized
                ratio.

             3. Renal profile: serum blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, sodium and potassium
                levels.

             4. Hepatitis markers: hepatitis B surface antigen (HBs Ag) and hepatitis C virus
                antibody (HCV Ab).

             5. Alpha feto protein (AFP)

             6. Tri-Phasic spiral abdominal CT: to diagnose HCC by typical vascular pattern and to
                assess tumor extension.

             7. Biopsy if needed After confirming HCC diagnosis, included patients will be
                classified according to barcelona clinic liver cancer (BCLC) staging system and
                standard of care treatment will be provided to patients with different stages
                according to BCLC guidelines.

      Follow up schedule:

      Patients will be followed by CT scan or MRI examination and routine liver tests including AFP
      every 3 months during the first 2 years then every 6 months during the subsequent 3 years if
      no evidence of HCC recurrence during the first 2 years' period (for all patients regardless
      HCC treatment receipt and its type). Local recurrence will be defined as reappearance of
      tumor adjacent to the treated site of the initial HCC and distant recurrence as the emergence
      of one or several tumor(s) not adjacent to the treated zone. Criteria for the diagnosis of
      HCC recurrence will be the same as initial HCC, i.e. presence of typical hallmark of HCC
      according to European Association for the Study of the Liver - European Organisation for
      Research and Treatment of Cancer (EASL-EORTC) guidelines and defined by presence on imaging
      of hyper vascular in the arterial phase with washout in the portal venous or delayed phases.
      All imaging exams will be centralized and assessed by the same radiologist.

      Analysis of results:

      - Statistical analysis will aim at identifying factors leading to change of behavior of HCC
      after DAAs in CHC patients in addition to determination of the overall survival in those
      patients.
    
  