
    
      We are an ageing population with life expectancy currently increasing at 2 years per decade.
      Crucially, healthy life expectancy is not keeping pace and older adults are now spending
      longer in poor health.

      Sarcopenia represents a major, serious and increasing public health problem. While the causes
      of sarcopenia are still unclear, vitamin D deficiency, which is widespread among older adults
      (reaching 90% in residential care), is associated with an increased risk of falls and
      fractures as well as skeletal muscle weakness. While it is known that vitamin D is essential
      for bone health, relatively little is known about the direct effects of vitamin D3
      supplementation on human muscle mass and function in humans.

      Physical activity (resistance exercise training (RET) in particular) is the most potent
      stimulus for skeletal muscle hypertrophy in both young and older adults. The researchers and
      others have shown that even in very old adults (>75 years) and frail patient groups, RET
      improves muscle strength and functional outcomes although the hypertrophic ability of older
      muscle is blunted compared with younger adults. Therefore in order to help older adults
      maintain good musculoskeletal health, interventions to optimise responsiveness to physical
      activity are likely to be most effective if they are multimodal, and include resistance
      exercise. One example of this is to combine resistance exercise training with vitamin D
      supplementation.

      The aim of the EXVITD study is to determine whether vitamin D3 supplementation is any more
      effective in improving musculoskeletal function when combined with exercise training compared
      with exercise training alone.

      The researchers aim to recruit 114 men and women aged 70 years or over who are ambulatory
      (with or without walking aids) and live in supported housing settings. Recruitment will be
      via local housing trusts/seniors groups.

      Participants will be randomised to RET (x3 per week) + 800 International Units (IU) vitamin
      D3 (daily) supplement or RET + placebo for six months. Participants will be stratified on the
      basis of vitamin D status, physical activity (measured directly pre-randomisation using
      accelerometry), and sex.

      Tests will include, but are not limited to, lower limb extensor power (LLEP) output, body
      composition, Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), Timed-up-and-go (TUG),power required
      to rise from a chair, physical activity, perception of musculoskeletal comfort/pain, falls as
      events, quality of life and venepuncture for biochemical markers.
    
  