
    
      Limited empirical data are available on effective intervention approaches targeting Chinese
      American smokers. The overall goal of this study is to increase our understanding of the role
      of family or social support in the facilitation of the process of smoking cessation among
      Chinese smokers. We propose the following specific aims for the study: 1) Examine the
      effectiveness of proactive recruitment of Chinese smokers into a smoking cessation treatment
      program through their family or friends; 2) Test the efficacy of a family assisted
      intervention using the stages of change approach in promoting smoking cessation in the
      context of an expert system intervention; 3) Explore the role of supportive and
      non-supportive behaviors in relation to both short-term and long-term smoking cessation
      outcomes in the presence of the expert system intervention. This study will develop a
      family-assisted intervention in the form of a self-help booklet based on the Transtheoretical
      Model of Change (TTM) that will aim at teaching the supporters how to use the stages of
      change framework to apply different strategies that best match with smokers' readiness to
      quit smoking. This study will conduct focus groups and a pilot study to pre-test the study
      intervention and study procedures. The main randomized trial will recruit a total of 800
      supporters and 800 smokers who are ethnic Chinese residing in the State of California. Each
      supporter-smoker pair will be randomly assigned to either 1) the expert system intervention
      only or 2) the expert system plus family-assisted intervention condition after baseline
      assessment by mail. All smokers in either condition will receive the expert system
      intervention. Half of the supporters will receive family-assisted intervention materials. All
      participants will be assessed at baseline, 3, 6, 12, and 18 months by mail or telephone. It
      is hypothesized that the expert system plus family-assisted intervention condition will yield
      significantly higher abstinence rates and higher portions to report quit attempts at
      follow-ups.
    
  