
    
      Patient with an acute Achilles tendon rupture coming to the local emergency room are asked to
      participate in our study. Patients have to be between 18 and 60 years and they must not have
      any contraindications for surgical treatment.

      Patients who are interested in participating in the study receive oral and in written
      information about the study of the main investigator of the study (Thorsten Schepull).
      Patients who then agree to participate in the study are registered for surgery. All patients
      are operated the same way in local anaesthesia within 5 days after injury. We are going to
      use a conventional open technique with a dorso-medial approach. Tendon ends are going to be
      adapted with a resorbable suture and we are going to implant 2 Tantalum beads (size 0.8 mm)
      in the distal part of the tendon and 2 Tantalum beads with the same size in the proximal
      part. A short leg cast is going to be applied with the foot in the equinus position.

      Randomization to early weightbearing or control group is done postoperatively

      Group 1 (control group):

      The short leg cast that is going to be applied during operation with the foot in the equinus
      position is removed after 3.5 weeks and a new cast is applied with the ankle in a neutral
      position for another 3.5 weeks. The new cast is removed after 3.5 weeks (cast treatment in
      total 7 weeks). Physiotherapy starts after cast removal, following our previous hospital
      routines. Full activity, including sports, is allowed after approximately 5 months.

      We are going to perform RSA after 7 weeks (within 15 minutes after cast removal), after 19
      weeks i.e. 12 weeks after cast removal, and after 52 weeks (12 months). A certain frame is
      used allowing us to apply a pedal to the forefoot and load it with weights. The first force
      applied to the pedal is 25 N and the second is 150 N. The same day CT scans of the injured
      Achilles tendon are taken.

      Group 2 (early weightbearing):

      The cast from surgery i removed after 2 weeks and replaced by a removable Air Cast Walker.
      The patient is provided with a special training pedal where pedal resistance can be increased
      during the treatment period. The patients are using the Air Cast Walker for 5 weeks (cast
      treatment in total 7 weeks), but is supposed to remove the cast twice a day and supposed to
      use the training pedal.

      Follow-ups at 7 (cast removal), 19 and 52 weeks using RSA and CT are performed as in group 1.
    
  