
    
      This study is a quasi-experimental time series study, designed to examine the relation
      between GnRH agonist treatment for 6 months in transgender female youth and
      electrocardiographic change in QTc interval. Study subjects will be identified when visiting
      the UCSF Child and Adolescent Gender Center (CAGC). A baseline electrocardiogram (ECG) will
      be obtained in clinic before initiation of GnRH agonist treatment and at the 6 months follow
      up appointment.

      Sampling scheme: Consecutive sample of transfemale patients presenting to UCSF CAGC (Child
      and Adolescent Gender Center) clinics meeting entry criteria, who consent to participate in
      this study

      Recruitment strategy: The investigators will approach all transfemale patients with pubertal
      Tanner stage 4-5 who are ready to start GnRH agonist. From past experience in CAGC clinic,
      willingness of patients to participate in studies is high. The investigators plan that ECG
      will be available at clinic visits to further assist recruitment.

      Retention strategy: Patients that are being treated in CAGC clinic are followed up every 3
      months. Patients are very compliant with clinic visits as patients are eager to complete
      their transition. ECG is planned to be available at the 6 months clinic follow up visit.

      Measurements: The investigators will assess QTc interval using a standard 12-lead ECG. The
      investigators will also measure serum levels of calcium, potassium and magnesium to rule out
      electrolyte abnormalities as a cause for QTc interval change, and testosterone, estradiol, LH
      and FSH levels to assess GnRH agonist effect. The laboratory analytes will be measured using
      standard procedures in place at the UCSF Laboratory, which is certified by Centers for
      Medicare and Medicaid Services, the California Department of Health Services, and the College
      of American Pathologists.

      Outcome: A 12-lead ECG will be performed using standardized inspected equipment, at baseline
      and after 6 months of treatment. ECG reading and evaluation will be done by a board certified
      cardiologist. QT interval corrected for heart rate will be assessed using the Fridericia's
      correction (QTcF = QT/RR^0.33), which is currently preferred in accordance with the E14 ICH
      Guideline adopted by FDA and EMA in 2005. To minimize observer bias, the board certified
      cardiologist who will read the ECGs and determine QT interval length will be blinded to
      before or after status of GnRH agonist treatment.

      Potential confounding variables: As this is a time series study with each participant serving
      as her own control, individual characteristics such as age, race and genetic factors are
      eliminated as confounding factors. Although this study has a within group design, typical
      disadvantages for such a research design, like learning effects, regression to the mean and
      secular trends do not seem to be relevant here. The investigators will need to monitor for
      factors that may change in the same participant over time and might act as a cofounders or
      mediators:

        -  Serum calcium, magnesium, and potassium levels

        -  BMI

        -  Starting other medications prolonging QT interval as: antihistamines, antiemetic or
           promotility drugs, azole antifungals, fluroquinolones, macrolides, antipsychotics,
           selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors.

      Statistical issues

      Analysis approach: A paired T test will be used for statistical analysis.

      Data management plan: The investigators will use the Research Electronic Data Capture
      (REDCap) system to create forms (appendix 1) for entering study patients information. The
      investigators will use the REDCap installation, and will store the REDCap data on servers,
      located at the UCSF Minnesota Street data center. These servers are maintained behind a
      firewall in a secure server room; all servers are backed up regularly off-site.

      Ethical considerations: This study involves obtaining an ECG, which has only minimal risk for
      the participants. Other information that is needed for this study, including blood tests and
      other measurements, is part of the regular clinical care in CAGC clinic. After the data is
      initially gathered and entered, it will be de-identified using a unique research
      identification number, to protect participant's privacy.
    
  