
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the tumor response, as measured by total tumor mass, carcinoembryonic antigen
           (CEA) level, measurable tumor volume by CT scan, and metabolic response by positron
           emission tomography (PET) scan, in patients with colorectal cancer metastatic to the
           liver undergoing chemotherapy and selective internal radiation therapy (SIRT) comprising
           yttrium Y 90 resin microspheres.

        -  Evaluate the hepatic toxicity of this regimen, as measured by ALT, alkaline phosphatase,
           and bilirubin levels, in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of this regimen, using time to in-liver disease
           progression as an end point, in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of this regimen, using down-staging to resectability
           as an end point, in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive 1 of the following chemotherapy regimens:

        -  FOLFOX6: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and leucovorin calcium IV over 2
           hours on day 1. Patients also receive fluorouracil IV continously over 46 hours
           beginning on day 1.

        -  FOLFIRI: Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 1 hour and leucovorin calcium
           IV over 2 hours on day 1. Patients also receive fluorouracil IV continuously over 46
           hours beginning on day 1.

        -  FUDR: Patients receive floxuridine IV continuously on days 1-14. In all chemotherapy
           regimens, treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients also undergo selective internal radiation therapy (SIRT) comprising yttrium Y 90
      resin microspheres on day 2 of chemotherapy course 1 (for patients receiving FOLFOX6 or
      FOLFIRI chemotherapy regimens) or on day 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 of course 1 (for patients receiving
      FUDR chemotherapy regimen). SIRT may repeat in week 10 or 12.

      In week 18, patients may undergo surgery if down-staging has occurred or they may receive
      more chemotherapy.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for up to 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  