
    
      Rationale:

      The injection techniques used with children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus
      should reliably deposit insulin into subcutaneous fat while minimizing inadvertent
      intramuscular (IM) insulin injections. Surprisingly, injection technique varies among
      centres, tends to be protocol driven and is usually dependent on needle length. The
      recommended injection procedure for diabetic children in our centre include a lifted or
      pinched skin fold either on the abdomen, thigh or buttocks with perpendicular injection of 8
      mm syringes and angled injection of 12.7 mm syringes. However both 8 and 12.7 mm needles,
      have been associated with frequent IM injections with rates of 38% and 86% respectively,
      reported using a perpendicular insertion (1, 2). IM injection of regular, NPH and glargine
      insulin has been associated with more rapid insulin release, variability in glycaemic control
      and an increased risk of hypoglycaemia (3-5).

      The risk of IM insulin deposition is known to be related to a number of variables including
      younger age, male sex, lower body mass index (BMI), injection technique (angle of insertion
      and a lifted or pinched skinfold), and needle length (1, 2, 6-8). Reducing the length of the
      insulin needle reduces the incidence of IM injections, however the use of 5 mm insulin
      needles may result in insulin being administered too superficially in the dermal layer (9,
      10). The consequence of intradermal insulin deposition is largely unknown, but may lead to
      increased insulin leakage, increased injection pain, and an increased immune response (10).
      Little information is known about skin thickness, although it does vary with age, obesity and
      puberty (personal observations).

      Smaller, thinner needles are also associated with reduced pain and discomfort. However they
      may cause greater insulin loss after the injection. This latter issue may also reflect the
      injection technique used with anecdotal evidence suggesting angled techniques may reduce
      insulin loss.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective: To locate and compare simulated insulin injections in children,
      adolescents and adults with diabetes given with 5 mm needle using a 45 degree and 90 degree
      injection angle, with and without skin fold in order to provide injection guidelines.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To study the thickness of dermis in abdomen and thigh in children, adolescents and
           adults with normal weight and over weight/obese.

        2. To evaluate the distance from skin surface to muscle fascia (abdomen/thigh) with and
           without compression of the skin in children, adolescents and adults with normal weight
           and over weight/obese.

        3. To quantify the amount of backflow of the test medium to the skin surface in adults and
           investigate whether there is a substantial clinically relevant difference among various
           techniques.

        4. To assess comfort and ease of injection technique

      This trial is a single-centre and open-label phase IV trial. The investigation will be
      performed in three visits. Patients screening will be done at the first visit, 2 ± 1 days
      prior to the second visit day. The second and the third visit will be performed with two
      weeks ± 3 days apart. At the second visit day all the subjects will receive (performed by
      study nurse) injected sterile air corresponding to 20 IU of insulin (200 µl) with Novofine 5
      mm needles perpendicularly in abdomen and thigh with and without skin fold, giving in total
      four injections at this visit. Following the injection, sterile air deposition will be
      visualized by ultra sound (GELogic5 or a Phillips IU-22 machine). A 12.5 MHz linear array
      transducer will be used. This measures depth up to 3cm accurately. To assess dermis and air
      after injections a 1cm standoff will be employed. This is standard ultrasound technique to
      examine changes close to the transducer and we developed expertise using this technique
      during our previous study. Because of the better visualization using a standoff smaller, more
      physiological, volumes of air can be reliably injected. Thickness of (i) dermis and (ii)
      distance from skin surface to muscle fascia at the respective injection places will also be
      measured by ultrasound both with and without lifted skin fold prior to injection. The adults
      will be then injected with 200 µl of test medium with a 5 mm needle perpendicularly in
      abdomen and thigh with a lifted skin fold, providing an additional four injections to the
      adults. Possible backflow to skin surface will be absorbed by filter paper and quantified by
      scale. Injection speed will be measured by time from start to end of injection. After each
      injection subjects will be asked to complete a visual analog pain scale and after the
      injections they will be asked their preference for needle technique and site of injection. On
      the third visit day all subjects will be injected 200µl sterile air (performed by study
      nurse) with 5 mm needles at 45degrees with and without pinch-up technique in the abdomen and
      thigh, providing a total of four injections to each subject. In addition, 200µl test medium
      with 5 mm needle at 45degrees in abdomen and thigh with and without lifted skin fold will be
      injected to adults. Possible backflow to skin surface will be absorbed by filter paper and
      quantified by scale. The weighing scale must be able to measure with three decimals in the
      metric system (microgram). A 10 cm visual analog pain scale will be used to assess the
      discomfort of the injections in comparison to standard injections.
    
  