
    
      Since late 2009, the relative supply of vessel allograft over the increasing demand on LDLT
      became seriously shortened in the investigators' institution. Thus the investigators decide
      to use prosthetic vascular grafts more frequently than before. After a preliminary study from
      January 2010 to July 2010, a prospective case-controlled study will be performed for 12
      months from August 2010 to July 2011.

      The case number of patients requiring MHV reconstruction is expected as being 200 during the
      study period. Of them, currently using homologous or autologous vessel grafts will be used
      for 150. Due to expected shortage of such human vessels, other 50 will undergo MHV
      reconstruction using ringed PTFE graft in addition to available autologous or homologous
      vessel segments.

      According to the implications from precedent animal and preliminary studies, the
      investigators set up the institutional guidelines for use of prosthetic vascular graft during
      MHV reconstruction of LDLT as follows: use only ringed PTFE graft; choose graft of a
      larger-caliber (≥1 cm); apply an intervening patch when making an end-to-side anastomosis for
      MHV branch of the segment 8 (V8); provide a slight redundancy in length; make the IVC-side
      orifice much larger than the usual; perform flow surveillance more frequently with dynamic CT
      scan and Doppler ultrasonography; place a stent as soon as any significant luminal narrowing
      is detected; and keep hypocoagulable state for at least 2 weeks and anti-platelet therapy for
      6 months.

      Technical knacks for secure suture include minimal removal of the rings attached at the
      surface of the ringed PTFE, use of PTFE suture material (GORE-TEX SUTURE; GORE-TEX, W.L. Gore
      & Associated, Inc., USA) - a non-absorbable monofilament made of expanded PTFE enabling 1:1
      needle to thread ratio to minimize needle hole bleeding at anastomoses, making a redundant
      patch plasty for end-to-side branch anastomosis especially for V8, and spray application of
      fibrin glues for suture-point minute bleedings and for stable fixation of PTFE graft at the
      liver cut surface.

      The primary goal for this clinical study is set to keep up the rate of luminal patency as
      100% for at least 1 month after MHV reconstruction for LDLT. Any occurrence of flow
      disturbance at luminal narrowing greater than 50% of the original cross-sectional area at 1
      month should make the guidelines revise extensively. This protocol is designed as being a
      prospective case-controlled study for 1 year.

      The use of PTFE graft for various hepatobiliary surgical procedures including LDLT has been
      permissible in the investigators' institution. Only after parenchymal transection of the
      donor liver, the size and shape of suitable vessel allograft for MHV reconstruction is
      determined. Thus the use of PTFE graft will be decided at this time after checking the list
      of all available allograft stored at the institutional tissue bank. The indication of PTFE
      use will be confined to the occasions that adequate allograft was not available. Permission
      for potential use of PTFE graft will be obtained from all cases of LDLT using a right lobe
      graft. This study protocol is approved by the institutional review board for clinical study.
    
  