
    
      "Three Rings Vulvoscopy" (TRIV) is a new, and original technique for performing colposcopy of
      the vulva, taking into account three different skin types and zones as well as morphological
      evaluation of vulvar lesions according to their specificity (non-specific and lesions
      specific for dermatosis). To evaluate the clinical value of TRIV, we designed two index
      tests, a quantitative test called "Vulvoscopy Index" and a semi-quantitative test marked as
      "N-S-P scheme." The sensitivity, specificity and diagnostic accuracy of both index tests were
      estimated in comparison with histopathology as the reference test in two groups of 164
      consecutive patients with vulvar discomfort (82 patients with vulvar dermatosis and 82
      patients with vulvodynia ) and 164 consecutive patients without vulvar discomfort (82
      patients with "normal vulva" and 82 patients with "impaired vulvar skin").

      The study was performed stratified, on three levels, whereby the first two levels were
      pre-assignments.

      The first level of the study was an evaluation of vulvar discomfort during the routine
      gynecological care in the clinic "Poliklinika Harni" Zagreb, Croatia, where we searched for
      symptomatic patients; and in the esthetic gynecological unit of the same clinic, where we
      searched for asymptomatic patients. Vulvar discomfort was evaluated anamnestically by the
      "International Society for the Study of Vulvovaginal Disease (ISSVD) Vulvodynia Pattern
      Questionnaire." On the second level, we performed detailed clinical examination (inspection
      and Cotton-Swab test), searching for non-specific and lesions specific for skin (vulvar)
      dermatosis, and patients with vulvodynia who fulfilled Friedrich's criteria. Patients with
      vulvar infection or pre/malignancy were excluded from the study. Vulvar lesions in patients
      with vulvodynia were not relevant to the diagnosis of vulvodynia.

      Among women without vulvar discomfort, we described those without any clinical findings
      ("normal vulva") and those with some non-specific findings on the vulva. We called this group
      "impaired vulvar skin." The results of the clinical examination were collected using "TRIV
      Form Data." On this way, we identified four groups of patients during the recruitment: vulvar
      dermatosis, vulvodynia, impaired vulvar skin, and normal vulva. For each patient with vulvar
      dermatosis (82 patients), the first consecutive patient with vulvodynia (82), impaired vulvar
      skin (82) and normal vulva (82) were taken for comparison.

      The third level of the study presents the investigation and included diagnostic interventions
      "Three Rings Vulvoscopy" and vulvar biopsy with histopathology. The results of vulvoscopy
      were collected using "TRIV Form Data" and then assessed by "Vulvoscopy Index" and the "N-S-P
      Scheme." Biopsy of the vulva from the symptomatic patients was taken to confirm/exclude
      vulvar dermatosis. Asymptomatic patients, who were recruited from patients undergoing planned
      labiaplasty, granted vulvar samples to further investigation.

      The statistical tests were made on a personal computer (PC) in the Statistical Package 12.0.
      All qualitative variables are shown in the tables with the absolute number and percentage.
      Quantitative variables are presented with arithmetic mean and standard deviation (if normal
      distribution), and by the median and range (if not a normal distribution).

      A chi-squared test was used to test the difference between qualitative variables among the
      two groups. A chi-squared test with Yates correction was used for 2x2 size tables, and
      Fisher's exact test was used for small values. T-test proportions were used for the
      evaluation of the differences between the two percentages. Variance analysis (ANOVA) and post
      hoc Tukey HSD were used to test quantitative variables with normal distribution between
      multiple groups. Differences between the arithmetic mean of the two groups were tested by
      t-test.

      Variables that did not have normal distribution were tested by nonparametric tests. The
      differences between several groups were tested by Kruskal-Wallis ANOVA and the differences
      between the two groups Mann-Whitney U test.
    
  