
    
      Although relatively less frequent, Gram negative nosocomial meningitis and ventriculitis are
      observed in critical care settings, often associated with brain trauma, brain surgery, spinal
      fluid shunt after brain surgery, spinal abnormalities or severe urinary tract infections with
      bacteraemia. Gram negative meningitis is particularly challenging for treatment, when reduced
      susceptibility of some of the common etiologic bacteria is encountered (e.g. Acinetobacter
      baumannii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterobacter aerogenes). Furthermore, the presence of the
      blood brain barrier (BBB) has meant that the choice of systemic antibiotics is very
      restricted due to the limited ability of many antibiotics to achieve adequate concentrations
      in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The poor CSF penetration may also contribute to an
      accelerated rate of the emergence of resistant pathogens in some patients/units. A
      significant proportion of Gram negative bacilli clinical isolates (from patients with
      meningitis) are resistant to broad spectrum antibiotics such as the third or later generation
      cephalosporins. With the wide spread use of these antibiotics, the incidence of resistant
      nosocomial infections has increased. Thus, there is an acute need for novel antibiotics that
      can achieve adequate concentrations in the CSF, while exhibiting an excellent spectrum of
      activity.

      Ceftolozane/tazobactam is an emerging newly available antibiotic that has a broad spectrum of
      activity, and could be potentially useful in the management of Gram negative meningitis. As
      compared to other commonly used beta lactam antibiotics, it exhibits superior antibacterial
      activity against difficult to treat Gram negative organisms, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa
      and Enterobacteriaceae spp. It is relatively stable against various resistance mechanisms
      encountered by other beta lactams, and may be useful in the treatment of multi-drug resistant
      (MDR) infections. However, data relating to CSF penetration is limited. In the critically
      ill, achieving adequate antibiotic exposure, especially against the high MIC of some Gram
      negatives (e.g. Pseudomonas), is difficult even in plasma, let alone in CSF for which a
      distribution barrier (i.e. BBB) exists. Thus, it is prudent to investigate the CSF
      pharmacokinetics of this new drug before it is used 'off label' by clinicians without
      supportive data.

      This study will describe the plasma and CSF pharmacokinetics of a 3.0 g dose of
      ceftolozane/tazobactam in critically ill patients with an indwelling external ventricular
      drain (EVD). We will use a population pharmacokinetics approach to determine if altered
      dosing or alternative modes of administration, such as prolonged infusion, should be
      considered to improve plasma exposure. Given that direct administration into the CSF (e.g.
      intraventricular route) is not only invasive but also may risk neurotoxicity, pharmacokinetic
      studies should explore the extent of drug distribution into CSF with systemic administration.
      There is no clinical data on the CSF penetration of ceftolozane/tazobactam in critically ill
      patients at the moment, and as such, this is a highly valuable study.

      Aim of the study is to describe the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of
      ceftolozane/tazobactam in the plasma and CSF of critically ill patients with an indwelling
      EVD.

      The study investigators hypothesise:

      The plasma PK of cefolozane/tazobactam may be altered in critically ill patients with an
      indwelling EVD.

      The distribution of ceftolozane/tazobactam into the CSF may be impaired by the blood brain
      barrier.
    
  