
    
      The purpose of the study is to assess the efficacy of an intervention to improve access to
      healthier foods by introducing or changing child menus in restaurants. We propose recruiting
      8 independent full service restaurants, either with or without existing child menus.
      Recruitment will occur in waves of two restaurants per wave for a total of four waves.
      Restaurants will be matched on key criteria such as whether they have a child menu and
      restaurant size based on seating (categorized as small -to- medium or large). Matched
      restaurants will be randomized to either an 8--week menu--only intervention or a menu--plus
      intervention that will occur at the same time. The menu--only intervention will involve
      working with the restaurant to add new healthy child menu items to their menus. The
      menu--plus intervention will involve working with the restaurants to add new healthy child
      menu items tailored to their menus, along with promotional materials and restaurant employee
      trainings to encourage customers to select these menu items. Weekly detailed sales data
      (reported by menu item) at baseline for one month, ongoing in all restaurants during 8-week
      intervention, and for one month at post intervention for all restaurants will be gathered and
      serve as the primary outcome of interest. Additionally, biweekly observations and customer
      interviews in each restaurant during one month pre--intervention phase, over 8--week
      intervention period, and during one month post-intervention phase to capture how orders are
      placed and what is ordered and reported to be consumed by the child. We will also assess the
      feasibility and fidelity of the intervention using manager interview data (baseline and
      post--intervention), restaurants audits (baseline, once during the intervention, and at
      post--intervention), and process evaluation measures (weekly during 8-week intervention). The
      study is not designed to provide a direct benefit to the participants and no such benefits
      can be guaranteed; however, participants may learn more about current public health research
      and efforts to understand child ordering and consumption behaviors in restaurants. This study
      may benefit independent restaurants as the findings will contribute to designing
      evidence--based approaches to improving the nutritional quality of child menu offerings and
      will help researchers to understand ordering and consumption behaviors for children in
      restaurants. This study presents minimal risks to the participants.
    
  