
    
      Problem: Pakistan has the highest neonatal mortality rate in the world (44.2 per 1000 live
      births), accounting for 7% of the world's neonatal deaths, and among the worst maternal
      mortality rate in the region (178 per 100,000 live births). These indicators remain high
      despite the best efforts of the government and NGOs to leverage modern practices and
      technology to improve maternal, newborn, and child health (MNCH). To this end, the province
      of Punjab, Pakistan has hired 48,000 Lady Health Workers (LHWs), has introduced multiple
      information communication technology (ICT)-based health monitoring systems, and has launched
      the Punjab Health Line staffed by 150 doctors 24/7. LHW effectiveness has been limited,
      however, given the size of Punjab (100+ million people). LHWs are expected to visit nine
      homes per day and in 40 minutes cover a long syllabus and perform several tasks. Similarly,
      high deployment costs, low smartphone penetration, and low literacy rates in rural areas have
      limited the effectiveness of ICT-based interventions. The Punjab Health Line has been
      ineffective for more mundane reasons-its adoption has been very slow despite extensive
      publicity.

      Research goals and expected outcomes: Super Abbu itself will generate useful information on
      frequently asked questions for public health professionals. In addition, the investigators
      seek to evaluate the effectiveness of Super Abbu at reducing maternal and infant mortality
      rates, and key drivers of these rates, in Punjab, Pakistan. In order to do so, the service
      must first be expanded to accommodate a new base of users. The investigators will then
      conduct a careful, large-scale randomized control trial of the service to understand its
      impacts on drivers of maternal and infant mortality rates, such as the number of antenatal
      visits, tetanus injections administered before birth, iron supplements consumed, and
      breastfeeding during neonatal days, and attitudes about vaccination, breastfeeding, and
      delivery.

      Impact on research fields: Current speech-based health services in the developing world
      either depend on the functionality of a smartphone, involve synchronous contact with a
      healthcare provider, only target women, are costly, or are any combination of these. Super
      Abbu pushes the envelope. In addition, a careful evaluation of the service conducted by an
      interdisciplinary team would impact future research in public health, in computer
      science/language technologies, as well as in development economics.
    
  