
    
      The purpose of this prospective clinical data collection is to document the performance and
      clinical outcomes of the ExploR Modular Radial Head.

      The radial head on which data will be collected is legally marketed and is not
      investigational or experimental. This data collection effort will document the clinical
      outcomes of the radial head.

      Surgical techniques and patient care are to be standard for the surgeon participating in the
      protocol. There will be no experimental or investigational surgical techniques used. The
      devices and products are to be used in accordance with their instructions for use and/or
      approved labeling.

      The outcomes and data collected include:

      The Mayo Clinic Performance Index for The Elbow The Quick DASH Outcome Measure Radiographic
      Evaluation

      All revisions, complications, and adverse events will also be recorded. Inclusion Criteria

      Replacement of the radial head for degenerative or post-traumatic disabilities presenting
      pain, crepitation, and decreased motion at the radio-humeral and/or proximal radio-ulnar
      joint with:

        1. Joint destruction and/or subluxation visible on x-ray

        2. Resistance to conservative treatment Primary replacement after fracture of the radial
           head Symptomatic sequelae after radial head resection Revision following failed radial
           head arthroplasty

      Patient selection factors to be considered:

        1. Need to obtain pain relief and improve function

        2. Ability and willingness of the patient to follow instructions, including control of
           weight and activity levels

        3. A good nutritional state of the patient

        4. The patient must have reached full skeletal maturity

      Exclusion Criteria Patients who have infection, sepsis, and osteomyelitis Patients who are
      uncooperative or have neurologic disorders who is capable or unwilling to follow directions
      Patients with distant foci of infections which may spread to the implant site Patients with
      rapid joint destruction, marked bone loss, or bone resorption apparent on roentgenogram
      Patients who are pregnant Patients who are under 18 years of age Patients who have had
      fractures of the humerus Patients who have had revisions where other devices and treatments
      have failed
    
  