
    
      Introduction Pitted keratolysis is a common skin disease, caused by various gram-positive
      bacteria including Corynebacterium species, Kytococcus sedentarius, Dermophilus congolensis
      and Actinomyces species. These bacteria create small tunnels in the stratum corneum, causing
      pitted lesions at plantar areas. This condition is frequent accompanied by feet malodor and
      is commonly found in young male adults, especially in soldiers, miners and athletes. The
      reported prevalence of pitted keratolysis among naval cadets in Thailand was 38.7%.
      Predisposing factors related to pitted keratolysis are pedal hyperhidrosis and prolonged feet
      occlusion. Although this condition is generally not painful, our previous study in 2018
      revealed adversely affects patients' quality of life.

      Regarding treatment modalities of pitted keratolysis, various medications and life-style
      modification have been recommended. Previous studies revealed efficacy of topical choices,
      including benzoyl peroxide gel, clindamycin-benzoyl peroxide gel, glycopyrrolate cream,
      erythromycin gel, clindamycin solution, chlorhexidine scrub and mupirocin ointment. Oral
      antibiotics and botulinum toxin injection were also beneficial in pitted keratolysis. As to
      life-style modification, wearing cotton socks and opened footwear, and proper hygiene, have
      also been suggested.

      Zinc oxide (ZnO) has been demonstrated to exhibit antimicrobial activities against many
      microorganisms, such as Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa
      and fungal infections including dermatophytosis. It has been proposed that the mechanism is
      the generation of reactive oxygen species, such as hydrogen peroxide, on microorganism cell
      surfaces, thereby causing membrane dysfunction. The antimicrobial activities have been
      observed to vary with changes in the physical and chemical properties of ZnO, for instance,
      its particle size, porosity and specific surface area.

      Nanobiotechnology , which is the integration of biotechnology and nanotechnology, is
      currently being used in drug delivery systems. The bactericidal efficacy of ZnO nanoparticles
      (ZnO-NPs) has been shown to improves with a decrease in their particle size. ZnO has also
      been shown to be is safe and compatible with human skin, which makes it a suitable additive
      for textiles. Research by Choopong and Sarayut established that ZnO-NP-coated socks exhibited
      antimicrobial activities against gram-positive (S. aureus) and gram-negative (Klebsiella
      pneumoniae) bacteria.

      Objective This study aimed to study the efficacy of chlorhexidine scrub, zinc oxide
      nanoparticles (ZnO-NPs) socks and the combination of chlorhexidine scrub and ZnO-NPs socks in
      prevention of pitted keratolysis.

      Material and Methods First-year naval rating cadets, who did not have pitted keratolysis were
      invited to enroll in this study. The cadets who previously received any topical treatment
      including topical antibiotic, antiperspirant or aluminum chloride within 6 months prior to
      the study were excluded. Consent was informed and obtained from all participants.
      Participants were assessed for behavioral risk factors and level of foot odor measured by a
      self-assessed visual analogue scale (VAS), using questionnaires. Clinically examination of
      feet was done in all subjects by treatment-blinded dermatologists. Subjects were randomly
      assigned either chlorhexidine scrub, ZnO-NPs socks, the combination of chlorhexidine scrub
      and ZnO-NPs socks, or placebo socks for 2 weeks. During the study, using of other topical
      treatment such as topical antibiotics, antiperspirant or aluminum chloride was not allowed.
      Participants who received chlorhexidine scrub were advised to wash their both soles with
      chlorhexidine scrub two times per day in the morning and evening. Participants who received
      ZnO-NPs socks or placeblo socks were asked to wear these socks everyday and at least 8 hours
      per day. All were able to regularly participate in physical military training during the
      study. Two weeks after the treatment, clinical examinations by dermatologists and the cadets'
      self-assessment questionnaires, including feet odor by using VAS, treatment satisfaction and
      adverse effects, were used to evaluate the effectiveness. Pitted lesions improvement at
      plantar areas, evaluated by dermatologists, was divided into no improvement, slight
      improvement (decrease of pitted lesions at feet for 1 level) and much improvement (decrease
      of pitted lesions at feet for at least 2 level). Data were analyzed using SPSS version 18
      (SPSS, Inc., Chicago, IL, USA).

      Duration of study: 6 months Study design: Randomized control trial
    
  