
    
      Antisocial personality disorder (ASPD) is among the most damaging and costly mental
      disorders, yet little research has sought to address the root causes of this disorder.
      Indeed, many clinicians consider ASPD to be "untreatable", and have largely relegated the
      management of this challenging disorder to the criminal justice system, effectively
      relinquishing responsibility for understanding and treating ASPD. Although a number of
      interventions are utilized by the criminal justice system, these interventions have typically
      focused on specific problem behaviors, such as anger management and substance abuse. These
      interventions, along with the more broad-based approaches occasionally studied (e.g.,
      criminal cognitions) focus primarily on cognitive processing, effectively ignoring core
      elements of ASPD such as impulsivity and emotion dysregulation. Recently, however, growing
      interest has centered on Dialectical Behavior Therapy as a potential intervention approach,
      particularly given the emphasis on tangible behaviors and the acquisition of skills to
      address the core elements of APSD. The proposed study builds upon an innovative
      rehabilitative program developed by the U.S. District Court in New York. Beginning in 2020,
      the Fordham Community Mental Health Clinic has provided a DBT-based intervention to
      participants in this rehabilitation program. This population is comprised of repeat criminal
      offenders who are deemed at high risk for reoffending by the Probation Department, the vast
      majority of whom meet diagnostic criteria for ASPD. This intervention, which builds on the
      researcher team's past work treating offenders with a history of stalking and intimate
      partner violence, has the potential to advance the utility of DBT for treatment of this
      challenging population. The present application proposes to advance this goal, by adapting
      DBT to target core symptoms of ASPD, including impulsivity, difficulties in emotional
      processing, and problem solving deficits. By adapting traditional DBT, this intervention
      hopes to demonstrate increased success in retaining and engaging this challenging population
      in treatment, decreasing the extent of problematic behaviors, and reducing the rates of
      violent and criminal reoffense. Most importantly, this application takes an experimental
      therapeutics approach, by identifying potential mediators of successful change in ASPD and
      quantifying the extent to which DBT impacts these traits and behaviors. Although DBT is not
      expected to "cure" ASPD, even modest improvements in the treatability of this challenging
      population would translate into substantial benefits given the high social, economic and
      health care costs associated with this disorder. Given these goals, the present application
      seeks to a) demonstrating the feasibility and acceptability of this intervention, b) reduce
      problematic character traits and behaviors (e.g., decreased impulsivity, increased emotion
      recognition), and c) reduce the rates of re-offending.
    
  