
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and efficacy of lenalidomide in combination with standard induction
      therapy (CHOEP- cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin [doxorubicin hydrochloride], etoposide,
      vincristine [vincristine sulfate] and prednisone) in patients with newly diagnosed stage II,
      III and IV peripheral T-cell lymphoma not otherwise specified (NOS), anaplastic large cell
      lymphoma (anaplastic lymphoma receptor tyrosine kinase [ALK] negative) (ALK positive if
      International Prognostic Index [IPI] 3, 4, or 5), angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma,
      enteropathy associated T-cell lymphoma or hepatosplenic gamma delta T-cell lymphoma.

      II. To establish the maximum tolerated dose of lenalidomide in combination with CHOEP
      chemotherapy. (Phase I) III. To assess the efficacy (complete response rate) of this
      combination. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate overall response rate (complete response [CR] + partial response [PR]) of the
      combination of lenalidomide and CHOEP chemotherapy.

      II. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the regimen. III. To assess the 2 year
      progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) using this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of lenalidomide, followed by a phase II
      study.

      Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV), doxorubicin hydrochloride IV and
      vincristine sulfate IV on day 1, etoposide IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1-3, prednisone
      orally (PO) on days 1-5, and lenalidomide PO on days 1-10. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      responding after 6 courses of treatment may then undergo an autologous stem cell transplant
      or receive maintenance lenalidomide at the discretion of the physician or patient choice as
      follows:

      TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo autologous stem cell transplant per standard of care.

      MAINTENANCE LENALIDOMIDE: Patients receive lenalidomide PO on days 1-21. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year.
    
  