
    
      Pre-clinical phase: We conducted the first phase of the study in cadavers to troubleshoot the
      procedures, and to determine the optimal transrectal approach (anterior versus posterior). We
      have determined the anterior transrectal approach to be feasible and preferable to a
      posterior transrectal approach.

      Clinical phase: The second phase of the project will be a feasibility study involving 10
      human patients. We will recruit patients who are already scheduled to undergo elective
      laparoscopic total proctocolectomy, total abdominal colectomy, completion proctectomy , or
      sigmoidectomy from the surgical clinics.

      Operative procedure: Patients will undergo a standard preoperative mechanical bowel prep, and
      will receive standard perioperative antibiotics and deep venous thrombosis (DVT) prophylaxis
      to reduce the risk of surgical site infection and thromboembolic complications, respectively.
      The subjects will be placed in lithotomy position, and undergo general anesthesia per usual
      routine. A laparoscopic team and a NOTES team will carry out the operation. The laparoscopic
      team will obtain laparoscopic access using standard laparoscopic technique. The NOTES team
      will perform rigid proctoscopy to assess the suitability of the rectum. The Karl-Storz
      (Tuttlingen, Germany) operating rectoscope will be used for TEM. After positioning the
      rectoscope, an intraluminal tissue oximetry measurement will be taken at the intended
      rectotomy site using an FDA-approved endoscopic tissue oximetry probe (T-Stat®, Spectros,
      Portola Valley, CA) passed through the TEM device. In human patients, we will collect
      peritoneal fluid for quantitative cultures at two time-points (immediately after peritoneal
      access, and after rectotomy closure), using a sterile suction trap attached in-line to a
      laparoscopic suction irrigator to determine the level of contamination from the procedure.
      The NOTES appendectomy will be completed using the flexible endoscope with laparoscopic
      assistance as needed. We will remove the specimen through the anus and close the rectal
      access site with a standard TEM closure. We will then perform a standard intraoperative
      insufflation test by submerging the pelvis and rectotomy site under saline, and insufflating
      the rectum to look for bubbles from the rectal closure site. At the conclusion of the NOTES
      procedures, we will remove the TEM device, and a laparoscopic team will proceed with
      laparoscopic proctocolectomy or total abdominal colectomy as originally planned. Once the
      specimen has been removed, we will use a bench-top test to determine the burst-pressure
      strength of the rectotomy closures. The specimen will be sent to pathology per standard
      routine, and postoperative care for the proctocolectomy or total abdominal colectomy patients
      will proceed per usual routine.

      Outcome measurements: We will measure operative times, intraoperative complication rates,
      tissue oxygen saturation at the closure site, and rectotomy closure strength using an
      intraoperative insufflation test and an ex-vivo burst-pressure test. In the human cases we
      will also obtain intraoperative quantitative peritoneal fluid cultures to quantify the amount
      of peritoneal contamination as a result of the NOTES procedures.

      Patients will be followed while in the hospital to assess for complications potentially
      related to the NOTES procedure. They will then return and be evaluated by their surgeon two
      weeks following their procedure. At this visit, any additional post-operative complications
      potentially related to the NOTES procedure will be noted in the patient's medical record.

      Potential risks of this study include the usual risks involved in a standard laparoscopic
      proctocolectomy or total abdominal colectomy procedures including bleeding, infection, injury
      to surrounding structures, port/trocar site pain, anastomotic leak, incontinence, and sexual
      dysfunction. Additional potential risks include those related to flexible endoscopy,
      including bowel perforation and bleeding. In addition, there is the possibility that there
      may be new, unanticipated complications from this modified surgical technique. We estimate
      that the additional NOTES procedure will add 90 minutes to the general anesthesia time
      required for the patient's laparoscopic total proctocolectomy. Patient risks will be
      mitigated by having the procedure performed by surgeons with expertise in advanced
      laparoscopic, colorectal and NOTES surgery.

      This feasibility study will evaluate the potential feasibility of this modified NOTES
      technique in 10 patients. Once a standardized technique is established and risks are shown to
      be low, a prospective comparative evaluation is planned to compare this modified approach to
      other NOTES approaches.
    
  