
    
      Subjects who successfully complete the Maintenance Phase of Study RTG114855 (parent study)
      and are expected to benefit from therapy with retigabine IR will be eligible for this OLE
      study. The study will consist of Screening (1 day), Open-Label Treatment and Follow-up (3
      weeks) phase. Subjects will initially receive a starting dose of retigabine IR at 900
      milligram (mg)/day and the same concurrent antiepileptic drug (AED) regimen that they were
      receiving at the final visit of the Transition Phase of the parent study. After the first
      week of the OLE study, the dose of retigabine IR may be adjusted to between 600 and 1200
      mg/day, with dose adjustments in increments or decrements of 150 mg/week, based on efficacy
      and tolerability. In addition, the dose and number of concurrent AEDs may also be adjusted to
      meet each individual subject's needs. The efficacy and safety issues will be assessed
      throughout the study; subjects will be instructed to call the investigator if they experience
      any efficacy or tolerability issues between the study visits. As the duration of the study
      will be determined based on the following four conditions: 1) regulatory approval and
      commercialisation of retigabine IR; 2) retigabine IR is not approved by the regulatory
      authorities; 3) the study is terminated by the Sponsor for reasons including, but not limited
      to, safety issues; or 4) the subject is withdrawn or withdraws consent, 4 years will be
      considered as a guide to the duration of the study. The safety and tolerability endpoints are
      incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs); proportion of subjects with AEs leading to
      discontinuation; change from Baseline in vital sign measurements and weight; change from
      Baseline in electrocardiogram parameters; change from Baseline in haematology, chemistry, and
      urinalysis parameters; changes from Baseline in American Urological Association Symptom Index
      and post-void residual bladder ultrasound volumes; and summary of the Columbia-Suicide
      Severity Rating Scale. Efficacy will be assessed by calculating the percent change from
      Baseline (parent study) in 28-day total POS frequency for the entire open-label Treatment
      Phase of this OLE study. This will also be calculated based on duration of exposure.
      Responder rate (defined as a >/=50% reduction from Baseline in 28-day total POS frequency)
      will also be summarised for the entire open-label Treatment Phase and by duration of
      exposure.
    
  