
    
      Aim 1: To test the behavioral effects of tDCS during social rejection. The first step will be
      to obtain behavioral effects of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) during social
      rejection without functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Whereas previous studies used
      "Cyberball" (a computerized ball-tossing game that simulates social exclusion), we will use
      the Social Feedback Task. This task was created by Dr. Hsu to be more ethologically-relevant,
      has been shown to sustain negative moods during rejection and activates the right ventral
      lateral prefrontal cortex (rVLPFC) (preliminary fMRI data from 50 healthy controls in Dr.
      Hsu's previous study). Anodal tDCS will be applied over the right or left VLPFC to measure
      changes in mood during rejection and neutral conditions. Depending on results, alternate
      regions in separate subjects may also be stimulated: dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, insula,
      anterior cingulate cortex, pre-supplementary, and supplementary motor area [all regions may
      be right or left hemisphere]. All of these regions have been shown to be involved in emotion
      regulation. Questionnaires will be given before, during, and after the task to assess
      cognitive and emotional states.

      Aim 2: To identify neural pathways regulating negative moods during social rejection, using
      tDCS for activation and fMRI for assessment. Using a cross-over, sham-controlled design
      similar to previous tDCS+fMRI studies, we will measure the effects of anodal tDCS over the
      right or left VLPFC on neural activity and negative mood during rejection and neutral
      conditions. Alternate regions in separate subjects may also be stimulated including the
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, insula, anterior cingulate cortex, pre-supplementary, and
      supplementary motor area [all regions may be right or left hemisphere]. All of these regions
      have been shown to be involved in emotion regulation.
    
  