
    
      Obesity and intake of certain foods increase cancer risk, but the most common treatment
      (behavioral weight loss programs) rarely produces lasting weight loss and eating behavior
      change, apparently because caloric restriction increases the reward value of food and prompts
      energy-sparing adaptations. Interventions that reduce the implicit valuation of cancer-risk
      foods (e.g., red meats, refined sugar) may be more effective. Emerging data suggest that
      behavioral response training and cognitive reappraisal training reduce valuation of such
      foods, which leads to decrease intake of these foods and weight loss. Internalized incentive
      value is reflected in a ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) / orbitofrontal cortex
      valuation system, which encodes the implicit reward value of food and is central to a
      reinforcement cycle that perpetuates unhealthy eating. Thus, the vmPFC valuation system is a
      promising target for intervention because changes to the system might disrupt the unhealthy
      reinforcement cycle. Interestingly, various interventions influence the vmPFC through
      distinct pathways. Behavioral training alters motor input to valuation regions, whereas
      cognitive training relies on lateral prefrontal "top-down" regions. The proposed
      translational neuroscience experiment will compare the efficacy with which two novel
      treatments cause lasting change in food valuation, and whether a composite of theory-based
      baseline individual differences in relevant processes (such as response tendencies and
      cognitive styles) moderate treatment effects. We will randomize 300 overweight/obese adults
      who are at risk for eating- and obesity-related cancers to behavioral response training
      toward healthy foods and away from cancer-risk foods, a cognitive reappraisal intervention
      focused on cancer-risk foods, or non-food inhibitory control training. Aim 1 compares the
      efficacy and mechanisms of action of these two interventions to reduce valuation of
      cancer-risk foods relative to the active control condition, using neural, behavioral,
      self-report, and physiological measures of the process and outcomes. Aim 2 is to establish
      the temporal pattern and durability of the effects across time; food intake and habits, body
      fat, BMI, and waist-to-hip ratio will be measured pre, post, and at 3-, 6-, and 12-month
      follow-up. Aim 3 uses machine learning to build and validate a low-cost, easy-to-administer
      composite that predicts whether and for how long an individual is likely to respond to
      intervention, and to which treatment. We hypothesize that self-report measures specifically
      related to valuation (e.g., willingness-to-pay) and to intervention-specific pathways to
      valuation (e.g., behavioral response tendencies, cognitive style) will predict differential
      response. Discovering these individual differences will provide a practical, low-cost tool to
      help interventionists "match" a given person to an effective treatment for that person. This
      project is very innovative because no study has directly compared the distinct and common
      effects of these treatments on valuation, used brain imaging to study the mechanism of
      effects, tested whether these interventions produce a lasting change in food valuation and
      body fat, or built and validated a composite that moderates response.
    
  