
    
      Degenerative mitral insufficiency secondary to valve prolapse is the most common valve
      disease in Western countries. In the absence of specific treatment, it spontaneously
      progresses to heart failure and death when it is severe. Surgical mitral valve repair (or
      mitral plastic surgery) is the preferred treatment for primary mitral insufficiency by
      prolapse in case of severe leakage if associated with clinical and/or echocardiographic
      markers of poor prognosis (i.e., at high risk of morbi-mortality during their follow-up).

      It is therefore essential to refine the risk stratification of these patients in order to
      identify at-risk patients who should potentially benefit earlier from invasive care (cardiac
      surgery), or conversely, close monitoring.

      Beyond the regurgitation severity parameters, a number of regurgitation resonance parameters
      may have been associated with a poorer prognosis. These parameters include dilation of the
      left ventricle (increase of telesystolic diameter), of the left atrium, decrease of left
      ventricular ejection fraction (FE VG), and increase of pulmonary pressures (pulmonary
      hypertension). The relationship between left, right ventricular function, atrial function
      evaluated by new echocardiographic techniques (Speckle tracking, 3D) and prognosis has been
      poorly studied.

      These new innovative techniques are now available in clinical routine and allow an evaluation
      of size and cardiac function parameters in a more reproducible way than conventional methods.
      The relationship between prognosis and the assessment of regurgitation severity by the
      convergence zone method (PISA method) has been well documented in the literature. However,
      the PISA method presents well-documented reproducibility problems. Other methods of
      quantification exist, either by echocardiography (qualitative, semi-quantitative and
      quantitative methods) or by MRI (quantitative methods). They are useful in clinical practice
      in a multiparametric approach, but their relationship to prognosis has been not well studied.

      Thus, the prognostic impact of the following parameters must be studied:

        -  Echocardiographic and MRI parameters of primary insufficiency severity and their
           combination

        -  Ventricular and atrial functions measured by innovative echocardiographic methods
           (speckle tracking, 3D, left ventricular ejection performance parameters)

        -  The remodeling of cardiac cavities related to mitral insufficiency evaluated by
           echocardiography and MRI, apart from the diameter of the left ventricle and the size of
           the left atrium that has already been studied.

      A cohort of patients with primary mitral insufficiency (MI) will be followed up to study the
      relationships of all these factors with patient prognosis. Part of this cohort will be
      retrospective, and part will be prospective.
    
  