
    
      Neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) are routinely used as standard part of a modern,
      balanced anesthesia regime. A residual duration of action exceeding the end of surgery, also
      called residual neuromuscular paralysis, is a common undesired side effect and increases the
      risk for postoperative pulmonary complications such as aspiration or pneumonia delaying
      patients' discharge from the post-anesthesia care unit. To limit the incidence of residual
      paralysis in daily anesthesia care, quantitative neuromuscular monitoring is recommended
      after injection of NMBAs. If a residual effect of a NMBA is detected at the end of surgery,
      reversal agents such as cholinesterase inhibitors, e.g. neostigmine or a selective relaxant
      binding agent, e.g. sugammadex can be administered. However, if reversal agents are not
      adequately dosed, the risk for a residual neuromuscular blockade re-occurs. Accordingly,
      neuromuscular monitoring is also useful to control the action of the administered reversal
      agents.

      Although several techniques of neuromuscular monitoring are established in clinical practice,
      electromyography (EMG) and acceleromyography (AMG) are the most common quantitative
      neuromuscular monitoring devices. Electromyography, the gold standard for detecting residual
      neuromuscular block, is based on measuring summarized spikes of evoked muscle contractions.
      Acceleromyography measuring the acceleration of evoked muscle contraction is also
      commercially available and easy to use. This acceleration, however, can be measured both
      one-dimensionally and three-dimensionally.

      This study evaluates the three described neuromuscular monitoring devices with regard to
      their precision to detect residual paralysis after administration of NMBAs and recurrence of
      neuromuscular blockade after administration of reversal agents in a clinical setting. We plan
      to include and randomize a total of 200 patients. The study participants will be recruited
      from patients scheduled for surgery at the Klinikum rechts der Isar der Technischen
      Universität München, Munich, Germany. In each patient, acceleromyography (either one- or
      three-dimensional) will be compared with the calibrated electromyography. The findings will
      help to indicate which neuromuscular monitoring device is most suitable for detecting
      residual paralysis and recurrent neuromuscular blockade.
    
  