
    
      Marijuana is the most commonly used illegal drug in the United States; more than 2 million
      Americans either abuse or are dependent on the drug. Therefore, there is a clear need for
      treatment options. Past research on marijuana treatments has focused on alleviating
      withdrawal symptoms. Minimal focus has been placed on how altering craving effects may play a
      role in treating marijuana addiction. Treatment with THC, a component of marijuana that
      causes the "high" sensation, may reduce marijuana cravings. This study will evaluate the
      subjective and physiological responses to marijuana-related cues versus non marijuana-related
      cues in marijuana users who have been pre-treated with THC.

      Participants will attend three 6-hour sessions, each separated by at least 7 days. Prior to
      each testing session, participants will spend the night at the Psychiatric and Addiction
      Research Center at Detroit Receiving Hospital in order to ensure no alcohol or drug use
      during the 12 hours preceding the session. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive
      an oral dose of 10 mg of THC, 20 mg of THC, or placebo. They will then undergo a cue exposure
      test during which they will be shown a nature video and will be asked to handle and smell
      various items; these will act as neutral, non marijuana-related cues. Next, the participants
      will watch a video of individuals smoking marijuana and will be asked to handle and smell
      marijuana-related items; these will act as the marijuana-related cues. Heart rate and skin
      temperature will be monitored continuously throughout each session with the use of electrodes
      and a skin thermometer. Prior to and after the cue exposure sessions blood pressure will be
      measured and questionnaires will be administered to assess drug cravings as well as related
      mood states. Prior to leaving the clinical center, the participants' vital signs will be
      evaluated to ensure that any cue-related physiological changes have returned to normal.
      Following the end of the study session, participants will have the option of talking to a
      clinician experienced in dealing with drug cravings.
    
  