
    
      Urolithiasis is a very common condition in the United States, with an estimated prevalence of
      11.7% by age 70. Furthermore, it has been associated with considerable patient morbidity and
      occasional mortality (Stamatelou, Francis et al. 2003). Direct costs associated with the
      treatment of renal calculi are enormous, as over 600,000 stone related medical procedures are
      performed annually in the United States (shock wave lithotripsy (SWL), ureteroscopy (URS),
      percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PERC), stone removal, ureteral stents, and stone basketing
      (source: Boston Scientific Corporation). Although the last two decades have seen considerable
      advances in less invasive techniques for the treatment of symptomatic stone episodes, as well
      as progress in mitigating the risks of new stone formation, our knowledge of the inciting
      lesion in human urolithiasis remains rudimentary and much debated.

      Until recently, the sequence of events that leads to the formation of urinary calculi were
      poorly understood, most fundamentally due to the lack of appropriate in-vivo data. Earlier
      theories of calculogenesis proposed that stones could result from tubular epithelial injury
      due to oxalate toxicity, a lack of urinary inhibitors of crystal formation or crystal epitaxy
      on a pre-existing nidus (Khan, Finlayson et al. 1979). Theoretical work on free and fixed
      particle growth indicated that a transit time from the collecting duct to the bladder of only
      10 minutes provided insufficient time for a crystal to grow to a clinically meaningful size
      (Jonassen, Cooney et al. 1999). Morphological classification of the directional growth of
      calculi supported the necessity for a fixed point of origin, in the absence of obstruction
      (Hinman 1979). These observations suggested that most stones must initiate from a fixed point
      or nidus in the collecting system or renal papilla.

      One such nidus, first described more than sixty years ago by Alexander Randall, was proposed
      to be the originating lesion for the formation of calcium oxalate stones (Randall 1936;
      Randall 1937; Randall 1940). In microscopic studies of renal papilla obtained at necropsy, he
      demonstrated the presence of 2-3mm lesions in 19.6% of patients that were composed of calcium
      phosphate and devoid of evidence of inflammation. Adherent to this, in 65 of 1,514 pairs of
      kidneys, he identified nascent stones composed of calcium oxalate and calcium phosphate. When
      these stones reached sufficient size, he hypothesized that they would break free, taking with
      them the underlying plaque. In subsequent work, 256 voided or removed calculi were examined
      and 106 gave visible evidence of mural attachment (Randall 1940). Later microradiographic
      studies would confirm the presence of plaque in a papillary location that could be
      co-localized with stone (Carr 1954). Unfortunately, all earlier studies of stone pathogenesis
      have suffered from lack of definition of clear clinical stone-forming phenotypes.

      There are intriguing reports to support Randall's, and our, hypothesis that stones originate
      from a fixed plaque composed of HA. Earlier microscopic studies of stone structure
      demonstrated the presence of concavities on small stones compatible with a point of mural
      attachment and indicated that apatite may be present at the attachment point (Rosenow 1940;
      Prien 1949). In an early x-ray diffraction and crystallographic study of 10,000 urinary
      calculi, Herring noted that HA was frequently found as the nucleus of calcium oxalate
      monohydrate, usually as a small discoid plaque which was felt to resemble Randall's plaque
      (Herring 1962). Later, Chambers performed an electron probe analysis of 115 small renal
      calculi. Of 92 predominantly calcium oxalate stones, he was able to identify small central
      areas of HA, usually 10-200 microns in diameter, in 70 (Chambers, Hodgkinson et al. 1972).
      Using scanning electron microscopy and x-ray dispersive energy, Cifuentes Delatte found that
      63 of 87 passed calcium oxalate stones had evidence of plaque (Cifuentes Delatte,
      Minon-Cifuentes et al. 1985). Observation of uncalcified tubular lumens found in conjunction
      with these plaques suggested an interstitial papillary tip origin of this material (Cifuentes
      Delatte, Minon-Cifuentes et al. 1987).

      We have noted that when endoscopically examining the renal papillae of patients undergoing
      PERC, oftentimes stones attached to renal papillae are encountered. We have collected three
      attached stones from three separate patients who were undergoing PERC. The stones were
      analyzed with a Micro CT device, and 3-D reconstruction with identification of mineral
      components was performed. The stones all showed multiple mineral components, including
      calcium oxalate, apatite, and probable regions of poorly mineralized matrix. Although the
      significance of these various components, in varying amounts, is not yet well understood, it
      is apparent that even at early stages of stone formation, multiple minerals in complex
      arrangement are present in papilla-attached stones. It will be only through a rigorous,
      prospectively designed protocol that the significance of attached renal calculi will be
      understood. By demonstrating that renal calculi in a population of common calcium oxalate
      stone formers originate from an HA plaque, we would link in a substantive way the origin of
      plaque with the subsequent development of stone.
    
  