
    
      Background. The combination of increased munitions force, use of improvised explosive
      devices, and casualty survival rates has resulted in a dramatic increase in the percentage of
      injured combat veterans living with a traumatic amputation. Of American Veteran amputees,
      35-98% develop chronic, intractable pain perceived as being from the missing limb, a
      phenomenon termed "phantom limb pain." This pain resolves in only 16% of afflicted
      individuals, and there is currently no reliable treatment. The etiology of phantom pain
      remains unclear, but evidence suggests that severing a nerve provokes changes in the spinal
      cord, thalamus, and cerebral cortex. When neural input from an amputated limb is blocked with
      local anesthetic (a peripheral nerve block), cortical abnormalities and phantom pain
      frequently resolve. However, when the single-injection nerve block resolves after a few
      hours, the phantom pain returns. These findings demonstrate that cortical abnormalities and
      phantom pain may be maintained from abnormal peripheral input, suggesting that a peripheral
      nerve block of extended duration-lasting many days rather than hours-may permanently
      reorganize cortical pain mapping, thus providing lasting relief from phantom pain. A
      "continuous peripheral nerve block" (CPNB) involves the percutaneous insertion of a catheter
      directly adjacent to the peripheral nerves supplying an affected limb. Local anesthetic
      infused via the catheter(s) induces a completely insensate extremity for as long as desired
      without any systemic side effects. Additionally, CPNB may be provided on an ambulatory basis
      using a small, portable pump to infuse the local anesthetic.

      Objective. To determine if ambulatory CPNB is an effective treatment for intractable phantom
      limb pain following a traumatic limb amputation. Previously-published small, uncontrolled
      series describe patients immediately following surgical amputation whose phantom limb pain
      dramatically decreased or completely resolved with CPNB. We have data from a randomized,
      double-masked, placebo-controlled, crossover pilot study suggesting great promise treating
      intractable phantom limb pain with ambulatory CPNB: participants (n=3) experienced no change
      in their phantom pain following a 6-day infusion of normal saline; however, with a 6-day CPNB
      of potent local anesthetic administered 4 months later, subjects (n=2; one patient returned
      to duty before crossover infusion) experienced complete resolution of their phantom limb
      pain. Within the 12-week follow-up period, one subject experienced no phantom pain
      recurrence; and the other subject reported mild pain occurring once each week of just a small
      fraction of his original pain.

      Specific Aims. The primary hypothesis is that phantom limb pain intensity will be
      significantly decreased 4 weeks following an ambulatory CPNB (as measured by the Numeric
      Rating Scale of the Brief Pain Inventory).

      Study Design. We propose a multicenter, randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled,
      simultaneous parallel and crossover, human-subjects clinical trial. We will include subjects
      with an existing upper or lower amputation who experience phantom limb pain at least daily
      for the previous 4 weeks. Catheter site(s) will be determined by amputation location.
      Subjects will be randomized to receive one of two study solutions in a double-masked manner:
      either a local anesthetic (ropivacaine 0.5%) or placebo (normal saline). Catheters will be
      removed after 6 days of at-home infusion. Although not required, each subject has the option
      to return for the alternative treatment four weeks later (crossover infusion). The primary
      endpoint will be the difference in average phantom pain intensity at baseline and 4 weeks
      following the initial infusion as measured with the Numeric Rating Scale between treatment
      groups for the initial infusion. Major secondary endpoints will involve intra- and
      inter-subject comparisons of additional measures of pain and health-related quality-of-life.

      Clinical Impact. From 2001-2006, over 70% of all U.S. military casualties endured a major
      limb injury, with an amputation rate of 28% within Operation Enduring Freedom alone. Previous
      conflicts have left tens-of-thousands of United States Armed Forces Veterans with missing
      limbs. CPNB are now relatively ubiquitous within the United States, but applied nearly
      exclusively to provide acute post-injury/surgical analgesia. If the proposed study
      demonstrates that ambulatory CPNB is a reliable treatment for intractable phantom limb pain,
      the resulting impact in treating the consequences of traumatic amputation will be immediate
      and profound, as healthcare providers within the United States Armed Forces and Veterans
      Affairs Medical Centers already have expertise placing and managing perineural catheters.
      Currently, CPNB is provided exclusively in the acute setting-to treat pain immediately
      following a battlefield injury or surgery-and not chronic, intractable phantom limb pain.
      However, because there is little technical difference in providing CPNB for acute versus
      chronic pain, the thousands of U.S. Veterans and active duty personnel suffering from
      intractable phantom pain could be treated relatively easily, rapidly, and with negligible
      additional costs.
    
  