
    
      With the aging of the population, Alzheimer's disease and associated disorders represent a
      major public health challenge. To date there is no pharmacological treatment to stop the
      degenerative process or behavioral disorders. This explains the importance of
      non-pharmacological approaches to stimulate cognition, reduce behavioral disorders or improve
      quality of life. Non-pharmacological therapies are the central focus of care, especially for
      patients accommodated on a part-time basis (Day Hospital, Respite Platform) or Full-Time
      nursing home (EHPAD in French). TNM also holds an important place for patients living at
      home, and belongs to the very general framework of informal care, which is a significant
      cost.

      In France, the cost of taking care of patients over 75 with this type of pathology is
      estimated between 24.2 and 30 billion euros per year, which is more than cancer or
      cardiovascular disease.

      At the same time, new information and communication technologies (ICTs) play an increasingly
      important part in our daily lives and can be a support in the field of health. In this
      context, ICTs are of great interest for evaluation, rehabilitation and assistance. At the
      level of care, the aim is to propose applications to train and / or stimulate cognitions,
      behavior and motivation. Serious Games (SG) are part of this framework.

      Az @ GAME (Alzheimer's Disease and serious games), is the winner of the e-health project
      2011-2015. This program has enabled several SGs to be developed that allow physical and
      cognitive workouts to be carried out with a therapist. The AZ @ GAME-ECO + study is a new and
      innovative step as it represents the first combined evaluation of the cost and usefulness of
      managing patients with Alzheimer's disease using the serious Games (SG). In AZ @ GAME-ECO +
      SGs are a new tool for institutions involved in patient care.

      OBJECTIVES The main objective of AZ@GAME ECO is to evaluate the cost-utility of the
      management of patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease using a serious game providing
      cognitive and physical straining compared to a usual management. Among the secondary
      objectives it is important to assess the real life feasibility in different types of care
      structures.

      POPULATION Male or Female ≥ 60 years of age / with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease or
      related disorders (CIM10) condition with a Mini Mental State Examination score between 12 and
      24. Patients are monitored in one of the centers participating in the study (Day Hospital,
      nursing home, Memory Consultation).

      METHOD This multi-center study involves 18 participating centers: Dependent Elderly Care
      Facilities (EHPAD), Day Care Centers, and Memory Centers, with the inclusion of 144 subjects
      (72 subjects per group and 8 subjects per center). It will be done in open form.

      After randomization, the centers belonging to the intervention group use the SG for 3 months
      (2 sessions per week). The control group centers will be able to use the SG at the end of the
      study.

      Medico-economic and clinical evaluations will be performed at baseline, at the end of the
      intervention (M3) and 3 months after the intervention (M6). An incremental cost-utility ratio
      will be calculated to compare the management with SG therapeutics and the usual management
      from a societal perspective and with a time horizon of 6 months.

      BENEFITS To gain a better understanding of the medico-economic benefits and usability of a
      new technology to train cognitive, physical functions while promoting motivation and social
      engagement in Alzheimer's disease patients in situations Usual care in Daycare, Nursing home
      and Memory center.

      PARTNERS Montpellier University Health Center / Groupe Genious / Alzheimer Innovation
      Association / Institut national de recherche en informatique et en automatique (INRIA)
      Sophia-Antipolis - STARS team
    
  