
    
      This is a phase II study in which patients receive a haploidentical HSCT from a single donor.
      The period between the donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) and tolerizing doses of CY has been
      extended to allow for an increased period of allogeneic response against tumor targets. The
      outcomes of patients undergoing this extra time period will be compared to historical data to
      assess efficacy.

      Primary Objective:

      1) To assess 1 year relapse free survival in patients undergoing hematopoietic stem cell
      transplant (HSCT) using the Thomas Jefferson University (TJU) 2 step approach with an extra
      day inserted between the DLI and administration of cyclophosphamide (CY).

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To assess the consistency and pace of engraftment.

        2. To assess the pace of T cell and B cell immune recovery.

        3. To assess regimen related toxicity, (GVHD) graft-versus-host disease incidence and
           severity, and overall survival in patients undergoing treatment on this protocol. .

        4. To assess the tolerance of the period of fever, diarrhea, and rash in each arm in an
           effort to determine whether a longer interval prior to cytoxan changes this side effect
           qualitatively compared to prior patient groups or concurrent patient groups. N.B.
           Patients with hematologic malignancies in remission will continue to be transplanted
           without modification to the original 2-step approach and will serve as a concurrent
           comparison group.

        5. To collect leukemia samples prior to transplant and after relapse whenever possible. To
           assess the overall degree of HLA-class I and class II expression on these paired
           samples. To test for loss of one or both HLA haplotypes in the relapsed tumor specimens.

        6. To determine the number of cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4+) cluster of
           differentiation 25 (CD25+) FOXP3+ regulatory cells post HSCT and to assess whether this
           is correlated with the development of GVHD after transplant.
    
  