
    
      Background Current treatments for osteoarthritis of the knee (OA) are partially effective. It
      is, therefore, necessary to find new, potential strategies that can complement the existing
      ones. In this scenario, the neurophysiological effects of Transcutaneous Vagal Stimulation
      (TVS) could be a useful solution. However, there is no evidence of the effectiveness of TVS
      in OA. This trial aims to assess the effectiveness of TVS in decreasing pain and increasing
      motor function in participants aged 55 years or older with OA.

      Methods A double-blind (participants and outcome assessors) randomized controlled,
      superiority, and clinical trial will be conducted for 94 patients with OA. All the
      participants will carry out an exercise program. It consists of 12 sessions over four weeks.
      Besides, they will be randomly assigned to 1) exercise plus TVS or 2) exercise plus TVS
      placebo. The application of TVS consists of electronic stimulation of the auricular concha
      using a portable device. Placebo TVS condition consists of the stimulation of ear cartilage
      that does not cause neurophysiological effects. The primary outcome is the reduction of the
      intensity of pain. The secondary outcome is the functional capacity which will be assessed
      through the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC). In
      addition, physical performance, pain-related interference, pain-related distress, quality of
      life in older adults and global change will be measured. Assessments will be conducted at the
      beginning of the study (baseline), at the end of the intervention and after 3 and 6 months of
      follow-up.

      Ethics and dissemination This project was approved by the Scientific Ethics Committees of the
      University of La Frontera and Southern LA Araucania Health Service. Research findings will be
      disseminated among regional stakeholders and published in peer reviewed journals.
    
  