
    
      For this study, a proposal of a 6-week intervention program will be carried out with lumbar
      stabilization exercises and clinical orientations, on 20 low back pregnant patients recruited
      by convenience and voluntaries from the community. Before intervention, all participantes
      will be evaluated by: electromoyography during three exercises, balance, and clinical
      outcomes such as pain, disability and psychological factors. All baseline testing and
      evaluation will be performed by a blinded evaluator to the study intervention.

      Afterwards, the participants will be randomized in two groups by a blinded evaluator (people
      not enroled to study): G1: exercises for lumbar stabilization; and G2: conventional therapy.

      The intervention will follow six weeks, with 50 minutes of duration each session of therapy
      including measurement of blood pressure, heart rate and the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)
      before and after each session, and the perception of exercise intensity monitored by Borg
      Scale. Within this proposal, the exercise sessions will be twice a week, lasting 40 minutes
      each, and followed by 10 minutes of theoretical orientation. The intervention will follow the
      CONSORT recommendations for randomized controlled trials. The intervention will start in: G1
      (n=10), which will perform therapy with specific exercises for lumbar stabilization including
      the Swiss ball as therapeutic resource; while G2 (n=10, control group) will perform
      conventional therapy including stretching of lower limbs and trunk. The participants will not
      be blind to the study due to the characteristic of the exercises that often reflect to the
      improvement of the symptoms. In case of eventual losses, the intention-to-treat method will
      be used for the analyses.

      After the intervention, all groups will be invited to come back to the laboratory to proceed
      the same evaluation from baseline (trunk activation during three exercises, balance, and
      clinical outcomes) For the analysis two-way ANOVA with repeated measures will be performed to
      compare the effects of the intervention (two groups) and times (baseline vs. end 6-weeks
      measurement)the effects of interaction (Groups x Times).
    
  