
    
      Mild Dementia (Mild Dementia) is a state of mind disorder (memory, reason, attention,
      concentration, time orientation) with difficulty in the complex activities of everyday life
      (bank accounts, shopping, transportation, etc)

      The olive leaves contain several phenolic compounds, most important of which are
      oleo-European and hydroxytyrosol. The properties of the olive leaves have been attributed
      mainly to these two substances. The benefits of eating olive leaves (juice, snack) are
      summarized as follows:

        1. Strengthen the immune system. It is the predominant benefit of drinking olive juice or
           beverage because of its active ingredient, oleo-European. Multi-pathogenic efficacy can
           be beneficial in treating influenza viruses, herpes simplex has been pathogenetically
           linked to Alzheimer's disease, yeasts (Yeast Syndrome), bacteria (11 species).
           Spectacular results have also been reported in the treatment of acute symptoms of AIDS
           by the administration of olive leaves. Also, neuroinflammation is one of the
           pathological mechanisms of Alzheimer's Disease

        2. Antioxidant action. Inhibition of oxidation of LDL cholesterol, caused by olive leaf
           oil, reduces the risk of developing cardiovascular disease. The simultaneous presence of
           "antioxidant" vitamin E that is abundant in olive leaves, further enhances this action.
           Oxidative stress is a proven causative factor for Alzheimer's disease.

        3. Antihypertensive action. Since the 1950s, there have been clinical data on the use of
           olive leaves in the treatment of hypertension through their vasodilatory action. One of
           the environmental risk factors for Alzheimer's Disease is also Hypertension.

        4. Inhibition of platelet aggregation. This property turns olive leaves into a major weapon
           for treating cardiovascular events and avoiding dangerous thrombi. Vascular cerebral or
           cardiac events are also vascular environmental factors of Alzheimer's Disease

        5. Increase in energy - Treatment of chronic fatigue. Consumption of olive leaves has been
           reported by many patients, but also by healthy people, that it gives more energy. This
           greater potency, potentially, can increase performance at work, performance in sport.
           Also, many cases of rapid recovery from chronic fatigue with frequent and systematic
           consumption of olive leaves have been reported. In short, they are a very important tool
           for modern and stressed man, the need for wellness and longevity.

      One can easily observe the richness of olive leaves in trace elements, minerals - the role of
      Fe, Cu, Zn, Al and Hg in Alzheimer's disease is very important - and vitamins, making them a
      valuable nutritional tool for humans. At the same time, their fatty acid (saturated,
      monounsaturated, polyunsaturated) ratio is ideal and indicates their cardioprotective and
      neuroprotective properties.

      The presence of vitamin E is twice as high as that found in a proportion of sesame oil (4.1
      mg / 100gr), making the olive leaves a food rich in that vitamin. As far as iron is
      concerned, its presence is greater than the corresponding presence of breakfast cereals
      (8.2mg / 100gr), so advertised as a complete and quality food for the modern man.

      Finally, particular reference should be made to the dietary fiber of the olive leaves. The
      dietary fiber is found in this food in abundance, making it a food that helps in the
      multifactorial treatment of constipation.
    
  