
    
      Multi centre observational pilot study using novel, contrast free functional renal MRI scans.

      A series of functional renal MRI scans will be performed (These scans do not constitute part
      patients routine clinical care). The results will initially be used to assess renal perfusion
      and fibrosis in patients with AKI and CKD. Subsequent analysis will be used to identify
      specific markers on the renal MRI scans that differentiate chronic kidney damage from acute
      injury to the kidney. Finally results will be used to stratify patients with AKI and CKD into
      low and high risk of subsequent deterioration in renal function.

      AKI Cohort

      25 patients with AKI stage 2/3 with or without renal replacement therapy (RRT) will undergo
      functional renal MRI imaging at day 0, day 90 and day 365.

      First Study Scan (Day 0): A functional renal MRI scan will be performed during an admission
      to hospital with an episode of AKI 2/3. Vital signs and SOFA score will be recorded on the
      day of the scan.

      Renal function assessment will occur± 2 days either side of the scan with an Iohexol
      clearance test.

      Second Study Scan (Day 90): Repeat functional renal MRI imaging will be planned at 90 days
      (±14 days) after the 1st study scan day.

      Renal function assessment will occur±7 days either side of the scan with an Iohexol clearance
      test.

      Third Study Scan (Day 365): The final functional renal MRI imaging will take place 12 months
      (±30 days) after the 1st study scan day. Renal function assessment will occur±7 days either
      side of the scan with an Iohexol clearance test.

      CKD Cohort:

      25 patients with CKD stage 3-4 eGFR 20-59ml/min/1.73m2 will undergo functional renal MRI
      imaging at day 0, day 7 and day 365.

      First Study Scan (Day 0): A functional renal MRI scan will be performed as an outpatient.
      Vital signs will be recorded on the day of the scan.

      Renal function assessment will occur ±7 days either side of the scan with an Iohexol
      clearance test.

      Second Study Scan (Day 7): A functional renal MRI scan will be performed as an outpatient.
      Vital signs will be recorded on the day of the scan.

      Third Study Scan (Day 365): The second functional renal MRI imaging will take place 12 months
      (±30 days) after the 1st study scan day. Renal function assessment will occur±7 days either
      side of the scan with an Iohexol clearance test.
    
  