
    
      This is a 6-month pilot intervention study which seeks to determine whether adherence to an
      intensive evidence based dietary programme, in addition to the prescription of both
      cardioprotective and hypoglycaemic medications recommended for patients with diabetes, will
      provide health benefits in terms of reducing the risk of developing or progression of
      complications of diabetes (particularly cardiovascular disease).

      The specific aim of the project is to compare the effects of an intensive lifestyle
      intervention (based on the recently published evidence based recommendations of the Nutrition
      Study Group of the European Association for the Study of Diabetes [3]) or usual dietary
      advice, in diabetic patients at high risk of cardiovascular disease, treated with
      cardioprotective and hypoglycaemic drugs.

      Study participants will be randomised into two groups:

        -  The control group will receive usual dietary advice and diabetes treatment from their
           usual GP and practice nurse (as detailed in the Management of Type 2 Diabetes and The
           Assessment and Management of Cardiovascular Risk guidelines published in December 2003
           [1,2]).

        -  In addition to usual care, the intervention group will receive intensive instruction
           about a recommended dietary pattern based on the recently published recommendations of
           the Nutrition Study Group of the European Association for the Study of Diabetes [3] and
           where appropriate use material, for example serving size information from the above
           mentioned guidelines.

      Outcome will be determined by examining surrogate markers of clinical endpoints. These
      surrogate markers will include clinical measures (weight, body mass index, blood pressure)
      and appropriate tests (haemoglobin A1c, fasting insulin, blood lipids, lipoproteins,
      inflammatory markers, and urine albumin creatinine ratio). A quality of life questionnaire
      will also be administered at the beginning and end of the project.

        1. New Zealand Guidelines Group. The assessment and management of cardiovascular risk.
           Wellington, NZ. December, 2003. http://www.nzgg.org.nz

        2. New Zealand Guidelines Group. Management of Type 2 diabetes. Wellington, NZ. December,
           2003. http://www.nzgg.org.nz

        3. Mann JI, De Leeuw I, Hermansen K, Karamanos B, Karlstrom B, Katsilambros N, Riccardi G,
           Rivellese AA, Rizkalla S, Slama G, Toeller M, Uusitupa M, Vessby B. Nutr Metab
           Cardiovasc Dis 14:373-394, 2004
    
  