
    
      All patients must have initiated ART between February 01 and April 30, 2017. A time window
      for the retrospective visits at baseline, 48 and 96 weeks is envisaged as approximately ± 8
      weeks.

      Patients will be retrospectively screened and selected according to inclusion and exclusion
      criteria prior to enrollment in each investigational site starting the day of its initiation.
      The study sites will maintain a list of all screened patients. All patients eligible
      according to the inclusion/exclusion criteria and after signing the informed consent form are
      to be consequently enrolled for their demographic and clinical data collection through
      retrospective chart or medical records review. The enrollment will continue until the
      recruitment goal is reached.

      Baseline and follow-up data will be extracted through retrospective chart or medical records
      review, if available at each investigational site. No additional interventional testsor
      medical procedures such as additional blood samples, X-ray or other technical investigations
      will be performed as a part of this study. If any data element is not available, it will be
      reported as missing.

      At baseline, demographic and clinical data on age, gender, employment status, marital status,
      substance abuse, HIV diagnosis duration, route of infection, AIDS stage, viral load, CD4
      count, concomitant medication, comorbidities (noted diagnosis by physician) are to be
      collected through retrospective chart or medical records review.

      At 48 and 96 weeks of retrospective follow-up, the investigators will assess through the
      medical records whether the patient was still on treatment with initiated ART (NNRTI, PI) and
      evaluate the estimated time on therapy without change of the NNRTI or PI agent within the
      class or without change of the NNRTI or PI agent to a different class.
    
  