
    
      Purpose: The primary aim of this proposed mixed-methods study is to determine the feasibility
      of implementing a home-based exercise program with the support of telephone-based health
      coaching (HC). The secondary aim is to test the effectiveness of the program on physical
      activity (PA) levels, psychosocial well-being, and physical functioning.

      Background: Cancer is the leading cause of death in Canada, and one in two Canadians will be
      diagnosed with cancer in their lifetime. Cancer treatments can prolong life, however it is
      often at the expense of a multitude of negative symptoms and side-effects that diminish
      quality of life (QOL). Exercise is one of the most effective and safe options among
      non-pharmaceutical interventions to manage the psychological and physiological side effects
      of cancer. Despite the known benefits, PA levels amongst cancer survivors are low. The main
      barriers to exercise in cancer survivors include lack of time, treatment-related side
      effects, and fatigue. One factor used to address these potential barriers is to have
      flexibility in programming, including varying sites for delivery of programs (centre vs
      home). While there is a preference towards home-based programs, adherence and maintenance
      rates are generally lower compared to group-based programs.

      Rationale: Home-based programs can address the preferences of cancer survivors and potential
      barriers of exercise, such as access and lack of time. However, there is a need to increase
      adherence in a home-based program setting.

      Objectives/ Research Question: The primary outcome measure of this pilot study is
      feasibility, while the secondary outcome measures include PA levels, physical functioning,
      and patient reported outcomes (PRO). We hypothesize that a home-based exercise program,
      designed to promote self-efficacy and supported by HC, will be maintained, and will improve
      physical activity levels, self-efficacy in managing the additional burden of isolation, and
      symptom management, such as chronic fatigue and QOL. The data collected will be used to
      inform the implementation of a home-based maintenance exercise program.

      Research Plan: Assessments of the two intervention arms 1) online group maintenance classes
      (tapered sessions, 2x/wk for first 2 weeks; 1x/wk for remaining 6 weeks); and 2) online group
      maintenance classes (same tapered format) with HC (1x/week for approximately 30 minutes) will
      occur at baseline and post intervention. The first wave of the intervention was run from May
      until July 2020 for 8 weeks and the second wave was run from September until December 2020
      for 12 weeks. Feasibility is the primary outcome measure, including recruitment rate (% who
      participate from those eligible), assessment completion, safety (adverse event reporting),
      attendance to remote maintenance classes, HC call completion, and attrition rates. Secondary
      outcomes include PROs of fatigue, loneliness, stress, social support, self-efficacy, QOL, and
      PA levels; and measures of physical functioning. Fatigue will be assessed using the FACIT-F.
      Social support will be assessed through the OSSS-3. Stress and loneliness will be assessed
      with the PSS and ULS-6 respectively. Self-efficacy will be assessed with a modified barrier
      SE scale and QOL with the FACT-general questionnaire. PA levels will be monitored objectively
      through weekly PA levels recorded with an accelerometer, and pre-/post intervention with the
      self-reported GLTEQ. Physical functioning assessments will be conducted remotely with a
      clinical exercise physiologist. Semi-structured interviews conducted post-intervention will
      focus on feasibility, including participant satisfaction, barrier management, pros/cons to
      the home-setting, value of the health coaching support, and facilitators to maintaining PA
      levels.

      Significance: Exercise improves physical and psychological symptom burden from cancer
      treatment and enhances QOL. During COVID necessitated social isolation, a feasible and
      effective home-based exercise program may increase the capacity of cancer survivors to engage
      in regular physical activity.
    
  