
    
      Optimizing placental transfusion at birth promotes a more physiologic transition from
      intrauterine to extrauterine life. There is increasing evidence about the benefits of
      enhanced placental transfusion in improving neonatal outcomes, such as higher hemoglobin
      concentration, improved hemodynamic stability, reduced incidence of intraventricular
      hemorrhage, less need for blood transfusions and better neurodevelopmental outcome in preterm
      infants.

      The investigators propose to evaluate the the safety and effectiveness of I-UCM versus ICC in
      mothers undergoing preterm delivery before 32 weeks, by randomly assigning them to one of two
      groups - study and control. The study group will undergo I-UCM during delivery and the
      control group will have ICC, which is the current standard of care. Both groups will
      subsequently receive routine care for mother and infant. In the study group the infants will
      be placed at or ∼20 cm below the level of the placenta and about 20 cm of the intact
      umbilical cord will be milked towards the umbilicus three times. The technique consists of
      pinching the cord close to the placenta and milking about 20 cm segment of the cord proximal
      to the umbilicus, towards the infant over a 2-second duration. The cord will then be released
      and allowed to refill with blood for a brief 2-second pause between each milking motion.
      After completion of milking three times, the cord will be clamped close to the umbilicus and
      the neonate handed over to the neonatal team. The procedure of cord milking will be completed
      within 20 seconds.

      Prenatal and delivery data will be collected from the mother's charts. Infant data will be
      collected from hospital admission records and from follow up for a period up to 12 months of
      corrected age. The infant data collected will include hemoglobin levels at birth, incidence
      and severity of intraventricular hemorrhage in the first week of life and neonatal morbidity
      (resuscitation measures, peak bilirubin, need for phototherapy and blood transfusion, sepsis,
      necrotizing enterocolitis, retinopathy of prematurity and chronic lung disease) and
      mortality. The neurodevelopmental status of both the study and control group of infants will
      be assessed at 6 months and one year of corrected age. The investigators hypothesize that
      I-UCM provides a greater placental transfusion and better neonatal outcomes when compared to
      ICC. It is a simple procedure which can be practiced universally and of great relevance to
      both developed and developing countries.
    
  