
    
      The objective of this study is to provide the experiences and data that will support a later,
      larger, and adequately powered effectiveness trial of the CALM-SCD, computerized cognitive
      behavioral therapy (cCBT) program. The investigators hypothesize that CALM-SCD is acceptable,
      i.e., patients will use it (90% of users will complete the first lesson within 3 months; 70%
      will complete³4 sessions; 50% of users will complete all 8 sessions), and feasible, i.e., the
      investigators can recruit >80% of patients approached, and >90% of enrolled participants will
      complete their 6-month follow-up assessment. The investigators will also have preliminary
      data on effectiveness and hypothesize that 70% of cCBT users will achieve a >50% decline in
      daily pain ratings.

      The investigators will enroll 40 SCD patients at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
      (UPMC) with chronic pain to either CALM-SCD or pain education (eEducation) and follow them
      for 12 months. Implementation of routine stress/pain screening in the UPMC Adult Sickle Cell
      Clinic allows investigators to identify patients with SCD who have chronic pain as indicated
      by self-report "I have had pain nearly every day for at least 3 months" or have been
      prescribed long-acting opioids for pain.

      Following confirmation of protocol-eligibility and informed consent, investigators will
      provide all patients with a large-screen smartphone (unless the patient owns their own
      compatible large-screen smartphone) with a symptoms diary app, and GPS tracking features
      pre-installed; this will allow investigators to track pain and mood as well as any opioid or
      non-opioid pain treatments used by patients, and steps traveled.

      Patients enrolled in the CALM-SCD group will complete at least 4 1-hour cCBT sessions over 3
      months using their personal or study-provided smartphone. Because cCBT programs are less
      effective without a human support component, participants will also be introduced to a care
      coach (master's level student tech who will receive training in CBT) who will contact them on
      a weekly basis by phone/text for up to 3 months. The care coach will reinforce CBT materials
      and encourage engagement. Participants will have continued access to the program after first
      3 months, but care coach support will only be available on an as-needed basis.

      Patients enrolled in the eEducation group will receive pain education through online modules
      that they will be asked to complete using their study-provided smartphone. Each module
      includes learning tasks, a reading assignment, and a short quiz based on material. The
      education group will receive care coach contact on the same schedule as the cCBT group. The
      care coach will provide supportive therapy and encouragement to complete modules and apply
      the lessons to their daily life.

      Patients who are not eligible or who are not randomized into one of the intervention arms of
      this study will serve as a comparison group to ensure we are treating a representative sample
      of patients. Further, patients who were eligible but were not randomized into one of the
      intervention arms will serve as a usual care control group.
    
  