
    
      Until today, diagnose of fever of unknown origin remains challenging in elderly patients. The
      presentation of the disease is often atypical and this can delay diagnose and treatment.
      Geriatric patients have a blunted immune response responsible for altered fever mechanisms.
      For example, thirty-two percent of geriatric patients presented an infection at the emergency
      service having no pyrexia or increased white blood cell count in the presence of an
      infection1,2.

      Consequently, the definition of FUO in older patients is different from younger patients. FUO
      in older patients is defined as tympanic or axillar fever > 37.2.0C, a rectal fever more than
      37.50C or a change of > 1.3 centigrade from basal temperature during more than 3 weeks3-5.

      Furthermore, the name FUO is probably not appropriate in this population and should be
      replaced with inflammation of unknown origin6.

      Knockaert et al have shown that the causes of FUO are different in older patients compared to
      young patients. The causes of FUO are more frequently found in older patients (> 65 years
      old) compared to younger patients (87-95% and 79% respectively). One explanation is the
      atypical presentation of classic diseases in geriatric patients. Infection, multi-system
      diseases and neoplasms were the most prevalent causes 3-5,7,8. These studies are old and the
      sensitivity and specificity of the diagnostic methods used presently, such as FDG-Pet-CT,
      have changed 9,10. The spectrum of diseases responsible of FUO or IUO in older patients could
      therefore have changed since the Knockaert studies.

      The aim of our study is to assess the spectrum of diseases responsible of FUO and/or IUO in
      elderly patients and to define the diagnostic approach using new diagnostic methods. For this
      purpose, we would like to compare young and older patients with FUO.

      The second aim of our study is to assess the usefulness of inflammatory markers, demographic
      data, comorbidity to help differentiate the causes of FUO/IUO. An increased white blood cell
      count is not always related to infection, especially in geriatric patients11-13

      Materials and Methods

      The design of the study is an observational prospective study which will start in juli 2021
      until open date in function of the number of included patient (at least 50 patients in both
      groups). Patients will be recruited at the geriatric unit and internal medicine unit or
      geriatric outpatient clinic of UZ Brussel and will be followed during one year.

      Statistics:

      Description statistics will be used such as means, medians, standard deviation and
      interquartile ranges.

      Confidentiality All data will be collected by the one or more of the investigators. The data
      will be collected in a way that patient names will not appear in the database (Excel file)
      and that individual patients will not be recognized by the examination of the collected data.
      The database will only be accessible by the investigators and protected by a password.
    
  