anatomic types of single or common ventricle in man morphologic andgeometric aspects of 60 necropsied cases .in 60 necropsied cases of single or common ventricle in man, fourmajor unrelated ventricular malformations were found.. (1) absence ofthe right ventricular sinus, in 47 cases (78 percent), designated typea,. (2) absence of the left ventricular sinus, in 3 cases (5 percent),type b,. (3) absence or rudimentary development of the ventricularseptum, in 4 cases (7 percent), type c,. and (4) absence of bothventricular sinuses and of the ventricular septum, in 6 cases (10percent), type d .three types of relationship between the great arteries were present..a normal (solitus) interrelationship, in 9 cases (15 percent),designated type 1,. d-transposition, the transposed aortic valve lyingto the right (dextro, or d), relative to the transposed pulmonary valve,in 25 cases (42 percent), type ii,. and l-transposition, the transposedaortic valve lying to the left (levo or l), relative to the transposedpulmonary valve, in 26 cases (43 percent), type iii . in none was theinversus interrelationship, type iv, displayed .three types of visceral and atrial situs were found.. solitus, ornormal, in 50 cases (83 percent),. inversus, an exact apparent mirrorimage of normal, in 2 cases (3 percent),. and heterotaxy, the uncertainvisceral and atrial situs associated with asplenia, in 8 cases (13percent) .the 60 cases were classified segmentally, according to the anatomy ofthe three cardiac segments.. the great arteries, the ventricularsinuses, and the atria .the classic single ventricle with a rudimentary outlet chamber wasfound morphologically to be a large left ventricle with a rightventricular infundibulum, the sinus of the right ventricle being absent(type a) .the myocardium of the right ventricular infundibulum, of the rightventricular sinus, and of the left ventricular sinus was identified bythe distinctive gross morphologic characteristics of each .the planes of the atrial and ventricular septa, and the relationshipsbetween the great arteries at the semilunar valves, were measured asprojections upon the horizontal plane, relative to the anteroposteriorline .an approach to cardiac anatomy is presented which is segmental,morphologic and geometric . this approach has angiocardiographic,electrocardiographic and embryologic applications .