hypophysectomy, replacement therapy, and the tolerance of theeuryhaline killifish, fundulus heteroclitus, to hypotonic mediahypophysectomized fundulus heteroclitus, as previously reported, survive only afew days after transfer from salt to fresh water.  survival time is the samewhen fish are tested 2 weeks or 2 months after hypophysectomy.  gradualdilution of the external medium produces failure at an average salinity of0.26% (0.67-0.02%).  this salinity is comparable to that causing failure afterabrupt transfer.  although failure is associated with hypochloremia, dailyinjections of a balanced salt solution or 0.6% nacl shorten survival.daily injections of teleostean neurohypophysial peptides, arginine vasotocin(2.25 and 0.0225 pressor mu per gram) and isotocin (1.32 and 0.026 oxytocic muper gram) do not prolong survival.  an extract of caudal neurosecretory tissue(urophysis) from male tilapia mossambica had no beneficial action at doses of50 ug per gram every other day.  purified ovine prolactin.  105 mu per gram onalternate days, maintained survival of 10 of 11 fish for the duration of the28-day test period in fresh water, irrespective of the period of pretreatmentin salt water.  purified bovine prolactin prolonged survival and 2 of 6 fishwere maintained for 28 days.  purified bovine growth hormone was ineffective.monkey growth hormone containing 2 u per milligram of prolactin activity,administered at a dose of 20 ug per gram (equivalent to 40 mu per gramprolactin activity), prolonged survival.  human growth hormone containing 4 uper milligram of prolactin activity, at a dose of 20 ug per gram (equivalent to80 ml per gram prolactin activity) also prolonged survival and 4 of 6 fishwere maintained for 28 days.the ability of pituitary preparations to protect hypophysectomizedf. heteroclitus from failure in fresh water appears to be related to theirprolactin activity and not to their content of neurohypophysial peptides.this suggests that an adenohypophysial hormone resembling mammalian prolactinis essential for survival of this fish in hypotonic external media.  carppituitary preparations do not protect hypophysectomized f. heteroclitusalthough f. heteroclitus pituitaries are known to be effective.