stimulus overload, action cycles, and the completion gradientsystematic inquiries into the origin of certain emotional disturbancesof infants show that consistent maternal care is vital for thechild's normal physical, psychic, and social development, indeed,for his survival.  the most elementary precondition for consistentmaternal care is the physical presence of the mother or her substitute.it has, however, become increasingly apparent that children'sdevelopment can also be stunted, and that they suffer damage ofvarying extent by the attention of, and close contact with, a motherwho dispenses what seems to be the "wrong kind of mothering".a model of the mother-baby interaction is proposed to explicatethe dynamics of the "wrong kind of mothering" and itsconsequences: my proposition is that the mutual exchanges betweenmother and baby consist in a give and take of action andreaction between the two partners, which requires from eachof them both active and passive responses.  these responses formseries and chains, the single links of which consist in what i call"action cycles," each completed in itself and at the same timeanticipating the next link.  i designated these seriated responseexchanges as the "precursor of dialogue," as a primal dialogue.the dialogue acts as a vector of the baby's development,influencing its direction and stimulating it to adaptive efforts andpsychic growth.  it follows that inappropriate mothering (quantitativelyas well as qualitatively) results in what is referred to atthis time as the "derailment" of the primal dialogue.controlled experiments with animals, findings of experimentalpsychology, and, lastly, clinical findings illustrate themechanics of the derailed dialogue and its sequelae.in the cases under review a surfeit of stimulation, a psychicoverloading, resulted in the derailment of dialogue.  overloadingprevents its subject from completing actions or responses initiatedby him.  long-lasting overload results in the cumulation of "incompletedaction cycles".  the sequelae of this cumulation areprofound changes in the behavior of the individual.  these changesare manifested in a departure from the norms of individual andsocial behavior patterns that are maladaptive for the individualand asyntonic with his society, that is, asocial.the derailment of the dialogue is triggered, perhaps evencaused,by the nature of the social setting.  one setting, over-population,is extensively discussed in connection with an animalexperiment, and the implications for the human community areexamined.