
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is already the leading cause of death in Brazil. The superiority
      of any particular agent among the groups of blood pressure-lowering drugs was investigated in
      various clinical trials. ALLHAT, the largest and better designed trial showed that
      chlorthalidone had similar efficacy to prevent fatal and non-fatal coronary events as an ACE
      inhibitor (lisinopril) and a calcium channel blocker agent (amlodipine). Chlorthalidone was
      superior to the other agents in the prevention of other cardiovascular outcomes, particularly
      heart failure. Amlodipine was superior to valsartan, an angiotensin-receptor blocker (ARB)
      agent, in the prevention of CHD and stroke. There is no head-to-head comparison between
      diuretics and ARB agents in the prevention of hard cardiovascular outcomes, and even the
      comparison of their blood pressure-lowering effects is scarcely described in the literature.
      Despite this, ARB agents are the leading brands in terms of profits in various countries in
      the world, including Brazil. This leadership is based on a strong commercial strategy, which
      includes the distortion of the evidences of clinical trials in favor of these drugs. The idea
      that they have blood pressure-independent effects is accepted by most, despite the evidences
      of better designed trials. The option by an ARB agent instead of a diuretic as the first line
      option in the public health system in Brazil would result in a large expenditure of
      resources, and there is a pressure to include them in the list of essential drugs provided by
      the government.

      This is a nation-based trial, with 24 clinical centers distributed in 9 States. A
      Coordinating Committee is responsible for the elaboration of this proposal and for the main
      decisions of the trial. The organizational chart of the study will include an executive
      Committee, a safety committee, outcome committee, lab and EKG centers, and the research
      units.

      Research questions

        1. Is losartan more efficacious and safe than the association of chlorthalidone with
           amiloride as the first option to control blood pressure in patients with stage I
           hypertension?

        2. Is losartan more efficacious than the association of chlorthalidone with amiloride as
           the first option to prevent the development of target-organ damage in patients with
           stage I hypertension?

        3. Is losartan more efficacious than the association of chlorthalidone with amiloride as
           the first option to prevent the occurrence of major cardiovascular events in patients
           with stage I hypertension?

      Methods

      Design: randomized, double-blind, clinical trial, controlled by an active treatment.

      Eligible participants: patients older than 40 years of age with Stage I hypertension.

      Exclusion criteria: low life expectancy, other indications for the use of diuretics, such as
      cardiovascular disease, intolerance to the study drugs, pregnancy.

      Random allocation: by a computer generated list, stratified by center.

      Interventions: Chlorthalidone plus amiloride up to 25 e 5 mg daily, versus losartan up to 100
      mg daily. Amlodipine up to 10 mg daily and propranolol up to 160 mg/dia, in an open fashion,
      will be added if blood pressure is not controlled.

      Outcomes:

      Primary:

        1. Blood pressure variation and proportion of use of add-on drugs.

        2. Adverse events.

        3. Development or worsening of microalbuminuria and of left ventricular hypertrophy in the
           EKG.

      Secondary: fatal or major cardiovascular events: myocardial infarction, stroke, coronary
      interventions, heart failure, duplication of creatinine.

      Follow-up and duration of the study: consultations for evaluation and enrollment and
      thereafter consultations at the 3th., 6th., 9th, 12th. and 18th. months.
    
  