
    
      This is a double-blind, randomized, parallel group, placebo-controlled study of healthy 60-80
      year old community-dwelling male and female subjects. The study consists of 8 outpatient
      clinic visits, 2 inpatient clinic visits and 8 telephone contacts (including the
      pre-screening call to determine a subject's interest in participation).

      Subjects will undergo a preliminary telephone pre-screening assessment to determine their
      interest in participating in the study. Once interest has been confirmed, subjects will sign
      an informed consent and undergo screening procedures. Subjects meeting the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria will be enrolled in the study and randomized to receive either 0.5 g/day
      of SRT2104, 2.0 g/day of SRT2104 or placebo once daily for up to 28 consecutive days. After
      the completion of the screening assessments and confirmation of eligibility, subjects will
      return to the site on Day -9 and will undergo a practice endurance testing session. In
      addition, on Day -9 subjects will be given a pedometer which they will be asked to wear while
      awake for 7 consecutive days from Day -8 and 7 consecutive days from Day 20 to estimate daily
      physical mobility levels in the home environment. Subjects will return to the site on Days -1
      and 27 for safety assessments, MRI/MRS assessments and exercise endurance tests.

      On Days 1 and 28 subjects will be admitted overnight as inpatients. PK samples will be
      collected through 24 hours post-dose on Days 2 and 29.

      During the dosing period safety visits will be performed on approximately Days 7, 14, and 21.
      Additional telephone safety assessments will be made approximately on Days 3, 5, 10, 17, 20
      and 24.

      The End of Dosing Follow-up visit will be performed approximately 35 days following the first
      dose of SRT2104 or placebo. An additional follow up safety telephone call will be made to
      each subject 30 days following their final dose of SRT2104 and/or placebo. The end of the
      study is defined as the last subject's last assessment (i.e. Day 58, the date of the last
      subject communication).

      Subjects will be instructed to self administer test material at home on study days 3-27. All
      study visits are outpatient visits except for Day 1 and Day 28. Subjects will stay overnight
      at the site the evening of Day 1 and Day 28. On Day 2 and Day 29 subjects will be discharged
      home following the completion of study assessments and when considered clinically appropriate
      by the study physician.
    
  