
    
      Chronic hepatitis B is a major health problem, affecting more than 350 million people
      worldwide. (1) First line treatment consists of pegylated IFN once weekly or oral
      nucleos(t)ide analogues (NA) once daily. (2) NA target the reverse transcriptase of hepatitis
      B virus (HBV), and are potent inhibitors of viral replication. In the absence of antiviral
      drug resistance, continued NA therapy is able to suppress viral replication over prolonged
      periods, and can prevent clinical progression to liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular
      carcinoma. (3) Currently approved agents include the nucleoside analogues lamivudine (LAM),
      telbivudine (LdT), and entecavir (ETV), and the nucleotide analogues adefovir dipivoxil
      (ADV), and tenofovir disiproxil fumarate (TDF).

      Entecavir ETV is a cyclopentyl guanosine analogue, and a potent and selective inhibitor of
      HBV replication in vitro.(4) In the phase III registration trials it resulted in superior
      virologic, biochemical and histological efficacy after one year of therapy compared to LAM in
      both HBeAg-positive and HBeAg-negative chronic HBV patients. (5, 6) Moreover, ETV proved to
      have a high genetic barrier to resistance with only 1.2% of NA-naïve HBV patients
      demonstrating genotypic resistance to ETV after five years of ETV monotherapy.(7) In
      LAM-refractory chronic HBV patients ETV appeared to be less potent and the frequency of
      resistance was increased. (8, 9) After five years of treatment 51% of LAM-refractory patients
      showed genotypic ETV resistance, and in 43% a virologic breakthrough was observed as well.
      (7) Recently we presented the promising results of a large European cohort of patients
      treated with ETV for a median period of 12 months. We concluded that ETV should not be used
      in patients with a prior history of LAM-resistance. However, prior treatment with ADV did not
      influence the efficacy of ETV in these patients.(10)

      HBeAg loss or seroconversion In HBeAg positive patients, HBeAg loss or seroconversion is the
      major objective of NA treatment regimes according to current guidelines. HBeAg loss or
      seroconversion is usually associated with sustained remission and a very low risk for the
      development of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. (11-13) PEG-IFN induced HBeAg
      seroconversion was shown to be sustained in 70% after a 3 year follow up. (14) There are some
      contradictory results concerning NA induced durability of HBeAg loss or seroconversion. First
      reports on lamuvidine induced HBeAg loss or seroconversion were rather promising.(15-17)
      However, more recent and also larger studies report much higher relapse rates and predictors
      of sustainability were proposed. (18-21) The registration trial of entecavir showed a 82%
      durability after 24 weeks without consolidation therapy.(6) Recently we showed that the
      durability of HBeAg seroconversion was very poor with 42%, 58% and 74% seroreversion
      respectively 1,2 and 3 years after seroconversion on different NA treatment regimes. However,
      only a minority of these patients was treated with the newer and more potent NA. (22)

      As the increasing number of patients who experienced treatment failure to different NA
      treatment regimens poses a growing problem for the clinician, data on the efficacy of ETV in
      these NA-experienced patient groups is warranted. Furthermore, current guidelines are subject
      of discussion as durability of NA induced HBeAg loss or seroconversion seems less sustained
      then expected, and prolonged or maybe infinite therapy may be necessary to prevent long term
      complications.
    
  