
    
      Methods Study Design: The study has a one-group pretest-posttest design. The personal data of
      individuals were kept confidential and the data were shared anonymously upon request from the
      principal researcher. The TREND statement will be followed.

      Subjects Fifty-seven participants will be recruited to participate in this study; the sample
      was one of convenience. The inclusion and exclusion criteria are as follows: age from 18 to
      65 years old, not having a positive diagnosis for any disease which influences balance, no
      participation in any other trial, not suffering from an injury in the 3 months before the
      study or fractures in the previous 6 months, and no falls in the previous month. All
      individuals provided informed consent before enrolment.

      Intervention All the participants received a single session of 30-45 min of IMT. All the
      treatment sessions took place at the UIC laboratory. The IMT session was performed over two
      days by four physiotherapists and a doctor. All have more than five years of experience in
      IMT treatment.

      The first level of IMT was treated in this study: the objective is to harmonize the
      Cranio-sacral and sacro-pelvic systems, as this is fundamental for maintaining good posture.
      The first therapeutic maneuvers should be focused on releasing of the sacrum and the pelvis.
      The first is considered a key area for the correct transmission of forces and loads from the
      lower limbs to the upper limbs and vice versa and shares the role of rigid elements for this
      purpose (bones) and tensile elements (muscles, ligaments, fascia) in the whole body. At this
      level. Compensatory injuries that the body has started after a primary injury are treated on
      this level, through the Fluidic Chains. This also includes the treatment of some traumatic
      injuries, such as cranial strains, the compression of spheno-basilar synchondrosis, injuries
      of the pelvis and occipital bone, and damage to the flexion-extension and lateral
      displacement of the vertebrae. The diagnosis of this level is performed by cranial somotopias
      (reflex points on the skull and face). Practically all the treatment is carried out on the
      sacrum. The first step is the "fuses," which are vibration zones that act as a protection
      system for the body (1). These points sometimes stop working, which interrupts the correct
      movement of the PRM: 1st fuse: Inn-trang (on the forehead between the two eyebrows, the 4th
      sacral vertebra is stimulated if it is not adjusted). A massage on the scalp in several very
      soft circles that goes from the frontal to the occipital area is performed 6 times. 2nd fuse:
      1st dorsal vertebra, 4th cervical, 4th dorsal, and 3rd lumbar. 3rd fuse: C0 (base of the
      occipital), a zone of the 2nd sacral vertebra, and the space between the spines of the 2nd
      and 3rd dorsal vertebrae and finally point R1 (between the 2nd and 3 rd metatarsal). If any
      point is blocked it is treated and harmonized with a soft touch towards the occipital.
    
  