
    
      This is randomized controlled trial to determine the efficacy of autologous, micro-fragmented
      adipose tissue (MFAT) injection under ultrasound guidance for chronic, nonresponsive shoulder
      pain due to rotator cuff disease (i.e., rotator cuff tendinopathy) in persons with spinal
      cord injury (SCI). The control for this study, to which MFAT will be compared, is
      corticosteroid injection into the subacromial space. Twenty-four (24) persons with SCI who
      have chronic shoulder pain for longer than 6 months in spite of completing conservative
      treatment and who are diagnosed with rotator cuff disease on examination will be recruited.

      MFAT Group: Micro-fragmented adipose tissue will be obtained by using a minimal manipulation
      technique in a closed system (Lipogems®), without the addition of enzymes or any additives.
      The final product will consist of micronized fat tissue yielding fat clusters with preserved
      vascular stroma of about 500 microns with intact stromal vascular niches and harboring
      regenerative cellular elements. Approximately 6 mL of micro-fragmented adipose will be
      injected into the tendon with a 22-gauge needle under continuous ultrasound guidance. No
      other biological or pharmacological agents will be used in combination with the
      micro-fragmented adipose.

      Corticosteroid Group: In the corticosteroid group, participants will receive a corticosteroid
      injection (BMS, Kenacort-A 40 mg [triamcinolone acetonide]) into the subacromial space under
      direct ultrasound guidance by means of a 5-mL syringe with a 22-guage needle.

      Both Groups: After 24 hours, participants will be given a standardized stretching protocol to
      follow for 4 weeks followed by a formal strengthening program. Participants will be followed
      for adverse events and changes in shoulder pain intensity on an 11-point numerical rating
      scale (NRS; 0-10, with anchors "no pain" and "pain as bad as you can imagine"); the
      Wheelchair User's Shoulder Pain Index (WUSPI; 15-item disease-specific functional measure of
      shoulder pain in persons with SCI); the PROMIS Physical Functioning short form; the Brief
      Pain Inventory interference items (BPI-I7; a subscale of 7 items measuring interference with
      general activity, sleep, mood, relationships, etc.); and a 5-point subject global impression
      of change (SGIC) scale. Subjects will be examined at 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, and 6
      months after the treatment. In addition to subjective outcome measures, quantitative
      ultrasounds will be conducted at baseline, 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, and 6 months
      post-treatment.
    
  