
    
      The prostate may change position on a day-to-day basis due to differences in positioning,
      muscle tone, rectal filling, and bladder filling. Soft tissue like the prostate is not
      usually visible with normal x-rays, but certain metals like gold are visible. Many
      institutions are using an FDA-approved system (fiducial system), the one being used in this
      study, which involves implanting small gold markers to locate the prostate on a daily basis.
      This system allows the prostate to be located before treatment, which may improve radiation
      delivery to the prostate and decrease radiation exposure to normal tissue such as the rectum
      and bladder. The ability of this system to provide information on the location of the
      prostate before treatment should allow for more precise and accurate radiation treatment of
      prostate cancer.

      The small implanted gold markers are 3 mm long and 1 mm wide (about the size of a grain of
      rice). If you agree to take part in this study, 3 markers will be permanently implanted into
      your prostate using a needle similar to the biopsy needle used to diagnose your cancer.

      Treatment for prostate cancer during this research study will not be different from the MD
      Anderson standard of care. You will have intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT)
      treatment for the prostate cancer performed using the CT-Linac treatment machine (ExaCT,
      Varian Medical Systems, Palo Alto, CA). This machine will have the same IMRT capabilities as
      other treatment machines in the Radiation Oncology Department.

      During the study, the position of the gold markers seen on x-ray will be used to make
      adjustments to the position of your prostate for your radiation therapy treatment. The
      positions reported by the fiducial system will be recorded and used for daily treatment.

      Three (3) times per week, you will have a CT scan of your prostate. The CT scans will be
      performed just before the delivery of radiation. Radiotherapists will assist you onto the
      treatment table and position it for your treatment. The treatment table will then be rotated
      180 degrees from the treatment machine and the CT scan of your prostate will be performed.
      After the CT scan, which will take about 5-8 minutes, the couch will be rotated back to the
      original position.

      A trans-abdominal ultrasound of your prostate will also be performed twice per week for the
      first two weeks and then once a week from then on while you are on study. The MD Anderson
      staff and researchers will analyze the changes in prostate movement during radiation therapy
      using the scanned CT images and ultrasound images and compare them with positional changes
      displayed by the fiducial-based system.

      Targeting of your prostate on a daily basis will be performed using the fiducial-based
      system. This will involve performing a pair of x-rays before your treatment. A shift will be
      made if needed using the implanted prostate markers. The position of the seeds after the
      shift will be routinely verified with another pair of x-rays. After alignment has occurred, a
      radiation treatment will then be delivered.

      This is an investigational study. The fiducial-based system is FDA-approved. A total of 20
      patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  