
    
      Performed on the pregnant women in the intervention group (Virtual Reality Glass Group-VRGG)
      Pregnant women who met the inclusion criteria and were in the 28th weeks of pregnancy were
      assigned in the intervention or control group according to the randomization chart when they
      came to the Obstetrics and Gynecology Polyclinic for pregnancy follow-up. Pregnant women in
      the intervention group were informed about the study, and their verbal and written consent
      was obtained. The third author and the Gynecology and Obstetrics Specialist evaluated the
      presentation of the baby, amniotic fluid, placenta, umbilical artery doppler, fetal biometry
      (BPD, HC, AC, FL) and fetal respiration with the Voluson 730 PRO ultrasound device. In the
      remaining time, if the position of the baby is suitable, it was ensured that video images
      were recorded on the phone of the pregnant woman by looking at the baby's face with the help
      of a 3D / 4D probe. Although it might be performed in earlier and later weeks, such visual
      evaluations are made in the 27th-28th weeks since the visualization is better. The ultrasound
      session both for the evaluation of the fetus and for visual purposes took 15-20 minutes in
      total. These pregnant women were asked to bring their phone that the video was recorded with
      them to the labor. When the pregnant women got into labor, they were hospitalized by the
      third researcher. The follow-ups and labor were also performed by the third author. These
      two-dimensional images were converted into three-dimensional images through an application
      installed in the mother's phone and were shown to her with a VR Box 3 D virtual reality glass
      one after another. In cases where the program was not compatible with the mother's phone, it
      was watched on the researcher's phone. The total duration of image viewing was recorded.

      Practices performed on the pregnant women in the control group (Control Group-CG) Pregnant
      women who met the inclusion criteria and were in the 28th weeks of pregnancy were assigned to
      the control group according to the randomization chart. When the pregnant women got into
      labor, they were hospitalized by the third researcher. No practices other than the routine
      were applied on pregnant women in the control group. These routine practices are monitoring
      pregnant women's cervical dilation, contraction and fetal heart rate, providing freedom of
      action, restricting oral intake for labor duration. No oxytocin induction or any analgesic
      were applied on the pregnant women in both groups. The rooms where the pregnant women stayed
      were kept dim and calm. The pregnant women in the control group were monitored and delivered
      by the third author during the labor process. For not hampering the monitoring of pregnant
      women, only one pregnant woman was included in the study at the same time. The Visual Analog
      Scale (VAS) was applied to both groups when cervical dilatation was 4 cm and 9 cm. The
      Women's Perception for the Scale of Supportive Care Given During Labor (POBS) and the
      Perinatal Anxiety Screening Scale (PASS) were applied almost two hours after labor (so that
      the mother had time to breastfeed the baby and the mother's vital signs were stabilized).
    
  