
    
      Background Unipolar and bipolar disorder combined account for nearly half of all morbidity
      and mortality due to mental and substance use disorders, and burden society with the highest
      health care costs of all psychiatric and neurological disorders. Among these, costs due to
      psychiatric hospitalization are a major burden. Smartphones comprise an innovative and unique
      platform for monitoring and treatment of depression and mania. No prior trial has
      investigated whether the use of a smartphone-based system can prevent re-admission among
      patients discharged from hospital.

      Methods The RADMIS trials use a randomized controlled single-blind parallel-group design.
      Patients with unipolar disorder and patients with bipolar disorder are invited to participate
      in each their trial when discharged from psychiatric hospitals in The Capital Region of
      Denmark following an affective episode and randomized to either 1) a smartphone-based
      monitoring system including a) an integrated feedback loop between patients and clinicians
      and b) context-aware CBT modules (intervention group) or 2) standard treatment (control
      group) for a 6-months trial period. The trial is started in March 2017. The outcomes are 1)
      differences in the number and duration of re-admissions between the intervention group and
      the control group (primary), 2) differences in severity of depressive and manic symptoms
      (manic symptoms only for patients with bipolar disorder); differences in psychosocial
      functioning; and differences in number of affective episodes between the intervention group
      and the control group (secondary), and 3) differences in perceived stress, quality of life,
      self-rated depressive symptoms, self-rated manic symptoms (only for patients with bipolar
      disorder), recovery, empowerment, adherence to medication, well-being, ruminations, worrying,
      and satisfaction between the intervention group and the control group (tertiary).

      Analysis Recruitment is ongoing.

      Discussion If the smartphone-based monitoring system is proved effective in reducing the rate
      and duration of re-admissions there will be basis for using a system of this kind in the
      treatment of unipolar and bipolar disorder in general and in a larger scale.
    
  