
    
      Healthcare-associated infections(HCAIs) are a global problem and a major source of
      preventable morbidity and mortality worldwide, but particularly so in low and middle income
      countries. A recent review estimated the pooled prevalence of HCAI in developing countries
      (defined as Organisation Economic Co-operation Development (OECD) low or middle income
      countries) to be 15.5 per 100 patients, and highlighted the need to improve infection control
      practices. Rates of surgical site infection have been reported to range from 12 to 39% in
      developing countries compared to 2 to 5% in developed countries and rates of HCAI in neonates
      have been found to be 12 times higher in developing countries. Mortality due to such
      infections in developing countries is found to greatly exceed that in developed countries.

      There is, however, evidence from quasi experimental research that concerted and sometimes
      low-cost interventions are able to greatly reduce the hospital transmission and prevalence of
      multi-drug resistant organisms (MDROs), resulting in improved patient outcomes. Improved hand
      hygiene(HH) is widely believed to be the single most effective intervention. However a 2010
      Cochrane review has highlighted the lack of methodologically sound research evaluating
      interventions to improve HH: only four studies met the minimum inclusion criteria and only
      one such study came from a lower or middle income country (a randomised trial of an
      educational intervention for nurses in China). Moreover, a recent review has identified a
      need for stronger evidence linking improved HH compliance with reductions in HCAIs (currently
      such evidence is based only on observational studies).

      While there are comprehensive hospital infection control guidelines at the proposed study
      site, Sappasithiprasong hospitals, a recent observational study our team carried out at this
      hospital has indicated poor HH compliance, below 5% for all health-care workers(HCWs)
      (manuscript in preparation). Previous data collected by our team has suggested hospital
      infection control guidelines may not have been implemented consistently due, in part, to
      resource constraints[5]. More recent qualitative research we have carried out at
      Sappasithiprasong hospital into the causes of poor hand hygiene compliance has identified
      several obstacles, and highlighted in particular a lack of knowledge about appropriate hand
      hygiene behaviour.

      Available evidence suggests that hand hygiene promotion (HHP) with a multimodal intervention
      will be the most effective approach to improve HCW hand hygiene compliance[6]. While formal
      evaluation of such an intervention using a strong study design in lower and middle income
      countries is lacking, such interventions are relatively inexpensive and thought likely to be
      cost-effective (and potentially cost-saving as a result of reduced infections rates). Again,
      however, formal economic evaluations outside high income countries are lacking.

      This approach promoted by the WHO guidelines identifies five moments for HH (before patient
      contact, before aseptic procedure, after body fluid exposure, after touching a patient, after
      touching a patient's surroundings). These guidelines aim to encourage good HH compliance in
      the real world and recommend a multimodal HHP strategy making use of up to five components:
      1) system change (for example, changing systems to ensure that alcohol-based hand-rub is
      readily available wherever and whenever needed), 2) training and education, 3) observation
      and feedback, 4) reminders in the hospital, and 5) a hospital safety climate.

      Adapting these guidelines to local conditions is important, and will make use of our initial
      qualitative research. This has identified important local barriers to achieving high levels
      of HH compliance.

      Another major issue for improving HH behaviour in hospital HCWs is sustainability. While many
      studies have reported immediate improvements in HH following interventions, sustaining such
      improvements is much more challenging and another area where research has been very limited.

      In conclusion, there is a need for methodologically rigorous research to evaluate the impact
      of a multimodal intervention based on the WHO recommendations both in the short and
      longer-term considering as outcomes both HH compliance, and preventable HCAIs. The need for
      such research is greatest in resource-constrained settings in lower and middle income
      countries where the burden of disease due to healthcare associated infections is the
      greatest. Findings from this research can also inform economic evaluations which are needed
      to determine the conditions under which such interventions are cost-effective.
    
  