
    
      Cardiovascular (CV) diseases, particularly those secondary to atherosclerosis, are a leading
      cause of morbidity and mortality in modern societies. Classical CV risk factors, including
      age and gender, family history, tobacco smoking, hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia and
      obesity cannot predict more than 50% of future CV events. Use of specific scores (like the
      SCORE chart) does not much contribute to the precise evaluation of patients classified at
      moderate risk. Thus, more research is needed: 1) to study patho-physiological mechanisms of
      the atherothrombotic process in order to identify new pharmacological targets and, 2) to
      validate new biomarkers with a strong predictive value regarding the onset of hard CV
      clinical events. Moreover, genetic polymorphisms underlie an individual's susceptibility to
      develop atherosclerotic diseases. Identification of those gene variants might help to define
      a personalized approach for the treatment of CV diseases. Patients consulting the Centre for
      Screening and Prevention of Atherosclerosis (CDPA) are submitted to a personal face-to-face
      interview addressing their life style, nutritional and smoking habits, and their physical
      activity practice. Clinical examination includes ECG, stress test, ankle-arm systolic index,
      ultrasonography of arteries (carotid, aorta, lower limb) and determination of a coronary
      calcification score. Blood samples are taken up for chemistry measurements including
      lipoproteins (triglycerides, LDL-C, HDL-C, Lp(a)). For the specific purpose of the biological
      collection, two supplementary blood tubes will be collected (2 x 7 ml); serum, plasma and
      genomic DNA will be prepared. Patients will be followed up yearly for those on secondary
      prevention and every 2nd year on primary prevention. Identical investigation will be carried
      out at every visit. Recruitment period will spread over 5 years and follow-up will be pursued
      up to 8 years.
    
  