
    
      Venous thromboembolism (VTE), which includes both deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary
      embolism (PE), is a highly prevalent complication of malignancy. The development of VTE in
      cancer patients is associated with several adverse consequences including worsened short- and
      long-term prognosis and survival, mortality, morbidity, chemotherapy postponement, potential
      hospitalization, need for long-term anticoagulation with attendant bleeding complications and
      high rates of recurrent VTE . In addition, VTE leads to significant consumption of health
      care resources; in one study of cancer patients, the adjusted mean incremental all-cause
      health care costs of VTE were $30,538 per patient. Therefore, the optimal prevention and
      treatment of VTE are crucial components of patient care in this population. Currently,
      Low-Molecular-Weight Heparin (LMWH), is the gold standard for the CAT management for the last
      15 years Moreover, in a variety of high-risk thrombosis clinical settings, LMWHs agents are
      safe and effective in preventing VTE. Multiple randomized trials of thromboprophylaxis have
      been conducted focusing on ambulatory cancer patients receiving chemotherapy. ESMO and ASCO
      current guidelines suggest considering thromboprophylaxis in high-risk ambulatory cancer
      patients with LMWHs. ECOG index, metastatic malignancy, chemotherapy and history of
      thrombosis were significantly associated with the decision to use thromboprophylaxis in most
      situations.

      Additionally, in 2016 Hellenic Society of Medical Oncology (HeSMO) has conducted the GMaT
      study to assess the awareness of Thrombosis and highlight the current clinical practice in
      Greece. The study has precluded adoption of outpatient prophylaxis in largely unselected
      patients with cancer without significant adverse events. Based on GMaT findings, the
      investigators will proceed in an observational study focusing on thromboprophylaxis in cancer
      patients with high thrombotic cancer types. In particular, the title of this new study will
      be "Prevention and Prophylaxis (Thromboprophylaxis - ACT) of Cancer Associated Thrombosis
      (CAT) in High Risk Oncology Patients: ACT4CAT".
    
  