
    
      Persistent postoperative pain occurs up to 25 to 60 % after mastectomy. This occurs at a
      higher frequency than the rate of invasive surgery.Therefore, many ways have been tried to
      study risk factors. A study was conducted to predict postoperative pain for items
      (preoperative pain, sensitivity, pain prediction). As a result, it was reported that the
      scope of surgery, pre-operative pain, young age, and depression were associated with
      persistent pain.

      There were reports of no association with anesthesia in the area of anesthesia to the high
      pain control requirement in the postoperative recovery room, 24 hours of high pain
      medication, use of inhalation agent, and a high dosage of remifentanil. However, an
      anesthesia-related study was either a retrospective study or anesthetic was injected with
      more than a clinical dose in order to make the difference following methods.

      In this study, bispectral index is used to maintain anesthesia depth. In addition, the
      commercially available noninvasive pain depth equipment (Surgical Pleth Index) is used to
      assess the nociception-antinociception balance. Displays the automatically calculated values
      of SPI=100-(0.3*heartbeat interval + 0.7*photoplethysmographic pulse wave ampule) using a
      waveform with peripheral oxygen saturation. Through this process, patients want to objectify
      the amount of anesthetic agent used during surgery. And all patients are inserted the
      laryngeal mask airway.

      This study would try find out whether persistent pain after mastectomy is affected anesthetic
      factors appropriate anesthesia depth and opioid using standardized monitoring devices limited
      to similar surgical ranges.

      The investigators hypothesize that patients who suffered severe acute postoperative pain,
      regardless of their anesthesia method, have a higher incidence of persistent post-mastectomy
      pain.
    
  