
    
      1. Significance Premature newborns may be particularly vulnerable to the effects of toxic
           chemicals in the environment because of their small body size, immature hepatic and
           renal clearance mechanisms, and rapid rate of development. Approximately 8% of neonates
           in the United States require admission to a NICU following birth; thus over 300,000
           infants annually are exposed to the chemical-intensive hospital environment during a
           developmentally vulnerable period. Infants cared for in the NICU have increased risk of
           developmental delay, cognitive dysfunction, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder,
           and autism that is only partially explained by degree of prematurity or severity of
           clinical disease. Abnormalities found on neuroimaging are relatively insensitive
           predictors of long-term cognitive and behavioral outcome. Moreover, many medical
           conditions associated with prematurity, such as chronic lung disease and retinopathy of
           prematurity, are incompletely predicted by gestational age at birth or severity of
           newborn illness. The study team hypothesizes that a portion of the neurocognitive,
           social, and somatic impairments seen in NICU graduates are attributable to potentially
           preventable NICU-based exposures.

           As NICU care has matured, survival is likely for all but the most premature infants. The
           research emphasis is therefore shifting from survival to developing methods for
           improving the long term growth and development of the patients. The study team believes
           this research strategy must examine the potential contribution of environmental
           exposures that occur during the NICU stay as predictors of outcome. All subjects in the
           proposed study are cared for in the NICU - therefore comparisons are internally valid.
           While findings may not be generalizable to non-NICU populations, the potential positive
           impact of this work on thousands of NICU graduates makes this work a high impact public
           health priority. The study team's focus moderately premature infants as these infants
           generally experience much of the third trimester developmental window ex utero in the
           NICU, but generally have low rates of significant disease related to prematurity (such
           as intraventricular hemorrhage, bronchopulmonary dysplasia, etc). Studies of in utero
           exposure to common environmental chemicals and stress indicate the vulnerability of
           developmentally immature individuals during this same developmental window. It is
           therefore logical to assess whether ex utero exposures occurring in the NICU act
           similarly. Additionally, small cross-sectional studies indicate the high exposure levels
           faced by NICU inpatients. Through this study, the study team's plan to characterize the
           role of hospital-based exposures on preterm infant development.

        2. Preliminary Studies and Innovation: Substantial information on the health effects of
           community-based early life exposure, as well as the presence in the NICU environment,
           exist for both stress and the chemicals of interest in this study. Numerous materials
           used in NICU care, such as incubators, respiratory support devices, and intravenous (IV)
           and enteral feeding supplies, are made from plastics that act as vehicles of chemical
           exposure. Phthalates - chemicals used to make plastic flexible and resilient - are
           common in medical materials. Bisphenol A (BPA) and other organic phenols, as well as
           contaminating metals are also present in plastic materials. Silver is added to plastic
           IV catheter components as an antimicrobial. Parenteral nutrition (PN), frequently
           administered for long duration in the NICU, contains Mn. Surprisingly, there is little
           evidence to support the safety of the total dose of Mn added to PN, and a growing body
           of literature suggests that Mn toxicity may be occurring among NICU patients. Exposure
           to these chemicals may be associated with significant developmental impairment, however,
           the impact of early-life chemical exposure on neurodevelopment in NICU graduates is
           largely unstudied.

        3. Evolving evidence suggests that chemical and non-chemical stressors in the NICU may
           impact infant neurodevelopment. The built environment, ambient noise, in-hospital
           parent-child interactions, and parental stress during the NICU stay have been associated
           with altered neurodevelopment among NICU graduates. Socioeconomic factors and
           psychological functioning of the primary caregiver are also linked to childhood
           neurodevelopmental outcomes generally. These factors must therefore be considered as
           confounders and/or modifiers in any comprehensive NICU neurodevelopmental outcome
           association study.

        4. Study Goals and Plan: This study will identify specific sources of chemical exposure
           among NICU inpatients and explore the association between exposure and outcomes. It will
           also measure biomarkers of stress response and evaluate the relationship between stress
           and outcome. The proposed study will identify the prevalence and dose of chemicals to
           which NICU inpatients are exposed and provide data on associations with
           neurodevelopmental outcomes. The study team has picked a small number of candidate
           chemicals for which exposure is known or likely, the negative neurodevelopmental impact
           of community exposure is documented, and the health implications for NICU-based exposure
           are unknown. Prior studies have documented numerous phthalate-containing materials in
           the NICU and elevated biomarkers of phthalates and BPA in NICU inpatients. These studies
           were limited by cross-sectional specimen sampling, patient enrollment without attention
           to factors likely to affect chemical metabolism including gestational or chronologic age
           and severity of illness, and small sample size. To the study team's knowledge,
           biomarkers of NICU-exposure to Ag, Cd, and Mn have not been assessed, despite the
           documented presence of these metals in the NICU and known adverse health outcomes
           related to early life exposure. No previous study of NICU chemical exposure has
           considered the important potential confounders/modifiers of chemical toxicant impact to
           be considered in the proposed study. No rigorous study has evaluated biomarkers of
           stress and association with outcomes in the NICU hospitalization.

      The relationship between biomarkers of exposure to chemicals in the NICU and specific care
      practices has not been explored previously. Additionally, the potential association between
      NICU-based chemical or stress exposures and neurodevelopmental deficits has not been
      evaluated. Two previous studies assessed outcomes related to NICU phthalate exposure, but
      neither used exposure biomarkers or other validated exposure assessment methods to
      characterize initial exposure nor considered important non-chemical confounders.

      The NICU-HEALTH cohort addresses these limitations and is a comprehensive, longitudinal
      evaluation of chemical exposure in the NICU designed to evaluate environmental chemical
      exposure and clinical outcomes in this vulnerable population.
    
  