
    
      The Integrated Soft Tissue Infection Service (ISIS) Clinic at San Francisco General Hospital
      treats a large number of patients with soft tissue infections, and our data suggest that
      antibiotics may be overused for these infections. Most of these infections are treated by
      surgical drainage of an abscess (77%). When microbiologic cultures were performed, 88% of the
      abscesses were infected with Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus), and 55% of the abscesses
      contained methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Recently, the high prevalence
      of MRSA infection has been documented in San Francisco and throughout the country. Presently,
      most patients are treated with antibiotics after drainage of the abscess. Our retrospective
      analysis found that 60% of these infections resolved without appropriate antibiotic
      treatment. These were patients infected with MRSA who were treated with an antibiotic that
      was not active against that organism. This implies that surgical drainage of these abscesses
      was probably the important treatment and antibiotic treatment was probably not necessary.

      Unnecessary use of antibiotics has adverse consequences. Some patients have allergic
      reactions to antibiotics. Patients can develop serious gastrointestinal infections from
      antibiotic use. Antibiotics are costly. But most importantly, overuse of antibiotics may be
      the significant factor in the spread of antibiotic resistant organisms. The increased
      prevalence of MRSA has made it extremely difficult to treat patients with appropriate
      antibiotics in life threatening infections (i.e. bacterial endocarditis, osteomyelitis, and
      necrotizing soft tissue infections).

      The experience in the ISIS Clinic has brought into question our present practice of
      antibiotic use in patients with surgically managed abscesses. Many surgeons practicing in the
      ISIS clinic believe that antibiotics have little or no effect on the clinical course of these
      uncomplicated infections. Elimination of antibiotic use for these uncomplicated infections
      would certainly simplify care for these patients. It is even possible that decreased
      antibiotic use may decrease the prevalence of MRSA colonization in this population. However,
      decreased prevalence of MRSA colonization will not be specifically addressed in this limited
      study. A randomized, prospective and blinded trial comparing standard antibiotic treatment
      with no treatment should help determine whether antibiotics are really needed for these
      infections.
    
  