
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) of non-smokers with advanced non-small
      cell lung cancer (NSCLC) randomized to standard of care (either carboplatin/paclitaxel with
      or without bevacizumab), or standard of care plus erlotinib hydrochloride.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the overall survival from day of randomization. II. To evaluate response rate.
      III. To evaluate relative toxicity. IV. To determine the frequency of epidermal growth factor
      receptor (EGFR) and Kras mutations in non-smokers with NSCLC and correlate mutation status
      with response rate and progression free survival.

      V. To obtain blood and tissue specimens for further marker-based exploratory analyses
      regarding EGFR inhibitors.

      VI. To evaluate EGFR positivity by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) as a predictor
      of improved PFS in patients treated with erlotinib hydrochloride.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to gender and
      eligibility for bevacizumab therapy (ineligible vs eligible and willing to receive
      bevacizumab vs eligible and not willing to receive bevacizumab). Patients are randomized to 1
      of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30
      minutes (with or without bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes) on day 1. Patients also receive
      placebo orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of 6
      courses, patients with stable or responding disease may continue to receive placebo (with or
      without bevacizumab) as above in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin (with or without bevacizumab) as in arm
      I. Patients also receive erlotinib hydrochloride PO QD on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After
      completion of 6 courses, patients with stable or responding disease may continue to receive
      erlotinib hydrochloride (with or without bevacizumab) as above in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood and tissue samples are collected for correlative laboratory studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 5 years.
    
  