
    
      Changes in the superficial optic nerve head (ONH) surface and loss of retinal nerve fibre
      layer (RNFL) thickness detected with clinical imaging are predictive of future visual field
      loss. Imaging of the deep ONH, the likely origin of glaucomatous damage, represents the next
      logical next step, but has eluded clinicians because of the lack of capable technology.

      New advances in optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging now offer an exciting opportunity
      to close the gap between the histomorphometric knowledge on deep ONH changes gained with
      research in experimental monkey glaucoma and imaging in clinical glaucoma.

      There is compelling evidence that gross ONH and retinal hemodynamic changes are functional
      indicators of glaucoma progression. Accurate tracking of blood flow in the ONH is a logical
      step, but has evaded researchers for several reasons including the highly reflective ONH
      tissue which variably inhibits signal penetration making the complex nature of retinal and
      posterior ciliary contributions to ONH flow difficult to segregate. Even though glaucoma
      damage originates in the ONH, retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons may show the earliest
      functional alterations as they have high metabolic demand and vulnerability to damage.
      Therefore, tracking blood flow in the RNFL, which is highly segmental and resolvable, could
      be a better and more sensitive approach compared to that in the ONH. The macula contains
      almost 50% of the entire RGC population; likewise, monitoring blood flow in the macular inner
      vascular plexus corresponding to the ganglion cell layer (GCL) is likely to be highly
      informative for glaucoma progression. OCT based angiography (OCTA), which maps vessel density
      in different retinal vascular beds with unparalleled axial resolution, will finally allow us
      to quantify highly localized parameters related to blood flow and identify patients with
      higher progression risk. Current data analysis of progression detection based on
      inter-subject or population-based variability models are inefficient, leading to
      false-positive and false-negative results. Innovative data analysis techniques that build
      accurate models of intra-subject variability will add cumulative value to the novel imaging
      markers for progression.
    
  