
    
      The central venous catheter (CVC)-associated bloodstream infection (CLABSI) represent a
      serious and persistent health problem in cancer patients with an implantable CVC receiving an
      intravenous (IV) anti-tumor therapy. The CLABSI include the CVC-associated bacteremia and the
      negative bloodstream local or generalized infections. CLABSI significantly increase morbidity
      and hospital costs. They can lead also to discontinuation of IV anti-tumor treatment, a
      severe sepsis, a septic shock or a death. Microbial colonization and biofilm development,
      which are resistant to antibiotic therapy, often lead to CVC replacement. CLABSI prevention
      is a key measure to improve clinical outcomes, particularly in patients at high risk. For
      this reason, CLABSI prevention is a national priority of the healthcare program. Taurolidine
      [bis-(1,1-dioxoperhydro-1,2,4-thiadiazinyl-4) methane] is an antimicrobial agent which kills
      and inhibits a wide range of micro-organisms in vitro, including multidrug resistant
      bacteria. A catheter lock solution was developed containing 1.35% taurolidine and 4% citrate.
      Due to the anti-adhesion activity of the taurolidine and anti-thrombotic properties of the
      citrate, this lock solution can disrupt bacterial adhesion to the inner surface of the
      implantable CVC preventing the production of biofilm. This lock solution showed a substantial
      reduction in the formation of biofilm and bacterial colonization of the inner surface of the
      implantable CVC is several prospective trials.

      In a study of pediatric cancers receiving IV anti-tumor treatment, the use of a lock solution
      of taurolidine-citrate resulted in a reduction of Gram-positive CLABSI as compared to a
      control group of patients treated with a standard heparin lock solution. In another study of
      71 pediatric patients, taurolidine-citrate solution reduced CLABSI compared with heparin (0.3
      vs 1.3 infections per 1000 catheter-days, p: 0.03). Microbial colonization was found in 25.4%
      of the catheters. Regarding the toxicity, 7 patients only in the taurolidine-citrate group
      (20%) experienced side effects, the most being nausea, vomiting and abnormal sensations of
      taste.

      Some clinical trials have also demonstrated the efficacy of taurolidine-citrate in terms of
      CLABSI reduction in patients on home total parenteral nutrition and in hemodialysis patients.

      According to the French guidelines, an anti-bacterial lock therapy (preferably taurolidine)
      may be used as prevention in patients at increased risk of serious CLABSI complications.
      However, the effectiveness of the lock taurolidine-citrate solution for adult patients with
      solid tumors receiving an anti-tumor treatment via a totally implantable CVC is actually
      unknown and it remains to be assessed.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE

      - To compare the efficacy of a lock taurolidine-citrate solution vs standard saline solution
      for primary prevention of CLABSI in adult patients treated with IV anti-tumor therapy for a
      solid tumor.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

        -  To compare the impact of CLABSI in the 2 groups in terms of days of hospitalisation,
           delay of IV anti-tumoral treatment, costs of CVC removal and CLABSI-management

        -  To evaluate the adverse effects of the lock taurolidine-citrate solution in adult
           patients receiving an IV anti-tumor therapy for solid tumor PRIMARY ENDPOINT: Incidence
           rates of CLABSI per 1000 catheter-days

      SECONDARY ENDPOINTS

        -  Days of CLABSI-related hospitalisation

        -  Anti-tumor treatment CLABSI-related delay

        -  Total CVC-removal for CLABSI

        -  Costs associated with the CLABSI management in the perspective of health insurance

        -  Evaluation of the taurolidine-citrate solution-related adverse effects

      METHODOLOGY

        -  Single-center prospective, randomized, open-label, controlled, clinical phase IV trial

        -  1:1 randomization

      Stratification:

        -  Metastatic vs (neo) adjuvant

        -  Age ≤ 70 years vs > 70 years

      PROCEDURES During a standard clinical visit for IV anti-tumor treatment administration, the
      investigator informs the patient of the study procedures and check the eligibility criteria.
      At the beginning of the next cure, he collects his informed consent and performs
      randomisation. The patient is then included in the TauroLock ™ or saline arm.

      At the beginning of each course, a nurse removes the lock TauroLock ™ and / or makes rinsing
      the CVC. At the end of each course, she rinses again the CVC and instills TauroLock ™
      solution for patients in the TauroLock ™ arm. Patients will be followed for each treatment,
      according to the same rhythm of their anti-tumor treatment program up to the end of the
      study: the end of the IV anti-tumor treatment, the CVC removal for mechanical reasons or a
      CLABSI.

      A follow-up visit will be performed 7-30 days after the study end.

      PATIENTS NUMBER Based on surveillance data of nosocomial infections at our institution, the
      incidence of CLABSI in the control group is expected to about 3 per 1000 catheter-days.

      Assuming that the use of TauroLock ™ will reduce at least this rate by three (expected 1 per
      1000 in the treated group rate), which is consistent with literature data, 9785 days must be
      followed in each group (α and β risk at 5% and 10%, respectively).

      Considering a mean follow-up of 4 months, we need for 81 patients pour any treatment group,
      162 patients for the 2 groups.

      TRIAL TIME

      Duration of the inclusion period:

      - 6 months

      Duration of participation for each patient:

      - Duration of IV anti-tumor treatment + 1 month of follow-up

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Verification of the homogeneity of the groups for major confounding
      factors: WHO performance status, indication for anti-tumor treatment (metastatic vs
      (neo)-adjuvant cancer), age, duration of follow-up, type of anti-tumor treatment (weekly,
      every 15 or 21 days) and type of hospitalisation (full vs day-hospital). Qualitative
      variables will be compared between the 2 groups by Chi-square test or Fisher exact test if
      the normality conditions are not met. Quantitative variables are compared by Student's t test
      or non parametric Wilcoxon test if the normality conditions are not met.

      Primary endpoint: the incidence of CLABSI will be compared between groups by a logistic
      regression test with adjustment for stratification and confounding factors, if necessary.

      Secondary endpoints: the qualitative criteria will be compared between the 2 groups by
      Chi-square test or Fisher exact test if the conditions of normality are not met. The
      quantitative criteria will be compared by Student's t test or non parametric Wilcoxon test if
      the conditions of normality are not met.

      The α risk is set at 5%.

      EXPECTED BENEFITS The expected benefits are a direct reduction of CLABSI for adult cancer
      patients receiving IV anti-tumor treatment via a CVC leading to a direct reduction of
      morbidity and mortality. In addition, a better control of CLABSI should allow a cost savings.
      A literature review by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Atlanta, USA)
      estimated between $ 29,156 and 7288 the cost of CLABSI. Similarly, a report by the Institute
      for Research and Documentation in Health Economics (IRDES), based on the PMSI (Program of
      medicalization of information systems) data, estimated that CLABSI entailed an additional
      cost of € 10,950 (+ / - 1690) and a extending of the hospitalisation of 14.7 days (+ / -
      1.84). Finally, a reduction of the CLABSI should globally lead to a less use of antibiotics
      and to a consequently reduced probability of resistant organisms selection.

      QUALITY ASSURANCE PLAN Data will be recorded in a paper case report form from medical
      records.

      The accuracy and completeness of data will be monitored by a study coordinator :

        -  100% inform consent, eligibility criteria and safety data

        -  20% data recorded in CRF (case report form) Data will be registered in Microsoft Office
           ACCESS 2003 Base. It's a single-center study so thre're no special procedures to address
           registry operations and analysis activities. Safety data like reporting for adverse
           event will be made by fax with The CRPV (centre régional de pharmacovogilance de Nancy).

      The security of the data transfer is assured by the french "Méthodologie de Référence MR001"
      (Comission Nationale Informatique et Liberté).
    
  