
    
      Poor diet, physical inactivity, and sedentary behaviors among low-income, minority
      populations have been linked to greater risk of chronic health conditions such as
      overweight/obesity, cardiovascular disease, and type 2 diabetes. Low-income clinics that
      serve these populations often represent an untapped opportunity for health promotion in
      impoverished individuals. Few studies have examined the feasibility of using brief physician
      advice and multi-level, clinic-based interventions to change poor dietary habits, physical
      inactivity, and sedentary lifestyle behaviors among these culturally diverse populations that
      comprise the clinic population. This exploratory project proposes to address this scientific
      gap by introducing and piloting a Self-Care Stimulating Disease Prevention Program (SCSDPP)
      to address poor dietary habits, physical inactivity, and sedentary lifestyle behaviors among
      low income, uninsured patient populations (primarily Latinos) served by the community clinics
      of the Venice Family Clinic (VFC) health center in Los Angeles County. The program will
      include the development of 1) a simple-to-use patient Health Priority Assessment (HPA) tool
      designed to assess patient preferences for behavior change; 2) a standard protocol for
      physicians to provide brief health advice using motivation interviewing (< 2 minutes per
      visit); 3) a protocol for distributing self-help aids for patient use (e.g., pedometer,
      exercise videos); and 4) a series of monthly follow-up counseling sessions by lay health
      educators (e.g., promotores) to help patients address their lifestyle change priorities over
      time. We will conduct a randomized controlled pilot of the SCSDPP in approximately 100
      patient cases at two community health clinics within the VFC health center system. The pilot
      will utilize precise outcome measures, including commonly-accepted biomarkers (e.g., HgbA1c,
      fasting blood glucose) and psychometrically-validated measures of process and health status,
      to accurately assess the magnitude of changes in diet and physical activity among patients
      over a 12-month observation period. The feasibility of integrating the SCSDPP into the
      community health clinic setting will be evaluated, and is the primary aim of this project.
      The results will inform efforts to plan a larger, successor study. Relevance to Public
      Health: this study evaluates a clinic-based brief intervention to help prevent
      overweight/obesity, a public health problem that has been linked to the development of the
      metabolic syndrome and other precursors of diabetes.
    
  