
    
      An audit performed at St Thomas's Hospital in 2008 showed that 52 trabeculectomy and 50
      Baerveldt tube procedures were done in one year, with 60% of the patients being of 'black'
      ethnicity. This audit provides the basis for teh recruitment target. Assuming that the
      majority of the trabeculectomies performed were for POAG then most of these 'black' patients
      would have been eligible for the trial.

      Primary Tube versus Trabeculectomy Study (PTVT) St Thomas' Hospital is the leading recruiting
      centre for this multinational study. The investigators have recruited over 50 patients in the
      last 2 years despite the lack of a dedicated research team. The trial retention rate has also
      been very good with less than 5% loss to follow-up rates.

      Patient Feedback and Involvement The proposed research was reviewed in a feedback session in
      2012 with 5 black African-Caribbean/African patients with glaucoma attending St Thomas'
      Hospital. All were very positive about the potential trial and all understood that there is a
      'unique' problem for glaucoma surgery in this group of patients. Suggestions for the trial
      included more emphasis on the importance of treatment for glaucoma, disseminating information
      about the trial in community centres, and the possibility of expert patients who can act as
      patient advocates and help with recruitment in the glaucoma clinics and present the study in
      local community centres.

      Feasibility study This protocol is for a randomised feasibility trial which will compare
      standard treatment (trabeculectomy with MMC) with primary Baerveldt tube surgery with or
      without MMC in black African/African-Caribbean patients with POAG living in London. The study
      will look at the feasibility of recruitment for a proposed larger scale RCT and will also
      help the investigators to refine the methodology for the proposed trial in terms of outcome
      measures and analysis. It will also help the investigators to recruit a patient user group
      for input into the conduct and monitoring of the main trial.

      Information the study will provide

      The investigators are conducting this feasibility study in order to get an estimate of the
      likely recruitment rate for the main study and to collect information that will help the
      investigators to refine the outcome measures for the main study and to allow a valid
      calculation of the sample size needed for a definitive study to answer the primary research
      question. The investigators will use questionnaires to gather data on patients' quality of
      life for health economic analysis but it is also our hope that the questionnaires will give
      the investigators information on the perspectives of patients, including their preferences.
      This feasibility study will help the investigators to explore how they can gather useful
      information on the patient perspective.

      The feasibility study will also inform their planning for the main trial and data management
      and help them to develop their community engagement and recruitment strategies, including
      theri strategy for publicising the trial and enhancing recruitment. In addition, the
      investigators intend to use the feasibility study to recruit a patient representative group
      for input into the conduct and monitoring of the proposed main study.

      Risks and benefits The potential risks and benefits for patients participating in the
      feasibility study are similar to those for standard clinical care. All participants will have
      been identified as in need of glaucoma drainage surgery. Both trabeculectomy (currently as
      first line treatment) and Baerveldt tube surgery (currently as second line treatment) are in
      routine use for the treatment of POAG. Evidence on the beneficial effect of MMC is equivocal.
      First line treatment with Baerveldt tube surgery may be associated with less failure and
      complications than first line treatment by trabeculectomy but there is as yet no definitive
      evidence on this question that is specific to the population included in this study.
    
  