
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the safety, pharmacokinetics (PK) and preliminary
      efficacy of both the combination of MBG453 and NIS793 with or without decitabine or
      spartalizumab as well as single agent MBG453 and/or NIS793 single agent in myelofibrosis (MF)
      subjects post treatment with a Janus Kinase (JAK) inhibitor.

      In this study, combination therapies with novel agents including immune therapy will focus on
      determining the promising combinations that provide acceptable safety and efficacy
      independent of JAK inhibitors. Immune therapy combinations, such as MBG453 in combination
      with NIS793, might offer the potential to target MF across genetic heterogeneity.

      The primary objective of this study is to characterize the safety, tolerability and
      recomended dose for each treatment combination (MBG453 + NIS793, MBG453 + NIS793 +
      decitabine, MBG453 + NIS793 + spartalizumab).

      Secondary Objectives are: to evaluate the efficacy based on the revised International Working
      Group for Myelofibrosis Research and Treatment (IWG-MRT) response criteria, to evaluate the
      effect of each combination treatment in delaying progression of MF and estimate time to
      progression free survival (PFS) event, and to characterize the PK profile of each treatment
      arm Study is designed as a Phase Ib, multi center, open label study with multiple treatment
      arms. The study is comprised of a dose evaluation/escalation part and a dose expansion part.

      MBG453 in combination with NIS793 will be explored as the initial backbone. As the study
      progresses and based on emerging clinical data collected from this study, Novartis, in
      agreement with the study Investigators will decide whether or not:

        -  To proceed with any treatment arm that reaches recommended dose(s) to explore further
           the safety, tolerability, and anti-tumor activity in the dose expansion part.

        -  To add a third partner to comprise a triplet treatment arm in the dose
           evaluation/escalation part (such as Treatment Arm 2 with decitabine or Treatment Arm 3
           with spartalizumab.

        -  To explore MBG453 single agent (Treatment Arm 4) and/or NIS793 single agent (Treatment
           Arm 5) in the dose expansion part in order to assess the single agent contributions to
           efficacy.

      The patient population will include male or female adults (age 18 or over) with a confirmed
      diagnosis of primary myelofibrosis (PMF) as defined by the World Health Organization (WHO)
      criteria, or Post-Polycythemia Vera Myelofibrosis (PPV-MF), or Post-Essential Thrombocythemia
      Myelofibrosis (PET-MF) based on the revised IWG-MRT) criteria, irrespective of JAK2 mutation
      status and must have been treated with a JAK inhibitor for at least 28 days but no more than
      6 months and experienced according to the Investigator suboptimal response defined by loss of
      spleen response, or worsening of symptoms or discontinuation due to adverse events (AE).

      Data analysis: the primary objective of the study is to characterize the safety and
      tolerability of each combination and identify the recommended dose. The primary analysis will
      be based on a Bayesian Hierarchical Logistic Regression Model (BHLRM) and summaries of other
      safety, tolerabitliy endpoints. Efficacy will be assessed based on IWG-MRT. The study data
      will be analyzed and reported based on all patients' data up to the time when 80% of the
      patients have completed the follow-up for disease progression or discontinued the study for
      any reason, and all patients have completed treatment and the safety follow-up period.
    
  