
    
      In the United States, almost 9 million children have been diagnosed with asthma. It is a
      leading cause of hospitalization, chronic disease, and school absenteeism. With the proper
      treatment, most children with asthma are able to lead a normal life. However, if asthma is
      not adequately controlled, it can be a life-threatening disease. It is important for parents
      to work with their child's doctor to develop a comprehensive treatment plan that minimizes
      asthma symptoms. AsthmaNet, an interactive web-based system, aims to improve the quality of
      care for children with asthma by enhancing parents' asthma care skills and encouraging
      parents to discuss their child's asthma care with their doctor. AsthmaNet provides
      evidence-based guidelines, asthma management tools, and individually tailored feedback to
      both parents and physicians to improve communication and enhance asthma management skills and
      behaviors. The goal of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of AsthmaNet at increasing
      medication and treatment adherence in children with asthma.

      This 1-year study will enroll young children with asthma. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to either use the AsthmaNet web site or not use the web site. The web site will
      provide parents of children in the AsthmaNet group with individualized clinical information
      regarding their child's asthma care and with decision-making aids that they can share with
      their child's doctor. The web site will also prompt parents to make additional doctor
      appointments, as needed, to discuss their child's condition. All children will attend
      regularly scheduled doctor's appointments for asthma and receive their usual care; there are
      no additional study visits specifically for this study. Study researchers will review medical
      records to analyze medication usage and asthma symptoms. Participants in the AsthmaNet group
      will complete questionnaires on a monthly basis to assess asthma status; the control group
      will complete questionnaires at Month 6 and Year 1.
    
  