
    
      This is a prospective randomized controlled trial that will be conducted in the 1st
      Propaedeutic Department of Surgery of National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. Sixty
      six patients suffering from histologically confirmed gastric or gastroesophageal junction
      cancer will be included in the study. They will be treated with a typical total gastrectomy
      plus D2 lymph node dissection and Roux-en-Y gastrointestinal tract reconstruction, under a
      predefined perioperative protocol, which complies with the ERAS guidelines. All patients will
      have to sign a study specific consent form and will be educated to the perioperative protocol
      prior to the operation. The randomization will take place right before the abdominal wall
      closure, and the participants will be divided in two groups: the intervention group (without
      perianastomotic drain) and the control group (placement of a suction drain close to the
      esophagojejunal anastomosis). In the control group, the drain will be removed as usual on the
      fifth postoperative day only if the below criteria are satisfied: a)less than 100cc of
      drainage for two consecutive days and b) no clinical suspicion of anastomotic leak and/or
      bleeding and/or intraabdominal abscess and/or pancreatic fistula. The participants'
      preoperative and intraoperative data will be meticulously recorded. The postoperative course
      of all patients will be closely monitored and any clinical, laboratory or imaging suspicion
      of the above mentioned complications will be evaluated and managed as per institutional
      standard of care. The subjects will be followed up on postoperative days ten, thirty and
      sixty through clinical examination, laboratory tests and, if needed, imaging exams. The
      primary outcome of this trial will be the postoperative day on which a Clavien-Dindo II-IV
      complication will be detected. The secondary outcome measures will include length of stay,
      morbidity and mortality, drain- related morbidity, postoperative pain evaluation, quality of
      life after the operation and readmissions.
    
  