
    
      Morphological changes in hip dysplasia The dysplastic hip joint has a complex morphology
      characterised by a wide shallow acetabular cavity with an excessively oblique articulating
      roof. The acetabular cover of the femoral head is globally deficient4;5 and the acetabular
      rim is hypertrophied possibly due to excessive pull from the often hypertrophic labrum.
      Anteversion is normal5-7, but occasionally the acetabulum is retroverted8;9. The
      weight-bearing area between the acetabular roof and head is reduced and the articular
      cartilage is significantly thicker than normal10. Hip dysplasia is often associated with
      increased anteversion of the femoral neck5;11 and with valgus neck-shaft angle that results
      in a reduced abductor lever arm12. However the deformities vary from individual to individual
      and retroversion of the femoral neck has also been reported in hip dysplasia12. Patients with
      hip dysplasia are prone to developing osteoarthritis of the hip at a young age 13;14. The
      reasons for this are not fully understood, but an explanation could be that the reduced
      contact area between acetabulum and the femoral head as well as a reduced abductor lever arm
      increase the load per contact-area in the hip joint4. The increased load is a strain on the
      articular cartilage and believed to result in degeneration of cartilage and the subchondral
      bone and eventually osteoarthritis14-17. The purpose of periacetabular osteotomy (PAO) is to
      increase acetabular cover of the femoral head and thereby distribute pressures better over
      the available cartilage surface.

      PAO followed by rehabilitation At PAO, the pubic bone is osteotomized and under fluoroscopic
      control, the ischial osteotomies and the posterior iliac osteotomy are performed. The
      acetabular fragment is repositioned to optimise coverage of the femoral head. The
      repositioning is very challenging and clearly the most demanding aspect of the procedure18.
      Four weeks after discharge, the rehabilitation is initiated and carried out by two
      physiotherapists specialised in orthopaedics. The patients come to the hospital for
      physiotherapy twice a week and each exercise session is 1 hour with a 30-minute aerobic and
      strength program followed by a 30-minute program of mobility and gait training. Physiotherapy
      is ended 2-3 months after PAO when the physiotherapists assess that the patient has achieved
      predetermined functional goals e.g. walking at speed without crutches and ability to run. As
      a result of the patients' young age, they have had a high physical function and it is the
      aim, that they will regain this level of function after PAO. It is not yet examined whether
      PAO patients after surgery attain the functional capacity comparable to the age- and
      gender-matched population.
    
  