
    
      Speech and language based dementias (SLDs) (often referred to as primary progressive aphasias
      or PPA) are neurodegenerative diseases in which speech or language impairments are the most
      salient features of the disease and explain deficits in activities of daily living. Patients
      with SLDs may have poor grammar, prominent anomia, comprehension deficits, speech production
      and articulation problems, difficulty with repetition of words or sentences, word finding
      pauses, or a combination of all these features. The SLDs can be further divided into
      different subtypes. Up to 50% of patients with SLDs that go on to autopsy have shown
      Alzheimer type pathology where beta-amyloid deposition is observed; the rest have pathology
      consistent with frontotemporal lobar degeneration where beta-amyloid deposition is absent.
      Future disease modifying treatments that target beta-amyloid will most likely differ from
      treatments that do not target beta-amyloid. As a consequence, biomarkers are needed to
      differentiate patients with SLDs with and without beta-amyloid deposition.

      Little research has been done to identify biomarkers that could differentiate patients with
      SLDs with and without beta-amyloid, mainly because the gold standard to identify the presence
      of beta-amyloid has been pathological examination, which does not always occur, and may not
      occur until more than 10 years after onset. The recent development of
      [N-methyl-11C]2-(4'-methylaminophenyl)-6-hydroxybenzothiazole also known as 11C Pittsburgh
      Compound B or PiB is a solution to this problem since PiB allows the in vivo detection of
      beta-amyloid. Unfortunately, PiB is very expensive.

      The long term goal of our research is to develop a cost effective algorithmic approach to the
      evaluation and diagnosis of patients presenting with SLDs. The objective of the studies
      outlined in this proposal is to identify clinical, neuropsychological, or imaging biomarkers
      that are readily available, relatively inexpensive, and non-invasive that will allow the
      differentiation of patients with SLDs with and without beta-amyloid deposition. We will use
      PiB as an indicator of beta-amyloid pathology. Our proposal is predicated upon our strong
      preliminary data showing that clinical, neuropsychological and radiological features differ
      between patients with SLDs with and without beta-amyloid deposition. Our central hypothesis
      is that temporo-parietal lobe findings such as memory loss, visuospatial/perceptual
      impairment, parietal lobe atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and parietal lobe
      hypometabolism on [18-F]-fluoro-deoxy-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), will be
      associated with beta-amyloid deposition (PiB positive status). On-the-other hand, frontal
      lobe features, such as apraxia of speech and behavioral and executive dysfunction, as well as
      extrapyramidal features such as Parkinsonism, will be associated with absence of beta-amyloid
      deposition (PiB negative status). The rationale for examining these clinical-imaging
      relationships is that successful predictions will provide a solid scientific foundation for
      the ultimate development of a cost effective algorithm to guide the diagnosis of SLDs.

      Patients found to be eligible and willing to enroll in this study will be asked to undergo a
      Neurologic Examination, a Speech Pathology Consultation, Neuropsychometric testing, an MRI
      scan, an FDG PET scan and a PiB PET scan of the brain. This will be done over a period of two
      days at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, MN.
    
  