
    
      Lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is a common spinal disease that leads to pain and disability.
      LSS is defined as lower extremity and perineal symptoms (e.g. intermittent neurogenic
      claudication/numbness) that may occur with or without low back pain and that is attributed to
      congenital or acquired narrowing of space available for the neural and vascular tissues in
      the lumbar spine. Clinical symptoms of LSS include pain, numbness, weakness and warmth in
      bilateral/unilateral buttock or legs that is precipitated by walking or prolonged standing
      but is alleviated by sitting or forward bending.

      Acquired (degenerative) LSS is the most common degenerative conditions that leads to spinal
      surgery in adults aged 65 years or older.[2] It is known that the occurrence of degenerative
      LSS increases with age. Given the aging of the global population (including Hong Kong), the
      prevalence of degenerative LSS is expected to increase. Major causes of degenerative LSS in
      older adults are the compression and/or ischemia of nerve roots in diminished lateral or
      central spinal canals secondary to lumbar spondylosis, progressive hypertrophy of
      ligamentous/osteocartilaginous structures, or degenerative spondylolisthesis. When patients
      fail to improve after conservative treatments, surgical intervention is recommended for
      symptomatic LSS. While decompressive laminectomy/laminotomy with or without spinal fusion for
      LSS has shown significantly less leg symptoms than conservative treatments, up to 40% of
      patients undergoing LSS surgery were unsatisfied with the postoperative neurogenic
      claudication and/or radicular leg symptoms. Accordingly, evidence-based management is needed
      for patients undergoing LSS surgery to optimize patients' recovery.

      Various studies have shown that preoperative exercises (prehabilitation) may benefit patients
      receiving different surgeries (e.g, abdominal surgery, anterior cruciate ligament
      reconstruction). Although there is a paucity of prehabilitation for patients undergoing LSS
      surgery. the potential benefits of prehabilitation substantiate the investigation of
      prehabilitation for patients undergoing LSS surgery.

      Given the above, the aim of the current randomized controlled trial is to compare the
      effectiveness of a 6-week prehabilitation program with usual preoperative care in improving
      multiple outcomes of patients undergoing LSS surgery at baseline, 6 weeks after baseline
      evaluation, and at 3 and 6 months postoperatively. It is hypothesized that prehabilitation
      will yield significantly better pre- and post-operative clinical outcomes as compared to
      usual preoperative care.
    
  