
    
      A frequent complication of mastectomy is seroma formation with rates in the literature
      reported at 3-50%. Although seroma formation can be considered more of a nuisance than a
      serious complication, the presence of seroma can lead to wound infection, skin flap necrosis,
      wound dehiscence, nerve injury, and lymphedema in mastectomy patients.Various approaches to
      reduce seroma formation have included the use of external compression dressings, ultrasound
      cutting devices, suction drainage systems, and bovine thrombin. Although some of these
      interventions have demonstrated efficacy, none has gained widespread acceptance.
      Investigation of alternative interventions during mastectomy procedures that could reduce the
      rate of postoperative seroma formation, thereby reducing the likelihood of the onset of more
      serious complications, still has value to the patient and surgeon. The use of autologous
      blood products (ABP), in particular platelet rich plasma (PRP), has been advocated for
      numerous indications. As a surgical tool, ABP are typically applied to the surgical site
      during the latter stages of the procedure in combination with bovine thrombin. The aim of PRP
      application is to accelerate the healing cascade via application of elevated cytokine
      concentrations released during platelet degranulation. It is hypothesized that the elevated
      cytokine levels will elucidate an accelerated healing response of the affected tissue.
      Preliminary evidence suggests that this expedited healing response correlates with a
      reduction in postoperative wound complications. Platelet poor plasma, a by-product of PRP
      processing, has been advocated as providing additional hemostasis. The majority of the
      literature discussing clinical applications of ABP to date, has been unblinded and
      nonrandomized. Although useful as demonstrations of the safety of ABP, this current
      literature does not truly investigate the efficacy of these applications. There is a need for
      well-designed, well-controlled studies investigating the application of ABP as surgical
      tools. It is hypothesized that a significant reduction in postoperative complications, in
      particular seroma formation, will result due to the use of ABP during these procedures.
    
  