
    
      VIVID is a prospective, multicenter, randomized clinical trial that will evaluate three
      specific research questions. In black patients eligible for a primary prevention implantable
      cardioverter defibrillator (ICD), 1) what is the effect of a patient-centered educational
      video compared with usual care (UC) on knowledge of SCD (Sudden Cardiac Death), associated
      risk factors, and ICDs; 2) what is the effect of a patient-centered educational video
      compared with UC on the decision for ICD implantation, decisional conflict, and receipt of an
      ICD within 90 days; 3) what is the effect of racial concordance between study patients and
      video participants (health care providers/patients) on the decision for ICD implantation,
      decisional conflict and ICD receipt within 90 days. In addition, in-depth qualitative
      interviews (IQI) with a sample of trial participants will be conducted to determine the
      salient influences on their decision and explore the reasons for their ultimate decision and
      subsequent implantation or non-implantation of an ICD.

      Approximately 480 patients eligible for a primary prevention ICD will be enrolled at
      approximately 12 hospitals in this study. Study sites selected for VIVID will be
      geographically diverse and provide care to a significant proportion of racial and ethnic
      minority patients. Patient's will be mailed a letter regarding the study, prior to their
      initial visit. At the initial visit, patients will be approached about participation in the
      trial. For those interested, informed consent will be obtained and patients will be
      randomized. The investigators will be utilizing electronic consents on an iPad. Black
      patients will be randomized to one of 3 arms: educational videos presented in the same
      format; one with black participants (patients and providers) or the other with white
      participants (patients and providers); The third arm will be usual care (control) and the
      provider can interact with the patient consistent with their typical/usual care. Notably, for
      both intervention and control arms, all patient management decisions are completely at the
      discretion of the care providers.
    
  