
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee is one of the most prevalent age-related musculoskeletal
      conditions, resulting in significant impairment in patients' abilities to perform activities
      and adversely impacting their quality of life. The level of impairment in patients with knee
      OA can be measured using validated self-report questionnaires, such as the disease-specific
      Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) and the generic
      Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-36 (SF-36). Self-report questionnaires have been
      recommended by some investigators for their high internal consistency and ease of
      administration. Another method to evaluate physical function in patients with knee OA is to
      use performance-based tests. These tests are tools that assess patients' ability to execute a
      task in a standardized environment, and include the 2-minute walk test (2MWT) and the timed
      get-up-and-go test (TUG).

      Among all the self-reported questionnaires for knee OA, the WOMAC is one of the most commonly
      used for baseline assessment and for measurement of treatment outcome, and has been validated
      for patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty (TKA). Although the WOMAC provides
      information on how individuals perceive their physical function in their own environment, it
      does not describe their ability to perform a specific task or action. In addition, some
      investigators showed that scores from self-report questionnaires before and after
      arthroplasty can overestimate patients' actual functional capacity. For example, Parent et al
      demonstrated that total knee arthroplasty patients had a dramatic improvement at 2 months as
      assessed by the WOMAC function subscale, however there were no significant changes when
      measured with performance-based tests assessing gait speed and stair ascent duration.
      Therefore, clinicians should be cautious when interpreting findings from studies that provide
      only self-report questionnaire scores. Given that self-report questionnaires may
      over-estimate functional status after joint replacement, some authors advocate
      performance-based tests as measures of outcome, and recommend their use during the
      preoperative period as baseline measurements followed by subsequent comparison with
      postoperative measurements.

      The objectives of this study are: 1) to assess the relationship between self-reported
      questionnaires (WOMAC and SF-36) and performance-based tests (2MWT, TUG) among patients
      scheduling for TKA; and 2) to identify clinical variables that are associated with pre- and
      post-operative performance of the 2MWT and TUG. Our hypothesis is that correlations between
      self-report questionnaires and performance-based tests would be low to moderate, and thus
      these two types of measurements evaluate distinct domains of functional status in patients
      undergoing TKA.
    
  