
    
      This is an interventional randomized, single blinded, cross over and controlled study.

      The main objective is the study of the kinetic modification of blood glucose with the "fruit"
      matrices enriched in maltodextrins, fructose and isomaltulose compared to the original recipe
      consisting only of simple sugars.

      The secondary objective is:

      -the assessment of the acceptability of all the fruit pastes tested (organoleptic, satiety
      and gastrointestinal comfort aspects).The study is composed of 7 visits Visit 1 - Selection
      Visit (Day -7)

        -  Informed consent form

        -  Clinical examination

        -  Medical history

        -  Anthropometric characteristics

        -  Blood biochemical and hematological assessment

        -  Compliance test with the original matrix will be carried out

      Visit 2 (D0) / Visit 3 (D7) / Visit 4 (D14) / Visit 5 (D21) / Visit 6 (D28): study period If
      all the biological criteria are respected, the subjects will have to come back to the
      clinical center for each of the 5 study periods.

      Volunteers will arrive fasted, without smoking in the morning. A catheter will be placed for
      blood sampling. After a first blood sampling for basal values, volunteers will ingest the
      equivalent of two bars of fruit pastes (about 80g in 10 minutes maximum) and blood will be
      withdrawn 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120 and 180 minutes after ingestion. The different matrices (5
      in total) will be tested on the same volunteer. Plasma samples will be used to determine
      plasma glucose and fructose concentrations (aliquots stored in center for later assays) to
      evaluate the postprandial profiles of these two nutrients. At the end of the kinetic, the
      volunteers will be offered a complete meal. A satiety questionnaire will be performed before
      then 60 and 180 min after the ingestion of each fruit matrix. A questionnaire of satisfaction
      and acceptability will also be realized during the consumption of the matrix.

      After the 5 fruit matrix will be tested, the subject will be invited to participate in an
      individual interview of about 30-45min with a member of the project team. The purpose of this
      interview will be a qualitative approach to search for a food development that can could
      improve the sensory quality of the fruit pastes tested and intended for the elderly (see
      below).

      Visit 7 (D35 to D40): Participation in a discussion group (about 2 hours). During the
      participation in this group all 10 participants will be invited to taste the 5 products
      (original recipe, maltodextrin recipe, fructose recipe, isomaltulose recipe and mixed recipe
      comprising fructose and isomaltulose). Participants will be asked to indicate for each
      product their degree of appreciation for these products, their possible defects and qualities
      and to suggest ideas for improving their taste / texture / appearance. These interviews will
      alternate individual reflection phases and discussion phases according to the focus group
      method.

      Visit 7 will be the last visit of the study.
    
  