
    
      A. Description This study is a follow-up study looking at mid- and long-term outcomes for
      participants in the IDE G920035 and IDE G000071 Clinical Trials. The IDE G920035 was a
      randomized, controlled trial with a 1:1 ROBODOC:control randomization. The IDE G000071 was a
      randomized, controlled trial with a 3:1 ROBODOC:control randomization.

      B. Selection Criteria Only subjects who were originally enrolled in the IDE G920035 and IDE
      G000071 Clinical Trials are eligible to participate in this study. Subjects selected for this
      study will have completed a minimum of the 3 month follow-up requirements of the IDE G920035
      and IDE G000071 Clinical Trials. Enrolled subjects must be willing to give a relevant medical
      history, undergo a focused physical examination of their operative hip(s), have an AP and
      lateral x-ray taken of their operative hip(s) and complete the Harris Hip Score, SF-12, UCLA
      Activity Score, VAS pain self-assessment, and Western Ontario and McMaster Universities
      Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) questionnaires.

      The study subject may be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses associated with their
      participation in the study. All requests for reimbursement must be pre-approved by Curexo
      Technology Corporation.

      C. Data Collection Subjects participating in this study will be asked to visit the study site
      to undergo a physical examination of their operative hip(s). During this visit, they will be
      asked to give a relevant medical history, have AP and lateral radiographs taken of their
      operative hip(s), and complete the Harris Hip Score, SF-12, UCLA Activity Score, VAS pain
      self-assessment, and WOMAC questionnaires.

      If the subject has obtained AP and lateral radiographs within the last year, these can be
      used instead of requiring them to obtain new radiographs specifically for this study.

      If the subject is unable or unwilling to come in for the examination, they will be asked to
      fill out the Harris Hip Score, SF-12, UCLA Activity Score, VAS pain self-assessment, and
      WOMAC questionnaires via mail or over the phone with the Study Nurse/Coordinator.
      Additionally, they will be asked to obtain current AP and lateral radiographs taken of their
      operative hip(s) with their current orthopaedic surgeon to be transferred to the study site.

      D. Blinding An independent radiologist or orthopaedic surgeon, experienced in reading hip
      x-rays, who is blinded to the original randomly assigned study group, will read the follow-up
      x-rays taken on subjects enrolled in this study.

      E. Randomization There will be no further randomization of subjects in this study. Prior
      subject records will determine the original study group (ROBODOC or manual control) to which
      the subject was randomly assigned in IDE G920035 or IDE G000071.

      F. Baseline Measurements No baseline measurements will be collected for this follow-up study.
      G. Power and Sample Size The sample size will be determined by the number of qualifying
      subjects from the IDE G920035 and IDE G000071 Clinical Trials who can be located and who
      agree to participate in this follow-up study. We anticipate approximately 20 patients from
      IDE G920035 and 30 patients from IDE G000071 to agree to study participation. This sample
      size will provide 82% power (α = 0.05, 2-tailed) to detect a 20% (5 versus 2.5, pooled SD =
      3.0) difference between the ROBODOC and control groups on the VAS at the last available
      follow-up.
    
  