
    
      The number of men and women reaching advanced age is rapidly increasing in developed
      countries and life expectancy has already doubled since the beginning of the last century. In
      parallel, the proportion of those who have survived to advanced old age without major health
      complications has become increasingly common. This phenomenon has led to concerted research
      efforts to understand the correlates and mechanisms of extended human longevity and healthy
      aging. For decades the public health perspective has emphasized environmental and life style
      factors as having beneficial effects on health and disease prevention in the general
      population. Important biological insights have been reached by examining the genetic basis of
      longevity and healthy aging, especially among individuals who demonstrate a favorable healthy
      aging phenotype. Epigenetics, defined as heritable changes in gene function or phenotypes, in
      the absence of DNA sequence changes, has revolutionized the concept of how genetics affect
      disease risk. Epigenetics have been shown to be associated with cancer risk and autoimmunity
      disorders. Moreover, epigenetic changes at specific sites appear to increase with age, hence
      they may serve as indices for chronological age. This background has led us to our central
      hypotheses that: i) epigenetic changes associated with healthy aging could serve as markers
      for a healthy life span, and ii) the epigenetic changes may represent one of the central
      mechanisms by which aging predisposes to many age-related diseases, and therefore affects
      healthy aging. We propose to test these hypotheses within the Israel multi-ethnic centenarian
      study cohort (which includes all citizens of Israel>95 years old; an estimated 1 in 5000 of
      the population). We will systematically assess genomic methylation changes in three major
      sub-groups which signifies three major points in human lifespan: Age 60±5 years (leading age
      of onset of age associated diseases and also considered to represent the beginning of old
      age, age 80±5 years (average life expectancy in the western world), and age 100±5 years
      (exceptional longevity). Our centenarians includes 3 subgroups: SURVIVORS: those who survive
      and become centenarians in spite of early onset of cognitive impairment, functional
      disability or major age associated diseases, such as diabetes, vascular disease or cancer, at
      the beginning of old age, i.e., age of 60±5 years (thus long life span but short healthy
      lifespan). DELAYERS: those who develop age related diseases or cognitive/physical disability
      much later than the control population i.e., at the age of 80±5 years instead of 60 years
      (therefore have a longer healthy life span). DODGERS: those who fail to develop age-related
      illnesses or cognitive/physical disability throughout their life span. We will compare these
      groups to healthy controls with no family history of longevity in two reference groups,
      namely 60±5 years and 80±5 years, comparing them to the survivors and delayers groups,
      respectively. We predict that subjects will exhibit differences in methylation at sites
      distinct from each other, in contrast to healthy subjects.

      Accordingly our proposed goals are:

        1. To characterize the Israel multi-ethnic centenarian study cohort (I-MECS).

        2. To screen, catalog and annotate epigenome methylation variants in five different groups
           (a. Survivors, b. Delayers, c. Dodgers, d. 60±5YO healthy control, and e. 80±5YO healthy
           controls).

        3. To validate differential methylated loci by ranking and prioritizing using Sequenom's
           MassARRAY.

        4. Exploratory goal (depend on time and funding availability) - To establish expression
           patterns using a qRT-PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) Roche light-cycler of the candidate
           epigenetic loci identified in Aims 1, 2 and 3 as well as specific genes (such as
           deoxyribonucleic acid methyltransferase and tumor suppressor genes) in blood cells of
           the initially screened population.

      To test our hypotheses, we propose to employ a novel high-throughput genome-wide methylation
      assay, namely HELPtag. Additionally, we will utilize a combination of epigenome-wide
      association studies (EWAS) to identify the most distinctive epigenetic loci that show
      greatest differential methylation. We will then perform multi-locus validation for
      methylation status using MassARRAY.
    
  