
    
      We will partner with Dr. Robert Edwards at the Brigham & Women's Pain Institute. Dr. Edward's
      is an expert in testing central sensitization using quantitative sensory testing (QST).12 QST
      involves cutaneous (skin) psychophysical (semi-subjective) testing to assess sensory and pain
      perception pathways.13 QST identifies the intensity of stimuli (touch) is needed to feel
      something (threshold of detection) and how perception of stimuli changes if it is repeated
      many times (temporal summation).14 In people with central sensitization, even light intensity
      of stimulation is perceived as pain and similar intensity stimuli becomes more painful with
      multiple applications. We hypothesize that people with chronic pain will demonstrate
      clinically important reductions in the threshold of detection and temporal summation after
      IVR, which will demonstrate that IVR can affect central sensitization.

      We will complete two types of QST testing: Mechanical Pressure Pain Thresholds (MPPTh) to
      test for threshold of detection, and Mechanical Temporal Summation of Pain (MTSP) to test for
      temporal summation. In MPPTh we will measure the amount of pressure needed at the shoulder
      and thumb (body sites that routinely do not have pain in people with low back pain) to elicit
      a pain report from participants. In MTSP we will apply a train of 10 stimuli (light pinprick)
      at the rate of 1 per second on the middle finger and have participants rate the painfulness
      of the first, fifth, and tenth stimulus.

      During the study, we will recruit 20 patients with chronic low back pain from Dr. Edwards'
      study examining sensory and pain perceptions in patients with chronic pain who use opioids.
      We will complete QST testing and obtain current pain levels. We will complete 20-minutes of
      IVR, and then complete QST testing again. We will compare pre-IVR MPPTh and MTSP with post
      IVR levels. We anticipate short term, clinically important decreases in QST levels providing
      initial confirmation that IVR can positively change central sensitization.
    
  