
    
      Background: Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is a common disorder characterised by recurrent
      episodes of apnoea or hypopnoea during sleep. OSA is associated with excessive daytime
      sleepiness and linked to increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. OSA can be
      alleviated with Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) treatment.

      Cardiovascular disease is the major cause of decreased life expectancy, morbidity and reduced
      quality of life in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D). Increased stiffness of the aorta has
      been associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in diabetic patients.

      Previous studies have reported a much higher frequency of OSA in patients with obesity and
      T2D compared with non-diabetic subjects, and found that OSA was associated with arterial
      stiffness. However, whether CPAP treatment improves arterial stiffness and insulin
      sensitivity in T2D patients remain to be elucidated.

      Objective: To investigate the effects of three months' treatment with a CPAP-device versus
      sham CPAP on change in arterial stiffness in T2D patients with newly detected OSA.

      Design: Randomised, controlled, multicentre study of intervention with CPAP treatment versus
      control group. The treatment period is three months with a subsequent 9 months open
      extension.

      Patient population: 70 patients with T2D and newly diagnosed OSA recruited from Department of
      Cardiology, Nephrology and Endocrinology, Nordsjællands Hospital, Department of
      Endocrinology, Gentofte University Hospital, Department of Endocrinology and Internal
      Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital Nørrebrogade and Department of Internal Medicine,
      Silkeborg Sygehus.

      Intervention: CPAP treatment versus control group.

      Endpoints:

      Primary endpoint: Change in arterial stiffness measured by office carotid-femoral pulse wave
      velocity (cf-PWV) from start to end of 12 weeks intervention.
    
  