
    
      Angina pectoris or anginal equivalent dyspnoea are frequent symptoms related to impaired
      myocardial blood supply. The supply-demand imbalance that arises in the setting of coronary
      artery disease can be addressed by improving myocardial blood supply through mechanical
      revascularization with percutaneous coronary intervention or bypass surgery or by reducing
      myocardial energy demand through pharmacotherapy including the use of negative chronotropic
      agents such as beta blockers. When further revascularization is not an option, or standard
      therapies are insufficient to control symptoms, other novel therapies are attempted to
      improve myocardial blood supply and decrease angina. Enhanced external counterpulsation
      (EECP) devices have been demonstrated to augment cardiac performance and coronary flow and
      have a beneficial effect in reducing anginal symptoms in patients with CAD.(1-4)
      Transcutaneous (non-invasive) electrical nervous stimulation of skeletal muscle to improve
      venous return to the heart and provide a potential mechanism to augment and improve blood
      flow, including coronary flow, is a potential alternative method to achieve a similar
      effect,(5,6) but is less cumbersome and more easily integrated into clinical practice. The
      gekoTM device is a small transcutaneous nerve stimulator (weight 18g, dimensions 149mm x 42mm
      x 11mm) that is applied non-invasively to the skin over the common peroneal nerve in the
      lower limb that has been demonstrated to safely stimulate blood flow from the gastrocnemius
      and soleus venous system via activation of the venous 'pump' system, intrinsic to the calf
      muscles. As a result, the gekoTM device is approved for use in Canada to improve blood flow
      and is already being used in clinical practice at University Hospital. By improving venous
      return, this device has the potential to have a therapeutic effect in the management of CAD
      by augmenting coronary blood flow. The purpose of the PERCCAD Study is to investigate the
      effect of the gekoTM device on coronary blood flow in order to assess its potential role as a
      therapeutic modality for the treatment of symptomatic CAD. Further, since previous studies
      with EECP also demonstrated improvement in endothelial function, the investigators plan to
      study the effect of the gekoTM device on endothelial function and peripheral blood flow in
      the same patients via non invasive techniques(4, 7, 8) given the established relationship
      between endothelial dysfunction and cardiovascular risk. (9-12)

      The primary objective of the PERCCAD study is to assess the effect of the gekoTM device on
      coronary blood flow in patients with symptomatic CAD who are undergoing invasive angiographic
      assessment and management with PCI. This evaluation of the gekoTM device is to be performed
      at the time of the patient's already planned invasive assessment and management so that
      invasive data can be collected without exposing the patient to risks other than those already
      associated with their planned procedure and usual clinical care. The secondary objective of
      the study is to assess the effect of muscle stimulation with the gekoTM device on endothelial
      function and peripheral blood flow measured via non-invasive techniques.

      Study Design:

      Single arm clinical study where patients act as their own controls (coronary flow reserve and
      endothelial function measured in patients already undergoing angiography and PCI) with
      measurements recorded pre and post application of the gekoTM device.

      Coronary flow assessment: The PCI procedure will be performed according to standard practice.
      As part of routine practice, a guidewire is inserted into the coronary artery and used as a
      "rail" for delivering balloons and stents. Often, we use a special Doppler guidewire with a
      sensor at the tip that is used for measurements of blood flow. We will use such a guidewire
      for the current study (13-16). Velocity signals are obtained by the guidewire and average
      peak velocity (APV) is determined. Intracoronary adenosine will be given to induce hyperemia
      and increase coronary flow (17-21). Intracoronary adenosine is used routinely during PCI.
      Coronary flow reserve (CFR) will be calculated as the ratio of APV during hyperemia compared
      to APV at baseline. After measurement of baseline APV and CFR, we will perform two minutes of
      muscle stimulation using the gekoTM device at a low pulse width setting and record APV. After
      this, a further two minutes of muscle stimulation using the gekoTM device at a higher pulse
      width setting will occur with repeated APV and CFR measurements recorded. This process will
      be performed in at least two coronary arteries at the time of patient's usual invasive
      assessment and management. Calf muscle stimulation with the gekoTM device: The gekoTM device
      will be fitted bilaterally behind the patient's knees in the popliteal fossa. At the
      appropriate time the device will be set to stimulate the common peroneal nerve
      transcutaneously (the low setting will be set at the level at which the patient has a
      sensation of stimulation but where there is no visible movement of the lower leg; the high
      setting will be at the patient's highest tolerable level, but not lower than the level which
      elicited slight visible movement of the lower leg).

      Endothelial Function Assessment: Endothelial function study will be performed on a separate
      visit following the PCI, by measurement of peripheral vasodilator response using fingertip
      pulse amplitude tonometry (peripheral arterial tonometry-PAT). PAT signals will be obtained
      with the EndoPAT2000 (EndoPAT) device (Itamar Medical Inc., Caesarea, Israel). The EndoPAT is
      an FDA approved device for noninvasive assessment of endothelial dysfunction, it is widely
      used for clinical and research purposes and validated as a method of endothelial function
      assessment.(22-24) Specially designed finger probes are placed on the index finger of each
      patient's hand. The probes are comprised of a system of inflatable latex air cuffs connected
      by pneumatic tubes to an inflating device controlled through a computer algorithm. There is
      no occlusion of arterial blood flow. Pulsatile volume changes of the distal digit induce
      pressure alterations in the finger cuff, which are sensed by pressure transducers and
      transmitted to and recorded by the EndoPAT. Endothelial function is measured via a reactive
      hyperemia-peripheral arterial tonometry index (RH-PAT index). A reactive hyperemia protocol
      consists of a 5-minute baseline measurement, after which a blood pressure cuff placed on the
      test arm is inflated to 60 mmHg above baseline systolic blood pressure, or at least 200 mmHg
      for 5 minutes. After 5 minutes, the cuff is deflated, and the PAT tracing recorded for a
      further 5 minutes. The ratio of the PAT signal after cuff release, compared to baseline, is
      calculated through a computer algorithm automatically normalizing for baseline signal, and
      indexed to the contra lateral arm. The calculated ratio reflects the RH-PAT index, a
      reflection of degree of endothelial function. This process is non-invasive and does not
      require percutaneous vascular access. Endothelial function will also be assessed at baseline
      and following 1 hour treatment with the gekoTM using the EndoPAT to calculate the RH-PAT
      index as described. In addition, the effect on popliteal artery vessel diameter and Doppler
      flow velocity will also be recorded using a surface ultrasound probe at baseline and
      following 1 hour of treatment with the gekoTM.
    
  