
    
      Rationale: Since the introduction of cisplatin, metastatic testicular cancer (TC) has become
      a highly curable disease. Successfully treated TC patients have a small chance of a relapse.
      In case of a relapse, early treatment will improve outcome. This stresses the need for a
      frequent and stringent follow-up scheme. Although chemotherapy is a very effective treatment,
      a downside of this treatment has now become apparent: chemotherapy-related complications such
      as the increased risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD) and secondary malignancies. CVD can
      manifest during treatment, but also years or decades thereafter. We recently observed early
      development of cardiovascular risk factors in TC patients, clustered into the metabolic
      syndrome. Monitoring and treatment of cardiovascular risk factors during follow-up is
      important to lower the chance of developing CVD.

      Since TC survivors are discharged from follow-up after 10 years, collaboration between
      oncologists and general practitioners (GPs), in other words shared care, will ensure
      monitoring of cardiovascular risk factors and timely detection and treatment of late effects
      (cardiovascular risk management). Survivorship care plans for cancer survivors, GPs and
      oncologists facilitate care for long-term survivors. The testicular cancer survivor himself
      is the key person, who can be empowered to participate in follow-up programs and make
      lifestyle adjustments to decrease the risk of late effects and improve quality of life and
      life expectancy. However, data are scarce on the design of an evidence based effective
      follow-up schedule. For childhood cancer survivors a detailed guideline has been developed
      that can serve as a framework for adult cancer survivor follow-up.

      Objective: To examine the safety and feasibility of a shared care survivorship care plan
      (SCP) to follow-up patients with metastatic testicular cancer after completion of
      chemotherapy that resulted in complete remission.

      Study population: Patients that achieved a complete remission after chemotherapy for
      metastatic testicular cancer who are starting with follow-up or are currently in active
      follow-up.
    
  