
    
      Our study will include 25 patients. All patients will receive a comprehensive oral evaluation
      and periodontal examination prior to entry to this study. Patients will be selected on the
      basis of meeting the inclusion criteria, whose treatment plan is to receive an endosseous
      dental implant. They will be given oral hygiene instruction at each follow-up appointment.
      All test and control materials will be strictly controlled by the principal investigator who
      will maintain all study and patient information in a locked cabinet in a locked room to
      ensure patient privacy.

      Primary Intervention:

      Surgical Procedures:

      Patients will rinse with 0.12% chlorhexidine gluconate for 60 s before the surgery, and 2 g
      amoxicillin or 600 mg clindamycin (if allergic to penicillin) will be administered. Sulcular
      and crestal incisions will be placed in the area of the planned implant. A full-thickness
      mucoperiosteal flap will be reflected. Surgical placement of an endosseous dental implant
      (Prima Implant System, Keystone Dental) will be carried out according to manufacturer's
      recommendation with the use of a surgical template. Following preparation of the osteotomy
      site to receive the implant, the thickness of the residual buccal bone will be measured and
      recorded to the nearest 0.5 mm, at approximately 0.5 mm apical to the crest with a caliper.
      After placement of the implant, the distance between the bony crest and the top of the
      implant will be measured and recorded to the nearest 1 mm for the buccal aspect of each
      implant with a periodontal probe (UNC-15). Titanium cover screws will be attached to the
      implants.

      If the patient meets the inclusion criteria (buccal plate thickness is ≥1 mm), the treatment
      will be selected randomly through a coin toss. Heads indicates the subject will be entered in
      the FDBA + membrane group. Tails indicates the subject will be entered in the control group
      (non-FDBA).

      Periosteal releasing incisions will be made to adequately mobilize the full-thickness
      mucoperiosteal flap. For patients in the FDBA + membrane group, a layer 4 mm thick of
      cancellous allograft bone (Puros Cancellous, Zimmer Dental inc., Carlsbad, CA) will be placed
      over the buccal bone in the area of the implant. A resorbable collagen membrane (Bio-Gide, 13
      x 25 mm, Osteohealth, Shirley, NY) will be trimmed to extend 5 mm beyond the implant borders
      and to cover the implant head. Following membrane placement over the bone graft, the gingival
      flaps will be closed and sutured with 4-0 Vicryl (Ethicon Inc., Sommerville, NJ) with passive
      tension flap closure. Patients in the non-FDBA group will have gingival flaps closed with the
      same suturing technique. A post-operative periapical radiograph will be exposed of the
      implant.

      Post-operative care will include oral administration of 500 mg amoxicillin 3 times daily for
      7 days or 300 mg clindamycin 3 times daily for 7 days. Ibuprofen 600 mg every 8 h for 5 days
      will be prescribed for analgesics. Patients will be instructed to rinse with 0.12%
      chlorhexidine gluconate (Peridex, Zila Inc. Pheonix, AZ) twice daily for 1 month. Sutures
      will be removed 2 weeks post-surgery. Post-surgical evaluations will be provided at 2 weeks,
      1 month, 3, and 6 months.

      Stage II surgery will be performed 6 months after implant placement using the same flap
      design as the implant placement surgery. The titanium cover screw will be removed, and
      replaced with a titanium healing abutment. The distance from the bony crest to the top of the
      implant will be measured using the same technique described at the implant placement surgery.
      The buccal bone thickness will be measured by recording the distance from the buccal implant
      surface to the outer buccal bone crest to the nearest 1 mm using a periodontal probe
      (UNC-15). Photos of the study site will be taken at each surgical procedure and at each
      follow-up appointment.

      Post-Surgical Clinical Measurements:

      The following clinical measurements will be obtained with a plastic periodontal probe at 6
      sites at each implant (Colorview, Hu-Friedy, Chicago, IL) and recorded to the nearest
      millimeter: probing depth, gingival margin position, bleeding on probing, and gingival index.
      The gingival index will be assessed according to Silness and Loe on a scale of 0-3. Implant
      mobility will also be assessed using an instrument handle and a finger. The soft tissue
      clinical measurements will be obtained at the following time periods: 1 month following Stage
      II surgery and 6 months following Stage II surgery (1 year after implant placement). Final
      implant abutments and crowns will proceed according to the original treatment plan of the
      patient.
    
  