
    
      The study will involve two groups:

      Group 1: Patients with a continuous unilateral facial paralysis that underwent an operation
      for facial reanimation will be enrolled at least one year after the operation according to
      review of medical records of the Department of plastic surgery.

      Group 2: Patients with temporary unilateral facial paralysis secondary to Bell's palsy as was
      identified in the admission to the Hospital Department of Plastic Surgery or to the
      Department of Ear, Nose and Throat.

      After being identified eligible to participate in the study, the patients will be invited to
      join the study, sign on the written informed consent, and their demographic and medical
      history will be recorded.

      Patients identified to belong to these study groups in other hospitals may join the study,
      after pre-evaluation and medical record analysis by the study Principle Investigator
      (PI)/Co-PI.

      The study will be constructed in two phases:

      Phase 1 - The first stage is composed of a one-time participation for about three hours. This
      feasibility stage involves:

        1. Verifying compliance of the patients with the research inclusion and exclusion criteria

        2. Completion of the study clinical report form (CRF) for this stage

        3. Placement of the single use mini-electrodes that will be adhered to the facial skin near
           the non-blinking eye and coupled to the Neurotrigger stimulator to elicit eyelid
           closure.

      An initial report will then be issued to summarize the patient's experience of using the
      system in the first testing attempt to identify a complete or partial eye blinking.

      Participants identified to respond to the stimulator at a partial or complete eye closure
      level, will be invited to continue to use the device for additional two hours in the hospital
      premises.

      A summary meeting will then be held to issue a summary report covering the overall patient's
      experience of using the system throughout the testing period.

      The purpose of this first stage is to examine the possibility of closing the patient eyelid
      completely or partially, optimize electrode position, and maximize the patient's comfort
      level.

      A profile of system efficacy in generating eyelid closure will then be generated including
      the characterization of the stimulus pattern (intensity, frequency, etc.)

      Phase 2: The purpose of this stage is to examine how a continued use of the device by the
      patient may improve outcomes, and reduce complications that are derived of the facial nerve
      paralysis

      Participants may be enrolled to the second phase up to one year from the first phase visit

      In this second stage the duration of the participation is about three weeks (six days a week)
      and includes daily use of the device for up to 10 hours a day. During nights the patient will
      continue is standard pattern of either eye closure or leaving the eye open, as the patient
      used to do prior to the study.

      This stage will involve a patient with a partner that is designated to support the patient
      closely during the placement and adjustment of the system.

      The patient and the partner will both obtain a detailed mutual training of placing the
      electrode and device, activating the device (partner) and its use (patient) to assure
      complete assistance and guidance in installing the system and its use.

      Prior to starting this stage the patient will undergo eye examination and will complete a
      Patient Graded Instrument for Facial Nerve Paralysis - The FaCE Scale Questionnaire - to
      evaluate the life quality with the facial nerve paralysis (Laryngoscope. 2001
      Mar;111(3):387-98.Validation of a patient-graded instrument for facial nerve paralysis: the
      FaCE scale. Kahn JB et al.)

      Patients are provided with help desk number to answer questions and queries during the study
      period as needed.

      They will get a clear guidance of the possibility to get support at home by experience system
      user or by phone-call or by videoconference (Skype or the like) by communicating with the
      experienced Sponsor's personnel who can help them adjust the electrode to the face and
      reducing discomfort.

      In case of a skin rush or any skin discomfort, the patient will call the clinic and will be
      invited to medical examination and, if necessary, for treatment of a rush reducing and
      calming ointment and be advised of re-using the system.

      Participants will make an intermediate evaluation at one and a half week and a final visit at
      three weeks.

      The last visit will include eye examination to compare the eye functioning before and after
      Phase 2, and the completion of a FaCE Scale Questionnaire to evaluate potential improvement
      in life quality.
    
  