
    
      Introduction Optical coherent tomography (OCT) technology has been widely used in medical
      practice, such as ophthalmology. The application in dermatology is slowly progressed until
      the marked improvement of resolution recently. One of the newly designed OCT devices using in
      this study is based on the research and development of Professor Sheng-Lung Huang of National
      Taiwan University. The light source was made with original glass-covered crystalline fiber
      which has successfully provided sub-micron resolution on the skin, which is better than the
      traditional 5-10 micron resolution of high-definition OCT. This new OCT system (ApolloVue™
      S100 image system, Viper1-S003) has been used in this previous clinical trial "in vivo OCT
      images of different skin diseases" without adverse events. OCT images of different skin
      diseases collected in that trial were compared with HE-stained pathological sections. They
      provided useful information to physicians. The risk-benefit assessment of this clinical trial
      is the same as expected. The risk is low in clinical use, and both for the operators and the
      subjects. In recent years, the application of artificial intelligence technology in the
      analysis of tissue classification of medical images is rapidly developing. Therefore, we are
      going to use deep learning technology to improve the interpretation of OCT images to help the
      subsequent diagnosis of skin diseases.

      Inclusion criteria

      Experimental group:

        1. Adults aged 20 years or older

        2. Non-treat lesion of epidermal inflammatory disease: dermatitis and psoriasis: 300
           participants.

        3. Benign tumors: seborrheic keratosis and nevus: 300 participants

        4. Malignant tumors: actinic keratosis (AK), melanoma, basal cell carcinoma (BCC), Bowen's
           disease, squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), and extramammary Paget's disease (EMPD): 100
           participants

        5. Pigmented diseases: solar lentigo, melasma, and vitiligo: 300 participants

      Control group:

      The healthy face (exposed site) and inner forearm (unexposed site) skin of epidermal tumors
      and pigmented diseases of the above experimental group were used as a control group,
      excluding epidermal inflammatory diseases, 700 participants in the control group were
      expected.

      Exclusion criteria

      Experimental group:

        1. Minors aged under 20 years

        2. Suspected a transcutaneous infectious disease, including infections such as bacteria,
           fungi, viruses, and parasites.

        3. All skin tumors that are in the subcutaneous tissue

        4. All skin lesions are open wounds

        5. All skin lesions are in a location that is difficult to scan

        6. Not willing to cooperate with methods and related procedures of this study

        7. Vulnerable populations, including prisoners, pregnant women, handicapped, mentally
           disabled, known AIDS patients, and homelessness

      Control group:

        1. Minors under 20 years of age.

        2. Epidermal inflammatory disease

        3. Suspected a transcutaneous infectious disease, including infections such as bacteria,
           fungi, viruses, and parasites.

        4. Individuals who have a systemic skin disorder.

        5. Individuals who have a history of severe skin condition

        6. Individuals with surgeries/cosmetic surgeries/micro cosmetic surgery (eg. cosmetic
           injections and/or laser etc.) on healthy skin at face and inner forearm in last 3 months
           and a physician determine the surgery will affect outcome of the OCT images.

        7. Not willing to cooperate with methods and related procedures of this study

        8. Vulnerable populations, including prisoners, pregnant women, handicapped, mentally
           disabled, known AIDS patients, and homelessness

      Deep convolutional neural network (DCNN) was used to mark tissue and lesions in OCT images.
      When training DCNN models, transfer learning strategies will be used to fine-tune the
      parameters from pre-trained models that contain a lot of image knowledge, such as GoogLeNet,
      rather than training the models from scratch. This method retains the low-level image
      knowledge common to natural and medical images, and significantly reduces the time to train
      the model. During the training process, the parameters of the first few layers that store the
      low-order image knowledge in the model are fixed, and the parameters of the subsequent layers
      of the model are changed by the back-propagation algorithm. Finally, a layer of linear
      classifier is added to the end of the DCNN to determine the type / size of the symptoms in
      the input image.
    
  