
    
      Gait disorder is one of the key features of Parkinson's disease (PD), often leading to loss
      of mobility and severe disability. Yet in the early stages of disease, examination of gait
      may lead to inconclusive results for differential diagnosis between PD and other parkinsonism
      because slow and small stepped walking is often unspecific and can be related to age,
      depressive mood, or to a presence of neurodegenerative atypical parkinsonism (AP) such as
      Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP).

      At the same time, emerging evidence indicates that early disturbances in cognitive processes
      such as attention, executive function, and working memory are associated with slower gait and
      gait instability during single and dual-task testing.

      It is therefore crucial to carefully investigate the multiple cognitive domains in order to
      identify possible mild cognitive deficits in PD and PSP patients and to correlate them with
      gait disorders.

      The use of quantitative movement analysis with 3D-gait analysis allow an objective
      multifactorial evaluation of the functional limitation related to PD and PSP patients and can
      be used to analyze the gait in pathologies characterized by gait impairment compared to
      healthy control (HC).

      This longitudinal clinical study aims to analyze cognitive profiles and gait pattern (with
      3D-gait analysis) and their progression (18 months later) in a PD- and a PSP-group, respect
      to HC group.

      Moreover, with the Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), the study want to research for possible
      gait-related cerebral diffusion/functional connectivity alterations and their changes over
      time.

      The specific aims of the project are:

        -  To perform a multifactorial quantitative analysis of outcomes for PD and PSP compared to
           a control group in order to categorize the gait in the group of patients and verify if
           the gait can be useful as discriminator for diagnosis.

        -  To detect possible cognitive deficits in Parkinson's Disease and PSP more corelated with
           gait disturbances.

        -  To analyze whether diffusion and resting-state functional connectivity indices are
           correlated with clinical disease severity scores and motor scores and how they change
           over time (18 months later).

        -  To identify gait-related cerebral diffusion/functional connectivity in PD and PSP
           patients and to verify their progression over a period of 18 months.
    
  