
    
      Robot assisted therapy and Active Learning Program for Stroke (ALPS) are unique interventions
      that are feasible and effective for individuals with neuromotor impairments. To the best of
      our knowledge, this is a novel intervention approach and thus there are no preliminary
      studies to acknowledge that reference this combined technique. There have been studies which
      evaluated the Amadeo and metacognitive approaches in isolation, but not combined.

      The goal of this pilot study is to better understand the impact of a combined approach using
      both robot assisted therapy and metacognitive skills training through ALPS on the functional
      performance outcomes of children with hemiparesis. Our primary aim is to evaluate the
      feasibility of this pilot study intervention as measured by adequate recruitment of necessary
      population, participant attendance to scheduled sessions, participant adherence to home
      program and clinician competence/adherence with protocol administration. Our secondary aim is
      to understand the preliminary impact of a combined approach to intervention involving
      robot-assisted therapy and a metacognitive strategy training ALPS on upper limb motor skills
      and function of children with hemiparesis. It is hypothesized that utilizing this combined
      bottom-up and top-down approach will be a feasible option for intervention and that
      preliminary outcomes will be promising. If successful, this project has the potential to
      improve rehabilitation and habilitation outcomes of children with hemiparesis.

      This study will be set as a prospective pilot study with pre- and post-intervention and one
      month follow-up evaluation. Study procedures will occur within Boston Children's Hospital's
      Department of Physical and Occupational Therapy Service. For the duration of this trial,
      participants will not be allowed to participate in additional occupational therapy
      intervention.
    
  