
    
      The mechanism of injuries is commonly result of a posterolaterally directed blow to the
      anteromedial aspect of the proximal tibia with the knee in full extension, other less common
      mechanisms include posterior rotatory dislocation (dashboard injury), anterior rotatory
      dislocation, and hyperextension injury with external rotation.

      Early diagnosis of injuries to the posterolateral aspect of the knee is critical because
      surgical repair in the acute period is easier, and is associated with a more favorable
      outcome for patients. Also, failure to address instability of the PLC structures increases
      forces at anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) graft sites
      and may lead to failure of the cruciate reconstruction ,significant osteoarthritis and
      chronic knee instability Since introduction of MRI to musculoskeletal imaging in the early
      1980s, it has proven to be an excellent technique for evaluating patients with knee problems.
      Its main advantages of MRI are its non-invasive nature and its high accuracy and negative
      predictive value in evaluating the menisci and ACL. Also it is useful in the detection and
      diagnosis of various traumatic, non traumatic knee abnormalities and diagnosis of occult or
      unsuspected bone lesions. It can help in the selection of those patients who need therapeutic
      arthroscopy.

      Assessment of PLC injures is usually made clinically , including several physical examination
      maneuvers by orthopedic physician ; such as posterolateral drawer test, dial test, reverse
      pivot shift test, external rotation recurvatum test and varus stress test.

      Despite these several tests, in 72% of cases they are not identified in his initial
      presentation, which demonstrates the difficulty of clinical diagnosis.

      Thus, it is important to use additional tests for the diagnosis of posterolateral corner
      injury. The medical literature demonstrates that MRI has an accuracy of up to 95% for
      identifying major injury PLC structures, namely, lesions of the lateral collateral ligament
      (LCL), popliteus muscle tendon (PMT) and poplitealfibular ligament (PFL).

      For better visualization of the PLC structures, an oblique coronal T2 cut should be
      performed. It provides an accurate and detailed evaluation of the posterolateral corner
      structures of the knee.

      As PLC injures may be difficult to be assessed clinically because of associated and
      coexisting injuries at the knee, so MRI can provide vital information regarding the status of
      the posterolateral corner, thus enabling good surgical planning and more effective treatment.
    
  