
    
      Cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass is associated with serious morbidity and
      mortality especially in moderate and high-risk patients. This procedure is associated with
      systemic inflammatory response as a consequence of cardiopulmonary bypass, surgical insult
      and genetic background of patients leading to organ injury and worse outcome. This pitfall
      may be worsened by hemodynamic changes with inadequate hemodynamic management.

      During and after CPB, substantial changes in macrocirculation and microcirculation are
      observed and sustain impairment may result in reduced oxygen delivery and/or impaired oxygen
      extraction. The main consequence is cellular dysorexia that may trigger postoperative organ
      dysfunction. Rapid identification of cellular dysorexia and rapid hemodynamic management are
      therefore among key strategies that may reduce mortality.

      In this purpose various marker can be considered. Traditionally lactatemia is considered as
      surrogate of anaerobic metabolism resulting from ischemia. However it interpretation may be
      challenging particularly in case of reduced hepatic clearance, use of epinephrine or massive
      blood transfusion. Venous or central venous oxygenation (S(c)VO2), a surrogate of oxygen
      extraction that is believed to reflect balance between oxygen delivery and consumption, is
      considered as an acceptable alternative as it was shown to be associated with organ
      dysfunction in various clinical setting. Nevertheless ScVO2 suffers from the difficulties to
      define adequate threshold as very high S(c)VO2 as well as low S(c)VO2 may be associated with
      poor outcome. Recently PCO2 derived dysorexia and perfusion markers have been shown to be
      predicting outcome in both septic patient and high risk surgical patient. Central venous to
      arterial difference in PCO2 (ΔPCO2) a global perfusion index is show to be correlated to
      microcirculation dysfunction and may reflect impaired tissue perfusion. In high risk
      non-cardiac surgical patients and in septic patient, ΔPCO2 predicted worse outcome better
      than S(c)VO2 and lactate. Besides this performance may be improve when using a clinically
      available surrogate based on ΔPCO2. When anaerobic metabolism occurred as a result of
      sustained hypoxia, CO2 production increases therefore the respiratory quotient (CO2
      production (VCO2) and oxygen consumption (VO2) ratio) increases. VCO2/VO2 can be simplified
      as ΔPCO2 /Ca-vO2 ratio, where Ca-vO2 is arteriovenous O2 content difference. All these
      variables have never been compared in cardiac surgery setting and their association with
      microcirculation impaired is poorly documented. The hypotheses is that ΔPCO2, and ΔPCO2
      /Ca-vO2 ratio may better predict major postoperative adverse events than blood lactate and
      S(c)VO2 after cardiac surgery with CPB.
    
  