
    
      Individuals who develop chronic harmful inflammation in association with self-reactive
      autoantibodies or T cells are said to have autoimmune diseases. The causes of these diseases
      are unknown but they are thought to occur in genetically susceptible individuals after
      exposure to selected environmental agents. There are many forms of these diseases, but we
      have been focusing on one of the rarest and most poorly-studied group of autoimmune
      disorders, known as the Idiopathic Inflammatory Myopathies (IIM). This heterogeneous group of
      diseases includes polymyositis, dermatomyositis and related disorders. This is a natural
      history protocol designed to continue our study of these diseases and begin the evaluation of
      related connective tissue disorders associated with environmental exposures. We plan to
      further delineate important groups of patients and familial cases, and obtain useful material
      for further investigations of the clinical presentations, etiology, pathogenesis, and
      immunologic abnormalities of autoimmune/connective tissue diseases. Clinical data and patient
      blood, urine and tissue specimens have been collected by referring physicians and sent to us.
      The blood samples have been separated into cells and plasma, frozen and then placed into cell
      and plasma banks. Often the diagnosis of an IIM can be confused with other illness (such as
      adult-onset dystrophies), and therefore, we have also included patients with other illnesses
      (who are referred with a preliminary diagnosis of an IIM or an unknown myopathy), including
      patients with other autoimmune diseases. In order to understand more fully the genetic risk
      factors for these diseases, family members of selected patients who have several blood
      relatives with autoimmune or connective tissue diseases will also be studied. In summary,
      this natural history protocol will attempt, through a series of hypothesis-testing and
      hypothesis-generating studies, to obtain new information regarding the clinical presentation,
      risk and protective factors, pathogeneses and prognostic features for myositis and related
      conditions.
    
  