
    
      Background Seriously ill or injured patients might require prehospital TI, which is a
      potentially lifesaving intervention. Performing TI in a prehospital context differ from the
      preconditions inhospital due to environmental and technical aspects and resources available
      (3). Today there is a consensus that prehospital critical care should at least be on the same
      standards as in-hospital care. The trend therefore has been towards more rigorous safety
      precautions introducing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) including 360oaccess to patients
      with all equipment at close hand brought out from the helicopter or the ambulance and long
      challenge-response lists. This will shift focus towards adherence to SOPs instead of
      tailoring the sequence of procedures according to circumstances and patient needs. An
      experienced operator can plan and communicate appropriate actions from a risk-benefit
      perspective in a stressful situation. Prehospital interventions have to be time effective,
      especially where short on-scene times are preferable in time-critical conditions such as
      uncontrolled internal haemorrhage and traumatic brain injuries.

      A recent Nordic multicentre study, PHAST, shows that emergency systems staffed with highly
      experienced anaesthetists can perform prehospital TI with high success rates, low incidence
      of complications and short on-scene times. Due to environmental factors, weather and light
      conditions in the Scandinavian countries, it is not always favourable to perform TI outside
      the helicopter or ambulance, with 360o -access. Technical aspects in-helicopter/in-ambulance
      such as access to better suctioning and stretcher positioning, can influence the operator's
      decision on where to perform the TI. Whether the location of the TI affects the outcome has
      not yet been studied. A recent experimental mannequin study, SPRINT, suggests that in-cabin
      intubations can offer equal to, or even better conditions than out of cabin and can shorten
      on-scene time. To investigate whether this applies to real life conditions, a prospective
      large-scale clinical study must be done.

      Performing prehospital TI is dependent on a well-functioning team where the operator has an
      assistant backing up during the procedures. The assistants' level of airway experience and
      the teams' accumulated experience working together has not been studied earlier.
    
  