
    
      Preclinical and biomechanical studies have demonstrated efficacy in cosmetic skin and deep
      tissue closures.[1], [2] In addition, barbed sutures have been shown to provide water-tight
      closure and wound strength comparable to or superior to closure with conventional sutures.
      Many comparative studies have been published contrasting barbed sutures to conventional
      closure techniques in multiple surgical fields. [3], [4] Various studies have evaluated the
      outcomes of different barbed suture devices, however there are no reports assessing the
      length of closure times using STRATAFIX (Ethicon, Johnson and Johnson, Somerville, New
      Jersey) Knotless Tissue Control Devices during deep closure in total hip arthroplasty.
      Stephens et al. [5] performed a prospective randomized study of 500 total knee arthroplasty
      patients who received either barbed suture (250) or conventional sutures (250) for deep
      closure of the surgical wound. The mean operating time was significantly shorter in the
      barbed group as compared to conventional group (64.3 vs 68.1 minutes, p=<0.001). In a study
      of 80 TKA (61 barbed, 19 conventional deep sutures) and 54 THA patients (37 barbed, 17
      conventional deep sutures), Smith et al. [6] found significantly shorter closure time in the
      barbed suture group (16.78 vs. 26.5 minutes, p<0.001). One study reports one the use of
      Stratfix suture for intracorporeal suturing in myomectomy. Giampaolino et al. [7] performed a
      prospective randomized study on 47 patients and evaluated the mean operative time for
      laparoscopic posterior myomectomy using Stratafix or conventional suture for intracorporeal
      suturing. There was a significant decrease in mean operative time associated with use of
      Stratafix suture as compared to conventional suture (66.3 vs 73 minutes, p=0.005).

      This prospective randomized single-center study will examine the outcomes, mainly closure
      time, of deep closure during total hip arthroplasty using the STRATAFIX Symmetric PDS Plus
      (Ethicon, Johnson and Johnson, Somerville, New Jersey) barbed suture compared to interrupted
      VICRYL suture (Ethicon, Johnson and Johnson, Somerville, New Jersey).
    
  