
    
      In the first arm of the study, a normally pigmented area on the patient was anesthetized with
      1% lidocaine with epinephrine. Using a surgical knife, the investigator removed a small
      portion of the epidermis that is unaffected by vitiligo from a small area (2cm2) on the
      patient's thigh to obtain donor cells. Epidermis that was harvested with the surgical knife
      was washed with Lactated Ringer's solution three times and then dissociated using trypsin to
      separate the cells into a single cell suspension. The recipient area to be grafted was
      ablated with an Erbium YAG laser. Half of the dissociated single cells from the donor area
      (thigh)was then transplanted on to the area affected by vitiligo that the patient is
      interested in grafting (5 cm2 area).

      The investigator then evaluated response to treatment in the transplanted areas at 1 day, 1
      week, 1 month and 3 months, and 6 months by both photography and quantifying the VASI score.

      VASI is the percentage of vitiligo involvement and is calculated in terms of hand units. One
      hand unit is approximately equivalent to 1% of the total body surface area.

      In the second arm of the study, the investigator used a minimally invasive procedure (suction
      blister grafting) to sample the grafted skin and donor skin- this method can separate the
      epidermis from the dermis without inducing a scar. A normally pigmented area on the upper
      thigh is anesthetized with 1% lidocaine with epinephrine. Using a suction blister technique,
      the investigator removed a small portion of the epidermis that was unaffected by vitiligo
      from a small area (4 cm2 or 0.6 inch2) on the patient's thigh to obtain donor cells.
      Epidermis that was harvested was washed with Lactated Ringer's solution three times and then
      dissociated using trypsin to separate the cells into a single cell suspension. The recipient
      areas to be grafted were used to harvest epidermis using a suction blister device. Half of
      the dissociated single cells from the donor area (thigh) were then transplanted on to the
      area affected by vitiligo that the patient was interested in grafting (5 cm2 area or 0.7
      inch2). The suction blister skin from the recipient sites was simultaneously dissociated into
      a single cell suspension. A portion of the remainder of the cells (from both the donor and
      recipient site) was subjected to flow sorting to quantify the populations of melanocytes and
      keratinocytes and to detailed molecular analysis (single-cell RNAseq and histology) to
      characterize the molecular features of chronic vitiligo. The investigator then evaluated
      response to treatment in the transplanted areas at 1 day, 1 week, 1 month and 3 months, and 6
      months by both photography and quantifying the VASI score. This arm of the study is complete.

      In the third arm of the study, the investigator uses a minimally invasive procedure (suction
      blister grafting without cell dissociation) to sample the grafted skin and donor skin- this
      method can separate the epidermis from the dermis without inducing a scar. A normally
      pigmented area on the upper thigh will be anesthetized with 1% lidocaine with epinephrine.
      Using an epidermal harvesting system which is a suction blister technique, the investigator
      will remove multiple small portions (about 128 blisters-1.8 mm in diameter) of the epidermis
      unaffected by vitiligo from a small normal area (5 cm2 ) on the patient's thigh to obtain
      donor cells and using a regular negative pressure instrument for removing four samples for
      histopathological study (two from the vitiligo area and two from the normal donor skin). The
      epidermis from the donor area (thigh) will then be transplanted on to the area affected by
      vitiligo that the patient is interested in grafting. Also, the four portions from the normal
      skin and the recipient site will be sent for the histopathological evaluation.

      The investigator will then evaluate response to treatment in the transplanted areas at 1 day,
      1 week, 1 month and 3 months, and 6 months by both photography, quantifying the change in
      depigmented surface area, and the VASI score. Also, the investigator will evaluate the two
      vitiligo samples and two normal skin samples through histopathology to assess where the
      unique populations of cells identified in our RNA-seq analysis are localized (obtained from
      arm 2). The investigator hypothesizes that his transplant procedure will yield excellent to
      good repigmentation, resulting in a mean of 60% reduction in surface area (SD=30%) from
      baseline to 6-month follow up. With a sample size of 5 patients, this study will achieve 90%
      power to test this hypothesis based on a two-sided paired t-test at p=0.05 significance
      level. In addition, the investigator will compare the results from the 7 patients harvested
      using the surgical blade technique (procedure already completed and follow up results
      pending) with the results from 7 patients harvested with the suction blisters (completed) and
      seven patients from the newly proposed experimental group (three completed to date).
    
  