
    
      INTRODUCTION : Considering empathy and emotional intelligence in the early stages of health
      studies has become a significant concern, all the more as empathy level among medicine
      students seems to decrease by the years. This loss of clinical empathy takes particularly
      place after the 3rd year of medicine studies, when students start being in contact with real
      patients. Starting from that, the investigators will study if the selection that occurs by
      the end of the 1st year of health studies in France, and which select students that can enter
      one of the course (medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, midwifery), is designed to promote not only
      academic skills but also interpersonal abilities. That selection procedure is especially
      important because it will determine the profiles of health professionals that will enter
      medical course and will be the future practitioner. In order to to consider more the
      interpersonal abilities of the students during the selection process, some Multiple
      Mini-Interview (MMI) have been introduced. The MMI will be used to attribute the last 20% of
      the places available (80% of the places will be directly attributed by the classic written
      examen)

      METHODS : In this research, it will be proposed to all the 1st year health students
      registered in Paris University of medicine for the year 2019/2020 (about 1200 students) to
      complete four self-administered questionnaire : the Jefferson Scale of Empathy (student
      version),the Interpersonal Reactivity Index (IRI), the Questionnaire of Cognitive and
      Affective Empathy (QCAE) and the Emotional Expressivity Scale (EES). The students will get a
      personal access to the questionnaires by their digital workspace on the University's website.
      By the end of the year, they will be separated in 2 groups : students that have succeeded to
      the selection process and that can enter one of the health course, and students that failed.
      Then the investigators will compare the scores of the several self-administered
      questionnaires in the 2 groups.

      OBJECTIVE : That study wants to determine if the selection process in first year of health
      student in the Paris University of Medicine is able to promote students profiles with strong
      interpersonal abilities so as academics skills. That study will also try to determine if the
      introduction of MMI has an impact on the empathy scores of the selected students.
    
  