
    
      IBS is characterized by abdominal discomfort and altered bowel function, without identifiable
      structural or biochemical abnormalities. Current management approaches are not satisfactory
      for many individuals, who continue to have intermittent constipation or diarrhea, associated
      with abdominal discomfort.

      Probiotics, or "friendly bacteria", is the name given to a new category of products that show
      promise for managing the symptoms of IBS. In the intestine they are believed to compete with
      other bacteria, to product substances that interfere with other bacteria, and to improve the
      function of the mucous lining and immune function of the gastrointestinal tract. A common
      source of probiotics is in cultured dairy products,m such as yogurt or cheese. E. coli Strain
      M17 is not regulated vy the Food and Drug Administration. It is considered to be a health
      food supplement.

      E. coli strain M17 was identified in Russia more than 70 years ago. It became widely used in
      countries of the former Soviet Union for a variety of gastrointestinal problems, including
      IBS, inflammatory bowel disease (ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease), and diarrhea,
      including infants and children. It continues to be produced and marketed under government
      control in the Russian Federation. E. coli strain M17 was brought to Israel in the early
      1990's by two Russian scientists. It was developed for human use and animal feed and approved
      for use by the Israeli health authorities. A special liquid formulation was developed and
      sold as a nutritional supplement in pharmacies in Israel until 2002 when the product was
      acquired by a U.S. company, the BioBalance Corporation, for the purpose of introducing it
      outside Israel as a medical food and nutritional supplement in the U.S. and other countries.

      The purpose of this research study is to compare the tolerability and effectiveness of E.
      coli strain M17 to placebo in the treatment of Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS).
    
  