
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the R0 (complete resection) resection rate for subjects with borderline
      resectable or lymph node positive pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with a multimodality
      neoadjuvant therapy of preoperative gemcitabine (gemcitabine hydrochloride) and ABRAXANE
      (nab-paclitaxel) followed by 5-fluorouracil (fluorouracil) based image-guided
      intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IG-IMRT) chemoradiotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine 1-year relapse-free survival rate with the investigational protocol.

      II. To determine 1-year and 2-year overall survival rates. III. To assess response rate by
      imaging (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] 1.1) and pathologic analysis.

      IV. To assess the toxicity and safety according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse
      Events version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0) criteria.

      OUTLINE:

      PRE-OPERATIVE (NEOADJUVANT) CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive nab-paclitaxel intravenously (IV)
      over 30 minutes and gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Beginning 3-6 weeks after completion of chemotherapy, patients undergo IG-IMRT 5 days a week
      for 28 fractions and receive fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1-7 for 6 weeks.

      SURGICAL RESECTION: Patients undergo surgery 4-10 weeks after the last dose of
      chemoradiation.

      POST-OPERATIVE (ADUJUVANT) CHEMOTHERAPY: Beginning within 8-12 weeks after surgery, patients
      receive nab-paclitaxel IV over 30 minutes and gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8,
      and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 additional courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for 1 year.
    
  