
    
      To achieve the aims of this study, the investigators will perform a randomized clinical trial
      comparing thromboelastography with standard intraoperative monitoring of coagulation pathways
      in pediatric neuromuscular deformity surgery. All patients will receive the standard of care
      hematological management, including intravenous tranexamic acid (50mg/kg loading bolus,
      5mg/kg/hr infusion until wound closure) during surgery. Patients randomized to the TEG group
      will receive standard of care plus TEG tests at four time points: at the time of incision, at
      completion of surgical exposure, at completion of instrumentation, and upon arrival to the
      PACU. TEG results will be used to guide fluid replacement, in the form of platelets, fresh
      frozen plasma, cryoprecipitate, or more tranexamic acid according to previously published
      protocols9. Data collected will include standard preoperative demographic data: gender, age,
      body mass index, diagnosis; standard spinal deformity radiographic measurements; and surgical
      data including operative time, estimated blood loss, and blood product replacement. The
      international normalized ratio (INR) will be obtained at wound closure, along with a complete
      blood count, for both groups as per standard of care. Postoperative data points collected
      will include allogeneic packed red cell transfusion volume, drain output (all drains
      discontinued on postoperative day #3), time to normal feeding (either home feeding tube rate
      or normal per os diet), and time to discharge. Perioperative complications will be collected
      and categorized according to Glassman et al.

      Cost data related to the hospital stay and care of any perioperative complications data will
      be recorded. These will include costs related to antibiotics, length of stay (including
      prolonged intensive care unit stay), and perioperative transfusion requirements. To
      approximate the costs related to transfusion, the investigators will include costs of
      acquisition, storage, and administration. Similar costs related to any other blood product
      administration will be collected and assigned as needed. The investigators anticipate that
      patient reported quality of life scores will be similar between groups. As this may not be
      the case, the investigators will collect quality adjusted life year (QALY) data through the
      ACEND survey. These data will be collected at the preoperative visit and at the 6, 12, and 24
      month followup points.
    
  