
    
      There will be 160 subjects enrolled in the study. The study consists of a Screening Period of
      up to 7 days during which inclusion / exclusion criteria will be reviewed. Subjects meeting
      inclusion / exclusion criteria including the diagnostic criteria for MF or SS and a score of
      at least 5 on the 11-Point Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) for Pruritus will complete the one week
      Screening Period. Subjects will complete a daily diary for NRS for Pruritus scores and Sleep
      scores. At the end of the Screening Period, subjects who have a NRS for Pruritus score of at
      least 5 recorded in the diary on at least 4 of the 7 days preceding Day 0 will be eligible to
      continue. Baseline assessments will be recorded for vital signs, pruritic body surface area,
      skin integrity, PQOL, and laboratory results. The Baseline period will be followed by a 2
      week Treatment Period 1 in which subjects will be randomized to Naloxone Lotion 0.5% or
      Placebo Lotion to be applied TID for 14 days. During the 2 week Treatment Period subjects
      will complete daily diaries of NRS for Pruritis scores and Sleep scores. On Day 14 subjects
      will return to the clinic to review diaries, adverse events (AEs), concomitant medications,
      and to record body surface area for pruritus, skin integrity, PQOL, and laboratory results.
      Subjects will then enter a Washout Period for up to 56 days until the subject again scores at
      least 5 on the NRS for Pruritus on 4 consecutive or 4 of the past 7 days or 56 days pass.
      Subjects will then enter a 2 week Treatment Period 2 during which the same procedures as
      Treatment Period 1 will be performed except subjects will receive the alternate treatment to
      that assigned in Treatment Period 1. Subjects will then have the option to enter a 26 Week
      Open Label Treatment Period 3 during which the same procedures as Treatment Period 1 and 2
      will be performed except subjects will return only at Week 13 and Week 26 and all subjects
      will be treated with Naloxone Lotion 0.5%.
    
  