
    
      Experiencing a life threatening cardiovascular event, such as a stroke, transient ischemic
      attack (TIA), acute coronary syndrome (ACS), or cardiac arrest has been found to be
      associated with PTSD symptoms in up to 1 in 3 survivors. Patients with elevated PTSD symptoms
      are at risk for lower medication adherence, increased readmissions, recurrent cardiovascular
      events, and worsened quality of life. Risk for recurrent cardiovascular events is especially
      high in the initial weeks after acute cardiovascular events, and existing epidemiological
      data suggest that PTSD symptoms increase this risk. Thus, intervening early to prevent PTSD
      symptoms prior to waiting the full one or more months to make a PTSD diagnosis may provide
      new opportunities for offsetting cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. Despite these adverse
      consequence of cardiovascular event-induced PTSD, these patients are not currently being
      systematically screened or treated to prevent PTSD symptoms, in part because there is no
      evidence assessing the effect of early interventions in this patient population.

      A growing number of studies have been evaluating early interventions after trauma to prevent
      PTSD. While there is no gold-standard intervention, psychological interventions grounded in
      trauma-focused, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) have shown promise in some populations.
      For example, compared to a supportive counseling control condition, CBT has been found to
      reduce PTSD symptom severity and incidence in individuals with acute stress disorder (ASD),
      an early manifestation of posttraumatic stress, detected within the first month of a
      traumatic event. Preliminary research suggests that an exposure-based CBT intervention
      delivered in the immediate aftermath of trauma for individuals meeting Criterion A of a
      Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th Edition (DSM-IV) PTSD diagnosis
      may also hold promise for PTSD prevention. Acute cardiovascular events such as stroke and ACS
      as the source of trauma are inherently different from other forms of stressors that commonly
      lead to PTSD. As opposed to an external and past traumatic threat (e.g., combat,
      physical/emotional abuse), these events can represent an ongoing internal somatic threat.
      Accordingly, treatments for preventing PTSD such as the trauma-focused CBT interventions
      discussed above need to be formally evaluated in this distinct patient population before
      generalizing the findings from other patient populations. In particular, the willingness to
      engage in therapies to prevent or reduce PTSD symptoms may differ in this patient population.
      Few of these patients are actively seeking treatment. Many may not be aware of potential
      psychological symptoms that can begin or worsen after these events and may not perceive their
      psychological symptoms to be problematic. Hence, the acceptability of psychological
      interventions is particularly relevant in this patient population.

      Written exposure therapy represents a promising intervention to prevent PTSD after
      cardiovascular events. Written exposure therapy is a brief exposure-based therapy, founded on
      the principles of Pennebaker and Beale's written disclosure procedure. The treatment protocol
      consists of 5 sessions, each comprising 30 minutes of writing. In each session, participants
      are instructed to write about their memory of the traumatic event with particular attention
      to the felt emotions and the meaning of the event. The initial session also incorporates
      psychoeducation and review of the rationale for the intervention by a study clinician.
      Sessions end with therapists' discussing how the writing session went. The rationale behind
      this exposure therapy is that there is a significant habituation of emotional reactivity to
      reminders of the traumatic event over repeated writing sessions. Consistent with this
      rationale, research suggests that these exposure writing sessions are associated with greater
      initial emotional and physiological reactivity and greater habituation of these responses
      over time compared to a control writing condition. A recent study showed that this brief
      psychotherapy approach was non-inferior to a more extensive CBT approach (cognitive
      processing therapy) for reducing PTSD symptoms in adults with PTSD. Written exposure therapy
      has also been shown to be effective at lowering PTSD symptoms in patients with motor vehicle
      accident-induced PTSD.

      In contrast with more standard CBT interventions, written exposure therapy was designed to
      create a more acceptable exposure-based treatment option for PTSD that is easily disseminated
      and implemented. Like the promising trauma-focused CBT interventions for PTSD prevention, it
      is also exposure-based. In light of these qualities, written exposure therapy thus may be
      ideally suited for reducing PTSD symptoms in non-treatment seeking survivors of acute
      cardiovascular events. Key differences between written exposure therapy and other CBT
      approaches to treating PTSD include a lower frequency of sessions (~5) and no homework
      requirement, resulting in higher treatment completion compared to a more rigorous
      exposure-based therapy approach. Other advantages of written exposure therapy are that it
      requires a lower level of training from clinicians and less clinician time, which could
      facilitate dissemination.
    
  