
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Sleep apnea is characterized by repetitive cessations of respiration during sleep with
      consequent decreases in arterial oxygen saturation. Sleep apnea can be caused by upper airway
      obstruction or by central nervous system failure to sufficiently excite the diaphragm and
      accessory respiratory muscles. However, in most cases, both processes are involved.
      Hypopneas, in which airflow is significantly compromised without complete cessations of
      respiratory flow, and snoring are often found in association with apneas. Both apneas and
      hypopneas cause repetitive disruptions of sleep, consequent daytime somnolence, and complex
      cardio-respiratory disturbances.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study was longitudinal in design. A stratified random sample of adults in San Diego was
      used to examine risk factors in the prevalence of sleep respiratory disturbances. A
      structured random sample was selected by random digit telephone dialing. Subjects were
      studied in their homes. Some were followed yearly during the project. Each volunteer gave a
      brief sleep history and medical review, including blood pressure measurement, the National
      Interview Survey, And Quality of Well-being Scale. Blood oxygen saturation, pulse rate,
      snoring, and sleep duration were recorded for three nights. State-of-the-art computerized
      pulse oximeters and microprocessor-based activity/light monitors were used. Subjects found to
      have the most severe sleep respiratory disturbances underwent laboratory polysomnograms to
      add descriptive data and to validate the survey methodology. The prevalence of respiratory
      disturbances in sleep was analyzed as a function of age and sex. Associations with several
      aspects of morbidity were determined. The longitudinal course of respiratory disturbances in
      sleep were examined.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  