
    
      A randomized phase II study will be conducted in patients with inoperable stage IB, II or III
      non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The patients will be randomized to receive the standard
      66 Gy given in 24 fractions of 2.75 Gy with an integrated boost to the primary tumor as a
      whole (Arm A) or with an integrated boost to the 50% SUVmax area of the primary tumor (of the
      pre-treatment FDG-PET scan) (Arm B). Both treatment arms may be combined with chemotherapy
      (concurrent or sequential). Patients fulfilling the eligibility criteria will be registered
      in the study, and an initial radiotherapy treatment planning will be performed. When an
      integrated boost to the primary tumor as a whole up to 72 Gy is not possible because of dose
      constraints, the patient will receive 66 Gy or lower according to the normal tissue tolerance
      (see below). They will not be randomized, but will be followed in the trial. As such, it will
      be clear which proportion of patients can receive an integrated boost and what the outcome is
      when dose-escalation is not possible.

      Stage IB-II patients receive radiotherapy alone, and stage III patients combined chemotherapy
      and radiation. The patients may have received induction chemotherapy up to two cycles before
      registration in this trial. The statistical calculations have been performed to deal with
      this patient heterogeneity.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the local progression-free survival
      (LPFS)at 1 year.

      Secondary objectives will be

        -  Toxicity as a function of radiotherapy dose and volume of the tissue irradiated.

        -  Overall survival.

        -  Quality of life

      Furthermore:

        -  PET imaging of hypoxia using [18F]HX4, single injection and then PET CT scanning two and
           four hours post injection.

        -  Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced CT imaging
    
  