
    
      Glidescope® Videolaryngoscope is an angulated rigid optical device introduced in clinical
      practice in 2004 to facilitate endotracheal intubation.

      Since its introduction potential benefits of this instrument might lie with use in patients
      with clinical features indicating difficult laryngoscopy or it being used as a rescue method
      following failed direct laryngoscopy. In a few centers was proposed and used routinely.

      The performance of Glidescope® was studied in easy and difficult scenarios, in vivo and on
      manikins and compared with the reference standard McIntosh direct laryngoscopy. In patients
      with predicted or simulated difficult intubation, despite glottis visualization was improved
      with Glidescope®, the introduction of the tube in trachea was difficult the same as with
      McIntosh laryngoscopy. Training of operators before to entertain the trials varied from 20 to
      50 Glidescope successful intubations. In an observational study Aziz et al. demonstrated in
      the two Institutions involved that the GlideScope® was used more frequently at the
      Institution were the failure rate was significantly lower. At this , 51 providers performed
      mean 21.7 GlideScope® intubations while at the other 91 providers performed 9.9 intubations.

      These data highlight the important issue of how many Glidescope® intubations a provider
      should complete to reach a definitive clinical competence in this practice. Until now there
      is only one study performed on mankin comparing Glidescope® with AirTraq® and McIntosh
      laryngoscopes in novices . The authors concluded that despite a steep learning curve after 5
      intubation difficulties in instrumentation and longer times to intubate persisted with
      Glidescope® in comparison with the other two devices. Outcome measures were: duration of
      intubation attempt, modified Cormack grades, dental trauma and difficulty of use.

      In vivo both timely insertion of laryngoscope blade and introduction of the tube, no need of
      help or of external laryngeal displacement should be included to ascertain expertise with
      this new technology in patients with different grades of difficulty predicted.
    
  