
    
      Vitamin K is important for skeletal health. Vitamin K is essential for the carboxylation of
      several Gla proteins in bone which are implicated in bone formation and mineralization. These
      include osteocalcin (OC) and matrix Gla protein (MGP). Carboxylation of the glutamic acid
      residues of these proteins optimises their function. Vitamin K occurs as either phylloquinone
      (vitamin K1) which is the major dietary form or menaquinones (MKs or vitamin K2) which are
      mainly of bacterial origin. MK4 of the vitamin K2 series has additional,
      carboxylation-independent, functions including the regulation of osteoblastic specific
      markers such as alkaline phosphatase (BALP), and osteoprotegerin (OPG) and has inhibitory
      effects on osteoclast activity. Several observational studies have shown that low vitamin K
      status is associated with low bone mineral density (BMD) and increased fracture risk,
      although proof of causality is lacking. The results of several placebo-controlled clinical
      trials of vitamin K1 and MK4 have been conflicting with some, but not all, showing a positive
      effect of vitamin K1 on BMD or bone turnover. Positive fracture efficacy has been
      demonstrated with high-dose MK4, although most trials were on Japanese women. These
      intervention studies may have been hampered by the study design such as inclusion of vitamin
      K replete subjects or healthy non-osteoporotic women. The use of vitamin K in the prevention
      of bone loss and/or fractures in high-risk post-menopausal women with osteoporosis who are
      vitamin K deplete merits further investigations. The prevalence of low vitamin K stores is
      high in elderly subjects with osteoporosis. Preliminary data in Japanese women suggest that
      combined treatment with a bisphosphonate and vitamin K, at least vitamin K2 (MK4), appears to
      have an additive beneficial effect on BMD and bone resorption. There have been no such
      studies in a caucasian osteoporotic population. We want to test the hypothesis that treatment
      with bisphosphonates combined with vitamin K, in vitamin K deplete elderly women with
      osteoporosis, may offer additional benefit on skeletal metabolism and reduction of fracture
      risk.

      The first part will be a cross-sectional study of post-menopausal women with osteoporosis
      aged between 60-80 years who are on treatment with bisphosphonate. Their vitamin K status
      will be determined and those patients who are found to have low vitamin K concentrations
      defined as <0.35 ug/ml will be invited to take part in an 18 months prospective randomised
      placebo controlled trial.

      Eligible patients will be randomised to 3 arms (35 patients in each arm). All 3 groups will
      continue to receive weekly oral bisphosphonate (commonly Alendronate 70 mg weekly) and
      adjunctive calcium/vitamin D supplements (1.0g of calcium and 800 I.U of cholecalciferol).
      The control arm (Group A) will receive placebo. Group B will receive 1.0mg daily of vitamin
      K1 and MK4 placebo. Group C will receive vitamin K2 (MK4) 45 mg daily and vitamin K1 placebo.
      Patients will be seen at baseline and at 3, 6, 12 and 18 months. Changes in BMD at the lumbar
      spine, hip, fore-arm at 18 months and the biochemical parameters at each time point will be
      compared between the groups.
    
  