
    
      "Is your body clock important? Absolutely. Just ask any morning lark who lives with a night
      owl, or vice versa". This quote from a piece published in the Philadelphia Inquirer about the
      investigator's work illustrates the importance of time in one's personal preferences
      [https://www.inquirer.com/health/chronobiome-body-clock-university-pennsylvania-20190307.html
      ].

      Several decades of research have found out that how well a person functions, very much
      depends on how much this person is in harmony with her/his own preferences and environment.
      This harmony is acutely disturbed when one travels quickly across several time zones, because
      suddenly the body's physiology is still following the departure time but the arrival time
      tells the body something different. As a result, travelers often experience sleep problems
      and indigestion, which usually disappear after a couple of days. This is different in
      long-term shift workers for whom work outside of the typical daylight hours means that they
      have a higher risk for diseases including cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and cancer.

      Another observation has been that many diseases occur or worsen at a specific time of day.
      Heart attacks, for example, most often occur when patients wake up in the morning. Shortness
      of breath peaks at 4 am in the morning for patients with asthma.

      Intriguingly, more and more studies suggest that time of day matters how effective drugs work
      and how many side effects one might experience. To study this the investigators started to
      describe the human chronobiome, which foremost looks at time of day differences of a person's
      physiology, for example, in the small pilot study the investigators saw a difference in break
      down products, or metabolites, between mornings and evenings. Now, in this present study, the
      investigators wish to extend the understanding how the human chronobiome differs between
      healthy men and women, healthy young and old and how it reacts to a fatty meal challenge.

      This knowledge will help the investigators to say when a finding can still be considered
      normal or maybe indicates a first sign of disease. The novelty of this approach is that the
      investigators measure long enough to understand the role of time of day for a person's
      chronobiome, that the investigators measure many things to obtain a comprehensive
      representation of a person's chronobiome, that every measure is timestamped, and that the
      investigators ask participants to eat fatty meals to see how the chronobiome changes.
    
  