
    
      Neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) are relatively rare tumors, mainly originating from the
      digestive system, able to produce bioactive amines and hormones. NETs tend to be slow growing
      and are often diagnosed when metastatic. Treatment is multidisciplinary and should be
      individualized according to the tumor type, burden, and symptoms. Therapeutic tools include
      surgery, interventional radiology, and medical treatments such as somatostatin analogues,
      interferon, chemotherapy, new targeted drugs (everolimus, sunitinib) with radiolabelled
      somatostatin analogues. Despite the options available, antiproliferative treatment options
      for patients with inoperable gastro-entero-pancreatic (GEP) NETs are limited.

      PRRT with radiolabelled somatostatin analogues 90Y-DOTATOC, and 177Lu-DOTATATE
      (177Lu-DOTA-D-Phe1-Tyr3-octreotate), has been experimented for more then 15 years in few
      centers. The introduction of PRRT and, particularly, the advent of 177Lu-DOTATATE, broke
      through the poor scenario of available treatment for NETs.

      Dosimetric studies demonstrated that 90Y-DOTATOC and 177Lu-DOTATATE are able to deliver high
      radiation doses to somatostatin receptor sst2-expressing tumors and low doses to normal
      organs. Clinical studies demonstrated that partial and complete objective responses in up to
      30% of patients can be obtained, with a great survival benefit including those with stable
      disease. Side effects may involve the kidney and the bone marrow and are usually mild. Renal
      protection is used to minimize the risk of a late decrease of renal function.

      Recently, in order to further increase the objective response to PRRT, a combined treatment
      with the radiosensitizer capecitabine, has been proposed and tested on GEP-NET patients'
      population. Capecitabine is the oral prodrug of 5-fluorouracile (5-FU), which is active in
      GEP tumors and a radiosensitizer itself. The finding that neo-angiogenesis can be shut down
      also with cytotoxic drugs like capecitabine when administered in low and frequent doses,
      constitutes the rationale for proposing a particular schedule of chemotherapy that is,
      therefore, named "metronomic" or "anti-angiogenic".

      Based on the reported experience, the investigators think to offer a combined therapy in
      aggressive, metabolically active tumors, such as those patients with a positive FDG scan.
      FDG-PET allow the investigators to obtain in vivo imaging of increased glycolysis which is
      known to be an hallmark of tumor aggressiveness.

      The aim of this phase I-II study is to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of PRRT with
      177Lu-DOTATATE (Lu-PRRT) associated to metronomic chemotherapy with Capecitabine in patients
      affected by aggressive FDG-positive gastro-entero-pancreatic NET. Moreover to analyze the
      effects of the capecitabine metronomic schedule on the level of circulating angiogenetic
      factors.
    
  