
    
      This is a bi-centric randomised comparative superiority trial, blinded to the evaluator for 2
      parallel groups (interventional intermittent training group "IT" vs a continuous training
      control group "CONT") with a 1:1 ratio.

      Patients admitted for care at the cardiology departments of Nîmes University Hospital and the
      cardiology department of Avignon hospital for a first myocardial infarction dating back to
      less than 6 weeks will be pre-selected. The patients will receive both written and oral
      information about the study.

      Patients are then referred to the Physical Medicine and Cardiac Rehabilitation departments at
      Nîmes University Hospital for the Nîmes site and the Lavarin Cardio Rehabilitation Center for
      the Avignon site for the inclusion visit at which the information about the study is given.
      Patients will be included in the study after signing a consent form.

      The investigators then proceed with a maximal aerobic exercise test to evaluate
      cardiovascular endurance capacities and the suitability of the cardiovascular training
      program. Cardiac ultrasound is also performed, questionnaires about the quality of life are
      administered and biological doses are measured.

      Then a stratified randomisation on the patient's age and sex will be performed to assign the
      subject either to the "IT intermittent training group" group, the experimental group, or to
      the "CONT continuous training" group, the control group which corresponds to the general care
      usually given.

      Comparison of these two groups constitutes the methodological framework for this research. In
      the "IT intermittent training group (the experimental group), the patient benefits from a
      retraining program according to intermittent mode for 8 weeks, with three 45-minute sessions
      per week.

      In the "CONT continuous training" group (the control group), the patient benefits from a
      retraining program according to the continuous mode for 8 weeks, with three 40-minute
      sessions per week.

      At the end of the retraining program, at 8 weeks, an exercise test and a 2D Strain scan are
      performed, biological doses are taken and quality of life questionnaires are handed out.

      Each patient will be followed 2 months after inclusion. The duration of inclusion period will
      be 18 months. The total duration of the test will be 24 months.
    
  