
    
      BACKROUND:

      The multimodal concept of fast-track (FT) surgery was developed by Kehlet et al. in the 1990s
      to reduce perioperative surgical stress after colorectal surgery, resulting in lower
      morbidity & mortality and enhanced recovery.

      The main evidence-based FT components include: pain control optimization by epidural or
      systemic analgesia, short-acting anesthetics, opioids-sparing analgesia, minimally invasive
      surgery, preoperative carbohydrate administration, normothermia preservation, individualized
      i.v goal-directed fluids therapy, no bowel preparation, no routine use of drains, nasogastric
      tube, urinary catheters, early oral nutrition and active ambulation, as well as a dedicated
      preoperative counseling defining the FT clinical pathway and discharge criteria.

      Many cohort studies, randomized controlled trials, meta-analyses and systematic reviews have
      demonstrated its safety and efficacy for decreasing morbidity, hospital stay, and improving
      patient satisfaction as compared to standard care (SC).

      Only scarce information, mainly based on RetroPro or controlled clinical trials (CCTs), is
      available on fast-track perioperative care in senior patients (>70 years) as they already
      represent 15-18% of western population, and over 40% of colorectal surgeries performed at
      Geneva University Hospital (HUG).

      The aim of this randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to compare short-term clinical outcomes
      of a specifically senior designed fast-track perioperative program versus standard care (SC)
      after elective colorectal surgery in senior patients.

      OBJECTIVES:

      30-day postoperative morbidity according to Dindo-Clavien classification of complication is
      the primary clinical endpoint.

      Length of hospital stay (LOS) including readmission, autonomy preservation (through the
      activities of daily living (ADLs) and instrumental activities of daily living (IADL) scale)
      and quality of life evaluation are secondary endpoints.

      METHOD:

      All patients over 70 years requiring elective colorectal surgery will be included in this
      study after given written informed consent. Exclusion criteria consisted in emergency
      revisional or liver-associated surgery, and inability to discern/speak French or English.
      Patients will be 1:1 randomized (institutional table of randomization.
    
  