
    
      Osteoporosis affects a large and growing proportion of the population. Multiple drugs for the
      prevention and treatment of osteoporosis have been developed, tested, and proven effective in
      the last decade. However, these drugs may not always be adequately prescribed. Several
      effective nonpharmacological measures also exist for preventing fractures; strength and gait
      training, home safety modifications, and other lifestyle modifications have all been shown in
      carefully conducted trails to reduce the risk of falls that lead to osteoporotic fractures.
      Yet these interventions are under-utilized. Practical public health strategies are needed to
      bring these experimental findings to widespread use in typical populations of at-risk
      patients. This study will evaluate innovative fracture prevention interventions targeted to
      both patients and doctors. Specifically, the study will compare the effects of the patient
      and physician behavior change intervention alone and in combination on prescribing patterns
      for osteoporosis therapies and will examine the interventions' effects on fracture prevention
      behaviors other than medication use.

      The patient intervention will consist of two mailings and will be targeted using clinical and
      demographic data from the State of Pennsylvania's Pharmaceutical Assistance Contract for the
      Elderly (PACE) and Medicare databases. The first mailing will introduce the topic of
      osteoporosis and explain why osteoporosis is an important topic for all those receiving the
      mailing. The second mailing, sent the following month, will reinforce the first mailing and
      contain patient-specific information based on demographic and clinical factors. This mailing
      will also focus on several proven prevention strategies, including strength and gait
      training, vision care, home safety improvements, calcium intake, and pharmaceutical
      enhancement of bone density.

      The physician intervention will be multifaceted and will include a mailed practice audit and
      one-on-one education through academic detailing. The mail audit will contain information on
      the physician's PACE patients and an assessment of their osteoporosis risk based on clinical
      and drug data. Following the mailing, an academic detailer will meet with the physicians
      receiving the intervention.

      Outcome measures will include questionnaires, medication use, Dual Energy X-ray
      Absorptiometry (DEXA) scans, and use of physical therapy.
    
  