
    
      Catheter ablation (CA) for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF) is beset by the significant
      limitation of recurrent AF in one third of subjects. Subjects with recurrence of AF usually
      require repeat ablation procedures with the attendant risk of potentially serious
      complications and significant costs to the health care system. We hypothesize that an
      innovative, a patient specific precise CA strategy will significantly reduce AF recurrence.

      This study will determine whether a precise, patient specific ablation strategy (tailored to
      the patient's triggers and substrate) combining electrophysiological (EPS) testing guided
      radiofrequency catheter ablation (RFA) for pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) using the wide-area
      circumferential (WACA) technique along with non-pulmonary vein trigger (NPVT) and low-voltage
      area (LVA) ablation will improve freedom from recurrent atrial fibrillation (AF) when
      compared to PVI alone strategy using cryoballoon ablation (CAB).

      The PVI-WACA technique has a 'ceiling effect' due to PV reconnection, especially along the
      posterior wall of the LA as shown in an observational study investigating the pattern of PV
      reconnection from our institution. Further attempts at improving durable PVI rates with
      higher energy ablation may not be possible due to concerns regarding esophageal injury and
      development of atrio-esophageal fistula. It may be possible to improve the results of CA for
      paroxysmal AF by targeting NPVT and LVA that are not usually targeted during CA using the
      PVI-WACA only strategy.

      This trial is a single-blinded (subjects blinded), prospective, parallel arm RCT. Subjects
      satisfying the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be randomized (1:1) to either the
      control arm (cryoballoon ablation) or the experimental arm (RF based WACA ±
      electrophysiological testing guided ablation of non-PV triggers of AF and low voltage area
      ablation). Randomization will be conducted after informed consent has been obtained and
      before catheter ablation. The first 60 days after catheter ablation will be considered a
      "blanking-period" and atrial tachyarrhythmias (AF, Atrial Flutter [AFl] or Atrial Tachycardia
      [AT]) occurring during this period will be documented. However, these will not be considered
      treatment failures. Subject accrual will occur over a 36-month period and each subject will
      have a minimum follow-up period of 24 months, with a total trial duration of 60-months.
      Subjects will be followed up at 2,6,12,18 and 24 months after ablation, with an implantable
      loop recorder (ILR) interrogation. Quality of life questionnaires (EQ-5D, AFEQT
      questionnaires and CCS-SAF scale) will be administered at baseline,12-months and 24 months
      post ablation visit. A tool to assist in decision making will be administered to subjects
      during the consent process.
    
  