
    
      The exponentially increasing number of SARS-CoV-2 infected people, despite the influence of
      the currently existing non-medical measures, is generating a rapidly increasing number of
      inpatients, some of whom need artificial ventilation. The average focus is on the extent to
      which the hospitals' capacities will be sufficient to adequately treat all patients.
      Regardless of this, it can be expected that even if the non-medical measures are successful,
      the number of inpatients treated will remain high in the course of the pandemic. With regard
      to the distribution of infection, it can be expected that clinics with a wide range of
      expertise will have to treat a large number of Covid-19 patients.

      So far, however, there is little to no experience in treating patients. In addition to
      epidemiological data, only case descriptions and some Chinese studies mostly from Wuhan based
      on fewer patients are available. In view of the rapidly spreading pandemic, preprints are
      increasingly being used. What has been missing so far is a uniform, structured recording of
      the courses of Covid-19 inpatients handled by many clinics, which goes beyond the
      epidemiological events in terms of depth of detail. With this documentation of real
      processes, the basis for a large number of studies and the associated better understanding of
      the disease process could be created.

      The current dynamics make it imperative that the clinics, even those who have not received
      the most up-to-date scientific knowledge, cannot wait for the results of studies, but rather
      need concrete help in the treatment of patients. Efficient assistance within the framework of
      a close exchange between the treatment units is only possible with a multicentre, uniform
      documentation environment.

      The aim of the project is to better understand the Covid-19 inpatient course of the disease
      and to quickly identify the positive experiences in the treatment in order to update
      guidelines for the treatment and use of medication.
    
  