
    
      Introduction Varicocele, an abnormal dilatation of the internal spermatic veins, is
      considered the major reversible cause of male infertility. It is observed in 35%-40% of all
      men with primary infertility and in up to 80% of those with secondary infertility.

      The higher incidence of varicocele in men with secondary infertility suggests its progressive
      nature, which might be explained by a progressive testicular dysfunction involving both
      spermatogenesis and steroidogenesis. The negative impact of varicocele on spermatogenesis has
      been documented by a progressive reduction in the size of testicle ipsilateral to the
      varicocele.

      Semen parameters improvement after varicocele treatment were first reported by Tulloch in the
      mid-20th century, who performed high surgical ligation of varicose veins in 30 patients with
      infertility. The author showed a marked improvement in postoperative seminal parameters in
      66% of the treated subjects.

      Several theories have been formulated to explain the testicular impairment caused by
      varicocele, including hypoxia, autoimmunity, elevated testicular temperature, reflux of
      catecholamine, and increased oxidative stress. However, none of them can completely explain
      the variable modulating effect of varicocele on male fertility. Recently, the oxidative
      stress theory has emerged as an important contributory factor due to findings of an
      association between elevated reactive oxygen species and impaired sperm function in men with
      varicocele. Additionally, reduction of oxidative stress markers has been noted after
      varicocele repair.

      It is hypothesized that impaired venous drainage causes an increase in venous stasis and a
      decrease in arterial blood flow, thus inducing hypoxia and deficiency in testicular
      microcirculation . Also, it is thought that this hypoxia could be responsible for defective
      energy metabolism at mitochondrial levels, causing dysfunction of both Leydig and germinal
      cells.

      The arterial supply to the human testis has 3 major components: the testicular artery, the
      cremasteric artery, and the vasal artery. Two-thirds of total blood is supplied by the
      testicular artery. The testicular artery divides into 2 branches in the testis; the capsular
      branch continues in the surface of the testis, the intratesticular branch continues in the
      parenchyma and deep into the testis.

      Colored Doppler Sonography is well established to illustrate microvascularity and therefore
      perfusion of the testis. The arterial flow velocities (peak systolic velocity [PSV] and end
      diastolic velocity [EDV]) and the resistance indices against this flow (resistive index [RI]
      and pulsatility index [PI]) in the testis can be measured with this technique.

      The encouraging benefits of varicocele repair to the semen parameters of subfertile men were
      ratified by three recent meta-analyses:

      Agarwal et al. pooled 17 studies that included only infertile men with clinical varicocele
      and with at least one abnormal semen parameter. The intervention was either high ligation of
      the veins or subinguinal microsurgical varicocelectomy. There was a consistent improvement in
      sperm concentration and motility after both high ligation and microsurgical subinguinal
      techniques, with better results after microsurgical approach. Sperm morphology change was not
      stratified according to the type of intervention; nevertheless, there was an increment of
      3.16% on the average of normal forms.

      Baazeem et al. have also evaluated the role of varicocele repair on semen analysis. They
      pooled 22 studies of various designs, including meta-analyses as well as randomized and
      nonrandomized prospective controlled studies, and analyzed sperm concentration before and
      after repair of clinical varicoceles in men with infertility and abnormal semen parameters.
      The authors found an overall increase in sperm concentration of 12.32 × 106 ml-1 from before
      to after interventions. In their study, sperm motility data were available from 17
      prospective studies. Using the random-effects model a combined increment of 10.86% in
      motility was demonstrated. They also evaluated five prospective studies reporting the
      percentage of progressive motile sperm and confirmed that a significant improvement has
      occurred as well. The pooled improvement in progressive sperm motility was 9.69% using the
      random-effects model.

      Finally, Schauer et al. published a meta-analysis aiming to determine the impact of each type
      of intervention; namely, high ligation, inguinal varicocelectomy, and subinguinal
      varicocelectomy on the semen parameters of subfertile men. The aforementioned study pooled 14
      articles including randomized controlled trials, interventional trials, and cohort studies,
      which accounted for 1476 subjects. Inclusion criteria comprised subfertility and/or at least
      one abnormal semen parameter, clinical varicocele, and 19 years of age or older. All the
      studied techniques led to a significant improvement in sperm count and motility. Only minimal
      differences were observed between intervention groups. The higher increment in sperm count
      and sperm motility was achieved by inguinal approaches, albeit of no clinical significance
      when compared to other techniques. The results of this meta-analysis indicated that
      varicocelectomy leads to significant improvements in sperm count and motility regardless of
      the chosen surgical technique.

      Impaired venous drainage causes an increase in venous stasis and a decrease in arterial blood
      flow, thus inducing hypoxia, deficiency in testicular microcirculation and subsequent
      accumulation of oxygen free radicals.
    
  