
    
      The prevalence of bacteria resistant to antibiotics is increasing and there is a correlation
      between high consumption of antibiotics and high incidence of antibiotic resistance. It is
      therefore important to reduce the prescription of antibiotics. Antibiotics in dental care are
      used to treat oral infections as well as to prevent infections associated with surgical
      procedures. An example of the latter is antibiotic prophylaxis associated with dental implant
      surgery in order to reduce the risk of postoperative infection that can lead to loss of
      implant.The study will be conducted as a multicenter placebo-controlled randomized clinical
      trial. Eligible patients will be asked for participation and those who leave oral and written
      information will be included in the study. Patients included will be allocated to either
      active treatment (antibiotic prophylaxis) or placebo. Both clinicians and patients will be
      blinded to group affiliation. A total of 10 clinicians in 8 centers in the south of Sweden
      have agreed to participate and each clinicians will be allowed to use the implants and
      routines that they usually work with.

      Specific aims of the study are to test the following hypotheses:

        1. There is no difference in proportion of patients with early implant losses in patients
           receiving 2 g of amoxicillin preoperatively and patients receiving identical placebo
           tablets.

        2. There is no difference in proportion of patients with early infections between patients
           receiving 2 g of amoxicillin preoperatively and patients receiving identical placebo
           tablets.

        3. There is no difference in early marginal bone loss (within 12 months postoperatively)
           between patients receiving 2 g of amoxicillin preoperatively and patients receiving
           identical placebo tablets.

      If it appears that antibiotic prophylaxis does not lead to any risk reduction, this result
      may provide a basis for guidelines rejecting antibiotic prophylaxis in dental implant
      surgery.
    
  