
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) and other clinically significant forms of "minor depression"
      are among the most common mental disorders in the elderly. Data from the Epidemiologic
      Catchment Area Studies indicate that in the community dwelling elderly, the prevalence of MDD
      is approximately 1-2 percent. The prevalence of dysthymia and "clinically significant"
      depressive symptoms is estimated to be 2-3% and 5-10% respectively. Clinically significant
      mood disorders are responsible for considerable medical and psychosocial morbidity. These
      include frequent medical and psychiatric hospitalizations, visits to the emergency room,
      suicide attempts, and use of alcohol, and other prescription medications with psychotropic
      effects. The clinical impact of these disorders is comparable to those caused by other
      chronic medical disorders.

      The vast majority of patients with mood disorders are managed at ambulatory care/primary care
      settings around the country. Ambulatory care clinics have become "defacto" settings for the
      diagnosis and management of psychiatric problems, especially in the elderly. Depression,
      particularly in the elderly, is associated with several chronic medical illnesses including
      malignancies, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and gastrointestinal, vascular,
      autoimmune and demyelinating disorders. Acknowledging the overall robust association between
      medical illness and mood disorders, the NIH consensus statement on depression in the elderly
      states, "The hallmark of depression in late-life is its association with medical
      comorbidity." While the precise mechanisms by which coexisting medical illnesses contribute
      to depression remain unclear, neuroanatomical, vascular, immunologic, psychosocial and /or a
      combination of these mechanisms have been invoked as possible pathways by which medical
      disorders may lead to depression in the elderly.

      Late-life MDD is characterized by 1) Neuroanatomical changes in neocortical and subcortical
      regions of the brain. These principally comprise a decrease in focal brain volumes and an
      increase in the volume of high intensity lesions in the parenchyma; 2) The increase in high
      intensity lesions occurs largely, though not exclusively, in the white matter; 3) Preliminary
      studies suggest that there are abnormalities in white matter regions and tracts even in areas
      that appear normal in MR images in patients with late-life MDD when compared with controls;
      4) Biochemical and biophysical changes in the white matter are likely related to the
      pathophysiology of major psychiatric disorders independent of the impact of cerebrovascular
      disease/risk factors.

      TRIAL OBJECTIVES AND PURPOSE

      Specific Aim 1: To estimate absolute levels and ratios (metabolite/creatine) of NAA, Ch and
      Ml bilaterally in the dorsolateral white matter and subcortical nuclei in patients with MDD
      and non-depressed controls.

      Hypothesis: Absolute levels and ratios of Ch and Ml will be higher and levels of NAA will be
      lower in the dorsolateral white matter and the subcortical nuclei in patients with MDD when
      compared with controls.

      Specific Aim 2: To estimate magnetization transfer ratios (MTR) bilaterally in the frontal
      white matter/head of the caudate nucleus and the putamen in patients with MDD and controls
      and to examine the relationship between MTR and MRS measures in the dorsolateral white
      matter. Hypothesis a: MTR will be significantly lower in normal appearing dorsolateral white
      matter regions and subcortical nuclei (caudate nucleus and putamen) in patients with MDD when
      compared with controls.

      Hypothesis b: There will be an inverse relationship between MTR and normalized levels of Ml
      in patients diagnosed with MDD in the dorsolateral white matter bilaterally.

      Specific Aim 3: To examine the neurocognitive correlates of frontal and striatal compromise
      identified using MRS and MT ratio measures in patients with MDD and controls. The
      associations between NAA and a global cognitive scale and MT ratios from the bilateral
      dorsolateral white matter and subcortical nuclei and subscales targeted to dorsolateral and
      striatal cognitive functioning will be examined.

      Hypothesis a: Among healthy and depressed elderly, NAA/Cr with be positively related to a
      global scale of cognitive function.

      Hypothesis b: Among healthy and depressed elderly, MT ratios of the dorsolateral cortices
      will be positively related to a subscale of dorsolateral function (working memory, executive
      function, nonverbal recall).

      Hypothesis c: Among healthy and depressed elderly, MT ratios of subcortical nuclei will be
      positively related to a subscale of striatal function (processing, learning).

      Exploratory analyses: In addition to the specific aims above, the investigators will conduct
      two three exploratory analyses.

      Analysis 1: A more finely grained analysis in which the investigators examine the
      relationship of NAA, Ml and Cho ratios to dorsolateral and striatal subscales after examining
      their relationship to global cognitive function. The investigators will also study the
      relationship of the relative concentrations of NAA to Ml (NAA/MI) and Ch (NAA/Ch) to global
      and regional subscales. In addition, the preliminary MTR data suggest that there may be
      laterally effects, which the investigators will examine.

      Analysis 2: A comparison of blood samples of the healthy versus depressed subject groups, to
      see if there is evidence of differences in the neurotransmitter system,
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenals (HAP) axis, and immune function between these two groups of
      elderly persons.

      Analysis 3: To examine whether neuroimaging and cognitive measures associated with major
      depression are reversed by antidepressant treatment.
    
  