
    
      Written informed consent must be obtained before any study assessment is performed.

      This study will have only one group of patients, with a total of twenty subjects stratified
      based on decreased visual acuity due to vitreous hemorrhage in proliferative diabetic
      retinopathy:

      Stratus 1 (ten subjects): patients with low to moderate diabetic vitreous hemorrhage; Stratus
      2 (ten subjects): patients with severe diabetic vitreous hemorrhage. Patients will be treated
      monthly: intravitreal ranibizumab (0.5 mg) will be administered in an open-label fashion,
      using 3 monthly injections (at day 0, day 30 and day 60) followed by an additional post
      treatment visit, a month after the last injection, for posterior reports.

      During regular, monthly visits, a detailed ophthalmologic evaluation will be performed,
      including a BCVA assessment. Vitreous hemorrhage density will also be assessed, according to
      the fundus visualization in retinal angiography:

        1. low to moderate vitreous hemorrhage: posterior pole detail slightly hazy or very hazy;

        2. severe vitreous hemorrhage: fundus details not visible. All patients with severe
           vitreous hemorrhage will have A/B ultrasound scan performed in the day of the injection.
           The intravitreal injection will always be the last procedure performed in a given day.

      Blood samples will also be collected in each study visit, in order to assess serum glucose
      levels.

      Laser treatment may be administered at investigator's discretion if vitreous hemorrhage
      reduce or disappear after the intravitreal treatment with ranibizumab to such a retinal
      fundus visibility level that permits photocoagulation.

      All the patients of the study will be monitored about adverse events and will remain in their
      usual clinical and ophthalmological care after the end of the study.

      Visit Schedule

      Day0 Day30 Day 60 Day 90 Informed Consent X Ophthalmologic Examination X X X X Best Corrected
      Visual Acuity X X X X Fluorescein Angiography X X X X Serum Glucose Level X X X X A/B
      Ultrasound Scan X* X* X* Ranibizumab Injection X X X Laser Treatment

        -  ** ** ** Adverse Events Monitoring X X X X

           * Only for patients that present severe vitreous hemorrhages.

        -  At investigator's discretion. Check the Methodology section for details.

      Population:

      Patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy with vitreous hemorrhage.
    
  