
    
      Studies exploring changes in antiretrovirals or addition of antiretrovirals from new classes
      in patients with discordant immune response to suppressive HAART have, in general, yielded
      disappointing results.

      The addition of the antiretroviral maraviroc (a CCR5 antagonist) in patients who had been on
      suppressive HAART for at least a year but with a CD4 count less than 250 (and not rising)
      yielded no improvement in CD4 counts in 6 individuals after approximately 5 months.

      A small study investigating the benefit of switching to lopinavir/ritonavir (predominantly
      from NNRTI-based therapy) showed a significant improvement in CD4 cell count with a reduction
      in cell apoptosis at 6 months.However, data for other switches are lacking and
      lopinavir/ritonavir may not be a preferred switch option due to gastrointestinal tolerability
      and an increased risk of myocardial infarction in cohort analyses.

      Chronic HIV infection is characterised by gradual loss of CD4 T-cells by direct (virus
      mediated CD4 death) and indirect mechanisms. Increased immune activation is an indirect
      mechanism that is central to CD4 T-cell loss. In observational studies, the level of immune
      activation is associated with the rate of CD4 decline and in patients taking antiretroviral
      therapy (with or without complete viral suppression) the extent of CD4 recovery is associated
      with the degree of immune activation.

      Immune activation has also been shown to correlate with disease progression and survival. The
      causes of generalized immune activation in HIV are not fully understood but may be related to
      nef or gp120.

      Hydroxychloroquine [Plaquanil®] is licensed to treat rheumatoid arthritis and other
      inflammatory conditions; it is related to the antimalarial chloroquine.

      Hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine have long been used as immunomodulatory therapies for
      T-cell mediated disorders. The exact mechanisms of hydroxychloroquine are not fully
      understood, but the agent appears to affect T-cell proliferation and signalling.
      Hydroxychloroquine also inhibits T-cell proliferative responses and production of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1 and IL-6.

      Hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine have been shown to inhibit HIV replication, regardless of
      viral clade or co-receptor tropism, and promote CD4 immune protection.

      Three small clinical trials of hydroxychloroquine have been reported in HIV-infected
      patients. Hydroxychloroquine was associated with small to modest reductions in viral load
      both as monotherapy and as part of combination therapy. In one of these studies,
      hydroxychloroquine was compared with zidovudine in HIV-infected patients and patients in both
      groups had reduced levels of plasma HIV-1 RNA and serum p24 antigen after 16 weeks.
      Interleukin-6 (an inflammatory cytokine associated with increased risk of mortality in cohort
      studies of HIV) levels were significantly reduced in the hydroxychloroquine group but not in
      the zidovudine group.

      The usual minimum effective dose of hydroxychloroquine is 400mg once daily (administered as
      two 200mg film-coated tablets) administered orally. This is also the dose selected for an
      ongoing Medical Research Council study investigating the immune benefits of
      hydroxychloroquine in treatment-naive patients not needing to start antiretrovirals.
      Hydroxychloroquine is cumulative in action and requires several weeks to exert its beneficial
      effects; for rheumatic disease, treatment should be discontinued if there is no improvement
      by 6 months. On this basis we feel that 3 months is sufficient time to detect most
      improvement in immune activation and 6 months sufficient time to observe any benefits if they
      occur. The maximum recommended dose of hydroxychloroquine is 6.5mg/kg/day.
    
  