
    
      As the numbers of cancer survivors grow, the long-term adverse effects of cancer therapy are
      becoming increasingly apparent. Most prominent are the toxic effects on the heart
      (cardiotoxicity) which may lead to cardiac dysfunction and increased risk of cardiovascular
      disease (CVD). Of note, data indicate that the magnitude of CVD risk for long-term survivors
      may exceed the risk of a secondary malignancy, which is a known complication of primary
      cancer therapy. While long-term follow-up data in adult cancer survivors is lacking, study of
      adult survivors of childhood cancers shows that these individuals are 15 times more likely to
      develop congestive heart failure (CHF), 10 times more likely to develop CVD, and 9 times more
      likely to suffer a stroke compared individuals who have not had cancer. Thus, it is clear
      that the long-term cardiotoxic effects of cancer therapy represent a significant concern for
      cancer survivors. The mechanisms responsible for the damaging effects of cancer therapy are
      not fully understood, however there is a need to maximize the benefits of treatment while
      minimizing long-term damage. Recent animal studies suggest that aerobic exercise training may
      offer a protective effect against chemotherapy-induced heart disease. However, to the
      investigator's knowledge, no study to date has examined the potential cardioprotective
      benefits of exercise training for patients receiving cancer treatment.

      Accordingly, the purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of a
      12-week supervised exercise program based on the principles of cardiac rehabilitation for
      patients receiving anthracycline-based chemotherapy.

      Feasibility will be assessed by evaluating three outcomes, recruitment rate, adherence rate
      (i.e. exercise class attendance records), attrition rate, and safety (i.e. number of adverse
      events).

      Efficacy will be assessed by evaluating changes in health-related outcomes to assess if these
      changes are equal to or better than what was measured at baseline. The health-related
      outcomes include cardiac function and biological markers of cardiotoxicity.
    
  