
    
      The long-term goal of the present research program is to enhance the utilization of
      evidence-based injury prevention strategies and to encourage medical practitioners to
      disseminate focused information regarding injury prevention in the Pediatric Emergency
      Department (ED). This study examines the Pediatric Emergency Department as a location for
      increasing safe car seat practices by parents who are not restraining their children
      appropriately in motor vehicles. Three different intervention will be tested to determine
      their effectiveness in increasing safe car seat practices. The proposed research plan: 1.
      examines the efficacy of a Brief Motivational Intervention to enhance automobile safety
      restraint-specific injury prevention behaviors in parents/caregivers of younger children; and
      2. examines the efficacy of focused, behavior-specific, injury prevention discharge
      instruction supplements (Enhanced Standard Care) in increasing safety restraint-specific
      injury prevention behaviors in parents/caregivers of younger children. We will conduct a
      randomized, controlled trial of parent/caregivers of children being evaluated in the Hasbro
      Children's Hospital Emergency Department in Providence, Rhode Island. Eligible, consenting
      participants will be screened with an injury assessment tool for inappropriate use of motor
      vehicle child safety restraints. High risk participants will be randomized into three
      intervention groups: Standard Care (SC), Enhanced Standard Care (ESC) and Brief Motivational
      Intervention (BMI). All participants will then be contacted three months following enrollment
      and surveyed regarding child safety restraint practices, attitudes and knowledge. The
      following main effects will be evaluated with relation to child safety restraint practice and
      attitude change: 1. Intervention (SC vs. ESC vs. BMI); 2. Injury status of child (Injured vs.
      non-injured). In addition, we will monitor re-injury rates of the index children of all
      enrolled parent/caregivers for one year from the time of enrollment and compare on the bases
      of the above main effects.
    
  