
    
      Myopia and its treatment modalities are one of the widely studied areas in vision research.
      So far all the treatment options have been optical i.e., patients with myopia are either
      corrected with spectacles, contact lenses or refractive surgery to provide clear vision.
      NeuroVision's NVC vision correction technology will be a novel method in the treatment of low
      myopia as the technology is directed at specific neuronal interactions at the level of the
      visual cortex (area responsible for vision in the brain). It uses a non-invasive,
      patient-specific treatment that purports to improve neuronal efficiency and induce
      improvement in the overall ability to see due to a reduction in noise and increase in signal
      strength. As visual perception quality depends both on the input received through the eye and
      the processing in the visual cortex, NeuroVision's technology is hypothesized to compensate
      for blurred (myopic) inputs, by enhancing neural processing.

      We will conduct a clinical evaluation of the effectiveness of this system. The subject will
      be exposed to a set of visual stimulations (pattern with black and white lines) and visual
      threshold level will be obtained. The subject will look at these patterns on a computer. The
      treatment will be applied in successive 30-40 minute sessions, administered 2-3 times a week,
      for a total of 40 sessions. Every 5 sessions, subject's visual performance (visual acuity,
      ability to see letters of varying size, and CSF, ability to see black and white lines of
      varying contrast) will be tested in order to continuously monitor a subject's progress. At
      the end of a session, the data will be sent to the NeuroVision Web Server. Proprietary
      algorithmic software will analyze the patient's performance and progress and will generate
      the parameters for the next treatment session. The purpose of the study is to assess the
      effect on corrected or uncorrected visual performance following treatment.
    
  