
    
      This is the world's first national orthopedic randomized controlled trial (RCT) involving 19
      out of 21 departments in Denmark. The aim is to compare two surgical treatment methods
      (internal fixation (IF) versus arthroplasty) in patients above 65 years with an undisplaced
      femoral neck fracture (FNF).

      Each year, 7,000 patients suffer a hip fracture. This is a severe condition leading to 25%
      mortality after 1 year and 40% do not recover to the same functional level. Undisplaced FNF
      is treated with internal fixation in order to aid in fracture healing. However, approximately
      10% in Denmark will suffer a reoperation and two RCT's have demonstrated 20-21% reoperations.
      In comparison, the reoperation frequency was 5-7% for arthroplasty that also demonstrated
      slightly faster mobilization which is one of the most important factors for decreasing
      mortality. The hypothesis is therefore that even though arthroplasty is a larger surgery they
      benefit from the lack of fracture healing, less pain and faster mobilization.

      Patients are included in the emergency department and are electronically randomized to either
      IF or arthroplasty before the surgery. The design is a pragmatic RCT using the implants which
      are available in the departments. Furthermore, the postoperative treatment protocol is
      "business as usual" thereby investigating the precise effect of the intervention in real
      clinical conditions. In addition to a great external validity this allows for easy
      implemented after study results. The primary outcome is a validated functional score 1 year
      after surgery and the sample size is calculated to 330 patients. Secondary outcome measures
      are additional functional assessments and questionnaires, health related quality of life and
      pain assessment.

      We have set up a steering committee consisting of researchers and senior surgeons with a
      representative from each region. In addition, all but 1 hospital has a representative in
      project group. The project is therefore anchored in the entire Denmark.
    
  