
    
      The goal of this proposal is to evaluate two novel non-invasive brain stimulation strategies
      to mitigate pain and the brain's response to pain in CLBP patients. Transcranial Magnetic
      Stimulation (TMS), can induce long term potentiation (LTP-like) and long term depression
      (LTD-like) effects on brain activity in a frequency dependent manner. The investigators have
      previously demonstrated that LTP-like TMS to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC, a
      node in the Executive Control Network (ECN)) can decrease perceived pain and corresponding
      Blood Oxygen Level Dependent (BOLD) signal in the "Pain Network'. The Pain Network is an
      expansion of the Salience Network (SN; insula, dorsal anterior cingulate) which includes the
      thalamus and somatosensory cortex. The analgesic effects of DLPFC TMS can be blocked by
      naloxone - suggesting that the analgesic effects of LTP-like DLPFC TMS are opiate mediated.
      Additionally, DLPFC TMS delivered postoperatively leads to less patient administered morphine
      use (PCA-pump) in the hospital and less opiate use in the outpatient setting. These data all
      suggest that LTP-like DLPFC TMS is a promising candidate for treating pain.

      An alternative strategy is to apply LTD-like stimulation to the medial prefrontal cortex
      (LTD-like mPFC rTMS. This strategy is based on the understanding of functional neural
      architecture, wherein the SN is modulated by two other core networks: the ECN and the default
      mode network (DMN). As stated above, it is possible to attenuate activity in the SN through
      LTP-like TMS to the DLPFC, a node in the ECN. It is also possible to attenuate the SN through
      LTD-like TMS to the ventral medial prefrontal cortex (a node in the DMN). The proposed study
      will be the first to employ a randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled design to
      parametrically evaluate the longitudinal effects of 16 days of rTMS to the DLPFC (Aim 1) or
      the MPFC (Aim 2) on self-reported pain and the brain's response to pain. This will be done in
      a cohort of patients recruited from the community as well as Medical University of South
      Carolina clinics with chronic lower back pain that may or may not be using prescription
      opiates for 3 or more months without adequate pain relief. Participants will be randomized to
      receive rTMS to the DLPFC (10Hz), MPFC (cTBS), or sham (50% at each site), using a Latin
      square randomization. Resting state connectivity will be collected along with data from a
      standardized thermal pain paradigm wherein individuals are exposed to pain and instructed to
      try to "control' the pain. MRI data will be collected 3 times: before the 1st day of TMS,
      after the 12th day of TMS, and before the 16th day of TMS (the last day administered).
    
  