
    
      Background: Most common dementia cases in Young Onset dementia (YOD) are Alzheimer's disease
      (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). There is little knowledge about the impact on the
      affected families, especially with regard to FTD. Although their life situation and specific
      needs differ from that of older people, they are referred to the same healthcare services.

      Hypothesis:

        1. QoL is poorer among persons with FTD and their families compared to AD at baseline.

        2. There is less worsening of QoL after two years in persons with AD and their families
           compared to FTD.

        3. People with YOD have different needs for health care services than older people with
           dementia.

        4. YOD and their families have more unmet needs than older people with dementia.

      Methods: Nordic multicenter observational cohort study of YOD-AD and YOD-FTD. 75 persons in
      each group, living at home with their families, recruited from five Norwegian and four Nordic
      memory clinics. The control group consists of 100 older people with dementia age ≥70 years.
      The investigators use a combination of quantitative and qualitative methods.

      The follow-up period of the persons with YOD and their family members is two years.
      Assessments are made at baseline, 12 and 24 months, with telephone check-ups at 6 and 18
      months. The main assessment questionnaires are Quality of life in Alzheimer's disease
      (QoL-AD), Camberwell Assessment of Need in the Elderly (CANE), and Resource Utilization in
      Dementia Lite (RUD Lite).

      Study aims for the quantitative part of the study:

        1. To evaluate the quality of life of persons with YOD and their family members.

        2. To identify and explore the specific needs of YOD and their families.

        3. To assess the use of health resources and calculate the costs associated with care for
           YOD, in comparison with older persons with dementia.

        4. To compare the functional characteristics of YOD with older people with dementia in
           terms of cognitive decline, impairment of activities of daily living, changes in
           behavior, and quality of life.

      Study aims and methods for the qualitative part of the study:

        1. To investigate how people living alone with young-onset dementia cope with everyday life
           and decision-making. A longitudinal study with qualitative interviews at 6, 12, 24, 36
           and 48 months after initial diagnosis

        2. To investigate how it is to be a spouse/cohabitation to a person with young-onset of
           frontotemporal dementia. A retrospective and prospective study with qualitative
           interviews.

        3. To investigate adult children's experiences with the support they received after their
           parent with young-onset dementia received a dementia diagnose. A retrospective and
           prospective study with qualitative interviews.

        4. To investigate carers of people with young-onset dementia experiences with the support
           contact service. A longitudinell study study with qualitative interviews.

      Results: Inclusion starts Feb 2014. The objective of this study is to ensure optimally
      tailored service provision and future healthcare planning according to the specific needs of
      families of YOD, and develop a care programme in collaboration between primary and specialist
      healthcare services.
    
  