
    
      1. Implement and evaluate in a 6-month randomized controlled evaluation an experimental
           self-management program for patients with type 2 diabetes. Outcomes for evaluating the
           intervention's impact include health status (health-related quality-of-life and
           metabolic control) and health care utilization. Mediating outcomes are health behaviors
           and self-efficacy.

        2. Evaluate the same program in a one year longitudinal study using the same outcomes.

        3. Disseminate the program to others in California by holding two five day workshops during
           which we will prepare the participants to both offer the program and to train others in
           their organization to offer the program.

      This proposed evaluation will examine the following questions:

      Hypothesis 1. People participating in the Diabetes Self-Management Program (SDSMP), when
      compared six months after baseline to randomized wait-list controls receiving usual care,
      will demonstrate:

        1. Improvements in health-related quality of life (fatigue, physical discomfort, the
           symptoms of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia, activity limitations, health distress, and
           self-rated health).

           Improvements in metabolic measures of health status (body mass index, hemoglobin A1c,
           total cholesterol/HDL ratio and blood pressure).

        2. Changes in utilization of health services, specifically, increases in outpatient visits
           to physicians and nurses, increases in the percentage of subjects having received an eye
           examination in the past year, increases in the number of times a health professional has
           examined subject's feet, and decreases in emergency room visits, hospitalizations, and
           hospital days.

        3. Improvements in beneficial self-management behaviors (aerobic exercise, communication
           with physicians, diet, self-monitoring of blood glucose and self-examination of the
           feet).

        4. Increases in perceived self-efficacy to manage diabetes.

      Hypothesis 2. The changes in health related quality of life, metabolic status, health
      behaviors and health care utilization will be maintained for one year.

      Hypothesis 3. Twelve to fifteen health care organizations in California will be interested in
      disseminating the program. This will be demonstrated by their willingness to send 2-3 persons
      each to a 5 day training which will allow their organization to replicate and perpetuate the
      program.

      Hypothesis 4. 8-10 health care organizations in California will have offered at least two
      Diabetes Self-Management Programs to people with Type 2 diabetes one year following the above
      dissemination training. (It should be noted that this hypothesis can not be tested during the
      funded portion of the program. However, it our intent to contact all organizations
      participating in dissemination training one year following the training to determine what
      they have done with the program). The results of this follow-up will be reported to The
      Foundation.)
    
  