
    
      Objectives:

      To test our hypothesis that among the subset of the 770 enrolled participants who quit
      smoking and then lapsed while using the nicotine patch, those randomized to continue the
      patch post-lapse will be more likely to be 7-day point prevalent abstinent at 4-month
      follow-up than those randomized to discontinue the patch post-lapse.

      To test whether the amount of patch use post-lapse, craving, withdrawal, cigs/day, motivation
      to quit, confidence in quitting, nicotine reinforcement from cigarettes, and self-efficacy
      mediate any effect of post-lapse patch use on abstinence.

      To test whether the incidence of adverse events (AEs) during post-lapse patch use is minimal.

      Purpose:

      Over the counter (OTC) NRT is, by far, the most common treatment for smoking cessation in the
      United States (Cokkinides, Ward, Jemel, & Thun, 2005). Over 80% of those using OTC NRT will
      lapse (Stead, Perera, Bullen, Mant, & Lancaster, 2008). One possible reason for this high
      rate of relapse is that NRT package labeling states "do not use if you continue to smoke",
      and the majority of smokers believe this means it is best to stop using NRT upon a lapse;
      e.g., the only survey on real-world use of NRT during a lapse episode found that 77% of
      smokers discontinued NRT after a lapse (Pierce & Gilpin, 2002). The investigators and others
      (Bader, McDonald, & Selby, 2009) believe continuing NRT during a lapse episode will a)
      relieve craving and withdrawal (West & Shiffman, 2001), b) block the reinforcing effects of
      smoking (Perkins, Fonte, Meeker, White, & Wilson, 2001; Rose & Behm, 2004), c) help smokers
      smoke less (Hughes & Carpenter, 2005), and d) increase self-efficacy, all of which should
      help smokers re-establish abstinence.

      Study design:

      The investigators are proposing a parallel groups randomized controlled trial (RCT) in which
      all treatment and monitoring occur via phone, and medication via mail. The investigators will
      recruit about 770 smokers to receive phone counseling before and after the quit date and
      nicotine patches for 10 weeks after the quit date. At study entry, smokers will be randomized
      to a "Continue NRT" or a "Discontinue NRT" condition. The Continue NRT participants will be
      advised that, if they lapse, they should continue NRT. Smokers randomized to the Discontinue
      NRT condition will be advised that, if they lapse, they should discontinue NRT use. The
      messages will also include rationales. Messages will be delivered several times via written
      material, Interactive Voice Response (IVR) messages and during phone counseling. Participants
      will record cigs/day nightly via a phone-based IVR system for 10 weeks. If the IVR detects a
      lapse during the first 10 weeks of the study, it will encourage the participant to
      re-establish abstinence as soon as possible and repeat the condition-appropriate message
      about post-lapse NRT use. After the 10-week treatment period, the investigators will use
      monthly questionnaires (online or paper) to assess recent smoking, cigs/day, NRT use, and
      other stop-smoking medications.

      Subject selection:

      Men and women, minorities and children over 18 will be included. Pregnant and breastfeeding
      women, women who plan to become pregnant and those at risk for AEs from NRT will be excluded.
      Our goal is to recruit a sample of the same gender, ethnicity/race prevalence as that of US
      smokers interested in quitting; i.e. 52% men, 78% White/Non-Hispanic, 11% Black, 8% Hispanic
      and 3% other ethnicities/races (Hughes & Callas, 2010). The investigators do not have data on
      which to estimate the percent who will be children between ages 18-21 but most studies
      suggest very few young smokers are interested in formal treatment (Sussman, 2002).

      Number of subjects:

      The investigators have chosen an initial inclusion of 770 smokers to obtain a sample size of
      490 smokers who lapse on NRT.
    
  