
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the maximum tolerated combination and safety profile of multi-fraction
      radiosurgery with concurrent nivolumab plus or minus ipilimumab for recurrent
      radiation-relapsed high-grade meningioma. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the objective response
      rate (ORR) of multi-fraction radiosurgery with concurrent nivolumab plus or minus ipilimumab
      for recurrent radiation-relapsed high-grade meningioma. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate duration of overall response, progression-free survival (PFS) and overall
      survival (OS) of recurrent radiation-relapsed high-grade meningioma patients treated with the
      combination of multi-fraction radiosurgery and nivolumab plus or minus ipilimumab.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To analyze the immunophenotype changes of peripheral T-cells during the treatment with
      multi-fraction radiosurgery in combination with nivolumab plus or minus ipilimumab.

      II. To perform molecular profiling assays on pretreatment/baseline archival tumor, including,
      but not limited to, whole exome sequencing (WES) and messenger ribonucleic acid (RNA)
      sequencing (RNAseq), in order to IIa. Identify potential predictive and prognostic biomarkers
      (such as neoantigen signature or mutation burden) beyond any genomic alteration by which
      treatment may be assigned.

      IIb. Identify resistance mechanisms using genomic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)- and RNA-based
      assessment platforms.

      III. To contribute genetic analysis data from de-identified biospecimens to Genomic Data
      Commons (GDC), a well annotated cancer molecular and clinical data repository, for current
      and future research; specimens will be annotated with key clinical data, including
      presentation, diagnosis, staging, summary treatment, and if possible, outcome.

      IV. To bank formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue, blood (for cell-free DNA
      analysis), and nucleic acids obtained from patients at the Experimental Therapeutics Clinical
      Trials Network (ETCTN) Biorepository.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of nivolumab followed by a phase II study.
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT A: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles
      repeat every 28 days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients also undergo multi-fraction stereotactic radiosurgery on days 1, 3, and 5.

      COHORT B: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 2 weeks for 12 doses (6 months)
      and then every 4 weeks for additional 6 months. Patients also receive ipilimumab IV over 90
      minutes on day 1. Treatment with ipilimumab repeats every 6 weeks for 4 doses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo multi-fraction stereotactic
      radiosurgery on days 1, 3, and 5.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 100 days.
    
  