
    
      Triple-negative breast cancer lacks expression of estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor,
      and proto-oncogene HER2 as shown by immunohistochemical examination. Its incidence accounts
      for 15-25% of that of all breast cancer types. This type of breast cancer lacks the
      opportunity of endocrine therapy and anti-human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)
      therapy. The main currently available treatment is still chemotherapy. Some patients may
      choose anti-angiogenic therapy. The prognosis of triple-negative breast cancer is worse than
      that of other types of breast cancer due to fewer treatment options. Bisphosphonates used to
      treat bone metastasis of breast cancer have been shown to have anti-tumor effects and can be
      used as an adjuvant treatment for triple-negative breast cancer. The preliminary study found
      that bisphosphonates can be chimeric with erlotinib, an epidermal growth factor receptor
      tyrosine kinase inhibitor, which can synergistically inhibit the in vitro tumor formation of
      cancer (such as non-small-cell lung cancer and breast cancer) cells and the growth of
      transplanted tumors. The persistence of tumor stem cells is reportedly the root cause of
      malignant biological behavior of triple-negative breast cancer. Bisphosphonates may
      synergistically inhibit triple-negative breast cancer (stem) cells with existing molecular
      targeted drugs.

      Although randomized controlled trials can provide highest-level clinical evidence, the test
      conditions should be strictly controlled, resulting in a small sample size and short
      follow-up time. However, real-world studies can include patients with multiple diseases and
      treatment strategies can be adjusted according to patient's needs and clinical conditions. In
      addition, a variety of interventions can be simultaneously used to accurately meet patient's
      needs, so that the research evidence is more clinically useful. Therefore, the purpose of
      this multi-center prospective real-world study was to investigate the significance of use of
      bisphosphonates as an adjuvant therapy against breast cancer.
    
  