
    
      For this project we will conduct a 12-week intervention that incorporates multiple strategies
      to reduce sedentary behavior among university employees who are primarily working from home.
      Participants will be recruited via campus networks.

      Participants will attend an initial testing visit, during which anthropometric and health
      outcome data (blood pressure, blood glucose and cholesterol) will be collected. Following the
      testing visit, all participants will complete an activity log for the next 5 work days, and a
      subsample will wear an activPAL 4 device for 7 days. All participants will complete a series
      of questionnaires (measuring physical activity, fatigue, stress, productivity, mood, and
      diet) online.

      After all baseline data have been collected, participants will be randomized to one of four
      conditions: desk only, program only, desk + program, or waitlist control. Those in the desk
      only and desk+program conditions will receive a height-adjustable desk. They will be asked to
      set up the desk at their home workstation and send a photo of the setup to our research team
      within one week. Those in the program only and control conditions will receive their
      height-adjustable desks after completing the post-intervention assessments. Participants
      assigned to the program only and desk+program conditions will have access to a website that
      includes a variety of resources for reducing sedentary behavior and increasing physical
      activity in the home environment. The intervention program will be based on social cognitive
      theory and will be designed to promote self-efficacy, self-regulation, positive outcome
      expectations, and social and environmental support. Participants will complete weekly modules
      that include activities such as goal setting and self-monitoring, action and coping planning,
      group discussions, etc. The program will also provide suggestions for changes to the home
      work environment, access to virtual stretching and strengthening videos, examples of
      technology to prompt breaks, etc. Participants will also receive 2 small group coaching calls
      via Zoom (at 3 and 8 weeks) to assist them in setting goals for reducing sedentary behavior
      and overcoming barriers. Participants in the desk only and waitlist control groups will
      receive access to the program after completing the post-intervention assessments.

      All measures will be repeated following the 12-week intervention.
    
  