
    
      Background and Purpose: Respiratory muscle function is important in sustaining the levels of
      physical activity required for daily life. The purpose of our study is to investigate the
      association between respiratory muscle performance, functional capacity, dyspnea,
      anxiety/depression symptom, 1-year respiratory morbidity rate, and 1-year mortality in
      patients with primary stage IIIb and IV lung cancer.

      Methods: A total of 120 patients with newly diagnosed primary stage IIIb and IV lung cancer
      will be recruited from the National Taiwan University Hospital. Demographic and clinical
      signs/syndromes will be obtained from the chart. Pain and dyspnea will be measured using
      visual analog scale. Respiratory muscle strength will be tested by measuring maximal
      inspiratory and expiratory pressure (PImax and PEmax, respectively). Spirometric variables,
      forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and forced vital capacity (FVC) will be
      measured. Functional capacity will be measured using Karnofsky performance status and
      Simmonds functional assessment. Anxiety/depression symptom will be measured using Hospital
      Anxiety and Depression Scale. One year respiratory complication morbidity and 1-year
      mortality will be recorded in prospective nature. Spearman's and Pearson correlation
      coefficient will be used to test the relationship between respiratory muscle performance and
      multiple variables. Univariate and stepwise multiple regression analyses will be used to
      identify factors associated with respiratory muscle performance, functional capacity,
      one-year respiratory morbidity and one-year mortality rate in patients with primary stage
      IIIb and IV lung cancer.

      Clinical relevance: The prevalence of lung cancer is increasing in the recent years. The
      attempt to understand the relations between respiratory muscle performance, functional
      capacity and associated clinical courses will shed light on whether chest physical therapy
      intervention will be beneficial for patients with primary IIIb and IV lung cancer.
    
  