
    
      Second degree or partial thickness burn (PTB) is most tricky variety to identify and treat,
      out of all four categories of burn (based on depth). It is further divided into superficial
      and deep partial thickness based on the depth of dermal injury. (1) Clinical criteria
      fulfilling all the points for each category i.e. Superficial PTB (SPTB) being reddish pink,
      bleed briskly (in <3sec) on pin prick, blanch with brisk return (in <2 sec) on pressure,
      blister formation and Deep PTB (DPTB) being mottled pink, delayed bleeding (in >3 sec) on pin
      prick, slow return (in >2 sec) on pressure, no blister, is most commonly used to
      differentiate both the sub-classes. Pain is hallmark of 2nd degree burns and is treated by
      topical and IV analgesics. Topical conventional treatment of superficial PTB wounds includes
      application of polyfax skin ointment plus lignocain gel twice a day after wound wash while
      deep PTB are treated with silvazine cream twice a day and prepared for grafting by normal
      saline dressings, if not healed within 3 weeks.

      Current treatment for 2nd degree burn is complex, uncomfortable for the patient and expensive
      for the health systems (2,3) . Search continues for a reliable, safe, cheap and effective
      treatment of burn. Heparin has been used topically in burn patient and a protocol of topical
      heparin use has been introduced . It is believed that heparin helps in reducing pain
      associated with burns and duration of wound healing. (4) It is noted that the mechanism
      involved in heparin's action on the burn probably derives from its anti-inflammatory and
      angiogenic properties, stimulating tissue repair and re-epithelializing effects.(2) These
      actions do not depend on its well-known anticoagulant action. Burn analgesia by heparin is
      caused by inhibition of pro-inflammatory products which act on free nerve endings and cause
      pain. In this regard, isolated case reports continue to emerge, suggesting that heparin is
      able to promote tissue repair and inhibit inflammation in burn patients.(5) It has been shown
      in a study that out of total 58 patients, those in topical Heparin group demanded less
      analgesic medications in mg/day (11.83 ± 9.38) than Control group (33.35± 20.63) . It has
      been reported in another study that heparin applied topically for 5 days in 50 pediatric
      patients reduced healing time. (6) Indeed there are a number of reports of heparin being
      used, topically or systemically but there is a lack of effectively controlled studies in this
      area for clear conclusions to be drawn as to the efficacy of this approach.(7) As it is noted
      that already existing conventional therapy is un-comfortable and expensive for the patients,
      use of heparin topically in burn patients is easy to perform and cheap but at the moment,
      evidence of its effectiveness is weak. So rationale of the study is to verify clinical
      effectiveness of use of heparin in 2nd degree burns.

      Objective:- To compare conventional treatment and topical heparin treatment in 2nd degree
      burn patients in terms of total consumption of analgesic medication and duration of wound
      healing.
    
  