
    
      Invasive fungal infection is one of the major complications of HSCT recipients, and the
      incidence is increased rapidly in recent years. IFI also commonly occurs in Chinese HSCT
      recipients, and there is no formal report on the mortality and morbidity of IFI in Chinese
      patients, so this study could supply these data.

      Galactomannan(GM) is a cell wall component of aspergillus only, which is released to the
      blood stream when the aspergillus grows. While the β-D-glucan(BG) is in the most fungal cell
      wall, and the high level of BG in body fluid is also an evidence of fungal infection. In this
      study, the serum level of GM and BG would be detected by the commercial available kit.

      We will assess the cut-off value of GM/G test by proven/probable IFI patients and negative
      controls. Then, we could calculate the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative
      predict value of the GM/G test. Meanwhile, we may find out the genus of the fungus by
      comparison of the two methods. For example, both positive of GM and G-test may suggest that
      the pathogen is Aspergillus, while the positive G-test and negative GM-test implies the
      Candida may be the pathogen.

      RT-PCR is also a helpful method for the IFI diagnosis, which is more sensitive than GM and
      G-test and encompassing multiple fungal genera. The small-subunit rRNA gene sequence is
      relatively conserved among members of fungal kingdom, including the Aspergillus and Candida
      species, the dimorphic fungi, the agents of zygomycosis, and Pneumocystis. So we will amplify
      that part of DNA and using gene specific probe to detect whether the sample is positive for
      fungus or not. Until now, there is no report about real-time PCR assay for diagnosis of IFI
      in Chinese HSCT recipients, so we want to carry out this study. At the same time, the result
      of real-time PCR assay could help us to estimate the coincidence of GM and G-test with the
      IFI patients.

      After performing the above three diagnostic test, we could identify the HSCT recipients
      whether they have the IFI more accurately, so that we could evaluate the antifungal therapy
      and find out the risk factors for IFI in those patients more accurately.
    
  