
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) syndrome is a common but often unrecognized disorder caused by
      pharyngeal collapse during sleep and characterized by frequent awakenings, disrupted sleep,
      and consequent excessive daytime sleepiness. Upper airway resistance increase during sleep
      and upper airway inspiratory muscle activity decrease especially during bursts of rapid eye
      movements in REM (Rapid Eye-Movements) sleep. In this study, the differences in respiratory
      functions, orofacial muscle tone changes, anxiety/depression, and quality of life of the
      patients according to the severity of Obstructive Sleep Apnea Syndrome will be investigated.
      The project is planned to be carried out with participants who applied to the Bitlis State
      Hospital Chest Diseases Clinic and were diagnosed with OSA by polysomnography and other
      diagnostic methods. Based on "the Apnea-Hypopnea Index OSA rating scoring for adult
      individuals", participants will be divided into three groups: mild, moderate, and severe OSA.
      Healthy participants will form the fourth group on the control level. The respiratory
      functions of the participants will be evaluated with spirometry and a standard application
      procedure will be used. With the MyotonPro device, the tone of the orofacial muscles (m.
      digastricus venter anterior and m. mylohyoideus, tongue and m. masseter, m. temporalis) will
      be evaluated and data transferred to the computer will be reported. In the muscle tonus
      evaluations, standardization in cervical positioning will be provided by a dual digital
      inclinometer. The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD) will be used to evaluate the
      anxiety/depression levels of the participants, and the Short Form-36 (SF-36), which is
      prescribed as the global gold standard, will be used in the assessment of the quality of
      life. MyotonPro reliability investigation will be done by two separate researchers. The
      researchers will perform measurements independently, at the baseline, and after 1 week.
      MyotonPro evaluations will be based on anatomical localization points. During the
      measurement, both researchers will use the standard positioning protocol at both evaluation
      times.
    
  