
    
      15-20 patients with a confirmed diagnosis of either nfvPPA or lvPPA (made by a specialized
      clinician) will be recruited. Patients must have a mild to moderate language impairment and
      must be native English speakers. Exclusion criteria include contraindications to receiving
      Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanning or rTMS (e.g. metallic or electromagnetically
      activated implants, cranial mass lesions, surgical aneurysm clips), the presence of
      significant medical, neurological or psychiatric co-morbid symptoms and patients without
      study partners.

      It will take approximately 2 weeks to complete this research study, but the exact timing will
      vary according to patient, investigator and equipment availability. Each patient will have a
      total of up to 11 study visits. Greater than 11 visits may take place in the event that
      patients' language improves significantly following rTMS in order to test the sustainability
      of the improvement. Visits will take place at the MGH Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging.

      The first visit (lasting 3-4 hours) will include obtainment of informed consent, baseline
      assessments, and a baseline MRI scan (which will be used for subsequent rTMS targeting).
      After this, patients will return for two blocks of 20Hz rTMS to left dlpfc: one in which they
      receive active rTMS and one in which they receive sham rTMS. Both active and sham rTMS will
      be delivered as high frequency stimulation (20 hertz, 20Hz). To accomplish this, an rTMS coil
      capable of delivering active or sham stimulation will be employed. Order of active and sham
      blocks will be counterbalanced across participants. During each block rTMS (active or sham)
      will be administered daily for 5 days (Monday through Friday). Neuropsychological testing,
      including thorough language evaluations, will be done before and after each block of rTMS.
      Repeat MRI imaging will be performed at the end of each of the two blocks. rTMS visit
      durations will be as follows: Monday visits will last approximately 3-4 hours, Tuesday,
      Wednesday and Thursday visits will last approximately 1-2 hours and Friday visits will last
      approximately 5 hours.
    
  