
    
      SUMMARY: This nationally representative study samples from estimated 6782 Medicare-certified
      nursing homes co-located within 50 miles of the 122 cities reporting to Center for Disease
      Control and Prevention (CDC) weekly influenza surveillance. In total, 1000 facilities will be
      enrolled for random assignment to either: 1) the licensed high dose (HD) trivalent influenza
      vaccine (High-Dose Fluzone [HD vaccine]), or 2) the standard dose (SD) trivalent influenza
      vaccine (Fluzone [SD vaccine]) for their residents. Additionally, half the facilities will
      receive free SD vaccine for their staff and the remaining facilities will practice usual care
      (no free vaccine) for staff.

      BACKGROUND: Influenza and pneumonia (P&I) are leading infectious causes of hospitalization
      and mortality in community-dwelling older adults and residents of long-term custodial care
      facilities or nursing homes (NH), and produce substantial annual health care costs. The
      elderly incur over 90% of this disease burden and NH residents are especially vulnerable
      given immune senescence, multimorbidity, and close living quarters. While hospitalization
      rates for NH residents vary considerably between facilities, most occur during the sixteen
      weeks of peak influenza activity annually. Influenza vaccination, a mainstay in prevention,
      is recommended in the U.S. for all individuals six months of age and older. Vaccination
      associates with reduced rates of stroke, heart attack, hospitalization, and death in
      non-institutional older adult populations. However, the benefit of influenza vaccine for the
      elderly in general has been questioned, a salient concern for frail elderly, such as NH
      residents. Influenza vaccination rates vary substantially between nursing homes. Influenza
      vaccine response declines with advancing age, indicating the need for a better vaccine.

      OBJECTIVES: The primary objective is to estimate the differences in all-cause hospitalization
      rates during influenza season experienced by long-stay nursing home residents, between
      facilities using HD vaccine vs. SD vaccine. The secondary objective is to estimate the
      differences in the likelihood of Activities of Daily Living (ADL) functional decline and
      mortality rates in the study nursing homes.
    
  