
    
      This study is designed as a 12-week, randomized parallel intervention trial, with two arms:
      1) Control group, who follows a control diet based on the current dietary guidelines of the
      Spanish Society of Community Nutrition (SENC) using the Healthy Eating Plate method
      (Harvard), and 2) Nutriprecision Group, which were instructed to follow the Nutriprecision
      diet based on the inclusion of digital tools and functional foods, whose postprandial effects
      were previously evaluated by randomized, cross-over, double-blind studies in senior subjects
      in the Centre for Nutrition Research (UNAV) and IMDEA-ALIMENTACIÓN. The incremental area
      under the curve (iAUC) for glucose and insulin was calculated for all designed foods and was
      compared with their reference products. Additionally, lipid profile and satiety were measured
      at fasting and at 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, and 120 min after starting the food intake. In all
      these studies, the reference and test foods were administered once in random order, with a
      wash-out period between 7 days and 14 days among assays.

      This multi-centric study was carried out in the Nutrition Intervention Unit of the Centre for
      Nutrition Research in the University of Navarra and the Nutritional and Clinical Trials Unit
      in IMDEA-ALIMENTACIÓN by qualified professionals (nurse, doctor-dietician, dieticians,
      pharmacists).

      A total of five visits had been established along with the 12-weeks trial: 1) study
      information and screening; 2) day 0: start of the intervention; 3) day 28: group session
      (control group)/follow-up visit (Nutriprecision group); 4) day 56: group session (control
      group)/follow-up visit (Nutriprecision group) and 5) day 84: end of the intervention.

      At the start and finish days of the study, participants visited the Nutrition Intervention
      Unit or the Clinical Trials Unit in a fasting state. Participants were instructed to collect
      the first-morning urine sample. Additionally, volunteers from the University of Navarra
      self-collected fecal samples at baseline using OMNIgene.GUT kits from DNA Genotek. Volunteers
      were also informed of a digital-based procedure for cognitive assessment and other digital
      tools available depending on the assigned intervention (experimental VS control).

      Blood samples were drawn by venipuncture after a 12 h overnight fast in a clinical setting.
      After 10 minutes of rest and having answered the Mini Nutritional Assessment (MNA) and the
      Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) questionnaires, blood pressure was measured. Later,
      anthropometric measurements and body composition analysis were performed. Global cognitive
      performance was also assessed by the Guttmann NeuroPersonalTrainer platform. The duration of
      these visits was approximately 1 hour.

      On the 28th and 56th study days, participants assigned to the control group attended online
      group sessions and received intensive education and advice to increase the adherence to the
      dietary strategy. Sessions consisted of informative talks about the prescribed dietary
      pattern, food label use, seasonal shopping lists, meal plans and recipes, physical activity
      and exercise recommendations, sleep habits, etc. Contrary, participants allocated to the
      Nutriprecision group attended in person visits with the dieticians, to evaluate the adherence
      to the assigned nutritional treatment. Additionally, anthropometric, body composition, and
      blood pressure measurements were assessed. Participants were also asked to fill different
      questionnaires about health status (SF-36 Health Survey), gastrointestinal symptoms
      (gastrointestinal symptoms rating scale, GSRT), dietary assessment (7-day recall),
      Mediterranean diet adherence (14-Item Mediterranean Diet Assessment Tool), physical activity
      (International Physical Activity Questionnaire, IPAQ) and drug therapy modifications.
      Moreover, the Nutriprecision group were asked to collect a sensory perception questionnaire
      and a food consumption record of the precision foods administered.
    
  