
    
      This study is a single centre randomised crossover study. Infants born at less than 29 weeks
      gestation, greater than 48 hours of age and receiving supplementary oxygen would be eligible
      for inclusion. The study is at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh. Total study time is 12 hours
      for each infant (6 hours at the standard 90-95% range used in our unit, and 6 hours at
      92-97%). It is a crossover study with infants acting as their own controls.

      A complete list of all monitoring that will be carried out is shown below:

        1. SpO2 monitoring

        2. TcPO2 monitoring

        3. Heart rate monitoring (used to validate SpO2 readings as described below)

        4. Arterial gas sampling (only if conducted by the direct care team as part of the routine
           care of the infant will these be recorded. No extra blood samples will be taken as part
           of the study)

      Each infant will be monitored simultaneously with an SpO2 monitor and TcPo2 monitor, with
      data recording starting from the time the transcutaneous monitor finishes calibrating. SpO2
      readings will be downloaded directly from the multiparameter patient monitor. SpO2 will be
      measured using a Siemens Infinity SC7000 multiparameter monitor. This monitor uses Siemens'
      Oxisure pulse oximetry technology and Nellcor Oximax saturation probes and incorporates ECG
      to reduce motion artefact. To reduce the influence of artefact further, data from an infants
      chest leads (recording heart rate) will also be downloaded. If there is a greater than 10
      beats per minute difference between heart rate measured from the pulse oximeter and heart
      rate measured from the chest leads, SpO2 for that time point will be disregarded.

      TcPO2 will be measured using a SenTec Digital Monitoring System with OxiVent sensor. TcPO2 is
      calculated by dynamic fluorescence quenching which measures oxygen molecules present in the
      vicinity of a fluorescent dye incorporated within the sensor surface. The sensor is operated
      at a constant temperature of 43 degrees Celsius. Control of sensor temperature and
      application duration are designed to meet all applicable standards and this monitoring device
      is used routinely in many neonatal units, with transcutaneous monitoring part of the
      monitoring equipment we use in selected infants in our unit and being transported by our
      local neonatal transport team. Temperature is supervised by two independent circuits, as well
      as by the monitor firmware.

      Transcutaneous data will be transferred contemporaneously to a bedside PC via the proprietary
      software V-STATS (with V-CareNeT) version 4.01. We will ensure the time on the monitor is
      synchronised with the time displayed on the electronic patient record system recording SpO2
      and heart rate. V-STATS software can identify any spurious spikes in TcPO2 caused by air
      bubbles and these identified segments of data will be discarded. Artefact has not
      significantly affected readings during the routine use of this monitor previously on our
      neonatal unit and with our neonatal transport team. The site of the transcutaneous probe will
      be rotated on each infant every 2 hours.

      SpO2, TcPO2 and heart rate data will be recorded every second. The time of any arterial
      oxygen samples taken routinely during the study will be recorded from the unit Radiometer
      ABL800 FLEX blood gas analyser.
    
  