
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the dose of laromustine that can be combined with daunorubicin
           hydrochloride and cytarabine in patients with previously untreated acute myeloid
           leukemia with unfavorable cytogenetics. (Phase I)

        -  To determine the complete remission rate of this regimen as induction therapy. (Phase
           II)

      Secondary

        -  To determine the complete response rate.

        -  To determine the safety profile of this regimen.

        -  To determine the overall and relapse-free survival.

        -  To evaluate the prognostic value of the molecular markers FLT3, duplications of MLL, and
           Evi-1.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I dose-escalation study of laromustine followed by a
      phase II study.

        -  Induction treatment: Patients receive laromustine IV on day 4, daunorubicin
           hydrochloride IV on days 1-3, and cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-7. Patients not
           attaining complete remission (CR) after first induction receive a second induction
           treatment comprising daunorubicin hydrochloride IV on days 1-3 and cytarabine IV twice
           daily on days 1-4. Patients in CR after 1 or 2 induction treatments proceed to
           consolidation treatment.

        -  Consolidation treatment: Patients receive mini-consolidation treatment comprising
           amsacrine on day 1 and cytarabine IV twice daily on days 1-5 followed by 2 courses of
           continuing consolidation treatment comprising mitoxantrone hydrochloride on days 1 and 2
           and cytarabine IV over 12 hours on days 1-5.

        -  Allogeneic or autologous stem cell transplantation: Patients receive busulfan four times
           daily for 4 days and melphalan followed by allogeneic or autologous stem cell
           transplantation.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.
    
  