
    
      There are two major issues to face in patients who underwent liver transplantation for
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). First, the patient requires adequate immunosuppressive
      medication to avoid rejection of its allograft. Second, the risk for HCC recurrence has to be
      reduced to a minimum.

      To date, it is a wide spread argument that immunosuppressive agents for the reduction of
      allograft rejection are generally tumorogenic, or at least are permissive of cancer
      development although little is known about their tumorogenic effect. In clinical studies
      substantiated by experimental data, cyclosporin (CsA) enhances cancer cell growth
      characteristics and angiogenesis in tumors and inhibits DNA repair mechanisms, promoting
      their growth. In an experimental rat-model CsA promoted liver tumor recurrence and growth. In
      other experimental studies a higher proliferation rate of human hepatoma cells in the
      presence of tacrolimus was demonstrated.

      Nevertheless not all immunosuppressive agents do necessarily promote tumor growth, and in
      fact, can have antineoplastic activities. Sirolimus, in immunosuppressive doses, has potent
      antiangiogenic properties that inhibit tumor growth. The antiangiogenetic mechanism is due to
      inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) production and signaling to
      endothelial cells. Besides that, sirolimus directly blocks critical intracellular pathways
      (mTOR) and inhibits cell-cycle. Through increased E-cadherin expression on tumor cells, tumor
      metastasis can be reduced by increased tumor cell binding.

      In this context it has to be mentioned that in mouse models where a transplant recipient also
      has a tumor, the pro-tumor effects of CsA are completely negated by sirolimus.

      Especially HCC seems to be particularly sensitive to VEGF/angiogenesis, indicating a
      potential susceptibility to the action of sirolimus which could be shown by the group of E.K.
      Geissler and colleagues in Regensburg.

      From a clinical perspective there is a recent pilot study from Kneteman et al. indicating
      that early conversion of immunosuppression from CNI to mTOR-inhibitors after OLT in HCC
      patients (n=21) with a "high risk" for tumor recurrence results in a tumor recurrence rate of
      only 19% and a 4-year over all survival of 83% in this group. Moreover, in the "low-risk"
      group (n=19) the 4-year tumor recurrence rate was only 1/19. Post-HCC recurrence survival was
      15.5 months, which is marked improvement compared to currently published data. Although this
      study only reports on a small number of patients and is not controlled, it suggests the
      potential role for sirolimus to ameliorate tumor recurrence, leading to a more benign course
      of renewed tumor disease.

      Among the most serious complications of immunosuppressive therapy in organ transplantation is
      the high risk of previous neoplasia recurrence, or the development of de novo cancer. HCC
      comprises 80-90 % of malignancies indicating OLT. Before the introduction of strict criteria
      for the enrollment of primary liver tumors, tumor recurrence led to poor mid- and long-term
      results. HCC thus has an unacceptable recurrence rate following OLT when the tumor exceeds 5
      cm in size. ELTR data from 2003 showed a 5 year patient overall survival for hepatic
      malignancy (including more than 80% HCC in this group since 1997) of merely 53%, comparing
      poorly with data from non-cholestatic liver cirrhosis of 74% and even acute liver failure of
      62%. Based on previous work, and a landmark publication in 1996 by Mazzaferro et al. many
      centers have restricted their indication for liver transplantation due to clinical criteria
      based on tumor size and number to the so-called ´Milan Criteria´.

      Implementing these criteria, recent single center data show an improvement in both
      disease-free and overall survival following OLT for HCC. Nevertheless approximately 30% of
      patients in these studies who were thought to be within Milan Criteria before
      transplantation, proved by histopathological examination to have extended disease. This led
      to a dramatic decline in overall and disease-free survival, from 71-85% to 40-50%, and from
      65-78% to 27-30%, respectively.

      In total all preclinical and clinical observations have led us to the purpose that the use of
      sirolimus in HCC patients could improve survival after liver transplantation by decreasing
      tumor recurrence rate. Thus patients should experience less posttransplant problems with HCC
      recurrence, and therefore could expect a longer, and better quality of life.
    
  