
    
      Reovirus Serotype 3 - Dearing Strain (REOLYSIN®) is a naturally occurring, ubiquitous,
      non-enveloped human reovirus. Reovirus has been shown to replicate selectively in
      Ras-transformed cells causing cell lysis. Activating mutations in Ras or mutations in
      oncogenes signaling through the Ras pathway may occur in as many as 80% of human tumors. The
      specificity of the reovirus for Ras-transformed cells, coupled with its relatively
      nonpathogenic nature in humans, makes it an attractive anti-cancer therapy candidate.

      This is an open-label study of intratumoral REOLYSIN® in combination with standard of care
      neoadjuvant cisplatin/gemcitabine in patients with histologically and clinically confirmed
      muscle-invasive bladder cancer (T2-4) with or without pelvic lymph node involvement (N1-2) in
      Stage III and IV with no distant metastases (M0) and no prior systemic therapy for bladder
      cancer.

      Treatment with intratumoral REOLYSIN® and chemotherapy is planned for 3 cycles followed by
      radical cystectomy or until unacceptable toxicity or another discontinuation criterion is
      met.

      Two sequential treatment cohorts will be enrolled.

      Patients in Cohort 1 will receive intratumoral REOLYSIN® on Cycle 1 Day 1, then 7-14 days
      later patients will receive intratumoral REOLYSIN® on Cycle 2 Day 1 plus intravenous
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy for 2 cycles (every 3 weeks) starting from Cycle 2 Day 2 followed by
      radical cystectomy. Three patients will be enrolled in this cohort. If there is a Dose
      Limiting Toxicity the cohort will be expanded to an additional 3 patients.

      Upon completion of Cohort 1, Cohort 2 will be open to enrollment of 3 patients to receive 3
      cycles of standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy on Day 1 and Day 8 of each cycle and intratumoral
      REOLYSIN® on Day 2 of each cycle (every 3 weeks). If there is a Dose Limiting Toxicity the
      cohort will be expanded to an additional 3 patients.

      An Expansion Cohort will follow with up to 12 patients to be enrolled following either Cohort
      1 or Cohort 2 treatment regimen based on the results of Cohort 1 and Cohort 2.
    
  