
    
      The proposed project uses a 'crossover randomised controlled trial' design, where two
      different treatments are compared in all participants. Each participant will therefore
      receive both treatments (sound intervention, and no intervention) and the project will
      compare the impact of the two treatments on the same participant. This means each person acts
      as their own control.

      The research will be conducted in the newly built Sleep Laboratory at the University of
      Lincoln, which is composed of two participant bedrooms and an observation room. Participants
      will have access to a toilet and shower.

      Potential participants will be identified by their General Practitioner (GP) by searching the
      practice database and screening records for eligibility. All eligible potential participants
      will receive a study information pack sent from the GP practice. There will be contact
      details to allow anyone wishing to take part to make contact with the study team having read
      the study information pack.

      The investigators will also recruit via university email and staff web page. Potential
      participants may then contact the research team to request a study information pack which
      will be emailed or posted as above.

      Screening Potential participants will express an interest in the study by contacting one of
      the research team. They will be screened over the phone by checking inclusion and exclusion
      criteria. If eligible to take part they will be invited to a recruitment visit with at least
      24 hours to read the participant information sheet and ask any questions.

      Recruitment visit - Day 1/2 Participants will attend the sleep laboratory at 9pm on day 1 of
      the study. They will have the opportunity to ask any questions and then if still happy to
      take part will give signed informed consent. Basic information on age, sex, height and weight
      will be collected. Their medical history will be checked and they will then be asked to
      complete 5 sleep related questionnaires to confirm that they meet eligibility criteria.

      1.Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index to measure sleep quantity and quality. 3.Epworth Sleepiness
      Scale to assess for Obstructive Sleep Apnoea Syndrome. 4.Horne-Östberg
      Morningness-Eveningness Questionnaire to measure chronotype. 5.Insomnia Severity Index to
      measure current levels of insomnia.

      At subsequent visits participants will complete only the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index and
      Stanford Sleepiness Scale.

      The participant will have EEG sensors attached to their scalp and given comfortable earphones
      (sleep phones) fitted.

      At about 10 pm they will be left alone in the sleep laboratory to fall asleep. When they wake
      naturally the following morning (Day 2) the EEG sensors and sleep phones will be removed and
      they are free to leave.

      Randomisation Each participant will be randomised to either receive the sound intervention on
      the 1st experimental night (visit 1) and no sound on the 2nd experimental night (visit 2) or
      vice versa. The patient will not know which order these are going to occur in.

      The intervention The intervention is an auditory signal (50 millisecond burst of pink noise).
      The participants will be fitted with sensors on their face to examine eye-movements and
      muscle tone and sensors on the their scalp to detect the electrical activity of the brain
      using an EEG, whilst 50 millisecond bursts of 'pink noise' are delivered via
      sleep-comfortable earphones (sleep phones). The EEG is recorded via electrodes. After the
      scalp has been cleaned with NuPrep exfoliating gel (Weave and Company), active electrodes
      will be attached using appropriate conducting gel. A ground electrode is attached to the
      forehead.

      Visit 1 - Day 8/9 The participant will attend the sleep laboratory again on day 8 at 9pm.
      They will be asked to complete the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index again. They will have the
      EEG sensors and sleep phones fitted. In addition they will have a CGMS fitted.

      They will be left to sleep in the sleep laboratory overnight whilst the experimenter is next
      door, at no point during the study will the participant be left completely alone in the
      lab.Within 30 minutes of waking the following morning (day 9) they will be asked to fill in
      the Stanford Sleepiness Scale and drink 330ml of Rapilose glucose drink in under 5 minutes to
      provide a 75g bolus of glucose. Blood glucose measurements will be recorded using the CGM.
      Participants will need to sit quietly for 2 hours after drinking the Rapilose whilst the
      glucose levels are recorded and then are free to leave the laboratory. The CGMS will be worn
      until the next visit.

      Visit 2 - Day 15/16 The participant will attend the sleep laboratory again on day 15 at 9pm.
      The CGMS will be removed and a new one fitted. They will be asked to complete the Pittsburgh
      Sleep Quality Index again. They will have the EEG sensors and sleep phones fitted.

      They will be left to sleep in the sleep laboratory overnight whilst the experimenter is next
      door, at no point during the study will the participant be left completely alone in the lab.
      Within 30 minutes of waking the following morning (day 16) they will be asked to complete a
      10-minute psychomotor vigilance task and to drink 330ml of Rapilose in under 5 minutes to
      provide a 75g bolus of glucose. Blood glucose measurements will be recorded using the CGMS.
      Participants will need to sit quietly for 2 hours after drinking the Rapilose whilst the
      glucose levels are recorded and then are free to leave the laboratory. The CGM will be worn
      until the next visit.

      Visit 3 - Day 23 The participant will return to the sleep laboratory at a mutually convenient
      time and have the CGMS removed.
    
  