
    
      Asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are the two most common obstructive
      lung diseases. Chronic airway inflammation and episodic worsening of respiratory symptoms and
      airflow obstruction (exacerbations) occur in asthma and COPD. Despite major advances in the
      development of therapies for these respiratory disorders, asthma and COPD exacerbations are
      common and result in substantial morbidity and mortality. Moreover, patients hospitalized for
      asthma or COPD exacerbations are at high risk for near fatal and fatal re-exacerbations after
      discharge home. These observations highlight the need for novel therapies to prevent asthma
      and COPD exacerbations. The role of macrolide antibiotics (e.g., azithromycin,
      clarithromycin, erythromycin) in treating bacterial infections is well established. Recent
      pre-clinical evidence also suggests that macrolides may posses distinct anti-inflammatory
      properties and even anti-viral properties. These exciting observations have led to research
      evaluating the use of maintenance therapy with macrolides in patients with asthma and COPD.
      Small studies in clinically stable asthma or COPD suggest that maintenance macrolide therapy
      (e.g., use for 6 weeks), when added to usual care, may attenuate airway inflammation, reduce
      respiratory symptoms, and improve lung function. However, there are no studies that have
      evaluated the potential benefits of initiating maintenance macrolide therapy during asthma or
      COPD exacerbations. We hypothesize that initiating maintenance macrolide therapy in
      hospitalized patients with asthma or COPD exacerbations will, when added to usual medical
      care, accelerate the improvement in airflow obstruction, respiratory symptoms, and quality of
      life and reduce the risk of re-exacerbations after discharge home. The objective of this
      pilot study is to evaluate the feasibility of the study protocol (recruitment, retention, and
      adherence to study procedures and medications), as well as collect preliminary data about the
      proportion of exacerbations due to bacterial or viral infections and estimate potential
      effect sizes for clinically important outcomes (respiratory symptoms, quality of life,
      airflow obstruction, airway inflammation, and rate of re-exacerbations). To achieve these
      objectives, we propose a 48 week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover
      clinical trial (24 weeks azithromycin, 24 weeks placebo) in adults hospitalized for asthma or
      COPD exacerbations to the Johns Hopkins Hospital or Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center.
    
  