
    
      The investigators could previously show that platelet derived growth factors like TSP-1 and
      5-HT are of relevance in human liver regeneration. In this project the investigators aim to
      elucidate how platelets specifically release their granules. Indeed, while dense granules
      stored 5-HT induces proliferation of hepatocytes, alpha-granules stored TSP-1 reduces their
      proliferative potential. More importantly, various pro-proliferative growth factors as VEGF
      are also stored in alpha-granules. Therefore, a systemic reduction in platelet counts would
      reduce both, pro and anti-proliferative factors. A highly regulated granula release has been
      postulated to allow platelets to exert specific functions. In 2008, Italiano et al. presented
      convincing in vitro evidence that platelets store molecules in separate granules, which they
      are able to specifically release upon platelet activation. Furthermore, results by other
      groups support this finding.

      It is the aim of this project to characterize platelet activation in patients with liver
      resection and determine if specific platelet activation profiles correlate with clinical
      outcome.

      Project plan

      Included patients:

      A total of 40 patients undergoing hemihepatectomy will be included. Patients will be closely
      monitored perioperatively. Plasma, serum, platelet and tissue preparation will be performed
      as outlined below.

      Hypothesis No. 1:

      Circulating platelet activation markers increase after liver resection.

      To confirm the investigators initial observation of specific granula release, platelet
      activation will be monitored during liver regeneration. In particular, the investigators will
      evaluate platelet activation markers during the perioperative period. In a descriptive
      manner, the investigators will identify perioperative fluctuations of platelet activation as
      a reflection of physiologic processes during liver regeneration. This should enable the
      investigators to elucidate the occurrence of platelet activation in the human setting, as it
      has been described in murine models. More importantly, the investigators analyses could
      identify potential treatment targets in patients with insufficient hepatic regeneration.

      Hypothesis No. 2:

      Intra platelet granula contents decrease after liver resection.

      Bioactive molecules stored in platelet alpha granules (intra platelet - IP), will be
      evaluated during the perioperative period. As during serum preparation all platelets
      degranulate, IP levels of granula contents will be calculated by subtraction of plasma from
      serum growth factor values. Furthermore to confirm these calculated values, platelet extracts
      will be generated and comparatively analyzed for IP growth factor levels. The investigators
      will further be able to identify perioperative fluctuations of IP growth factors as a
      reflection of specific intrahepatic release during liver regeneration, by comparing blood
      samples prior and one day after liver resection.

      Hypothesis No. 3:

      Platelets are locally enriched and activated at the site of liver regeneration.

      During the process of a classical hemihepatectomy, the portal vein of the tumor containing
      liver lobe is initially ligated before mobilization and dissection of the liver. The increase
      of portal pressure within the remaining liver after partial hepatectomy is believed to be the
      major inducer of liver regeneration. (37-40) To evaluate if platelets play a critical role
      during the process of initiation of liver regeneration, tissue specimens will be collected
      prior to portal vein ligation and one hour after portal vein ligation (at the time of
      initiation of liver regeneration)(study design is illustrated in figure 3). Liver specimens
      will then be comparatively analyzed for platelet adhesion and protein as well as mRNA
      expression.

      To further evaluate the relevance of platelets in the tightly regulated process of liver
      regeneration, blood will be collected 1 hour after portal vein ligation. In particular, blood
      will be drawn from the portal vein (prior to the liver) and from a liver vein (after the
      liver). From these samples platelets will be isolated and the degree of activation will be
      evaluated (details see below). Furthermore, the content of IP growth factors and platelet
      extracts will be analyzed to reflect their intrahepatic release.

      Hypothesis No. 4:

      Perioperative platelet activation has an impact on postoperative outcome

      The predictive potential of platelet activation markers and IP growth factors to identify
      patients with poor postoperative clinical outcome will be analyzed. As outcome parameters
      postoperative LD, morbidity or mortality will be evaluated. These analyses might identify
      markers to select patients that should not undergo hepatectomy but be better served with
      alternative treatments. Furthermore, potential treatment targets in patients with
      insufficient hepatic regeneration could be identified.
    
  