
    
      The standard initial regimen for PTB consists of an initial 2-month intensive phase followed
      by a 4-month continuation phase. In the initial 2-month intensive phase, patients have to
      take four drugs-isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide and ethambutol (HRZE) which might cause
      many adverse reactions. During the intensive phase, patients are prone to poor compliance due
      to adverse reactions, resulting in poor outcomes and drug-resistance. Therefore, it is
      necessary to optimize the regimen of intensive phase to improve patients' medication
      compliance, so as to avoid patients' treatment failure or drug resistance.

      Moxifloxacin(M) has high antibacterial activity against both intracellular and extracellular
      Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) with few adverse reactions and is the most promising
      alternative to first-line anti-TB drugs. Isoniazid and rifampin have a strong bactericidal
      effect on both intracellular and extracellular Mtb. In the initial regimen for PTB, isoniazid
      and rifampin should be used throughout the whole process. They are the key drugs to ensure
      the curative effect and prevent recurrence, can not be easily replaced. But pyrazinamide and
      ethambutol just be used in the intensive phase. Pyrazinamide has the strongest killing effect
      on the intracellular Mtb and mainly exerts its antibacterial effect in the first two months
      of treatment. Ethambutol is a bacteriostatic drug, mainly effective for rapidly growing Mtb
      outside cells. They can lead to severe gastrointestinal reactions, liver damage, papilledema
      and other adverse reactions. So moxifloxacin might be an optional substitute for pyrazinamide
      and ethambutol.

      This study will involve comparisons that are designed to assess the short-term efficacy,
      safety, relapse rate one year after drug withdrawal and patients' compliance when
      substituting moxifloxacin for pyrazinamide and ethambutol in the existing standard regimen.
      Patients selected for the study will be allocated to the trial group or the control group
      randomly. The control group will be given six months of a standard regimen(2HRZE/4HR). The
      trial group will be given a total of six months of treatment, with Substitution of
      pyrazinamide and ethambutol with moxifloxacin during the intensive phase(2HRM/4HR).
    
  