
    
      Temporomandibular disorders (TMD) are musculoskeletal disorders that are commonly
      encountered, with pain in the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) and jaw closing muscles. Pain
      that involves the temporomandibular joint includes inflammatory pathologies such as
      arthritides, painful disk displacements and many times have an overlay of psychosocial
      comorbidities due to the uncontrolled pain. TMJ osteoarthritis is an intracapsular condition
      affecting the temporomandibular joint and presents with remodeling of the TMJ articulating
      tissues including the condyle and articular eminence secondary to inflammation resulting in
      intracapsular pain. There is a paucity of information regarding the relative effectiveness of
      different therapies for the treatment of patients with TMJ osteoarthritis. The identification
      of the least invasive and most efficacious therapy is vital to proper management of these
      patients with temporomandibular joint pain and disability. The purpose of this study is to
      establish the relative efficacy of TMJ arthrocentesis with steroid supplementation (a known
      effective therapy) compared to TMJ arthrocentesis with a supplement of plasma rich in growth
      factors (PRGF) for patients with TMJ osteoarthritis. Plasma rich in growth factors is
      isolated from the patient's own blood and injected into the temporomandibular joint to
      activate stem cells that may restore some of the articulating tissues that were lost during
      degeneration changes within the joint secondary to osteoarthritis. Pain and disability will
      be assessed using standard pain and physical measures that are recorded before and after
      treatment. Patients enrolled into the study will be examined and treated at the Department of
      Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Faculty/Resident clinic. At the first appointment, they will
      be examined following standard procedures (medical history, physical exam, imaging by cone
      beam computerized tomography (CBCT)) to determine their diagnosis(es) and if they would
      potentially benefit from the TMJ arthrocentesis procedure. If the patient meets the inclusion
      criteria for the study and with their informed consent on the day of their TMJ arthrocentesis
      procedure, they will be required to have a pregnancy test if below age 60 and complete a
      questionnaire about their physical and pain symptoms and undergo a standardized clinical
      exam. The patients will then undergo the standard clinical protocol for TMJ arthrocentesis
      followed by either a 2 cc steroid/bupivacaine hydrochloride supplementation (standard
      treatment group) or a 2 cc PRGF supplementation (experimental group) into the TMJ. Follow-up
      appointments will be conducted at 1 month, 3 months and 6 months when the pain VAS measures
      and a clinical exam will be assessed. If patients have not experienced improvement in their
      primary outcome measure (TMJ pain) at the 3 month evaluation, the patient will have a second
      TMJ arthrocentesis procedure that will be supplemented with the alternative medication/growth
      factors (steroid or PRGF) using a cross-over design. Data from these patients will be
      analyzed separately from patients that complete the six month study. Also at 6 months, a
      second CBCT image of the temporomandibular joints will be obtained to determine the extent of
      bone remodeling within the TMJ. The results of this study should provide new information on
      the efficacy of PRGF supplementation for management of temporomandibular joint
      osteoarthritis.
    
  