
    
      Aim #1: To assess the efficacy of ketamine augmentation in reducing time to remission of a
      major depressive episode (MDE).

      Aim #2: To assess the efficacy of ketamine augmentation on ECT-related cognitive side
      effects.

      Aim #3: To assess the feasibility, safety, and tolerability of ketamine augmentation of ECT.

      Exploratory aim #4: We propose to assess the patterns of functional connectivity before,
      during and after ECT using standard clinical EEG to better characterize the effect of ECT and
      to correlate clinical effects with changes in EEG measurements.

      Thirty (30) participants will be recruited over 24 months. Participants will be males and
      females, ages 18-60, with severe MDD (baseline score HAM_D-28 >= 20) deemed appropriate for
      ECT treatment by their treating physician, agreeing to receive ECT treatment as part of their
      clinical care, and able to provide informed consent.

      Exclusion criteria are any other DSM-IV primary diagnoses including major depressive disorder
      with psychotic features, bipolar disorder, schizoaffective disorder, schizophrenia, dementia,
      any history of psychosis, substance use disorder (abuse or dependence with active use within
      the last 6 months), and any lifetime history of ketamine abuse or dependence, organic mental
      disorders, seizure disorder or chronic antiepileptic medications, severe or unstable medical
      illness, pregnancy.

      Study procedures: eligible patients will be randomized to a double-blind administration of
      ketamine (0.5 mg/kg) or saline before the first three ECT treatments. Right Unilateral ECT
      (RUL-ECT) will be administered at 6 times the seizure threshold, using the d'Elia placement
      of the electrodes. Electroconvulsive therapy will be given 3 times per week, as per standard
      of care at MGH. Depression severity will be assessed weekly with the HAM-D 28 (the main
      outcome measure), administered by a clinician blinded to randomization.

      The neuropsychological assessment battery is designed to include instruments sensitive to the
      cognitive impairment associated with depression in general and ECT treatment in particular
      will be repeated at baseline, at the end of acute treatment series and at 3 months follow-up.

      Also patients will undergo repeated EEG monitoring, at baseline after one week of treatment
      and at follow up with the aim of possibly identifying EEG features associated with response.
    
  