
    
      Background

      Venous thromboembolism, which includes deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, is a
      common disease with an annual incidence of 0.5-1.6 per 1000 in the general population.1-4
      Standard treatment with intravenous or subcutaneous heparin or low molecular heparin relayed
      with oral anticoagulants is highly effective in preventing recurrent episodes of venous
      thromboembolism.5 However, oral anticoagulant therapy has a number of limitations including
      an increased risk of major bleeding and the need for laboratory monitoring to adjust dose.
      Because of these limitations, venous thromboembolism is usually treated with oral
      anticoagulants for a limited period of time. Anticoagulants are generally discontinued when
      the risks and inconvenience of remaining on treatment outweigh the risk of recurrent venous
      thromboembolism. Indeed, recent studies showed that after discontinuation of anticoagulant
      treatment, the risk of recurrent venous thromboembolism remains high in patients with
      idiopathic venous thromboembolism.

      Recently, four major randomized trials have evaluated extended-duration treatment with oral
      anticoagulants in patients with venous thromboembolism. In each of these trials more than 90%
      of recurrences occurred after oral anticoagulants had been discontinued 6-9. The rate of
      recurrence after discontinuation of oral anticoagulants was similar in patients assigned
      long-term therapy compared with short-term therapy (about 15% in the 2-3 years after warfarin
      discontinuation) which indicates that although oral anticoagulants are highly effective to
      prevent recurrence, it have no impact on the natural history of idiopathic venous
      thromboembolism. Taken together, these data suggest that effective therapy should be
      continued indefinitely in patients with idiopathic venous thromboembolism if recurrence is to
      be avoided. Indeed, once oral anticoagulants are discontinued, there are currently no
      established safe and effective alternatives to prevent recurrence in patients with idiopathic
      venous thromboembolism. However, the long-term use of oral anticoagulants is not only
      inconvenient because of the need for close laboratory monitoring but also is constrained by
      an increased risk of major bleeding, including fatal and intracranial bleeding. In randomized
      trials of extended-duration oral anticoagulants (target INR 2.0-3.0) for the treatment of
      venous thromboembolism,6-9 the annual incidence of intracranial bleeding was 0.3%, major
      bleeding 3%, and the case-fatality rate of major bleeding approximately 10%. In addition,
      5-15% of patients experienced minor bleeding each year. These data highlight the need to
      identify simple, safe, effective, and widely applicable strategies for the long-term
      prevention of recurrent deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism in patients with
      idiopathic venous thromboembolism.

      About 3% of patients with venous thromboembolism experience an arterial cardiovascular event
      (myocardial infarction, stroke, sudden otherwise unexplained death) in the 2-3 years after
      the first episode of venous thromboembolism10. The long-term use of oral anticoagulants could
      potentially prevent these adverse events. Barriers to the more widespread appropriate use of
      oral anticoagulants include physician concerns regarding the risk of bleeding, particularly
      in the elderly, as well as the need for close monitoring and regular blood tests to measure
      the INR. A simple, safe, effective, and widely applicable pharmacological approach is needed
      for the prevention of these events.

      The clinical utility of aspirin in the management of venous thromboembolism is a matter of
      debate. The Pulmonary Embolism Prevention Study 11 demonstrated that 35 days of low-dose
      aspirin (160 mg daily) compared with placebo reduced the risk of symptomatic venous
      thromboembolism, including fatal pulmonary embolism, by about one-third (RRR 36%, 95% CI:
      19-50%, p=0.0003) in patients undergoing emergency surgery for hip fracture or elective joint
      arthroplasty. There was no excess of fatal or intracranial bleeding. In the Heart and
      Estrogen/progestin Replacement Study (HERS)12 2800 postmenopausal women with coronary artery
      disease were randomized to hormonal replacement therapy or placebo. A secondary analysis
      showed that the use of aspirin was independently associated with a 50% reduction (95% CI:
      20-80%) in risk of venous thromboembolism during an average of 4.1 years of follow-up. Taken
      together, these data suggest that aspirin reduces the risk of a first episode of venous
      thromboembolism by about one-quarter (i.e., 25% risk reduction).

      A systematic overview including more than 8000 patients from randomized trials on
      antiplatelet primary thromboprophylaxis suggested that antiplatelet therapy was effective to
      prevent deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in high risk patients (Antiplatelet
      Trialists' Collaboration).13 Antiplatelet therapy was associated with a relative risk
      reduction [RRR] of 39%; (p=0.00001) in the incidence of venous thromboembolism in high-risk
      medical patients or undergoing orthopedic or general surgery. There was no excess in cerebral
      or fatal bleeding.

      The European Stroke Prevention Study 2 (ESPS 2)14 evaluated the efficacy and safety of
      aspirin, dipyridamole (extended-release preparation), or aspirin and dipyridamole, versus
      placebo, for the secondary prevention of ischemic stroke in 6,600 patients. Prespecified
      secondary analyses found that aspirin resulted in a 30% reduction in venous thromboembolism.

      Bleeding, particularly within the gastrointestinal tract, is the only important side effect
      of low-dose aspirin therapy in patients that are not already known to be aspirin intolerant
      (e.g., allergy). Long term, low-dose aspirin therapy (i.e., 160 mg per day), is associated
      with about a two-fold increase in the risk of bleeding.15-17 This increase of bleeding is
      small in patients without known contraindications to aspirin. Evidences from randomized
      trials of aspirin in asymptomatic subjects, patients with vascular risk factors, or patients
      with a past history of vascular disease (more than 250,000 patient-years of follow-up),
      showed an absolute excess of major bleeding with aspirin from 0.3 to 1.7 episodes per 1000
      patient-years, equivalent to an absolute risk of 1 event for every 1000 patients treated.15
      Increasing doses of aspirin, even within the range of 100-300 mg per day, were associated
      with an increasing risk of gastrointestinal bleeding, with the lowest risk occurring in
      patients receiving 100 mg daily.15;18-19

      In summary, aspirin could achieve a risk reduction of 30 to 40 episodes of deep vein
      thrombosis or pulmonary embolism for every 1000 patients treated, at a cost of 1 bleed
      requiring transfusion in high-risk patients with idiopathic venous thromboembolism. Aspirin
      is simple to administer and does not require laboratory monitoring.

      In the present study we propose to evaluate the use of low-dose aspirin for the prevention of
      recurrent venous thromboembolism in patients with previous idiopathic venous thromboembolism
      who have received initial 6-month treatment with oral anticoagulants.
    
  