
    
      The study is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover, phase II study of
      dronabinol versus placebo. Thirty patients with idiopathic cervical dystonia will be enrolled
      in the study. Patients will be randomized to either dronabinol or placebo by a
      computer-generated random numbers table that will be kept in the central pharmacy until the
      end of the trial. Only the central pharmacy will be aware of treatment allocation; all others
      will be blinded for the duration of the trial.

      Regardless of treatment allocation, study participants will begin taking their assigned study
      medications on Day 1, increasing the "dose" (actual increase in dose for dronabinol-assigned
      arm, fictional increase in dose for placebo-assigned arm) every 3 days. At the end of the
      third week, on Day 21, the study participant will complete the first phase of study
      medication and remain off study medication for a period of two weeks, and will have a planned
      study visit. On Day 36, the study participant will have a planned study visit, the new
      medication will be dispensed, and the participant will begin taking the other arm of the
      study medication for a period of 3 weeks, in the same manner as the first arm. At the end of
      the 3 weeks (8 weeks in total), the study participant will discontinue the assigned study
      medication and will attend a planned study visit for study termination. At each visit,
      patients will be assessed with a medical and neurological history and examination and a video
      recording made for post hoc analysis of TWSTRS by a rater blinded to the treatment arm.

      The main issue with compliance to study medication will relate to side-effects. Side-effects
      are mainly dose related and can be minimized with a dose escalation protocol, which is
      planned in this study. Compliance and adverse effects will be monitored by weekly phone calls
      for side effects and pill counts at the end of each treatment arm.
    
  