
    
      Vitiligo, the most common depigmenting disorder is an 'idiopathic', acquired pigmentary
      disorder caused by the loss of functional melanocytes from the epidermis. The course of the
      disease is unpredictable but is often progressive with phases of stabilized depigmentation.
      It usually begins during childhood or young adulthood. Approximately one third to one half of
      the patients develops the disease before the age of 20 years. The presence of vitiligo on
      exposed areas of body leads to social embarrassment, psychological turmoil, and cosmetic
      disfigurement in those affected.

      Its prevalence is 1%, ranging from 0.1 to > 8.8% in different countries of the globe. Both
      sexes are equally affected although the greater number of reports among females is probably
      due to the greater social consequences to women and girls affected by this condition.

      Treatment options A number of therapeutic options for vitiligo are available but there is
      still a need for a treatment that is promptly effective. There is no curative treatment for
      this condition. Management of vitiligo is a real challenge for a dermatologist.

      Medical therapies:

      Corticosteroids (Topical, intralesional and systemic), Oral mini pulse, PUVA (topical and
      systemic), NBUVB, calcipotriol and tacrolimus are used most widely. Some of the less commonly
      used medical modalities include phenylalanine, khellin, topical minoxidil, levamisole and
      melagenina. Recently oral minocycline was shown to be effective in treating vitiligo.

      Most of these therapies aim to restore melanocyte function by their anti-inflammatory or
      immunomodulatory action and by preventing melanocyte auto destruction so that normal skin
      appearance and function is restored.

      Surgical therapies:

      All patients with vitiligo should be initially treated with medical methods. Surgical methods
      are important solutions for stable vitiligo refractory to medical treatment. High
      repigmentation rates are obtained with all procedures so far described in most anatomic
      locations, but they are of little help for acral areas and bony prominences. Unilateral
      vitiligo is the clinical form with the best response to grafting and transplant methods, and
      a good proportion of patients with stable bilateral disease also respond adequately.
      Nevertheless, appropriate patient selection is important to achieve maximal results.However
      none of the surgical modalities developed so far is uniformly effective in all patients and
      body sites and there is need for constant research and innovations for better surgical
      therapeutic options for vitiligo.

      Aims of various surgical procedures:

      A) Camouflage Tattooing: Introduction of artificial pigments into the lesions for permanent
      camouflage.

      B) Excision: Removal of the depigmented areas, e.g. excision with primary closure and
      covering with thin Thiersch's graft.

      C) Melanocyte transplantation: commonly used methods of autologous transplant of melanocytes
      are

      Tissue grafts:

        1. Thin and ultra-thin split thickness grafts (STSG)

        2. Suction blister epidermal grafts(SBEG)

        3. Mini punch grafts (MPG)

        4. Hair follicular grafts (HFG)

           Cellular grafts:

        5. Noncultured epidermal cell suspension (NCES)

        6. Cultured "pure" melanocytes (CM)

        7. Cultured epithelial grafts (CE)

        8. Autologous noncultured extracted hair follicle outer root sheath cell suspension also
           called follicular cell suspension (FCS) D) Therapeutically wounding the lesion to
           stimulate the melanocytes from the periphery and the black hair follicles to
           proliferate, migrate and re-pigment the lesion, e.g. therapeutic dermabrasion, laser
           ablation, cryosurgery (liquid nitrogen spraying), needling and local application of
           phenol or trichloroacetic acid.

      Every method has its own advantages and disadvantages. As there are no specific data
      available from the prospective studies in this field, it is not easy to recommend which
      surgical approach to vitiligo offers the best result.

      'Vitiligo global issues consensus conference, 2011' convened by Vitiligo European Task Force
      (VETF), concluded that assessment of 'overall' stability is inaccurate and unreliable,
      whereas individual lesion stability is more reliable, especially when used in the context of
      surgical intervention.

      Methods and Size of Lesions:

      Depending on the size of the treated area, the method may vary. Simple methods such as mini
      punch grafting and suction epidermal grafting are useful for small or medium sized lesions.
      On the contrary, for extensive depigmented defects, cellular transplants may be required.

      Age:

      Because of the invasive nature of surgical procedures, they are not recommended in children;
      nevertheless, highly motivated adolescents can be treated under sedation or general
      anesthesia. Also, it is not surprising to see patients beyond the age of 50 years who may be
      interested in surgical repigmentation.

      Psychological Aspects:

      Some patients with high emotional trauma because of depigmentation may seek advice for
      invasive procedures. However, a psychological evaluation may be needed to ascertain the real
      need for surgical treatment.

      Photographic Record:

      Illustrations are recommended to help in determining the percentage of improvement, quality
      of repigmentation and possible side effects.

      Patient's Expectations:

      Repigmentation is not always comparable with normally pigmented skin and the final results
      vary considerably from patient to patient. However, most individuals are pleased with the
      achieved results; minor imperfections are far less important than the noticeable
      repigmentation of vitiliginous skin, mainly in ethnic skin patients with a dark complexion;
      sometimes surgical repigmentation may look even better than what is observed in many patients
      after medical therapy.

      Method and Donor Site:

      Appropriate training with a specific method is an important prerequisite for surgical
      therapy. Donor site should be as hidden as possible and the gluteal region may be suitable
      for this purpose in most patients.

      Success rates of different surgical options:

      Among all procedures, suction blister epidermal grafts and thin and ultra-thin
      split-thickness grafts seem to be the most effective procedures, with overall success rates
      of 80.3% (CI 76.4-84.2%) and 77.9% (CI 72.2-83.6%) respectively. But, a recent randomized
      study directly comparing NCES and SBEG showed NCES is significantly better than SBEG. Among
      cellular grafts, all techniques seem to be equally effective with success rates of 61.1% (CI
      56.1-66.1%), 63.6% (CI 57.2-70%), and 63.6% (CI 55.8-70.6%) for noncultured epidermal cell
      suspension, cultured melanocytes and cultured epidermis respectively. The mean repigmentation
      with noncultured extracted outer root sheath cell suspension is about 65.7%).

      NONCULTURED EPIDERMAL CELL SUSPENSION The technique of noncultured epidermal suspension was
      pioneered by Gauthier et al. The suspension was prepared by incubating the donor skin
      obtained from the scalp in trypsin 0.25% for 18 hrs. The suspension was injected into
      blisters raised by cryotherapy. Eight out of the 12 patients treated had > 70% repigmentation
      at the vitiligo site. It was proposed that the presence of keratinocytes in the suspension
      supplies essential growth factors for melanocyte growth. They stated that this technique
      could emerge as simple and effective alternative to the costly cultured melanocyte
      transplantation technique.

      NON-CULTURED DERMAL CELL SUSPENSION

      Dermal mesenchymal cells were originally isolated from the dermis of juvenile and adult mice
      by Toma et al., afterwards, same group identified such a cell population in human skin. Georg
      Bartsch firstly identified and characterized dermal mesenchymal cells (DMCs). DMCs had
      multi-lineage differentiation potential into adipocytes, osteocytes and chondrocytes. The
      surface antigenic profile of DMCs was positive for CD90 but differs in regard to negativity
      for CD34.

      Zhou et al investigated the factors determining the efficiency of autologous melanocyte
      transplantation of vitiligo patients by focusing on perilesional skin homing CD8+ T
      lymphocytes, and studied the potential effects of dermal mesenchymal cells (DMCs) on CD8+ T
      cell activities in vitro. The patients with high number of perilesional CD8+ T cells were
      associated with poor repigmentation rate and a significant lesser number of CD8+ T cells was
      infiltrating in patients with excellent or good re-pigmentation responses. Also, skin homing
      CD8+ T cells proliferation was significantly inhibited when co-culture with DMCs at 1:1 ratio
      as the percentage of proliferative CD8+ T cells dropped from 94.72% to 39.50% (p,0.05) after
      DMCs co-culture. In the co-culture system, DMCs significantly inhibited skin homing CD8+ T
      proliferation and induced those cells apoptosis. These data confirm that DMCs induces
      significant immunosuppressive abilities against skin homing CD8+ T lymphocytes and may help
      improve the efficacy of melanocytes transplantation. Non-cultured Dermal Cell Suspension
      (NDCS) is a novel method to increase the efficacy of non-cultured epidermal cell suspension
      (NCES).
    
  