
    
      The objectives of the study are to determine the impact of interferon-free treatment for the
      hepatitis C virus (HCV) on peripheral blood immune cell phenotype and soluble immune-related
      proteins in blood, while controlling for genetic polymorphisms known to impact HCV-related
      immune responses, and to determine the impact of the therapy on the emergence of
      drug-resistant HCV. The study design is informed by the researchers' recent investigations of
      patients receiving HCV treatment. About 4% of patients who had not undergone liver
      transplantation experienced hepatic decompensation or another serious event. There were
      several cases of bacterial infection and two cases with elevated markers of autoimmune
      processes. These events suggest that treatment altered immune responses. About 25% of
      patients who had undergone liver transplantation experienced hepatic decompensation or
      another serious adverse event. The long term goal is to understand the pathophysiology of
      these complications and determine whether HCV treatment can cause an immune reconstitution
      syndrome in susceptible patients, while improving antimicrobial defenses in others The main
      questions/objectives to be addressed are (1) to determine the effect of HCV treatment on the
      profile of immune cells in blood as assessed by cytometry time of flight (CyTOF)
      multiparameter analysis, while controlling for genetic polymorphisms known to be associated
      with HCV-related immune responses and, (2) to determine the effect of treatment on
      factors/proteins in blood that may be related to immunity and inflammation.

      Background: New treatments for HCV are significantly more effective than past treatments.
      They utilize direct acting antiviral drugs (DAA) and many do not include interferon. The goal
      of treatment is to achieve a sustained virological response (SVR). An SVR is indicated by the
      absence of detectable HCV RNA in blood 12 weeks after the end of treatment (EOT); this is
      called SVR12. The researchers recently investigated outcomes of 514 non-liver transplant (LT)
      patients and 43 LT patients who initiated treatment between Dec 2013 and June 2014. Several
      patients developed increased levels of markers of autoimmune processes and/or experienced a
      bacterial infection. Investigators at other institutions recently reported evidence that DAA
      treatment enhances immune cell activation. The combination of the investigators' observations
      and the observations of others indicates that a detailed investigation is needed to
      understand the events leading to increased immune cell activity and to determine the factors
      that may increase the risk of serious adverse events.
    
  