
    
      Background:

        -  Hereditary Leiomyomatosis and Renal Cell Cancer (HLRCC) is a familial cancer syndrome
           characterized by a propensity for developing renal cancer, uterine and cutaneous
           leiomyomas.The kidney cancer associated with HLRCC is associated with HLRCC is
           clinically aggressive and is characterized by unique histopathologic features that are
           sometimes described as type2 papillary RCC.

        -  Germline mutations in fumarate hydratase (FH) are the genetic hallmark of HLRCC.
           Mutational inactivation of FH has been shown to result in VHL-independent upregulation
           of hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) and its downstream transcriptional targets.

        -  The recognition that HIF upregulation may play an important role in the formation and
           propagation of renal cancer associated with HLRCC suggests that interventions directed
           against components of this pathway, such as VEGF and TGF-alpha/EGFR, may be of benefit
           in this patient population.

        -  We propose to test the hypothesis that dual VEGF/EGFR blockade with
           bevacizumab/erlotinib is likely to be clinically active in patients with HLRCC
           associated RCC as well as those with sporadic papillary sporadic RCC.

      Objective:

      Primary Objective

      -To determine the overall response rate (RECIST) in patients with 1) metastatic RCC
      associated with HLRCC and 2) metastatic sporadic/non-HLRCC papillary renal cancer treated
      with a combination of bevacizumab and erlotinib

      Eligibility:

        -  Diagnosis of advanced RCC associated with HLRCC (cohorts 1 and 3) or sporadic/non-HLRCC
           papillary RCC (cohort 2 and 4)

        -  ECOG PS 0-2

        -  Measurable disease as outlined in RECIST 1.1

        -  No history of major bleeding, recent or active myocardial ischemia, GI perforation,
           cerebrovascular accidents or other significant intercurrent illness

        -  No coagulopathy or bleeding diathesis

        -  No recent surgery (< 4 weeks or inadequately healed surgical scars)

        -  Adequate organ function:

             -  Adequate liver function (total bilirubin less than or equal to 1.5 mg/dL or < 3
                times the upper limit of normal (ULN) in subjects with Gilbert s disease, and AST/
                ALT less than or equal to 2.5 times the ULN)

             -  Adequate renal function (creatinine less than or equal to 2.0 times the ULN or
                creatinine clearance > 30 mL/min)

             -  Neutrophils >1500/microL and platelets >100,000

        -  No brain metastases

        -  No more than 2 prior regimens containing a VEGF-pathway inhibitor; no prior bevacizumab

        -  Ability to understand and sign informed consent

      Design:

        -  Patients will receive a fixed dose of bevacizumab (10mg/kg IV every 2 weeks) and
           erlotinib (150mg/day po). Dose reductions and drug interruptions for unacceptable
           toxicity will be allowed.

        -  Patients will be evaluated for response every 8 weeks using RECIST criteria

        -  The study is based on an open label Simon two-stage minmax design in two cohorts, 1)
           cohort 1- patients with HLRCC, and 2) cohort 2-patients with sporadic papillary RCC. In
           each cohort, 13 patients will be accrued in the first stage and will accrue a maximum of
           20 patients. Accrual into and analysis of the two cohorts will be independent.

        -  Following completion of accrual to cohorts 1 and 2, the study was expanded to include
           two additional cohorts- Cohort 3 (HLRCC patients and Cohort 4 (patients with
           sporadic/non HLRCC papillary RCC) to better estimate the overall response rate and to
           perform additional exploratory biomarker analyses. Up to 20 additional evaluable
           patients will be included in each of these cohorts.
    
  