
    
      All African American renal transplant recipients (>3months and <5 years post-transplant) at
      our institution that are currently on a tacrolimus based regimen will be screened. Subjects
      with 10% or more decrease in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) from baseline, estimated by the
      MDRD formula,65 and who meet all inclusion criteria will be consented to be enrolled in the
      study. Baseline will be defined as the highest GFR estimated by MDRD formula, within 3 months
      of transplant.

      Subjects who consent to participate in the study will undergo allograft biopsy and GFR
      measurement by Gd-DTPA, and will be randomly assigned (2:1) to undergo conversion from
      tacrolimus to sirolimus or to continue to receive tacrolimus.

      The subjects assigned to the sirolimus conversion group will be initiated on sirolimus 5mg po
      daily at which time their tacrolimus dose will be decreased by 50%. Sirolimus levels will be
      checked within a week and adjusted in a linear fashion to achieve a trough goal of 12-15ng/ml
      in subjects within 1 year post-transplant, and 8-12 ng/ml in subjects more than 1 year
      post-transplant. Tacrolimus will be continued in these subjects until sirolimus target trough
      levels are achieved. Thereafter, tacrolimus will be discontinued indefinitely. Sirolimus
      trough levels will be monitored in the study as follows: weekly for the first month, monthly
      from 1 - 6 months, every 3 months from 6 months - 1 year post conversion. Subjects will
      continue to receive maintenance immunosuppression consisting of mycophenolate mofetil 500mg
      to 1000 mg po bid as tolerated and corticosteroid taper per protocol (maintenance of 2.5mg -
      5mg po daily at 6 months post-transplant and then indefinitely). GFR measurement by DTPA will
      be repeated at 6 months, and 1 year post conversion. The second allograft biopsy will be
      performed at 1 year after sirolimus conversion.

      The subjects assigned to the tacrolimus maintenance group (control group) represent our
      present standard of care. The subjects will continue to receive prednisone, and mycophenolate
      mofetil, similarly to the subjects assigned to the sirolimus conversion group. In the
      tacrolimus maintenance group, the subjects will be monitored according to our current clinic
      protocol, monthly between 3 months - 1 year post transplant, every two months in the second
      year post-transplant and every 3 months after 2 years. The tacrolimus dose will be adjusted
      to achieve a trough of 5-10ng/ml in subjects randomized to the control group which is
      standard of care per protocol. GFR measurement by DTPA will be repeated at 6 months, and 1
      year post randomization. The second allograft biopsy will be performed at 1 year post
      randomization.

      Patient and graft survival, and the incidence of acute rejection, proteinuria,
      hyperlipidemia, anemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia, and other clinical parameters will be
      monitored and compared between the sirolimus conversion group and the subjects who will be
      maintained on tacrolimus.
    
  