
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine MTD and toxicity of combination of EGFR inhibitor (OSI-774), docetaxel, and
      radiation.

      II. Pharmacokinetic profile of OSI-774 alone and in combination with docetaxel.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the overall and complete response rate of this combination.

      II. Determine overall, disease free, and progression free survival of this combination.

        -  EGFR expression and phosphorylation status

        -  Serum markers of angiogenic activity VEGF, sVEGFR-2, sKIT, ICAM, PDGF

        -  Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for EGFR, ERBB2, PDGFR-β for gene
           amplification

        -  DNA-sequencing of EGFR and ERBB2 genes from DNA extracted from pretreatment biopsy
           material for mutation screening

        -  Gene expression profiling on pre-treatment biopsy material to identify predictors of
           response to treatment

        -  Apoptosis (TUNEL assay)

        -  Ki67 (nuclear proliferation antigen).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of erlotinib and docetaxel.

      Patients receive oral erlotinib alone daily on weeks 1 and 2. Patients then receive oral
      erlotinib daily beginning on day 1 and docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 3 of weeks 3-9.
      Patients also undergo radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week on weeks 3-9. Patients continue
      erlotinib for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients who had N2 or greater cervical lymph node involvement at baseline or have residual
      neck adenopathy after chemoradiotherapy undergo neck dissection 6-8 weeks after completion of
      chemoradiotherapy. Erlotinib is held for 1 week before planned surgery and until healing is
      complete.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib and docetaxel until the MTD is
      determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients
      experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 16 weeks for 1 year after completion of erlotinib, every 24 weeks
      for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  