
    
      Antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) is an autoimmune disease characterized by recurrent
      thrombotic events and miscarriages, with persistently positive antiphospholipid antibodies
      (aPL). APS may be isolated (primary APS) or associated to a connective tissue disease, most
      often systemic lupus erythematous (SLE).

      Pathogenic effects of aPL were first described by the demonstration that in vitro incubation
      of endothelial cells or monocytes with aPL induce an endothelial dysfunction characterized by
      pro-coagulant (overexpression of tissue factor and modulation of protein C and S),
      pro-inflammatory (increased level of IL-6(interleukin 6) , IL-1β and TNFα) and pro-adhesive
      (increased levels of ICAM-1(intercellular adhesion molecule ), VCAM-1 (vascular endothelial
      cell adhesion molecule) and E-selectin) phenotypes. In parallel the investigators and others
      reported that endothelial function, assessed by flow mediated dilatation, is altered in
      patients with primary and secondary forms of APS. Although a role for TLR (toll-like receptor
      )-mediated NFkB translocation has been advanced, the pathogenic mechanisms that lead to in
      vivo endothelial injury in APS are incompletely understood.

      In an experimental model, the investigators demonstrated that passive transfer of human aPL
      to mice induced a marked endothelial dysfunction assessed ex vivo in small resistance
      arteries, and an increase in TNFα levels. Moreover, the investigators group have demonstrated
      that patients with primary arterial APS display endothelial dysfunction and structural
      arterial changes, associated with a pro-oxidative and pro-coagulant state and with activation
      of the TLR2 and TLR4 signalling pathways.

      Recently, in a preliminary study the investigators have found that endothelial glycocalyx
      which is an important part of the vascular barrier and which is intimately linked to the
      homeostatic functions of the endothelium was altered in APL patients.

      Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) is an antimalarial drug, also used to treat rheumatic diseases such
      as SLE. There is experimental evidence to suggest a direct role of hydroxychloroquine on the
      pathophysiology of APS: it directly reduces the binding of antibodies on the phospholipid
      bilayers, protects the annexin A5 anticoagulant shield and it reverses platelet adhesion
      induced by aPL.

      Furthermore it is known to decrease the expression of lysosomal TLRs, but also extra
      lysosomal TLR2 and TLR4.

      The aim of this study is to investigate whether treatment with hydroxychloroquine modulates
      vascular endothelial function in patients.
    
  