
    
      The study will examine the utility of a novel, non-operative, anabolic bone agent in the
      treatment of diaphyseal tibial stress fractures (DTSF). Teriparatide has been well studied in
      basic science and clinical studies to conclude its positive effects on building bone mass and
      preventing fractures in post-menopausal women. This allowed the medication to gain it an FDA
      indication for treatment in these groups. The investigators seek to explore additional uses
      for this anabolic agent in an at risk study population that has an imbalance of bone stress
      and bone formation resulting in a bone stress injury (BSI).

      The only prior study to examine the effect of teriparatide on fracture healing demonstrated
      an absolute difference in the time to heal a fracture in the treatment groups, but was under
      powered to detect a difference. Given these positive results members of the research team
      have used these findings to administer teriparatide at the 20mg dose to young adult NCAA
      collegiate athletes who have DTSFs and other BSIs. The promising preliminary clinical
      observations have led the investigators to hypothesize that teriparatide will have a positive
      effect on bone healing and return to duty among service members with DTSFs.

      A powered, prospective, controlled randomized study design will be utilized. Study subjects
      are to be recruited from the basic training corps at Fort Jackson via convenience sample.
      Soldiers who experience pain in the mid-shaft of the tibia during basic training will be
      evaluated and diagnosed according to the standard of care. Based on direct discussions with
      physical therapists stationed at Fort Jackson this diagnosis is often made by using a
      combination of bone scan and plain radiographs. After diagnosis, soldiers with a DTSF present
      to the physical therapy department for treatment and guidance for their progression of
      activities.
    
  