
    
      This study is a randomized trial that will compare outcomes with standard and same-day
      treatment among patients with TB symptoms at HIV diagnosis. The standard group will receive
      same-day chest x-ray as well as Xpert Ultra testing with a spot specimen (with 48-hour
      turn-around-time). Participants will return for Xpert Ultra results and early morning sputum
      testing on Day 2. TB treatment will be provided on the day of diagnosis (Day 0 for those with
      high clinical and radiographic suspicion of TB, and Day 2 for those diagnosed by Xpert
      Ultra). Standard group participants who are not diagnosed with TB will be tested and treated
      for other opportunistic infections (OIs), as clinically indicated, and will initiate ART on
      Day 7. The same-day group will receive Xpert Ultra testing (with same-day results) and chest
      x-ray with same-day ART or TB treatment (on Day 0) based on test results. They will also be
      tested and treated for other OIs as clinically indicated. They will provide early morning
      sputum for repeat testing on Day 1. Both groups will receive Xpert Ultra testing on both spot
      and early morning specimens, with liquid culture on both specimens as the diagnostic gold
      standard; those with TB will start ART according to WHO guidelines.

      Three specific aims are proposed:

      Aim 1: To compare the proportion of participants in each group who are alive and in care with
      undetectable viral load (<200 copies/ml) at 48 weeks after HIV testing. Hypothesis: The
      proportion of participants retained in care with undetectable viral load will be 51% in the
      standard and 65% in the same-day group.

      Aim 2: To compare mortality in each group at 48 weeks after HIV testing. Hypothesis:
      Mortality will be 10% in the standard group and 4% in the same-day group.

      Aim 3: To conduct a comparison of cost and cost-effectiveness of standard and same-day care,
      where cost is measured by the mean treatment cost and effectiveness is measured by being
      alive and in care with plasma HIV-1 RNA level <200 copies/ml at 48 weeks after HIV testing.
      Hypothesis: Same-day treatment will cost less per patient retained in care with undetectable
      viral load.

      Aim 4: To determine the rates of ART and TB treatment initiation, TB diagnosis after ART
      initiation, IRIS, adverse events, and adherence in both groups, and to evaluate the
      sensitivity, specificity, and predictive values of single tests and different testing
      combinations compared to liquid mycobacterial culture results.
    
  