
    
      Background: Since the first description in 1998 catheter-interventional ablation (CA) has
      evolved to a standard treatment for symptomatic drug-refractory atrial fibrillation (AF).

      Ablation efficacy but also complication percentage and radiation exposure are influenced by
      several factors, among them patient age, body weight, type and duration of AF, underling
      cardiac disease as well as the used ablation method, technology and the experience of the
      operator.

      The objectives of developing a system for remote magnetic catheter navigation (RMN) were to
      improve the efficacy and safety of complex ablation procedures and to reduce radiation
      exposure. However, convincing data supporting this theory are still lacking.

      Aim: To evaluate efficacy, safety profile / complication rate and radiation exposure in
      serial ablation procedures for paroxysmal and persistent AF as well as repeat interventions
      based on remote magnetic navigation and 3-D image integration with assessment of the learning
      curve for this complex technology.

      Design: single center observational registry, analytical questioning, non-randomized,
      non-controlled, not blinded, consecutive patient inclusion

      Study population:

      Inclusion criteria: Consecutive patients with class I or class IIa indication for CA for
      symptomatic atrial fibrillation according to the current guidelines.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Contraindication for AF catheter ablation

        -  Contraindication for RMN procedure. (These patients may undergo AF ablation with another
           technology, e.g. cryo-balloon ablation).

        -  Age < 18 years, gravidity

      Endpoints Primary endpoint

      Safety:

        -  The number of peri-procedural major complications.

        -  Adverse events are classified according to the 2012 Expert consensus statement on
           catheter and surgical ablation of AF [Calkins H et al. 2012 HRS/EHRA/ECAS Expert
           Consensus Statement on Catheter and Surgical Ablation of Atrial Fibrillation. Europace
           (2012) 14, 528-606 doi:10.1093/europace/eus027].

      Secondary endpoints Efficacy

        -  Acute: number of successfully isolated pulmonary veins.

        -  Mid-term: freedom from any atrial tachyarrhythmia (atrial fibrillation/atypical atrial
           flutter/atrial tachycardia; duration > 30 sec) after 6 months follow-up (initial
           blanking period of 3 months).

        -  Long-term:

        -  Freedom from any atrial tachyarrhythmia (duration > 30 sec) after 12 months follow-up
           (initial blanking period of 3 months).

        -  Time to first recurrence of an atrial tachyarrhythmia after an initial blanking period
           of 3 months.

      Radiation exposure:

        -  mean effective dose (ED), based on the measured dose-area-product. Aim is to show the
           potential of RMN to reduce the mean ED below 1.5 mSv in daily routine RMN AF ablation
           procedures

        -  The fluoroscopy parameters are documented for system calibration (A), transseptal
           access/catheter positioning (B), mapping/ablation (C).

      Safety:

        -  Number of peri-procedural minor complications

        -  Number of all procedure-related complications during 12 months follow-up.

      Subgroups:

        -  Type of AF (paroxysmal versus non-paroxysmal)

        -  Type of antiarrhythmic drug treatment (AAD)

        -  Demonstration of low-voltage areas / fibrosis

        -  Ablation: only pulmonary vein antral isolation (PVAI) versus additional substrate
           modification / box isolation of fibrotic areas (BIFA)

        -  Adipositas (BMI ≥ 30 kg/m²)

        -  Transseptal access after puncture versus via patent foramen ovale

        -  First ablation versus repeat procedure

      Randomisation: none

      Study procedure:

      Pre-ablation: screening of all patients, referred for catheter ablation for AF. Inclusion
      after given informed consent. Oral anticoagulation (OAC) for at least 3 weeks.
      Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) in all patients.

      Ablation: Non-interrupted OAC, non-vitamin-K antagonist treatment withheld only the morning
      before ablation. All patients undergo PVAI and mapping for fibrotic areas, additional
      substrate modification on decision of the operator.

      Techniques and technologies used: RMN: Niobe/Epoch®, Navigant™, 0.1 Tesla, Stereotaxis Inc.;
      fluoroscopy system: Siemens AXIOM-Artis VC12B, 6-1 fps; non-fluoroscopic mapping (NFM):
      Carto-RMT, magnetic resonance-image-integration, (Biosense-Webster Inc.); TEE-guided single
      transseptal puncture, "Single catheter ablation" technique: Navistar-RMT Thermocool
      (Biosense-Webster Inc.), target temperature 48°C, power limit 40Watts (posterior left atrial
      wall) up to 50W, irrigation infusion rate 17 mL/min; Heparin for maintaining an activated
      clotting time between 300 to 400 sec. Endpoint: bidirectional PV-block.

      Post-ablation in hospital: OAC continued immediately following sheath removal after ablation
      for a minimum of 2 months, thereafter according to embolic risk (CHA2DS2-VASc-risk
      evaluation). 48 hours telemonitoring, echocardiography.

      Follow up: blanking period 3 months. Clinical evaluation after 3, 6 and 12 months including
      echocardiography and 72-hours Holter.

      Unscheduled visits for complications and symptoms suggesting recurrent tachyarrhythmia.
    
  