
    
      The handgrip strength will be measured with a digital dynamometer. The patient's dominant
      hand will be tested, with the patient as seated as possible, with the elbow as close as to
      90ยบ. Three measurements will be taken, respecting a minute interval between them, whose
      average of the three measurements will be collected.

      Muscle weakness will be diagnosed based on previously published weakness scores (for males
      <11 kg (kilograms) and females <7 kg) 25. The strength value will be normalized as a relative
      value in percent, calculated according to Bohannon et al. based on values of healthy
      individuals, considering gender and age. It will also be normalized according to height, due
      to the known impact of this anthropometric feature on palmar strength.

      The overall motor function of the patient will be assessed using the Medical Research Council
      (MRC) 24 scale. The evaluation will consist of the bilateral analysis of six specific
      movements (shoulder abduction, elbow flexion, wrist flexion, hip flexion, knee extension,
      ankle dorsiflexion) through manual muscle testing, scoring from zero to five points 2 =
      movement without the action of gravity, 3 = movement against the action of gravity, 4 = a
      slight manual resistance wins, 5 = a great manual resistance wins ). The maximum score of the
      scale is 60 points, adding the degree of muscle strength of all muscle groups tested. If the
      patient is unable to have one of the limbs tested (for example: amputation) it is assumed
      that the limb would have the same force as the contralateral limb.

      In order to standardize the position during the application of the scale and to minimize
      bias, the position will be adopted in the supine position, with the bed between 45ยบ to 60ยบ
      and symmetrical posture. First the patient will be asked to move freely. According to the
      result, manual resistance is imposed or the action of gravity is eliminated.

      The indicative weakness score is 48 points or less. Individuals who score between 48 and 37
      points on the MRC scale are considered to have significant weaknesses; those with 36 points
      or less are classified as severely weak.

      The handgrip strength and the MRC scale will be compared as predictors of weaning duration of
      mechanical ventilation
    
  