
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To confirm that eribulin mesylate (eribulin), at or close to the single agent recommended
      phase 2 dose, and atezolizumab at the single agent recommended phase 2 dose, can be given
      together with an acceptable toxicity profile.

      II. To estimate the objective response rate (ORR) based on Response Evaluation Criteria in
      Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 for eribulin and atezolizumab in combination, and compare that to
      the ORR of atezolizumab alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To summarize and characterize the toxicity associated with this 2-drug combination.

      II. To estimate the best overall response rate (immune-related best overall response [irBOR]
      rate) using the immune-related response criteria (irRC).

      III. To estimate the disease control rate (DCR: complete response [CR] + partial response
      [PR] + stable disease [SD]) based on RECIST 1.1.

      IV. To estimate the duration of response and the duration of stable disease. V. To summarize
      the progression-free survival (PFS). VI. To summarize the overall survival (OS). VII. To
      evaluate efficacy in subsets of patients determined by PD-L1, CD3 and CD8 expression.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the pharmacodynamic (PD) profile of eribulin when it is given in combination
      with atezolizumab, specifically exploring the expression of putative tumor, circulating
      microenvironment and computed tomography (CT) radiomic correlatives of epithelial-mesenchymal
      transition (EMT)/ (mesenchymal-epithelial transition) MET phenotype at baseline and 6 weeks
      on therapy.

      II. To ascertain the role of expression of PD-L1 using the SP142 assay and potentially other
      methods as a predictive biomarker for response to treatment with atezolizumab in combination
      with eribulin.

      III. To identify clinical biomarkers that may predict for efficacy and toxicity in this
      population and with this treatment combination.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Cycles
      repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 and eribulin mesylate IV
      over 2-3 minutes on days 1 and 8. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 52 weeks.
    
  