
    
      The primary objective is to determine in a prospective study the performance of SNP based
      NIPT for the 22q11.2 microdeletion (DiGeorge syndrome) in a large cohort of pregnant women
      clinically opting for this form of screening. Specific test performance parameters will
      include: positive predictive value (PPV), specificity, and sensitivity.

      Secondary objectives include:

        1. Determine the test performance (PPV, specificity) of SNP based NIPT for detecting other
           microdeletion syndromes available in the Panorama microdeletion panel (e.g., 1p36
           deletion, Cri-du-chat, Prader-Willi, and Angelman) individually and all combined
           (including 22q11.2). Given the incidences of <1:5000, the confidence intervals are
           expected to be large.

        2. Determine the failure ('no call') rate for the Next-generation Aneuploidy Test Using
           SNPs (NATUS) method for 22q11.2 detection, as well as for aneuploidy.

        3. Determine whether a more precise risk for aneuploidy can be generated in the setting of
           low fetal fraction by incorporating maternal BMI (adjusted fetal fraction percentile).

        4. Assess whether low fetal fraction is associated with specific ultrasound findings that
           may indicate aneuploidy (e.g. triploidy, trisomy 13 and 18).

        5. Investigate the relationship between NIPT and sonographic (nuchal translucency and
           anatomy survey) markers and serum markers from 1st and 2nd trimester aneuploidy
           screening.

        6. Determine sensitivity, specificity, and PPV for chromosomal aneuploidies and sex
           chromosome abnormalities.

        7. Perform detailed assessment of false positive aneuploidy samples to better understand
           sources of error, including placental studies to further refine issues surrounding
           mosaicism as NIPT represents circulating placental DNA.

        8. Investigate any relationships between circulating placental DNA (fetal fraction) or
           other test parameters including potential genotypic markers, and outcomes related to
           abnormal placentation (including but not limited to preeclampsia, small for gestational
           age and morbidly adherent placenta).

        9. Investigate other risk factors that may impact risk assessment for microdeletions
           including sonographic findings consistent with 22q11.2 (cardiac anomalies and thymus
           size).
    
  