
    
      Methods:

      One hundred patients with mandibular teeth extraction will be recruited for this study.
      Following profound lip numbness after the administration of the conventional IAN block,
      dental extraction will be initiated. If patients experience moderate to severe pain during
      surgery either mesial and distal supplemental intraseptal injections using 0.8 mL 2%
      lidocaine with 1:000,000 epinephrine or buccal infiltration of 1.8 ml 4% articaine with
      1:000,000 epinephrine will be administered. Success will be defined as the ability to perform
      surgical extraction with mild to no pain.

      Patients recruited for this study will be adult patients of the College of Dentistry, The
      Taibah University, Almadinah Almunawwarah, who are deemed to be in good health as determined
      by a health history and oral questioning. All patients include in this study have to meet the
      following criteria: 18-65 years of age, in good health (American Society of Anesthesiologists
      classification I or II) and having one non-surgical tooth for extraction. Exclusion criteria
      were allergy to local anesthetics, history of significant medical problems (American Society
      of Anesthesiologists classification III or greater), having recently taken central nervous
      system depressants (including alcohol or any analgesic medications within 6 hours before
      treatment), pregnancy, lactating, or inability to give informed consent. The Taibah Dental
      College Human Subjects Review Committee will approve the study, and written informed consent
      will be obtained from each patient. After completion of the medical history and consent form,
      subjects completed the Modified Corah Dental Anxiety Scale Questionnaire.

      To qualify for the study, patient must have a mandibular tooth (molar, premolar or anterior),
      which need no surgical extraction either by sectioning or raising buccal flap along with bone
      removal. Therefore, each patient has a tooth that fulfilled the criteria for a clinical
      diagnosis of non-surgical extraction. After obtaining informed consent, patients will be
      given IAN block and dental extraction will be initiated once the profound lower lip numbness
      will be felt. During the extraction process, if the patient was complaining of pain the
      procedure will be stopped and the patient will be asked to rate his initial pain on a 170-mm
      Heft-Parker visual analog scale (VAS). The VAS was divided into 4 categories as described
      previously. The VAS scale consists of four categories. No pain corresponded to 0 mm. Mild
      pain was defined as greater than 0 mm and less than or equal to 54 mm. Mild pain included the
      descriptors of faint, weak, and mild pain. Moderate pain was defined as greater than 54 mm
      and less than 114 mm. Severe pain was defined as greater than or equal to 114 mm. Severe pain
      included the descriptors of strong, intense, and maximum possible.

      Each patient will receive a conventional IAN block using 1 cartridge of 2% lidocaine with
      1:100,000 epinephrine ((Xylocaine; AstraZeneca LP, Dentsply, York, PA) using a conventional
      syringe (USA: ATI) and a 27-gauge, 30mm long needles (C-K Ject (27G) 0.4 x 30mm, Korea). The
      patient will be questioned every 2 minutes for 10 minutes or until lip numbness is apparent.
      Patients who do not achieve complete lip numbness within 10 minutes will disqualiﬁed from
      participation in the study, but dental extraction will be still performed after achieving
      profound anesthesia or giving additional local anesthesia.

      After lip numbness, a separate buccal nerve block will be administered for the molars using a
      standard syringe and 0.9 mL 2% lidocaine with 1: 100,000 epinephrine.

      During the extraction procedure, if the patient feel pain, the treatment will be stopped
      immediately, and the patient will rate his discomfort using the Heft-Parker VAS. If the pain
      rating is mild, extraction will continue. If the pain rating is moderate or greater (55mm or
      higher on the VAS), supplemental anesthesia will be administered.

      The success of the IAN block will be deﬁned as the ability to carry on the tooth extraction
      with no or mild pain (VAS score of 0 or ≤ 54 mm, respectively). All patients experiencing
      moderate to severe pain upon using elevators or forceps will receive either 2% lidocaine
      supplemental intraseptal injections or 4% articaine buccal infiltration.

      Intraseptal injections will be administered into the mesial and distal aspect of the involved
      tooth using 0.8 mL 2% lidocaine with 1: 100,000 epinephrine. A 27 gauge, 21mm short needle
      (C-K Ject (27G) 0.4 x 21mm, Korea) will be inserted into the target region which is located
      2-3mm apical to the apex of the papillary triangle (Figure. 1)5. The needle is introduced
      into the soft tissue and advanced until contact with bone is made. Pressure must be applied
      to the syringe and drive the barb slightly deeper (1 to 2 mm) into the interdental septum5.
      Afterward, anaesthetic solution (0.4 ml) is deposited in a minimum of 20 seconds time.

      Buccal infiltrations of 4% articaine (Septanest SP. Articaine hydrochloride 4% with 1:00.000
      epinephrine - Septodont, France) will be administered in the muccobuccal fold of the
      mandibular teeth which will be extracted over 60 sec. After completion of the intraseptal
      injection or buccal infiltration, the dental extraction will be resumed if the patient
      reports no or mild pain. The patient level of pain will be assessed every 2 minutes up to 10
      minutes. After 10 minutes if the patient still feels moderate to severe pain, treatment will
      again be stopped, and the extraction will be considered as a failure.

      Injection discomfort The discomfort of the injections will be recorded by the patients
      following IAN block and intraseptal injections on standard 100mm visual analogue scales
      (VAS), tagged at the endpoints with "no pain" (0 mm) and "unbearable pain" (100 mm).

      Power calculation A study with 73 patients was reported to have 84% power to detect a
      difference in anesthetic success rate of 30% (Webster et al, 2016) in a continuous outcome
      measure assuming a significance level of 5% and a correlation of 0.5 between responses from
      the same subject. So, a sample size of 100 patients would enable detection of a conﬁdence
      interval half width of 0.09 with a certainty of 90%.
    
  