
    
      Acute basilar artery occlusion (ABAO) is a rare and devastating type of stroke. Endovascular
      treatment (EVT) is routinely performed in real-world practice, encouraged by the recent
      result of the basilar artery international cooperation study (BASICS), a randomized
      controlled study.

      ABAO may result in infarcts in the brainstem, cerebellar lobes, thalamus and subthalamic
      area, or occipitotemporal lobes. Previously, studies using the DWI Posterior-circulation
      Alberta Stroke Program Early CT (Pc-ASPECT) Score or brainstem score, for predicting outcome
      in patients with ABAO, showed that the initial infarct extend can affect outcome. Some of
      these studies included patients tretaed by EVT. But, results showed conflicting findings.

      To date, evidence regarding the association between pre-ETVT DWI lesion volume and outcomes
      is relatively weak and has not yet be determined. Predictors of the outcomes of EVT for
      anterior circulation include infarcts volume. More recently, authors reported a predictive
      model of good outcome combining initial DWI infarct volume of less than 10 ml,
      onset-to-puncture time less than 8 hours and embolic origin in 71 Korean patients undergoing
      EVT for vertebrobasilar occlusion. Nevertheless, up now, there is not sufficient evidence to
      reach a consensus.

      Using data of our prospective registry, the investigators analyzed consecutive MRI selected,
      endovascularly treated ABAO patients within the first 24h after symptom-onset. Using the
      initial Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), baseline total posterior-Circulation infarct volume
      (TPCIV) was calculated in mL, on an apparent diffusion-coefficient map reconstruction (Olea
      sphere software).

      TPCIV was analyzed in univariate and multivariable models as a predictor of 90-day functional
      independence (modified Rankin Scale [mRS] 0-2) and mortality. According to received operating
      characteristic (ROC) analysis, the optimal cut-off was determined by maximizing the Youden
      index, to evaluate the prognostic value of TPCIV.

      The Investigators aimed to investigate the relationship between baseline DWI total TPCIV and
      the 90-days functional outcome and mortality, in a large cohort of ABAO selected by MRI prior
      to EVT.
    
  