
    
      Reperfusion therapy as the main treatment strategy in patients with ST-segment elevation
      myocardial infarction (STEMI) consists of either thrombolysis or primary percutaneous
      coronary intervention (pPCI). Primary percutaneous coronary intervention is the preferred
      therapy for STEMI; however, cardiac catheterization laboratories may not be widely available.

      Early recanalization of the infarct related artery (IRA) by either thrombolytics or
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is the main goal in the treatment of acute
      myocardial infarction. But the eventual aim is to provide reperfusion at the tissue level as
      well as in the infarct related artery .

      Resolution of ST elevation has been shown as an agreeable marker that reflects both
      epicardial and myocardial reperfusion . In addition, early and complete resolution of ST
      -segment in the setting of acute myocardial infarction is associated with smaller infarct
      size, greater ejection fraction and reduced morbidity and mortality .

      Platelets play a critical role in the pathogenesis and prognosis of ACS . They secrete a
      number of substances that are key mediators of coagulation, thrombosis and atherosclerosis.
      High-volume platelets have a higher thrombotic potential than small platelets and have
      concentrated granule contents that are of interest in the development of ACS pathogenesis .
      Mean platelet volume (MPV) is the most commonly used measure of platelet size and correlates
      with platelet activity. Platelet distribution width (PDW) is an index reflecting
      heterogeneous platelet size, whereas the platelet-large cell ratio (P-LCR) is the proportion
      of large platelets in blood circulation. Generally, higher MPV, PDW and P-LCR are correlated
      with increased platelet size, although they tend to be overlooked in clinical applications.
      In fact, these indices, particularly MPV and PDW, correlate with platelet functions.

      Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is an effective treatment for acute coronary
      syndrome (ACS), including ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and unstable angina.
      Despite the efficacy of the technique, preprocedural high-thrombus burden (HTB) is a
      predictor of procedural complications following primary PCI for STEMI. HTB can lead to poor
      outcomes, including distal embolization, no-reflow, increased myocardial necrosis and
      decreased left ventricular function.

      Although MPV is associated with impaired angiographic reperfusion and poor clinical outcome
      in patients with STEMI,little is known regarding the association between MPV levels and
      infarct related artery patency in those patients.
    
  