
    
      Elective cesarean deliveries that occurred in Ankara University Department of Obstetrics and
      Gynecology between March 2014 and February 2015 were enrolled in the study. Deliveries were
      divided into two groups depending whether cord blood was collected or not. All cesarean
      deliveries were performed via Joel-Cohen incisions. Cord blood was harvested in-utero, i.e.
      while leaving the placenta inside the uterus, after delivery of the baby and clamping of the
      cord. After UCB collection, placenta was delivered and hysterotomy site was repaired in one
      layer with continuous locking. Postpartum hemorrhage prophylaxis were performed with one dose
      of 0.2 mg methylergonovine maleate. Postoperatively patients were hydrated with 100cc per
      hour infusion of isotonic liquids and bloods were drawn at eight hours postoperatively for
      control blood counts. Amount of blood loss was estimated by subtracting preoperative
      hemoglobin and hematocrit levels from postoperative hemoglobin and hematocrit. Delta
      hemoglobin and hematocrit levels were compared between two groups. Correlation between amount
      of UCB collected and blood loss was also analysed.

      Patients without a preoperative blood count within 30 days prior to delivery were excluded
      from the study, along with patients with history of bleeding 30 days prior to delivery.
      Emergent cesarean deliveries, postpartum bleeding due to uterine atony, retained placenta,
      cesarean deliveries performed due to placental adhesion abnormalities (placenta previa,
      placenta accreta), patients on anticoagulation regimens (aspirin, low molecular weight
      heparin, heparin), patients with a post-operative haemoglobin level higher than pre-operative
      levels were all excluded from the study. Patients were selected at random from birth register
      by two people who are blind to pre and post-operative blood count results.
    
  