
    
      A secure anonymous stand alone web interface that is compatible to any mobile device will be
      integrated with the Autoderm API. The study conducted in this project will consist in a
      prospective study aimed to evaluate the ML model performance, comparing its diagnostic
      capacity with GPs and dermatologists.

      To conduct the study the following procedure will be executed until the required number of
      samples is reached:

        1. A suitable patient with skin concern is asked to participate and sign the patient's
           study agreement.

        2. GP will diagnose the skin condition.

        3. GP (or nurse) will take one good quality image of the skin condition.

        4. GP will send the photograph as a teledermatology consultation following the current
           workflow.

        5. The image is entered in the Autoderm ML interface.

        6. Dermatologist will diagnose the skin condition.

      The study will be conducted in primary care centers managed by the Catalan Health Institute.
      Participant PCP will be located in rural and metropolitan areas in Central Catalonia, which
      includes the regions of Anoia, Bages, Moianès, Berguedà and Osona. The reference population
      included in the study will be about 512,050. The recruitment of prospective subjects will
      consist on a consecutive basis.

      General practitioners will collect data from consecutive patients who meet the inclusion
      criteria after obtaining written informed consent. Collected data will be reported
      exclusively in case report form (attached at Annex V and VI).

      The GP will diagnose the skin condition and will fill the "Face-to-face assessment by GP".
      For each patient, the GP using a smartphone camera will take a close up good quality image of
      the skin problem. The image will be anonymous and it will be not possible to identify
      patients. The GP will use the Autoderm ML interface to upload the anonymized image and will
      fill the "Assessment provided by the ML model" questionnaire with the top 3 diagnoses
      generated by the ML model.

      In order to get a second opinion, the GP will incorporate the anonymized image and an
      accurate description of the skin lesion into the patient's medical history following the
      current teledermatology flow. The GP will fill "Assessment by teledermatology" questionnaire
      after receiving the information, being response time about 2-7 days.

      In case of dermatology referral, the GP will fill "Assessment by in person dermatologist", by
      accessing electronic health records as they become available, being the average waiting time
      for referral from 30 to 90 days.

      Questionnaire case number will be the same for all questionnaires and it will not be possible
      to identify the patient, as case number will be predefined before the initiation of the data
      collection phase.

      To compare the performance of the ML model with that of the GPs and dermatologists, it will
      be required a sample size of 100 images of skin diseases from patients who meet the inclusion
      criteria. The proposed sample size is based on sample size calculation used in similar
      research.
    
  