
    
      Pediatric cardiomyopathy is a heterogeneous genetic disease with high morbidity and mortality
      in which children often present with fulminant disease leading to death or transplant. The
      long-term goal of this project is to identify the genetic basis of cardiomyopathy and to
      correlate these findings with clinical phenotypes for risk stratification. These findings
      could improve disease prevention, surveillance, early management, and prognosis.

      The specific aims of this study are:

        1. To identify the disease-causing and disease-associated genetic variants underlying
           pediatric cardiomyopathy in a carefully phenotyped cohort.

        2. To identify genotype-phenotype correlations that allow for risk stratification and
           improve management and therapy.

      Exome sequencing will be used as part of a tiered genetic analysis in a large cohort of up to
      700 pediatric cardiomyopathy subjects with systolic (dilated cardiomyopathy) or diastolic
      (hypertrophic or restrictive cardiomyopathy) dysfunction. The biological parent(s) of
      enrolled participants will also be approached about participating and providing a blood
      sample for genetic testing. In addition to the parent(s), the participants siblings and other
      relatives may also be approached regarding enrollment, based on the pedigree and family
      history.

      This study will significantly increase our understanding of pediatric cardiomyopathy by
      defining the prevalence of mutations in genes known to cause cardiomyopathy as well as
      identifying novel disease-causing genes in the pediatric population. Genetic association
      tests will identify variants that modify disease. Novel bioinformatics and systems biology
      applications for interpretation of exome level genetic information will contribute
      fundamental knowledge and technical innovation to the translation of genomic data to clinical
      utility. These aims will provide critical genetic architecture data, identify variants with
      large effects, and enable genotype-phenotype correlations necessary for advancing management
      and therapy.

      The Study will have two components: 1) clinical data collection by chart review and family
      interview, and 2) biospecimen collection and genetic testing.
    
  