
    
      Twenty-five to thirty communities (400-600 households) have been identified by Fundacion
      Cantaro Azul (FCA) as communities that are appropriate for their safe water program. These
      communities were identified based on their sources of water (chemical and taste
      characteristics) and resource availability (access to electricity and lack of access to piped
      water). Fundacion Cantaro Azul is planning to expand their safe-drinking water programs to
      all 600 households in these communities. In order to allow for a meaningful evaluation of the
      impact of their program the organization has agreed to randomize the timing of implementation
      of the safe drinking-water program to eligible communities. This will allow independent
      researchers (the lead investigator and key personal in this protocol) to make household
      visits during the implementation of the programs and will further allow for a valid
      evaluation of the programs' impact using a stepped wedge study design. Through the
      stepped-wedge study design all communities, over a 12-15 month, period will be approached by
      Fundacion Cantaro Azul for promotional meetings; since no community will have received the
      intervention they will be acting as their own controls until the time they are approached by
      the organization. Randomizing the time at which a community is approached reduces bias and
      allows for meaningful evaluation of differences in outcomes due to the safe drinking-water
      program. As part of this study design a randomly assigned, predetermined number of rural BCS
      communities will be approached every two-months for enrollment in the safe water program by
      Fundacion Cantaro Azul, and thus 'cross-over' from the comparison group to the safe-water
      group. Within each of these crossover groups half of the clusters will receive a "Basic"
      program variation, and half will receive an "Enhance" program variation. This process will
      continue until all consenting households in the 25-30 communities have received a UV
      disinfection system, and related support through the safe drinking-water program. Field
      teams, trained and supervised by the lead investigator and key personal listed in this
      protocol, will conduct independent (from Fundacion Cantaro Azul) household visits to collect
      data on the outcomes of interest. During household visits structured interviews and
      water-quality sampling will be used to measure these outcomes (prevalence of gastrointestinal
      events, concentrations of E.coli in household drinking-water, school and work absenteeism and
      compliance with the disinfection strategy.) The stepped-wedge design will allow for
      evaluation of the impacts of the safe drinking-water programs while allowing the relatively
      small organization to manage the logistics of installing 600 household disinfection systems,
      in a manner consistent with their mission, commitments to regional governmental
      collaborators, and fiscal restraints.
    
  