
    
      Cardiac arrest is a common and catastrophic event with substantial human and financial costs.
      It is well understood that cardiac arrest leads to brain injury. However, what is not widely
      appreciated is that, after circulation has been restored, cerebral hypoperfusion continues.
      Ongoing cerebral vasoconstriction and cerebral hypoxia has been demonstrated using
      technologies that include positron emission tomography, ultrasound, jugular bulb oxygen
      saturation and cerebral oximetry.

      A likely mechanism responsible for sustained early cerebral hypoperfusion relates to impaired
      cerebrovascular auto-regulation. Such impaired cerebral auto-regulation may make even a
      normal arterial carbon dioxide tension (PaCO2) (the major physiological regulator of cerebral
      blood flow) insufficient to achieve and maintain adequate cerebral perfusion and,
      consequently, cerebral oxygenation. However, PaCO2 is the major determinant of cerebral blood
      flow and an increased PaCO2 (hypercapnia) markedly increases cerebral blood flow. Moreover,
      arterial carbon dioxide is modifiable and, as such, is a potential therapeutic target.

      The TAME Cardiac Arrest Trial is a definitive phase III multi-centre randomised controlled
      trial in resuscitated cardiac arrest patients. This trial will determine whether targeted
      therapeutic mild hypercapnia (TTMH) applied during the first 24 hours of mechanical
      ventilation in the intensive care unit (ICU) improves neurological outcome at 6 months
      compared to standard care (targeted normocapnia (TN).

      Supported by compelling preliminary data, significant improvements in patient outcomes are
      achievable with this proposed simple and cost free therapy. Recruiting 1,700 patients, for
      multiple sites in many countries, this will be the largest trial ever conducted involving
      resuscitated cardiac arrest patients admitted to the ICU. If the TAME Cardiac Arrest Trial
      confirms that TTMH is effective, its findings will improve the lives of many, transform
      clinical practice and yield major economic gains worldwide.
    
  