
    
      The metabolic demands created by endurance activities, which include muscle and liver
      glycogen depletion as well as losses in body fluids and electrolytes, are significant
      limitations to the performance potential of the athlete. For this reason, a well-supported
      recommendation exists for such athletes to consume a carbohydrate formula, in particular, one
      containing electrolytes during their activity.

      Currently, most commercially available exercise-nutrition products for use in endurance
      activities come at relatively high costs to the athlete. Moreover, the ingredients used
      within this market vary and could therefore hinder their effectiveness. For example,
      Fermentable Oligosaccharides Disaccharides Monosaccharides and Polyols (FODMAPs) potentially
      present in common sports foods (i.e. excess fructose) are known to alter gastrointestinal
      (GI) function in some individuals. Indeed, 25-70% of endurance athletes experience GI
      symptoms during exercise. Given the prevalence of exercise induced GI discomfort in this
      population, it is possible that GI symptoms limit the adherence to nutritional
      recommendations during exercise. Therefore identification of a targeted nutrition strategy
      that maximizes GI effectiveness and dietary adherence is warranted.

      An alternative to the commercially available sports foods are whole foods. Specifically,
      white potatoes, which have a high GI index, indicates that their carbohydrate content is
      readily available. Additionally, potatoes naturally contain potassium, an important
      electrolyte. Because of these characteristics, potatoes provide the potential to be a
      low-cost alternative, and merit investigation. To this point, we know of no studies that have
      explored the effectiveness of white potatoes as an ergogenic aid. Therefore, the purpose of
      this study is to examine how capable potatoes are at off-setting the losses in muscle and
      liver glycogen and electrolytes compared to the current products available on the market,
      i.e. "sports gels."
    
  