
    
      Post-partum weight retention contributes to obesity for many women, increasing risk for
      cardiovascular disease and other chronic diseases and complicating future pregnancies.
      Lifestyle interventions have shown to be modestly efficacious for post-partum weight loss in
      randomized controlled trials, yet interventions with numerous visits are logistically
      challenging for many post-partum women. Innovative and efficacious treatment models for
      post-partum weight loss that fit into the busy lives of new moms are needed, and
      cost-effectiveness is critical for adoption. Facebook may be an efficient platform for
      delivering evidence-based weight loss programming to post-partum women. Delivering
      interventions via Facebook allows us to connect with post-partum women where they are, more
      fully integrating into their lives and daily routines. Investigators have developed a
      post-partum weight loss intervention based on the Diabetes Prevention Program, tailored to
      needs of post-partum women and for delivery via Facebook. Investigators will conduct a
      feasibility pilot randomized trial comparing delivery of a post-partum weight loss
      intervention via Facebook to in-person group sessions. Primary outcomes are the feasibility
      of recruitment, sustained participation, contamination, retention, and feasibility of
      assessment procedures in both treatment conditions. Weight loss will be described as an
      exploratory outcome. The project will provide preliminary data needed to finalize the design
      of a large randomized trial to compare the non-inferiority and cost-effectiveness of the
      post-partum weight loss intervention delivered via Facebook versus in-person group sessions.
      Demonstrating cost-effectiveness in addition to efficacy of our Facebook-delivered
      post-partum weight loss intervention is critical to support widespread implementation.
    
  