
    
      1. Statement of the health problem or issue

           In end-stage kidney disease, dialysis is needed to remove toxins and electrolytes that
           would otherwise accumulate in a patient's blood. The fluid used in dialysis, the
           dialysate, contains magnesium, and the lower the concentration of dialysate magnesium,
           the more magnesium is removed from a patient's body during dialysis. Understanding the
           optimal amount of magnesium to include in the dialysate is crucial as magnesium
           regulates more than 300 enzymes in the body and is vital to heart, muscle, and bone
           health.

           In Canada, the dialysate is prepared by central suppliers and contains magnesium in
           concentrations of 0.38, 0.5, or 0.75 mmol/L. In the absence of clinical trial evidence,
           there is no consensus on what magnesium concentration is best, and all 3 concentrations
           are used today in Canadian hemodialysis centres.

        2. Objective of the project

           In outpatients receiving conventional hemodialysis, to determine if providing a higher
           versus lower dialysate magnesium concentration (0.75 vs. ≤0.5 mmol/L) as a centre policy
           alters outcomes important to patients and their providers.

        3. Outline

           This is a pragmatic, two-arm, parallel-group, cluster-randomized, open-label,
           multicentre, comparative-effectiveness trial that will be embedded into routine care in
           hemodialysis centres in Canada. Centres will be randomized to set the hemodialysate
           magnesium concentration to be 0.75 mmol/L or ≤0.5 mmol/L in the intervention and control
           groups, respectively. Patients receiving maintenance hemodialysis at these centres will
           be followed for study outcomes during the trial follow-up period.

           The trial is highly pragmatic to facilitate high intervention adherence and extensive
           uptake of the findings; pragmatic features include (i) broad eligibility criteria and a
           large representative sample of hemodialysis centres and patients, (ii) intervention
           implementation within routine clinical care delivered by dialysis unit personnel rather
           than researchers, (iii) follow-up of patient outcomes using routinely collected data
           sources, (iv) an intent-to-treat analysis using all available data, and (v) outcomes
           highly relevant to patients.

        4. What is unique/innovative about the project?

           The investigator usually needs to study a large number of patients in a clinical trial
           to reliably understand the effects of a treatment. Normally, a study with 15,000
           patients would cost more than $15 million dollars to conduct; however, this study will
           provide a reliable answer to the question being asked and cost less than $4 million.
           This is because the investigator will use data that is already being collected by the
           healthcare system. For example, when a patient is hospitalized for a heart attack or
           stroke, this information is recorded in a secure healthcare database. The investigator
           will be able to analyze these healthcare data at the end of the study (and link patient
           outcomes to the type of dialysis treatment received (i.e. treatment or control). This
           innovative study design means that the study will be much larger (but cost much less)
           than a traditional clinical trial.

           This pragmatic trial includes all patients who receive chronic in-centre hemodialysis
           patients in participating centres. High-risk patients with multiple comorbidities,
           including cognitive impairments or disabilities, who are often excluded from trials
           because of their high-risk status are eligible for participation in the Dialysate
           Magnesium trial. By including patients from a variety of medical, ethnic, geographic,
           and socioeconomic backgrounds, the results of the trial should be broadly generalizable.

        5. What is the impact of the proposed research?

      For patients with severe kidney failure (10,000 in Ontario and >2 million worldwide),
      hemodialysis provides a life-saving treatment option; however a tragic 20-40% of patients die
      within one year of starting hemodialysis. The dialysate is a critical component of
      hemodialysis, yet little evidence is available to guide its optimal formulation. Dialysate
      magnesium in particular has received little scientific attention until recently, with new
      research suggesting that a higher dialysate magnesium concentration may benefit patients.
      Outcomes that may be improved include mortality, cardiovascular outcomes, and muscle cramps.

      While it is possible to raise the concentration of serum magnesium through oral supplements,
      using dialysis to do this is simpler and safer. It has no additional cost, does not add to a
      patient's pill burden, is not dependent on an adherent patient taking their pills, and avoids
      the gastrointestinal side effects of oral magnesium supplements.

      If the investigator is able to demonstrate that a higher dialysate magnesium concentration
      improves patient outcomes, this formulation can be readily adopted to improve the care of ∼2
      million patients receiving hemodialysis worldwide.
    
  