
    
      This will be an observational study with a 3-month follow-up. The course of clinical
      treatment will be decided by a physician independent of the research. Besides filling out
      questionnaires and standardized follow-up visits, all subjects will receive the same care
      they would if they did not participate in the study. The study will be discussed with the
      subjects and they will be enrolled in the study after it is determined that they meet
      selection criteria and are scheduled for one of the above injections. They will then fill out
      3 questionnaires (Oswestery disability index, Athens insomnia scale, QIDS SR-16. All
      procedures will be performed with fluoroscopy. Following each procedure, the
      procedure-related pain will be reported on a 0-10 scale (all patients will receive as much 1%
      lidocaine local anesthetic as is necessary), including the reported pain to the standardized
      skin wheal at the start of the procedure.

      Patients will then receive standardized epidural steroid injections (transforaminal or
      interlaminar), sacroiliac joint injections, or facet blocks and radiofrequency denervation if
      they experience a positive block. Details about these procedures are available upon request.

      No patients will be permitted additional interventions between the time of their procedure
      and follow-up visits. Rescue medications will be in the form of either tramadol, NSAIDs or if
      the patient is on opioids, a < 20% increase in dose. The first follow-up visit will be
      scheduled 1 month from the start of treatment for ESI and SI joint patients, and 1 month
      after RF denervation in positive diagnostic facet block responders. In those facet block
      patients who obtain prolonged relief from the "diagnostic" medial branch block, follow-up
      will be 1 month after the block (these patients may proceed to have denervation if their pain
      recurs after 1 month but before their final 3-month follow-up, and their 3-month follow-up
      will be 3 months after their medial branch block). A positive outcome will be defined as a
      greater or equal to 2-point decrease in average LBP (or leg pain for those who underwent an
      ESI) coupled with a positive satisfaction rating (> 3 on a 5-point scale). Subjects who
      obtain a positive outcome at their initial 1-month follow-up visit will remain in the study
      and return for the final 3-month follow-up visit. Those with a negative outcome will exit the
      study "per protocol" to receive standard care, which may consist of other injections or
      non-rescue medications such as antidepressants and anticonvulsants. Subjects who obtain a
      positive outcome at 1-month but experience a recurrence before their 3-month follow-up visit
      will also exit the study per protocol, with their final outcome measures recorded before they
      receive standard care.

      In those who receive ESI, a smaller parallel study will be done evaluating the association
      between allergies and outcome. Allergies will be categorized as immunologically based or not.
    
  