
    
      One of the most effective arms of the human immune system is the ability of very low
      concentrations of antibody proteins to bind to viruses, bacteria and toxins and "neutralise"
      their activity or ability to infect. In contrast to cellular immunity, which may cause tissue
      destruction and pathology, antibody-mediated immunity can be very passive, while completely
      preventing infection. How antibodies bind their targets varies enormously, ranging from
      unhelpful "blocking" antibodies or narrowly focussed neutralising antibodies, to highly
      protective "broadly neutralising" antibodies (bNAbs) that can neutralise a wide range of
      strains of the same pathogen. Such bNAbs are especially sought after in virus infections such
      as HIV, influenza and others where the virus mutates to evade immune responses that are too
      narrow or focussed. Antibodies arise when an "immunogen" (an immunogen is anything that
      induces an immune response, typically a foreign protein) is taken up by the immune system and
      shown to white blood cells - T and B cells - by specialised immune cells. In some cases the T
      and B cells bind the immunogens to receptors on their surface, triggering an immune response
      in which T cells "help" B cells to manufacture specific antibodies. The events around how the
      protein is processed into manageable pieces, shown to the T and B cells, and the pattern of
      chemical signals produced by the immune cells is highly complex, but eventually determines
      how broad the antibody response will be (its breadth). For infections like HIV and influenza,
      decades of research and clinical vaccine trials have had limited or no success. To take HIV
      as an example, investigators have an almost complete lack of understanding of how immunogens
      interact with the naive human B cell receptor (BCR) repertoire and the pathways required to
      induce bNAbs during an infection or after an immunisation. Animal models have failed as the
      naïve, germline encoded, B cell antibody receptor repertoires of non-human species are
      sufficiently different from those of humans to render design and selection of vaccine based
      on non-human species problematic. Additionally, bNAbs isolated from HIV-1-infected
      individuals have structural features that occur rarely or not at all in other mammals, such
      as unusually long loop-binding regions (CDRH3 loops) required to penetrate past glycans on
      the surface of the envelope spike that shield key neutralising epitopes (Mascola JR 2013).
      There is therefore a critical need to better understand, in human experimental medicine
      models of immune challenge, how immunogens and B/T cells interact in the development of
      protective bNAb anti-viral responses.

      Our approach to resolving this impasse is to challenge the human immune system with
      rationally-designed model immunogens to determine the structural and other characteristics
      required to drive human B cell antibody responses towards neutralisation breadth.
      Investigators have selected HIV as an experimental model as there is a reasonable
      understanding about the specificity and function of anti-HIV bNAbs, as well as an urgent need
      to identify novel immunisation approaches following decades of failed or poorly successful
      trials. There is also a huge database of safety using HIV proteins as immunogens, and the
      technological expertise to design and manufacture HIV viral proteins. Assays for HIV
      neutralising activity are also well established in our laboratories. Although focussed on
      HIV, our findings will be applicable to other viral infections.

      The model immunogens proposed in the experimental medicine studies are unlikely to be
      suitable as vaccines, and any clinical development would require iterative cycles of design
      refinement and development based on immunological insights gleaned from these experimental
      investigations. Therefore, the focus is on in-depth characterisation of the elicited immune
      response to rationally-designed model immunogens that may inform the design process of actual
      vaccines. This experimental medicine approach is only now possible due to unprecedented
      progress in our abilities to study the human immune system and to obtain complete information
      on immune responses to vaccination, since performing research on the human immune system is
      now almost as easy as it has been in mice. The main focus of this study will be to determine
      which of the design strategies is able to prime human germline (naive) B cells and drive
      antibody responses towards induction of neutralising antibody breadth.

      Our range of model immunogens will be based on the envelope (Env) glycoprotein of HIV-1,
      which is the only target of neutralising antibodies, and therefore the only virally-encoded
      immunogen relevant for induction of such antibodies by immunisation. To ensure
      reproducibility of results and the highest level of volunteer safety, all immunogens will be
      manufactured under cGMP, using techniques applied to vaccine immunogens.

      Env has extensive amino acid variation, structural and conformational instability, and
      immunodominance of hypervariable regions (Kwong PD, 2011; Sattentau QJ, 2013). Our team
      designed soluble immunogens that closely mimic the native viral trimer in situ, but that
      incorporate design strategies that may alter the intrinsic viral immune evasion mechanisms
      (Sanders RW, 2013). Env is made up of three identical complexes (trimers) each of which
      contains two molecules, gp120 and gp41 that can be modified to make a soluble molecule called
      gp140, upon which our immunogens are based. Investigators have developed model consensus
      gp140 Env trimers (consensus of all global strains) designed to prime B cell responses to
      common epitopes represented in all HIV-1 subtypes. Investigators have utilised two design
      strategies to stabilise these in a native-like conformation: ConM SOSIP and ConS UFO. The
      ConM SOSIP trimer includes novel mutations that include the incorporation of a disulphide
      linkage between the gp120 and gp41 ectodomain (making up gp140) which prevents their
      disassociation into monomer subunits.

      The ConS UFO includes a short flexible amino-acid linker to tether the gp120 and gp41
      subunits together as an alternative strategy to prevent dissociation of the Env trimer.
      Investigators wish to test both designs to determine the effect on B cell repertoire. To
      further stabilize global architecture, investigators employed an EDC crosslinking approach
      that has been shown to conserve bNAb epitopes, reduce non-antiviral antibody responses, and
      enhance overall immunogen stability (Schiffner et al., 2015). Thus, in Part 1 of this study
      investigators will test EDC ConM SOSIP and EDC ConS UFO versions in parallel.

      A critical adjunct to our consensus-based model design is to use a cocktail of three mosaic
      gp140 Env trimers as a boost (Part 2) to overcome the immunodominance of hypervariable
      regions of Env and to determine whether this will focus antibody responses towards conserved
      neutralisation epitopes. While designed using computer algorithms, these mosaics represent
      authentic Env structures that are fully functional and native in their conformation. Our
      novel designs aim to eliminate unwanted immunodominant antibody responses and focus B cells
      towards highly conserved supersites of vulnerability on Env, with particular emphasis on
      quaternary bNAb epitopes (Julien, JP, 2013; Kong L, 2013; Lyumkis D, 2013). The extent to
      which these different strategies may induce neutralising breadth, and the identification of
      the mechanisms and drivers involved, can only be determined empirically through human
      immunogen challenge studies.
    
  