
    
      Methods:

      The sample will be selected intentionally with 75 subjects. Those who agree to participate in
      the study will be randomly allocated into three groups by a blinded evaluator for the study,
      which will use online www.randomizer.org the software as follows: aqua + nutritional
      counseling, jump + nutritional counseling, group control (nutritional counseling only), all
      with 12-week duration.

      The study examine the effects obtained by the three groups on outcomes of cardiometabolic
      risk factors (waist circumference, blood pressure, HDL-cholesterol, triglycerides, fasting
      glucose), outcomes of amount and distribution of body fat (sum of skinfolds - triceps
      subscapular, suprailiac, abdominal and mid thigh - by bioelectrical impedance body fat
      percentage and waist / height), and psychological variables (quality of life, body image and
      mental health). In addition, nutritional counseling at weekly sessions will be used as a
      control variable. Characterization data of the sample (age, sex, weight, height, and waist /
      height) and other biochemical endpoints also comprise the study (total cholesterol,
      LDL-cholesterol, fasting insulin, HOMA-IR, QUICK, and high-sensitivity C- reactive protein
      will be collected).

      All measurements follow standard and validated procedures for the population object of study.

      To the chronic effect analysis, blood samples will be collected two times, before and after
      training period, with 12 hours fasting. To avoid the acute effect of the exercises, the
      measurements will done 72 hours after the 12th week.

      A sample of 5 ml of blood per antecubital vein will collected. The sample will be collected
      at the school for experienced gatherer, and will be taken immediately to the laboratory in
      order to ensure that analyzes are performed on the same day.

      The health-related quality of life will assessed using the questionnaire on pediatric quality
      of life PedsQL 4.0, adolescents and their parents.

      For analysis of body satisfaction instrument Body Shape Questionnaire BSQ will used. To
      ascertain the perception of body image will applied to Scale Silhouettes of Stunkard.

      Mental health will assessed using the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaires SDQ.

      For classification of maturational stage, will held assessment of sexual maturation stages
      proposed by Tanner, determined by self-assessment of the stage of development of pubic hair,
      avoiding major constraint adolescents.

      Intervention with exercise:

      The groups will perform physical training activities three times a week after school for 12
      weeks, with interval training sessions varying intensities according to the scale of
      perceived exertion Borg, with duration ranging between 24 and 32 minute main part. Classes
      will taught by a physical education teacher with the aid of monitors, area students.

      Nutrition education classes will held at the school, by nutritionist, with a weekly, totaling
      12 meetings.

      Training Protocol Both trainings will be conducted simultaneously with each group in their
      midst, in order to avoid possible interference on the voice command, ambient temperature,
      relative humidity and time of accomplishment from training.
    
  