
    
      Skin and soft tissue infections (SSTIs) are a common reason for presentation to an Emergency
      Department (ED) in Canada. Although many patients with mild SSTI are able to be managed at
      home with oral antibiotics, those with mild-moderate infections are often treated with
      parenteral antibiotics. Current practice patterns in Canadian EDs indicate this patient
      population is often treated with intravenous cefazolin once daily along with oral probenecid
      and return to the ED or other ambulatory setting for daily medication administration and
      assessment. This parenteral regimen has been found to result in success rates comparable to
      studies which have evaluated treatment success with oral antibiotics in this patient
      population (89-97%). Although successful outcome can be achieved with this approach, it is
      often inconvenient for the patient to return to the ED/ambulatory care unit daily and does
      contribute to overall ED/ambulatory care visit volumes and overall health care costs.
      Unfortunately, there has never been a study which has evaluated the relative efficacy and
      safety or oral antibiotics to the aforementioned parenteral approach in this patient
      population and thus there remains a significant knowledge gap which must be addressed before
      a change in current practice can be explored.

      The objective of the study is to determine whether oral cephalexin is equivalent to
      intravenous cefazolin plus oral probenecid for the treatment of uncomplicated SSTIs in
      patients that present to the ED. This study will be a prospective, multi-centered, randomized
      controlled non-inferiority trial comparing cephalexin 500 mg orally four times to cefazolin 2
      g IV plus probenecid 1 g orally, in patients presenting to the ED with presumed diagnosis of
      SSTI. The primary outcome will be to compare the proportion of patients failing therapy for
      their cellulitis after 72 hours of antibiotic treatment with oral cephalexin or IV
      cefazolin/oral probenecid 1 g daily. Secondary outcomes include the clinical cure rate at 7
      days, percentage of patients requiring hospital admission, percentage of patients stepped
      down to oral antibiotics on or before day 7 of therapy, percentage of patients requiring an
      additional antibiotic prescription on day 7, and the frequency of adverse events.
    
  