
    
      Background of the study:

      Myocardial infarction (MI) frequently recurs after MI, which may be related to insufficient
      vulnerable plaque identification using invasive coronary angiography. More accurate
      identification of vulnerable plaques may improve therapeutic strategies and clinical outcome.
      Recently, the investigators demonstrated that 18F-choline PET can be used to identify
      vulnerable carotid plaques. The investigators hypothesize that fully integrated 18F-choline
      PET-MRI enables detection of vulnerable coronary plaques.

      Objective of the study:

      The objective is to study the feasibility to detect vulnerable coronary plaques with
      18F-choline PET-MRI.

      Primary study parameters/outcome of the study:

        -  To investigate whether vulnerable plaques on OCT (fibrous cap ≤ 70 μm) show a locally
           increased uptake of 18F-choline on PET-MRI compared to stable plaques.

        -  To investigate whether the culprit plaque shows a locally increased uptake of
           18F-choline on PET-MRI compared to non-culprit plaques.

      Secondary study parameters/outcome of the study (if applicable):

        -  To study whether there is a correlation between the uptake of 18F-choline in coronary
           plaques and the degree of stenosis as shown on the angiogram acquired during the PCI
           procedure

        -  To study whether there is a correlation between the uptake of 18F-choline in coronary
           plaques and the presence of macrophages, micro-calcifications, lipid-rich necrotic core
           on OCT

        -  To investigate whether there is an association between the uptake of 18F-choline in the
           coronary arteries and that in the carotid arteries.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness (if applicable):

      This study will not delay any necessary treatment and the study is not expected to adversely
      affect outcome. The patients from the VieCuri will need to visit the MUMC for the additional
      PET-MRI scan. All patients in this study, including the 5 patients for protocol optimisation,
      will receive an average radiation dose of 5.3 mSv (0.019 mSv/MBq [see attachment 1], 280 MBq,
      average body weight 70 kg) and a maximum radiation dose of 6.8 mSv (360 MBq, ≥ 90 kg body
      weight) from the 18F-choline tracer. PET-MRI, Gadolinium and 18F-choline are safe and the
      risk of adverse effects are low (as described in chapter 7). The additional OCT examination
      is performed during the PCI procedure (only in the 15 patients of the VieCuri hospital), that
      is part of standard patient care, and carries the same risks as the PCI procedure, including:
      coronary dissection, air embolism, coronary thrombus, contrast nephropathy, contrast allergy,
      cardiovascular event, and death (extremely rare). These risks will be minimized by the use of
      heparin to achieve an Activating Clotting Time (ACT) value of 300, taking care of meticulous
      positioning of the wire and using the OCT catheter under fluoroscopy guidance. Approximately
      15% of the amount of contrast agent that is used during an PCI procedure will be additionally
      administered during the OCT procedure and 30 seconds of additional fluoroscopy guidance with
      associated increase in ionizing radiation dose will be used for positioning of the OCT
      catheter. During the additional PET- MRI and OCT examinations, there is a chance on
      accidental medical findings. These findings will be reported to the treating physician and
      the general practitioner of the patient. Study results are expected to contribute to
      improvement of vulnerable plaque detection for future patients.
    
  