
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a prevalent global condition that results in
      high mortality, morbidity, symptom burden, and functional limitations that impact the quality
      of life. COPD is the third leading cause of death in the US and a leading cause of
      hospitalizations. COPD patients report unmet needs in regards to information about their
      disease and how to manage and cope with it at an intellectual, emotional, and social level.
      Many COPD patients lack the information and skills that they need to correctly use their
      inhaled medications, manage 'breathlessness episodes', and detect early signs of a COPD
      exacerbation. Pulmonary rehabilitation programs are established to help COPD patients
      increase their exercise capacity and reduce fatigue and dyspnea with daily activity. While
      clinical trials testing these programs have demonstrated significant improvements in
      health-related quality of life and reduced dyspnea and fatigue amongst participants, it
      remains unclear how best to engage and motivate patients to participate in them.

      Self-management support interventions which involve "collaboratively helping patients acquire
      and practice the skills needed to carry out disease-specific medical regimens, change their
      health behavior to adjust their roles for optimal function, improve day-to-day control of
      their disease, and improve their well-being", have been demonstrated in several trials to
      improve health-related quality of life, and reduce symptom burden, hospitalizations, and ED
      visits amongst COPD patients. However, it is still unclear which self-management support
      strategies employed in 'real world' settings are most effective in engaging, motivating, and
      enabling patients to successfully follow recommended treatments, adopt desired health
      behaviors, and thus achieve the desired improvements in their health outcomes.

      The planned study design is a single- blinded randomized controlled trial to compare the
      effectiveness of two strategies for engaging and supporting COPD patients and their family
      caregivers in self-management of COPD. The two strategies/study arms are: 1) the 'HCP arm'
      where the healthcare professional (HCP) is the primary communicator about COPD
      self-management with the patient participants; and 2) the 'HCP plus Peer arm', where both
      healthcare professionals and peer mentors engage with study participants in conversations
      about COPD self-management using multiple channels including one- to- one and group
      conversations. Participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio into the two study arms. The
      trial will be conducted amongst COPD patients coming to the hospital or clinic at two study
      sites within Johns Hopkins Healthcare System. Recruitment from both sites and multiple
      settings allows for a more representative COPD patient population to be enrolled in the
      study, thus increasing the external validity of study findings.

      The research study will answer the research question: Amongst COPD patients and their
      caregivers, would a dual strategy that combines healthcare professional and peer mentor
      delivery of COPD self- management education and support result in greater improvements in
      health status and quality of life, and reductions in acute healthcare services' utilization,
      compared to relying on healthcare professionals alone in these communications? Would such
      dual strategy result in reduced caregiver stress and improved coping and satisfaction? The
      study hypothesis is that the dual strategy of using 'HCP plus peer support' to engage and
      support COPD patients and caregivers will have superior outcomes to the 'HCP only' strategy
      in the following areas : a) Improved health- related quality of life and reduced numbers of
      COPD-related hospital and ED visits; b) improved patient activation, self-efficacy, and
      self-care behaviors; c) improved family caregivers' satisfaction and self- efficacy. These
      improvements will be noted at 3, 6, and 9 months compared to baseline.
    
  