
    
      Rationale: There are thresholds of on-treatment platelet reactivity that appear to expose
      patients either to a risk of thrombotic events (high on-treatment platelet reactivity) or to
      a risk of bleeding events (low on-treatment platelet reactivity). Clopidogrel is an oral
      platelet P2Y12 receptor inhibitor that requires metabolic activation catalyzed by several
      Cytochromes P450 (CYP) isoforms. The loss-of-function polymorphism 2C19*2, carried by 30% of
      individuals, is associated with high-on-treatment platelet reactivity (low level of P2Y12
      inhibition) and a higher risk of stent thrombosis in patients exposed to clopidogrel (OR=3.45
      (2.14-5.57)). The gain-of-function polymorphism 2C19*17 is associated with low-on-treatment
      platelet reactivity (high level of P2Y12 inhibition) with a higher risk of TIMI major
      bleeding (OR=1.85 (1.19 -2.86). Prasugrel is a new thienopyridine drug with improved ischemic
      outcomes compared with clopidogrel in acute coronary syndrome patients undergoing PCI but the
      drug was also associated with more bleeding complications. Prasugrel is a more potent
      irreversible P2Y12inhibitor than clopidogrel, but it also requires a metabolic conversion
      that is less or not affected by CYP2C19 variants, unlike clopidogrel. The recent
      pharmacogenetic literature suggests that individualized treatment (choice between clopidogrel
      or prasugrel which both are possible in this indication) based on the genetic information
      rapidly obtained, is possible. This would improve the risk/benefit of therapy. Both common
      gain- and loss-of function CYP2C19 alleles can be combined to identify two metabolizers
      status: rapid metabolizer (ultra fast or UF: *17/*17, 5% of all comers and normal
      metabolizers or NM : *1/*1 et *1/*17, 50% of all comers) at potential higher risk of bleeding
      and slow metabolizer (Intermediate Metabolizers or IM, *1/*2 and *2/*17, 40% of all comers
      and Poor Metabolizers or PM, *2/*2, 5% of all comers) at potential higher risk of thrombosis.
      Primary hypothesis ("genetic hypothesis") : the proportion of rapid metabolizers treated with
      a 75mg clopidogrel MD within the optimal range of P2Y12 inhibition at 30 days, (defined as a
      threshold of 220 AU路min up to 350 AU路min of ADP-induced platelet aggregation measured by the
      Multiple Electrode platelet Aggregometry - Multiplate analyzer, DYNABYTE, Munich, Germany or
      a % inhibition between 30% up to 80% using the VerifyNowTMP2Y12 platform), is non inferior to
      the proportion of slow metabolizers treated with prasugrel 10mg MD.Secondary hypothesis
      ("functional hypothesis"): At 30 days, patients outside the pre-specified target of P2Y12
      inhibition level will be adjusted (prasugrel 10mg or clopidogrel 75mg). The hypothesis is
      that PFT on top of genetic testing will improve the number of patients reaching the
      prespecified optimal target of P2Y12 inhibition. Thus, the proportion of slow metabolizers
      within the target at D45 is non inferior to that of rapid metabolizer as determined by the
      POC PFT. Objectives: To demonstrate that a strategy of fast genetic testing performed in
      outpatient clinic allows to select adequately one of the 2 antiplatelet treatments approved
      in the same indication (ACS with PCI - prasugrel 10mg MD or clopidogrel 75mg MD). Patients
      will reach similar levels of platelet inhibition with the 2 different thienopyridines
      suggesting optimal risk/benefit ratio in most patients with individualized therapy. Study
      population: ACS patients who recently underwent stent PCI, who are stable and eligible for
      prasugrel or clopidogrel therapy.Study design: Prospective,multicenter study. Genetic
      metabolizer status will be determined using the VerigeneTM (Nanosphere technology) platform
      during outpatient follow-up visit. Thienopyridine treatment at enrolment will not affect
      eligibility. Rapid metabolizers (UF and NM) will be treated by 75mg clopidogrel MD while slow
      metabolizers (IM and PM) will be allocated to prasugrel 10mg MD. A first evaluation of
      platelet reactivity will be performed one month after to allow the comparison of the
      proportion of patients who are within the optimal prespecified window of P2Y12 inhibition
      (primary hypothesis). The investigators will evaluate the hypothesis that a treatment
      adjustment based on the results obtained by this pharmacodynamic evaluation will improve the
      rate of success. In this second phase, patients with a level of P2Y12 inhibition >80%
      (<220AU.min) or <30% (>350 AU.min) will be switched to 75mg clopidogrel MD and or to
      prasugrel 10mg MD, respectively. A second evaluation of the level of platelet reactivity will
      be performed at day 45 to allow the comparison of proportions of patients within the
      prespecified optimal window of P2Y12 inhibition between rapid and slow metabolizer genotypes.
      Duration of inclusion: 12 months Duration of participation of the patient: 60 days Primary
      endpoint: Proportion of patient who are within the optimal prespecified window of P2Y12
      inhibition at 30 days defined as a threshold of 220 AU路min up to 350 AU路min of ADP-induced
      platelet aggregation measured by the Multiple Electrode platelet Aggregometry - Multiplate
      analyzer, DYNABYTE, Munich, Germany or a % inhibition between 30% up to 80% using the
      VerifyNowTMP2Y12 platform.Number of patients: The investigators have estimated the proportion
      of prasugrel-treated patients within the prespecified target of P2Y12 inhibition to be 75%.
      The investigators have formulated the hypothesis that 80% of rapid metabolizers on
      clopidogrel 75mg MD will stand in the optimal prespecified window of P2Y12 inhibition and the
      investigators wish to demonstrate that this proportion is not inferior to that of
      prasugrel-treated patients. Considering a power of 80%, an alpha-risk error of 0.05 and a
      non-inferiority margin of -10%, a sample size of 122 patients per group are required.
      Expected results: The GAMMA study will provide answers to a major challenge that is whether
      rapid genetic information on 2C19 genotype can help in reaching the optimal target of IPA
      using 2 different thienopyridine, that have different sensitivity to the CYP2C19 variants.
      Statistical analysis: The non inferiority will be considered as demonstrated (according to
      the consent risk) if the non inferiority margin of the 95% confidence interval of the
      difference in percentages is superior to the non inferiority margin (ICH Statistical
      Procedures). The non-inferiority margin has been established at -10% according to clinical
      considerations based on an acceptable maximal lost of efficacy.
    
  