
    
      The data and specimen repository of the ADCC study will provide a unified mechanism for
      cataloging and storing data that can be efficiently shared across studies. This repository
      will also allow for important collaborations with other Alzheimer's Disease Centers across
      the US that are performing similar investigations of adults at increased risk of dementia.
      Data sharing across multiple institutions and investigators will be critical to optimize
      speed of acquisition and standardization of outcomes that may ultimately lead to the
      development of innovative tools for early detection and new treatment strategies. The
      repository will include cognitive data, human specimen samples (blood, cerebrospinal fluid),
      medical and family history information, and neuroimaging data. Data collected from
      participants enrolled in the ADCC will be stored indefinitely for future investigations.

      Participants will include adults at least 55 years old, with or without a cognitive deficit,
      who meet criteria for inclusion into one of the groups described below. Males and females
      will be equal to distribution in the Triad area population. Additional recruitment efforts
      targeting underserved communities will be used to increase representation of these adults in
      the study cohort beyond what is typical in other local and national studies of AD.

      Eligible participants will have the option to participate in the core ADCC study and also in
      a biomarker-intensive substudy that will collect additional measurements of brain function
      and chemical markers of AD pathology. While all participants enrolled in the core ADCC study
      will receive brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Those enrolled in the substudy will
      complete a lumbar puncture (LP) to permit quantification of AD biomarkers in cerebrospinal
      fluid (CSF). Participants enrolled in the substudy will be referred to as the
      Biomarker-Intensive Group, or ADCC-BIG.

      At study entry, participants will meet inclusion criteria for membership in one of the groups
      that differ according to cognitive status and metabolic health (described below). Once
      enrolled, a change in cognitive or metabolic status will not affect eligibility to receive
      follow-up assessments as part of this study, although frequency of assessment may change
      (i.e., enrollees who progress to late-stage AD or type 2 diabetes will not be dis-enrolled).
      Eligible participants who choose to also enroll in ADCC-BIG must agree to complete the LP. If
      participants have screened or participated in another Kulynych Center study within the last 3
      months, some data may be reused to avoid redundant data collection and reduce participant
      burden. This data may include specimen samples such as blood or CSF, cognitive testing data
      and MRI imaging data.
    
  