
    
      PTs at local Early Intervention and pediatric home health agencies will be recruited to
      administer the home program and GMFM-88 (Appendix D) tests on their patients that consent to
      participate in the study.

      Recruitment of PTs will occur through an email sent to the local agencies. (Appendix E) The
      PTs (additional personnel) will watch a GMFM-88 training video. They will be given a GMFM-88
      manual, and blank protocols.

      Recruitment of participants will occur by the PTs, who are treating patients in a home health
      environment. The PTs will offer the opportunity to participate in the study to any of their
      patients/clients that meet the inclusion criteria by handing them a flyer about the study
      (Appendix A. If the parent of the potential participant is interested, the PT will ask the
      parent to call or email the closest investigator for more information (Austin, TX, San
      Marcos, CA, or St. Augustine, FL). The study investigator will discuss the study with the
      parent and, if parents decide to participate, email the informed consent to the parent.
      Parents who choose to participate will sign the informed consent form, which a study
      investigator will read and explain to the parents over the phone if requested. The parent
      will sign the informed consent in front of an investigator or the additional personnel PT.

      PTs will take a course on the responsible conduct of research through CITI. They will also be
      trained by one of the investigators on the protocol of how to properly conduct the study. The
      investigator will instruct the PTs that they may not coerce or discuss the study with
      potential participants, but can only hand the recruitment flyer to the parent of the
      participant. The PT will not ask the parent about their participation further after handing
      them the flyer. If the parent has questions, the PT will instruct the parent to contact the
      investigator for more information. The PT will also be instructed that data collection will
      not begin until the parent has signed the informed consent and the investigator has given the
      participant a number and randomly assigned the participant to a group.

      Parental consent will be obtained prior to any data collection. (Appendix C) Parents will
      complete a short demographic survey about their children (Appendix F).

      The primary investigator (PI) will then assign the child a participant number and randomly
      assign the child to either the control group or the intervention group. This will be done
      using a randomization website: https://www.graphpad.com/quickcalcs/randomize1.cfm.

      Once the child has been given a participant number and is assigned to a group, the PT will
      administer the first GMFM-88. PTs will continue to administer the GMFM-88 every 4 weeks to
      all participants, regardless of group. Each GMFM-88 testing session is expected to take
      approximately 20 minutes per session. PTs will stop administering the GMFM-88 when the child
      is able to take three independent steps. Additionally, PTs will note the child's age (in
      months/days) upon successfully attaining the following gross motor skills: 1) rolling, 2)
      sitting for 30 seconds independently, 3) transitioning from supine to sitting, 4) pulling up
      to stand, 5) standing independently for 30 seconds, 6) walking independently for three
      consecutive steps.

      When a child gains one of these gross motor skills listed above, parents will be asked to
      obtain a short video of the child performing the skill using their smart phone or computer.
      Parents will email the video to the PI via an encrypted email. No additional data will be
      collected and transmitted with the video clips. The PI will instruct parents on how to send
      an encrypted email by going to this website for instructions:
      https://www.pandasecurity.com/mediacenter/panda-security/how-to-encrypt-email/. Data obtained
      by the PTs will be sent to the PI electronically using the participant's number only, with no
      other identifying information. The PI will label the videos sent by the parents with the
      participant's number and no other identifying information prior to saving them on a
      password-secured external hard drive. All de-identified data (including videos) will be
      stored on a password-secured external hard drive. Only the PI will have access to the hard
      drive. Signed consent/assent forms will be kept in a locked cabinet in the locked office of
      the PI for at least 3 years.

      - Participants assigned to the control group will continue with their usual care.

      Participants in the intervention group will be given a custom pair of Hip Helpers速 to use at
      home. (Appendix G) Parents will begin the Hip Helpers速 home program upon study entry and stop
      the program once the child is able to pull to stand independently. The Hip Helpers速 home
      program protocol (Appendix H), which consists of using the orthotic garment twice daily for
      30 minutes each time, will be given to the parents and supervised by the PT. The Hip Helpers速
      should be donned when the child is actively playing, and not used sleep or when child is
      inactive. To monitor compliance, parents will be given a log (Appendix I) which they will
      fill out and turn into the PT during each GMFM-88 assessment. The PT will give the log and
      the GMFM-88 scores with the participant's number to the PI each month. Additionally, PTs will
      supervise the home program, adjusting it as needed for their individual patients within the
      following parameters: 1) the target for total wear time should be 1 hour to be distributed
      throughout the day, 2) total wear time should not exceed 1 hour per day, 3) PT may suggest
      positions or activities to engage the child while wearing the garment, but may not suggest
      using while sleeping, 4) PT may "ramp up" wear time as needed for the individual participant
      starting with as little as 15 minutes per day and increasing to the full 1 hour per day.

      Data collected by the PTs will be analyzed using IBM SPSS Statistics 24 software (IBM
      Corporation, Armonk, New York). To test the hypothesis that participants in the intervention
      group will improve their gross motor skills faster than participants in the control, groups
      will be compared on the length of time elapsed between the acquisition of identified gross
      motor skills using independent t-tests. A p-value < 0.05 will indicate significance. GMFM-88
      scores will be compared between the two groups at different ages to identify trends using
      independent t-tests. Average percent improvement will be calculated for both groups on
      various domains of the GMFM-88, and the difference in these improvements will be calculated
      between the two groups.

      Videos will be qualitatively analyzed by coding and triangulation. Quality and variability of
      movement will be coded by 2 of the investigators for each video. Inter- and intrarater
      agreement will be established before formal data coding using a ratio of agreements/
      disagreements x 100 to establish a percentage of agreements. Short descriptions of movement
      quality will be written by 2 investigators with all 3 investigators coding and categorizing
      the descriptions to determine emergent themes.
    
  