
    
      Primary hypothesis:

      - Generic immunosuppressants for which bioequivalence were established in single-dose healthy
      volunteer studies are also bioequivalent to the brand in stable transplant patients that are
      considered high-risk such as CYP3A expressors, AA, and diabetics patients under steady-state
      conditions and there will be no difference in intra-subject variability.

      Secondary hypotheses:

        -  Generic immunosuppressants will be bioequivalent among each other in transplant patients
           independent of the type of risk (CYP3A5 expression, race, diabetes, age or a combination
           hereof).

        -  All generic immunosuppressants and the brand will be bioequivalent to each other as
           confirmed in in vitro dissolution studies.

        -  Tacrolimus metabolism and clearance will not be affected by the formulation.

        -  Alternative bioequivalence metrics such as using narrower acceptance intervals and a
           population pharmacokinetic approach will confirm bioequivalence among the brand and the
           six generics in the aforementioned high-risk transplant patient populations.

      To test these hypotheses, we propose the following four Aims:

      AIM 1: Using a retrospective cohort design, we will evaluate the clinical and safety outcomes
      among adult transplant recipients whose tacrolimus dosage was converted from Prograf® to a
      generic formulation.

      In a retrospective review, evaluate the impact of generic conversion in adult transplant
      recipients on post transplant outcomes one year prior to conversion to one year post
      conversion. Variables for analysis will include but not limited to incidence of rejection,
      hospital admission, changes in renal function, changes in transplanted organ function. All
      tacrolimus levels and dose changes during this period will be collected and compared.
      Additional pharmacokinetic modeling of this data will be performed for comparison.

      Aim 2: Identification of a single lot with the longest expiration date from each unique
      manufactured product approved in the United States and conduct systematic dissolution,
      content uniformity and purity testing on all tacrolimus product.

      We will conduct systematic dissolution testing of the brand and all currently approved
      tacrolimus drug formulations using the FDA-recommended dissolution method. We propose to test
      and compare the 1 mg capsule strength. In addition, we will compare the different
      formulations in terms of potency, purity and other quality attributes. This work will be
      carried out in the GMP-compliant facilities of The University of Iowa Pharmaceuticals
      (uip.pharmacy.uiowa.edu) and at the University of Colorado (iC42 Clinical Research and
      Development, Department of Anesthesiology, University of Colorado, Laboratory Director: U.
      Christians). Based on these studies, if all lots pass current USP standards, we will proceed
      to the clinical trial described in Aim 3.

      Aim 3: Comparison of the relative bioavailability and steady-state pharmacokinetics of 6
      tacrolimus formulations in a prospective, 6-way cross-over study including CYP3A5 expressors
      (n=30) and non-expressor (n=30) transplant patients. Six tacrolimus formulations will be
      tested and each patient will receive each formulation once. As we proposed to test
      bioequivalence in the steady-state, patients will receive the test formulations for one week
      prior to pharmacokinetic evaluation. The pharmacokinetic evaluation will incorporate limited
      sampling strategies with a focus on fully characterizing the Cmax out to hour 4 post dose.
      Subsequent PK sampling and trough blood concentrations will be monitored on a daily basis
      using dried blood spots that the study subjects will collect by themselves at home. The daily
      monitoring of levels will allow us to specifically address whether the need of additional
      monitoring upon formulation conversion is necessary. It will be critical that the patients
      are adherent to their test medication to ensure that they have reached steady state. This
      will be monitored using test diaries, pill counts and MEMS caps (Medication Event Monitoring
      System (MEMS), AARDEX Corp, Palo Alto, CABioequivalence will be tested using scaled average
      bioequivalence metrics and analysis of variance as appropriate and intra-individual
      variability of the formulations will be compared. This will also include the analysis of
      potential period and sequence effects. A combination of limited sampling strategy and dry
      spot analysis in combination with population pharmacokinetic modeling will be utilized to
      fully characterize the PK profile of these formulations. In addition, the same study will be
      conducted in 36 pediatric patients.

      Aim 4. Subgroup analysis, population pharmacokinetics, and average bioequivalence Aim 4 is an
      exploratory aim in which we will (A) address the concern that bioequivalence in the "general"
      patient population will not translate to special subgroups such as high risk transplant
      recipients as characterized by genotype, race, age, gender, sensitization (repeat transplant
      or cytotoxic PRA >35% or calculated PRA >50%), presence of concomitant steroids, presence of
      diabetes. and (B) test alternative bioequivalence metrics that have been proposed for the
      analysis for immunosuppressant generics such as narrower acceptance intervals, average
      bioequivalence was well as population pharmacokinetics.
    
  