
    
      Methods/design Study aim This clinical trial aims to determine the effectiveness of a network
      of volunteers trained in CPR maneuvers and using the AED connected through an application
      (App) for smartwatch, which allows automatic activation in case of out-of-hospital
      cardiorespiratory arrest (OHCA), on the start time of the CPR maneuvers and use of the AED.

      This study will be carried out in 4 phases. 1) validate an App for smartwatch that allows the
      automatic activation of a network of volunteers trained in CPR maneuvers and use of the AED
      (Network-CPR) and the emergency services, in case the user of the smartwatch suffers a OHCA;
      2) training in basic CPR and use of the AED in the general population; 3) creating a network
      of volunteers from the subjects trained (Network-CPR); 4) determine the effectiveness of the
      automatic activation of the Network-CPR through an app for smartwatch on the start time of
      the CPR maneuvers and use of the AED; and to evaluate the competences in the performance of
      the maneuvers by the members of the Network-CPR through simulations in the city streets.

      Development of the mobile app An App was developed in the Android operating system for
      smartwatch, an App for mobile smartphones with Android operating systems, and a platform to
      install in the central computer of the Primary Care Emergency Center (PCEC). In case of
      detecting an absence of the heart rate (>3 seconds without heartbeat) and falling down to the
      ground of the smartwatch carrier, the application will send an alert in the first place to
      the smartwatch, if it is a false positive the smartwatch carrier will deactivate it. If it is
      a real alert and after 6 seconds the smartwatch carrier does not deactivate it, a warning
      alert will be generated and sent automatically to an App installed on the smartphones of the
      members of the Network-CPR (limited to members that are within a radius of 300 meters where
      the warning alert was generated), and at the same time will also reach a platform installed
      in the central computer of the PCEC. The members of the Network-CPR will receive on their
      smartphone the signal with the geolocation of the CRA, the map with the fastest route to
      reach the location of the CRA and the point where the nearest AED is located.

      Phase 1. Validation of the App. This validation will be done through the determination of
      automatic activations in various locations in the city, it will be determined if the alert
      reach the members of the Network-CPR and the PCEC and if it is geolocated in a precise way .
      In addition, during 3 months, four volunteers with high risk of CRA will carry the smartwatch
      and it will be determined if false activations (false positives) occur during this period of
      time.

      Phase 2 and 3. Training and creation of the Network-CPR that will cover the city. This
      network will be created with certain population groups that are routinely in contact with
      susceptible persons of OHCA (police, firemen, teaching staff, health personnel, merchants,
      pharmacists, university students, gym monitors, etc.), in addition, relatives of people with
      heart disease will be included. In the case of elderly people who are alone, they will
      include their neighbors or caregivers. In the city, there are 2,105 people with heart disease
      susceptible to OHCA. The research team and the health personnel of the participating primary
      care centers (PCC) will offer training courses on basic CPR maneuvers and use of the AED,
      following the protocol of the Center Català de Ressucitació (CCR) [14]. The training is aimed
      at training 430 people (20% of the relatives of people with heart disease) and will be made
      by trainers accredited by the CCR. There will be a total of 30 sessions with groups of
      approximately 15 people.

      At the end of the training courses, the research team will explain the project and offer
      voluntary participation in the Network-CPR. Recruitment of 100 participants (25% of the
      trained participants) is expected. This participation implies having a qualification of
      suitable, based on the evaluation of the competences during the course; being over 18 years;
      have a smartphone with Android operating system; the signing of the informed consent
      document; and the installation of the App receiving the alerts on the smartphone.

      Phase 4. Simulation study. A total of 134 simulations will be carried out with simulated CRA
      warnings alerts in the city. On 67 times, the alerts will reach the Network-CPR and the
      emergency services (intervention group) and 67 times only the emergency services(control
      group).

      The warnings alerts will be generated in 134 locations randomly, based on the locations where
      a CRA was notified to the emergency services during the year 2017 (51 locations). The
      intervention group will be activated through generated alerts that will arrive through the
      App for smartphones of the members of the Network-CPR that are in a radius of 300 meters; and
      through the platform installed in the PCEC central computer to the emergency services. The
      control group will be activated by telephone calls to the PCEC.

      The simulations will be carried out during two periods (morning and afternoon). During the
      time of the simulations a medical doctor and an emergency nurse (PCEC team) will be in the
      PCEC, to be activated, go to the locations and perform the simulations. The PCEC team will
      not know in which simulations they are activated or in which the Network-CPR is activated.

      At the locations you will find two trained and standardized health personnel (victim team:
      medical doctor or an emergency nurse and a trainer accredited by the CCR), duly identified,
      with a CPR mannequin and a practice AED.
    
  