
    
      This is a pilot study to evaluate the safety and tolerance of hLL2 (epratuzumab), a humanized
      anti-CD22 monoclonal antibody, in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).

      B-lymphocytes play a major role in initiating and maintaining the underlying
      immunopathological mechanisms of SLE. In addition to producing autoantibodies, they also
      serve as antigen presenting cells and are able to disrupt peripheral T lymphocyte tolerance.
      Furthermore, B lymphocyte depletion ameliorates disease activity in animal models of SLE.
      Therefore, targeted depletion of B-lymphocytes may be of therapeutic benefit in human SLE.

      hLL2 (epratuzumab) is a humanized monoclonal antibody that binds to CD22, a surface antigen
      expressed exclusively on B-lymphocytes. Clinical studies in patients with B cell lymphomas
      have shown that epratuzumab is safe and well tolerated across a wide range of doses. Although
      the exact mechanism is unknown, indirect evidence suggests that the antibody is depleting
      target B lymphocytes. Epratuzumab is made available by Immunomedics, Inc., and will be used
      under an investigator (NIH)-initiated IND.

      In this open-label, Phase I study, up to 20 patients with moderately active SLE may be
      enrolled. Patients will be treated with weekly infusions of hLL2 in one of three different
      dosing groups [(240 mg/m(2), 360 mg/m(2), 480 mg/m(2)] for 4 weeks, and followed for 8 weeks
      after the last dose.

      The primary objective is to determine the safety and tolerability of hLL2 in patients with
      SLE. In addition to safety data, clinical and laboratory data will also be collected for
      preliminary evaluation of the effectiveness of hLL2 in SLE and to assess the effect of hLL2
      on B and T lymphocytes in the lymphoid organs and the peripheral blood. If the treatment is
      safe and there is preliminary evidence of efficacy, this regimen could be used in controlled
      trials in the future.
    
  