
    
      Background and Introduction:

      Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in
      hospitalized patients. It is a well-known complication in patients after major surgery or
      trauma. More recently, medically ill patients have been identified as another high risk group
      with up to 15% of patients experiencing VTE in the absence of prophylaxis. 1 Several studies
      have found the use of enoxaparin, dalteparin, and fondaparinux to be safe and effective in
      reducing risk of VTE by 45% to 63% in medically ill patients. 1-3 Additionally, enoxaparin
      has been found to be at least as safe and effective as unfractionated heparin for VTE
      prophylaxis. 4 Enoxaparin 40 mg once daily has been shown to be a safe and effective
      prophylactic therapy in hospitalized patients. 1

      In thromboprophylaxis studies, including those investigating enoxaparin 40 mg once daily,
      morbidly obese patients (greater than or equal to 35 kg/m2) have been grossly under-enrolled.
      This is problematic for several reasons. First, the drug distribution is weight dependent and
      therefore, anticoagulant levels will differ according to a patient's weight. 5 Secondly, the
      FDA approved doses are fixed doses that do not take into account body weight. Thirdly, obese
      patients are at greater risk for failure in preventing VTE and obese patients are probably at
      greater risk for developing VTE. 6 Lastly, morbidly obese patients are becoming quite common
      as the population as a whole is becoming more obese.

      Even with this information, there are no standards of VTE prophylaxis in obese patients.
      Optimal means of delivering safe and effective thromboprophylaxis in this group is unknown.
      When using LMWH's, consensus recommendations have been to monitor peak anti-Xa activity
      targeting a level of 0.1-0.2 units/mL. 5 However, many hospitals do not have access to
      anti-Xa monitoring. Studies evaluating the predictability of weight-based prophylactic dosing
      of tinzaparin have demonstrated that anti-Xa levels are predictably achieved and therefore,
      laboratory monitoring may not be necessary with this dosing strategy.7 However, tinzaparin is
      not widely utilized in the U.S. and uncertainties remain about whether predictable anti-Xa
      levels can be achieved with a weight-based prophylactic regimen using the more commonly used
      drug enoxaparin. If weight-based dosing with enoxaparin is shown to result in predictable
      anti-Xa activity in obese patients, the need for monitoring would be obviated.

      Objectives: The primary objective is to evaluate the predictability in achieving target
      anti-Xa activity levels in morbidly obese medically ill patients using weight-adjusted (0.5
      mg/kg) once daily prophylactic dose of enoxaparin. The secondary objective is to gain
      information to evaluate the pharmacokinetic curve of enoxaparin in obese patients over 18
      hours after the second dose.

      Participant Selection Criteria: VTE risk will be evaluated with an institutionally utilized
      risk stratification scheme. This risk stratification scheme which was drafted by a
      multi-disciplinary panel, represents standard of care for medically ill patients at the
      University of Utah.

      Inclusion Criteria: Medically ill patients who are greater than 18 years of age who have a
      body mass index (BMI) greater than or equal to 35 kg/m2 who are admitted to the University of
      Utah Medical Center, are at risk for VTE, and are eligible for pharmacological prophylaxis as
      determined by patient's provider will be consented for the study.

      Exclusion Criteria: Patients who are pregnant (a urine HCG will be performed if a female of
      child-bearing age is not on reliable birth control, or if otherwise clinically indicated),
      are currently on therapeutic anticoagulation, have a bleeding disorder, platelet count of
      less than 100,000/mL, coagulopathy, active bleeding, creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min
      (based on Cockcroft-Gault equation, and rounding serum creatinine to 1 in patients greater
      than 65 years), or recent (within 14 days) stroke, surgery or trauma will be excluded.

      Design: This is a single arm study enrolling consecutive eligible patients admitted to the
      University of Utah Medical Center. This is a descriptive study evaluating the feasibility and
      predictability of administering weight-adjusted enoxaparin (0.5mg/kg once daily) to achieve
      recommended target peak anti-Xa levels in patients at extreme body weight. The hypothesis is
      that weight-adjusted prophylaxis will reliably achieve recommended target anti-Xa levels. If
      so, this would obviate the future need for routine anti-Xa monitoring using this
      pharmacologic regimen.

      Additionally, there will also be a parallel cohort evaluating a day 2 pharmacokinetic curve
      by 5-serial anti-Xa activity measurements in a subset of up to 2-3 patients in each weight
      group.

      Study procedures: Consecutive eligible patients will be enrolled if informed consent is
      given. Consent will be obtained in the University Hospital, mainly on the Internal Medicine
      Floor. It will be obtained by the one of the study co-investigators. At least one person who
      is obtaining consent will be available to consent patients any time of day and will have
      adequate time to exchange information and answer questions between investigator and
      participant.

      The study protocol uses a VTE prevention regimen that employs rational pharmacologic
      principles and is in line with published recommendations for prophylaxis in this patient
      population. In consideration of having a comparator cohort group, we would consider it to be
      unethical to have a cohort group receiving enoxaparin 40 mg subcutaneously once daily as a
      comparator group because pharmacologic data strongly suggests that effective levels of
      anticoagulation would not be achieved in this population of patients. 8 Informed consent was
      felt optimal in order to allow patients to fully understand that this regimen, although it is
      an acceptable standard of care, is being employed under the broader context of a study
      whereby other patient data will be collected and recorded in prospective fashion. Once
      informed consent is obtained, patients will begin VTE prophylaxis with enoxaparin 0.5 mg/kg
      subcutaneously once a day. Peak anti-Xa activity will be obtained in all patients through a
      venipuncture 4-6 hours after the first or second dose has been given. Five milliliters of
      blood will be drawn. This is the amount of blood that is needed for this laboratory test to
      be performed. Baseline clinical and demographic information will be obtained and recorded on
      standard case reporting forms, CRF (see Appendix B). Patients will continue prophylaxis as
      deemed necessary by their attending physician through the duration of their hospital stay or
      unless dictated otherwise by the patient's attending physician. Adverse events such as VTE,
      bleeding event, or thrombocytopenia will be recorded during the hospital stay (see Appendix
      C).

      If patients consent to do the additional testing, this will be marked on the consent form.
      These patients will have anti-Xa levels drawn before the first enoxaparin dose, and then at
      4h, 6h, 12h, and 18h after the second dose of enoxaparin. If the 12h anti-Xa level is
      obtained and is less than 0.05 units/mL, then the 18 hour blood test can be eliminated. The
      purpose of this section is to provide us with information to evaluate the pharmacokinetic
      curve of enoxaparin in obese patients over 18 hours.
    
  