
    
      Background:

        -  Although mesothelioma patients with a limited tumor burden may benefit from surgical
           resection, most patients have advanced disease at diagnosis and are not candidates for
           cytoreductive surgery.

        -  For mesothelioma patients who are not eligible for curative surgery, the median survival
           with supportive care alone is 6 months whereas with the current standard treatment, a
           combination of cisplatin and pemetrexed, the median survival is 12 months.

        -  Mesothelin, a tumor differentiation antigen, is expressed in over 95% of epitheloid
           mesothelioma. Mesothelin is a suitable candidate for targeted therapy due to its very
           limited expression in normal human tissue and its high expression in several tumors
           including mesothelioma.

        -  LMB-100 is a novel recombinant anti-mesothelin immunotoxin developed for the treatment
           of patients with solid tumors that express mesothelin. Mesothelin is targeted by linking
           a humanized fragment of the anti-mesothelin Fab to a de-immunized Pseudomonas exotoxin
           (PE).

        -  The clinical use of first generation immunotoxins such as SS1P was hampered mainly by
           their high immunogenicity. LMB-100 is a next generation PE-fusion protein that has been
           protein-engineered to maximally reduce its immunogenicity. LMB-100 has shown broad
           activity against different mesothelinexpressing cancer cell lines and tumor xenograft
           models.

      Objectives: Phase 1

      To identify the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of LMB-100 in patients with treatment
      refractory advanced epithelioid or biphasic mesothelioma and evaluate potential efficacy of
      the identified PP2D.

      -Phase 2

      To determine the efficacy of LMB-100 with respect to objective response rate in patients with
      treatment refractory advanced epithelioid or biphasic mesothelioma.

      Eligibility:

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years

        -  Histologically confirmed advanced pleural or peritoneal mesothelioma

        -  Subjects must have had at least 1 prior chemotherapy regimen with last dose of previous
           therapy occurring at 3 weeks before the start of study treatment

        -  Adequate organ function

        -  Participants with CNS metastases or prior pneumonectomy are excluded

      Design:

        -  This is a Phase I, open-label study to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics, and
           activity of LMB-100 in patients with treatment refractory advanced epithelioid or
           biphasic mesothelioma.

        -  LMB-100 will be administered intravenously on days 1, 3 and 5 of each 21 day cycle for
           up to 4 cycles

        -  Tumor response will be assessed after every 2 cycles

        -  Optional tumor biopsies may be collected at baseline and after 2 cycles of therapy

        -  The accrual ceiling will be set at 30
    
  