
    
      Diverting ileostomy is effective in reducing severity of anastomotic complications in rectal
      low anterior resections and it is therefore widely used especially after neoadjuvant
      chemoradiation treatment. In current clinical practice, in patients with indication to
      adjuvant chemotherapy, closure of ileostomy is usually performed after the end of the
      treatment. However, a prolonged presence of the ostomy can induce the onset of ostomy-related
      complications such as stoma prolapse, parastomal hernia, mechanical ileus, high flow
      dehydration and damage to renal function. The ostomy-related complications may require
      unplanned or prolonged hospitalization, thus increasing costs.

      Furthermore, the presence of the stoma may affect quality of life, causing alteration of the
      body image and imposing changes in the daily routine and lifestyle.

      Early closure of the ileostomy in patients without signs of postoperative fistula has
      therefore been proposed.

      Outcomes of early closure (within one month from surgery) of diverting ileostomy were
      demonstrated to be equal to those of late closure (more than 12 weeks from surgery) in 2
      randomized trials. Early closure may favor a better quality of life for patients, shortening
      the life-period with ileostomy, reduces health system economic expenditure and may represent
      the most desirable and convenient choice. It was also associated with better long term
      functional results in a randomized trial.

      In patients with indication to adjuvant therapy, however, timing to closure of the ostomy
      (before the start, during or at the end of treatment) is still a matter of debate in terms of
      compliance to systemic treatment, quality of life and overall costs.

      A recent multicenter retrospective study reported an increase in gastrointestinal toxicity in
      ostomy patients with a significant reduction in treatment compliance.

      On the other hand, early closure of the ostomy could unmask anterior resection syndrome
      (LARS) before chemotherapy, with potential negative impact on the tolerability of the
      treatment, or reveal postoperative complications thus delaying chemotherapy treatment.

      The trial will investigate which is the best strategy of dealing with temporary ileostomy in
      relation to adjuvant therapy.
    
  