
    
      The objectives of this study are to assess the utility of quantitative Magnetic Resonance
      Imaging (MRI) in assessment of response to neo-adjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer.
      Magnetic Resonance (MR) Fingerprinting based relaxometry allows quantification of T1 and T2
      relaxation times of tumor and normal breast tissue. Response to chemotherapy is associated
      with measurable changes in these properties and may be used to predict treatment response
      earlier than conventional MRI. The study team hypothesize that 3D MRF before, during and
      after chemotherapy can provide additional quantitative information about changes during
      treatment and may predict early response to chemotherapy.

      During visit 1, 3D MR Fingerprinting images will be added to the clinical MRI scan before
      start of chemotherapy. The additional research images will take less than 20 minutes to
      acquire During visit 2, patients will be scheduled for a research only non-contrast 3D MR
      Fingerprinting scan 7-10 days after the first cycle of chemotherapy. Acquisition of images
      will take approximately 30 minutes.

      During visit 3, if the treating physician orders a clinical MRI scan within 1 month of the
      end of chemotherapy treatment, the investigators will add a 3D MR Fingerprinting sequence to
      the clinical scan. The additional research images will take less than 20 minutes to acquire.
      If the patient is not scheduled for a clinical scan within 1 month of the end of chemotherapy
      treatment, the investigators will contact the patient to schedule a research only 3D MR
      Fingerprinting scan. The study team would like to administer IV gadolinium contrast for
      research purposes. Patients will be reconsented prior to the research only scan to determine
      whether or not they will receive IV contrast. If the patient declines administration of
      contrast for the post treatment scan, the study team will perform a non-contrast scan.
      Acquisition of images will take 30-45 minutes.
    
  