
    
      Hypertension as well as sodium and water retention are common in end-stage renal disease
      patients on peritoneal dialysis and expose patients to left ventricular hypertrophy and
      increase cardiovascular mortality.

      Moreover the poor control of dry weight and sodium/water balance results in increased
      morbidity. A previous low sodium study and computer simulations show that sodium removal can
      be improved with a low sodium fluid, which allows achieving a negative sodium balance without
      altering water balance.

      The aim of this study is to assess whether treatment with one low sodium bag can substitute
      for one isotonic glucose bag every day in order to reduce the blood pressure and/or
      medication for hypertension, defined as the primary endpoint.

      In order to evaluate the main criteria, blood pressure, a 24hours Ambulatory Blood Pressure
      Monitoring (ABPM) will be performed twice during the study, at Baseline and at 8 weeks of
      treatment, according to the EMEA guidance recommendations for anti-hypertensive treatments.
      In addition, the self measurement of blood pressure will be performed by patients at home
      during three consecutive days before each visit as well as in case of symptoms of
      hypotension.

      The study is designed in three periods:

        -  Run-in period during 1 month: a reference product Gambrosol Trio 40, one bag/ day will
           be used by all patients. This period is dedicated to train the patient in using of study
           product, to stabilize the patient in the PD treatment and to randomize the patient, by
           performing the 24h ABPM.

        -  Efficacy & Safety period during 6 months: each patient will be treated with one of two
           product : PDsol 12 (studied product) or Gambrosol Trio 40 (reference product) during 6
           months. The aim of this period is to evaluate the efficacy and long-term tolerance of
           new PD fluid.

        -  Follow-up period during 2 months: without treatment. This period is dedicated to ensure
           the safety of the patients after the study product treatment was stopped and to obtain
           the information about the reversibility of product effect.
    
  