
    
      Primary Objective:

      Atherosclerosis of the carotid arteries is a common cause of stroke. The prevalence and
      progression of carotid atherosclerosis are believed to be influenced by genetically inherited
      variations in lipoprotein metabolism. This study investigates the specific role of
      paraoxonase, an enzyme thought to detoxify atherogenic oxidized low-density lipoprotein. This
      study compares veterans who have significant carotid atherosclerosis on ultrasound
      examination with controls without carotid atherosclerosis. Both paraoxonase activity and
      genotype will be determined and compared between groups. The results may eventually make it
      possible to screen for a paraoxonase allele that confers high risk of atherosclerosis, and to
      diminish the risk by early treatment.

      Study Abstract:

      The general aim of the proposed research is to evaluate the contribution and mechanism of
      paraoxonase (PON1) genotypic and phenotypic variation (PON1 status) in risk and progression
      of carotid artery disease (CAAD). We propose to study moderately affected individuals
      currently being enrolled in a longitudinal, 3-year magnetic resonance imaging (MR) study to
      evaluate components of MR image as predictors of CAAD progression. We will study the role of
      PON1 in CAAD progression in this cohort. We will also collect age-, sex-, race-, and
      hospital- matched controls, to test hypotheses related to the presence or absence of CAAD. We
      plan to consider the complex genetic architecture of both vascular disease and PON1 effects
      in vascular disease. In addition to evaluating known paraoxonase (PON1) polymorphisms, we
      will evaluate PON1 hydrolysis phenotypes. We have shown that these intervening phenotypes can
      be superior to known genotypes in CAAD prediction. We will also evaluate PON1 polymorphisms
      that we have recently detected and shown to affect PON1 expression, as well as consider
      haplotype effects. The specific aims are to: 1) test for PON1 effects in CAAD progression
      evaluated by 3 year magnetic resonance image follow-up of percent lumen stenosis; 2) test for
      PON1 effects in moderate CAAD vs. control prediction, including independence of PON1 from
      traditional cardiovascular risk factors; and 3) evaluate the possible mechanisms of PON1's
      association with carotid artery disease, specifically PON1's relationship with the
      susceptibility of LDL to oxidation and variation in LDL density.

      Two paraoxonase (PON1) polymorphisms, PON1-Q192R and PON1-L55M have been inconsistently
      associated with vascular disease. However, plasma PON1 activity phenotypes vary markedly
      within genotypes. Thus, activity was expected to add to the informativeness of genotype for
      predicting vascular disease. The case-control study included 212 age and race matched men
      with mean age 66.4 yr. (range 49-82 yr.); 95% were Caucasian. The 106 carotid artery disease
      (CAAD) cases had >80% carotid stenosis and the 106 controls had <15% stenosis. Two PON1
      substrate hydrolysis rates (paraoxon, POase; diazoxon, DZOase) were significantly lower in
      cases than in controls and were significant predictors of CAAD using logistic regression
      (POase, p=0.005, 25% reduced; DZOase, p=0.019, 16% reduced). POase and DZOase were both
      significant when included in the same model. DZOase predicted vascular disease independently
      of lipoprotein profile, HDL subfractions, apoAI, and smoking. The marginal effects of
      PON1-192 (p=0.75) and PON1-55 (p=0.83) genotypes or haplotype (0.70) did not predict
      case-control status. However, when phenotype was included as a predictor both PON1-192 and
      PON1-55 genotypes or haplotypes were significant predictors at the 0.05 level. The common
      methodology of examining PON1-192 and/or PON1-55 genotypes alone may lead to the erroneous
      conclusion that there is no PON1 role in CAAD. This may have broad implications for the
      utility of the "genotype only" approach. These results support the benefit of a "level
      crossing" approach that includes intervening phenotypes in the study of complexly inherited
      disease
    
  