
    
      A pilot study design will initially assess the feasibility and acceptability of the ACT and
      study protocol with this client group in order to inform a future clinical trial.

      The methodology involves both quantitative and qualitative methods and will involve
      inpatients at Brain Injury Rehabilitation Trust (BIRT) units, staff involved in the day to
      day care of inpatients and clinicians involved in the administration of therapy. Quantitative
      methods (questionnaires) were chosen to assess any possible change in assessment measures.
      The measures chosen have been previously used. They have good validity (the ability to answer
      the questions asked) and reliability, and therefore are practically suitable for measuring
      outcomes of therapy. Qualitative methods (focus groups) were also chosen, owing to the pilot
      nature of this research, in order to obtain personal opinion on the acceptability of the
      intervention and the treatment protocol, from those participating.

      The intervention will be administered, alongside TAU, to inpatients at a BIRT centre in
      Glasgow and will be compared to a comparison group which will receive TAU only (who will be
      based in BIRT centres in either York and/or Leeds). The rational for choosing a BIRT centre
      in Glasgow for the intervention group is one of convenience as all researchers involved in
      the study are based in Glasgow. This will help facilitate data collection and reduce cost.
      Given that all BIRT centres adhere to a similar philosophy of care and rehabilitation and
      service user profiles are relatively similar, it was believed that recruiting elsewhere for
      the purpose of comparison would be appropriate. Recruiting treatment and comparison groups
      from separate centres also ensures that clients receiving TAU only do not learn ACT
      strategies accidentally through discussion with peers or staff. If this were to happen any
      indication of change could not be attributed to the difference in treatments provided.

      Five participant groups will be recruited:

        -  clients in the inpatient setting (treatment group),

        -  clients in the inpatient setting (comparison group),

        -  care staff working directly with clients (treatment group),

        -  care staff working directly with clients (comparison group)

        -  psychology staff involved in administering the intervention.

      All participants will be provided with an information sheet and consent will be sought prior
      to their participation in the study. All interventions, assessments and focus groups will be
      completed at the participants respective centres. All recruitment, with the exception of the
      psychology staff who are a convenient sample, will be conducted by a staff member not
      involved in the direct write up of the study. Further to this all outcome measures and focus
      groups will be conducted by researchers not involved in the provision of treatment.

      Psychology staff at the intervention centre who have completed training on ACT will be
      further informed of the study. If they choose to participate they will recruit clients at
      BIRT in Glasgow, completing a record form identifying inclusion and exclusion criteria met.
      This form will allow the staff to outline any barriers or difficulties encountered as part of
      this process. Information sheets will then be provided to recruited clients, in addition to
      care staff who work with them.

      The study will also be explained to heads of service at each of the comparison sites,
      providing them both with an integrated protocol. They will identify a point of contact who
      will complete recruitment as detailed above.

      Each participant will be given between 24hours and 1 week to decide whether to participate.

      Researchers will first meet with care staff informed of the study at each centre to discuss
      their own consent and provide consent form to them. At this point only risk information for
      each client will be discussed with the care staff with the purpose of ensuring the safety of
      both the clients and researchers at first point of contact.

      Researchers will meet with recruited clients individually to discuss consent and complete
      questionnaires.

      Researchers will again meet with care staff to discuss client demographic information and to
      complete one questionnaire, if clients have consented for this to take place.

      The trained psychology staff will provide 6 weeks of ACT training to clients in the treatment
      group weekly. Each group will have up to 4 clients per group.

      Researchers will meet with both groups after this time period to repeat testing of the
      questionnaires with both staff.

      Details concerning what treatments, aside from ACT, were provided to each client during the 6
      week period will be collected from case files and through discussion with staff.

      Clients at all centres will be invited to take part in a focus group at this time to discuss
      their participation in the study.

      Care staff at the intervention centre will be invited to participate in a focus group.

      Psychology staff at the intervention centre will be invited to participate in a focus group
      and complete a questionnaire.

      Further research tasks to be completed by staff:

      Any observations as part of applying the study protocol will also be documented. For example,
      the participant flow, drop out rates, the administration of questionnaires, the storage of
      materials and ethical issues will all be commented upon as per the objective of the overall
      pilot study.

      Guidelines for reporting Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) will be piloted as part of this study.
      In order to establish base rates for this group, a record will be kept of any SAE experience
      by participants of intervention or comparison group. A checklist of potential SAEs will be
      used at both times of testing for treatment and control group in order to establish whether
      any SAEs occurred.
    
  