
    
      Endoscopic submucosal dissection as the fastest growing endoscopic treatment technology in
      the past decade has been widely used in the treatment of early esophageal cancer and gastric
      cancer without local lymph node metastasis. The main complications of ESD treatment of early
      esophageal cancer are hemorrhage, perforation, postoperative esophageal stenosis, infection,
      etc. Postoperative esophageal stenosis is the most common and major complication after ESD
      treating patients with lesion involving more than 2/3 esophagus cycle. It is very important
      to prevent esophageal stricture after ESD. Glucocorticoid is gradually concerned by clinical
      research because it can inhibit local inflammatory response and reduce the formation of
      connective tissue in order to prevent postoperative stenosis. The specific usages include
      endoscopic injection of corticosteroids, oral corticosteroids and combination of them. The
      study shows that the incidence of esophageal stricture after using glucocorticoid can be
      reduced effectively. Currently, there is no uniform consensus on the use of glucocorticoids,
      such as specific drugs, dosage, course of treatment, route of administration. In particular,
      efficacy comparison of different routes of administration is laking. Studies have shown that
      endoscopic injection triamcinolone acetonide in some patients with intractable esophageal
      stricture is not very effective, but it can be treated with oral corticosteroids. Aluminium
      Phosphate Gel is a kind of neutral buffer. The main component aluminum phosphate can form a
      strong ion buffer system in acidic environment. The structure of its auxiliary components
      agar and pectin is similar to that of natural mucus. It forms a mucous layer in the esophagus
      to restore and protect the esophageal mucosa. Therefore, investigators assume the
      hydrocortisone sodium succinate aluminum phosphate mixed gel can be used for preventing
      postoperative ESD stenosis of patients with a large area of early esophageal cancer. This
      study will design a randomized controlled trial to compare the effect of oral hydrocortisone
      sodium succinate mixed Aluminium Phosphate Gel and local injection of triamcinolone acetonide
      plus oral prednisone for the prevention of ESD postoperative esophageal stricture in patients
      with a large area of early esophageal cancer.

      The investigators will recruit patients according to admission criteria and exclusion
      criteria. The patients will be randomly divided into oral hydrocortisone mixed Aluminium
      Phosphate gel group (experimental group) and local injection of triamcinolone acetonide plus
      oral prednisone group (control group). The test group begin to take hydrocortisone sodium
      succinate mixed with Aluminium Phosphate gel after 24 hours and gradually reduse the dose.
      The control group will get local injection of triamcinolone acetonide in wound during the
      operation, and begin to take oral prednisone after 24 hours and gradually reduse the dose.
      The main result is esophageal stenosis rate 3 months after ESD.
    
  