
    
      Introduction: Globally, the incidence of Postoperative ventilatory failure (PVF ) is 3%. in
      patients with reduce ventilatory function due to phrenic nerve block PVF increases to 16%
      (data obtained from a pilot study not published). Diaphragmatic ultrasound by evaluating the
      TF (thickening fraction of the diaphragm) and DE (diaphragmatic excursion) has shown great
      sensitivity and specificity in predicting success in ventilatory weaning of patients under
      mechanical ventilation in the ICU. in the same way, the hypothesis of researchers is that
      Diaphragms ultrasound its also a useful tool to detect and predict patients at risk of
      develope PVF in case of hemidiaphragm palsy.

      Sample size estimated: 124 patients RELATIVE RISK

      Proportion exposed with study event (PVF after ISB 16%): 0,16 Proportion exposed without
      study event (global PVF 3%): 0,03 Relative risk to detect: 5,33 confidence level: 0,90
      relative Precision : 0,6 Minimum SAMPLE SIZE: 124

      we measure:

        1. Ecographic Diaphragm function measured 2 times, TF (thickening fraction) and DE
           (diaphragmatic excursion).

             -  Measure 1 preoperative (before ISB and surgical procedure): it asses diaphragm
                function of both hemidiaphragms.

             -  Measure 2 postoperative (after ISB and surgical procedure): it reasses diaphragm
                function of both hemidiaphragms.

        2. Incidence of Postoperative Ventilatory Failure PVF (defined by RR>22, or dyspnea or
           PO2/FiO2<300)

      Hipotesis: Despite high incidence of hemidiaprhagm palsy after ISB, patients only develope
      Postoperative ventilatory faliure when Contralateral Hemidiaphragm is not healthy.

      main outcomes: incidence of hemidiaphragm palsy and PVF after shoulder surgery with
      Interscalene block.

      secondary outcomes:

        1. cut-off values of TF and DE to detect PVF(Sensibility and Specificity)

        2. cut-off values of TF and DE to predict risk of PVF
    
  