
    
      At the screening visit consenting patients will be screened for eligibility according to
      study specific inclusion/exclusion criteria within 8 weeks before start of Investigational
      Medicinal Product (IMP) administration. A diary concordance training will be performed and
      following the screening visit the patient will be asked to self-administer three 24-hour home
      diaries and to bring the completed diaries to the baseline visit for assessment prior
      randomization.

      At the baseline visit, patients will be randomized to receive one of three doses of
      mesdopetam (dose 1, dose 2 and dose 3) or placebo b.i.d.

      During the first week a dose run-in phase will take place, where all patients allocated to
      mesdopetam will receive a run-in dose of mesdopetam twice daily and patients allocated to
      placebo will receive placebo twice daily. At Visit 2, patients will receive mesdopetam dose
      1, dose 2 or dose 3 or placebo b.i.d., as randomized and continue the same dose for the rest
      of the treatment period until EOT. Dose reductions are restricted and the dose can only be
      reduced once. Dose reductions are permitted from visit 2 (day 9) until visit 3 (day 28),
      where after the dose should be kept stable until EOT.

      The treatment allocation will be double-blind, i.e. it will not be disclosed to the patients,
      the site staff or the Sponsor.

      During the treatment period, changes in disease state and ON phase dyskinesia will be
      assessed using the MDS-UPDRS, the modified UDysRS (i.e. parts 1, 3 and 4), and Clinician's
      Global Impression of Severity (CGI-S). Furthermore, patients will self-administer three
      24-hour home diaries prior to visit 3 (week 4), visit 4 (week 8) and visit 5 (week 12) to
      assess daily motor function.

      Blood samples for pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis will be collected at visit 4 (week 8) and
      visit 5 (week 12).

      Visit 6 (follow-up) will be performed for all patients, including any patients that
      discontinue the IMP early, 5-8 days after last administration of IMP.
    
  