
    
      Background and rationale for the trial Etiological concepts on cancer development, malignant
      growth and tumor propagation have led to the discovery of various molecular driver
      mechanisms. Based on these advances, medical oncology has started to enter an era of
      individualized medicine where treatment selection is becoming tailored to drug-able molecular
      pathways. This individualized treatment concept is mainly based on molecular and genetic
      characterization of the tumors including biomarker technology, which allow us to align the
      most appropriate treatment according to the patient's disease. Although there is a general
      acceptance towards such individualized approach thereby stratifying and subgrouping patients
      to improve the quality of clinical care in oncology, molecular profiling has just started to
      assist prediction of the drug's clinical benefit by identifying the most responsive patient
      subgroup. Recently, excellent demonstrations of the utility of prognostic and/or predictive
      biomarkers have emerged. Von Hoff and co-workers have recently demonstrated that molecular
      profiling of patients' tumors is an efficient approach to identify potential targets and
      select treatments for their treatment-refractory cancers(Von Hoff, Stephenson et al. 2010).
      Such a tailored treatment strategy revealed to be an effective approach to increase
      progression free survival (PFS), when compared to the patients' most recent standard
      treatment regimen. Another example for individualized treatment of patients is given by the
      recently published BATTLE trial (Biomarker-integrated Approaches of Targeted Therapy for Lung
      Cancer Elimination), a prospective biomarker and biopsy driven trial in pretreated non-small
      cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients (Kim, Herbst et al. 2011). By this Bayesian approach, the
      authors demonstrated that targeting individually analyzed molecules of the patient's tumor
      might represent an efficient therapeutic approach in the treatment of an incurable disease.
      While these examples suggest a benefit for individual tumor characterization for selection of
      a tailored treatment concept, currently novel targeted agents in the treatment of cancer are
      rather approved for a certain subtype of cancer, but not for patients based on the expression
      or activity of respective target lesions. Therefore, the need of an extension of clinical
      protocols focusing on molecular profile-based treatment decisions, rather than on anatomic
      cancer-subtypes is mandatory. Based on this concept the current protocol was designed. The
      investigators hypothesize that molecular profiling of a patient's tumor might not only
      predict treatment response, but also leads to an individualized treatment protocol resulting
      in clinical benefit for the individual patient. Therefore, this project aims to assess the
      feasibility of an individualized treatment concept for pre-defined patient's benefit.

      Design, methodology, statistical considerations and organization The Medical University of
      Vienna will be clinical sponsor and clinical center of this investigator-initiated open-label
      single center single-arm, exploratory phase II study. The individualized treatment concept is
      determined to be biopsy-mandated and biomarker-based. Bio-data analysis will be supported by
      a software, which is generated by the Center of Medical Statistics, Informatics and
      Intelligent Systems.

      Study design and methodology Patients with relapsed/ refractory acute leukemia and relapsed/
      refractory aggressive lymphoma harboring an activating genetic alteration (gene mutation,
      gene fusion) or drug-able biomarker / activated signal transduction pathway and resistant to
      any approved treatment modality will be eligible for this study.

      The investigators aim to combine DNA sequencing-based molecular profiling with an ex vivo
      high-throughput drug screening strategy. For the latter method, viable cells are obtained
      from the individual patient's lymphoma or leukemia in order to determine i)the expression of
      relevant therapeutic target molecules and ii)the ex vivo response of the patient's cancer
      cells to a panel of agents with anticancer activity. In addition, analysis of tumor stroma
      cells will provide information about the differential target expression and cellular
      sensitivity aiming at the evaluation of a therapeutic safety window. Thereby, biological
      material will have to be accessed within 4 weeks before onset of individualized treatment
      (real-time biopsy). Bioinformatic data-management based on a Bayesian statistical approach
      will support individualized treatment decisions in this controlled clinical approach.

      Number of patients. A sample size of 49 patients achieves ≥ 80% power to detect a difference
      of 15% between the null hypothesis proportion P0 (PFS ratio ≥ 1.3) = 10% and the alternative
      proportion P1(PFS ratio ≥ 1.3) = 25% using a one-sided exact binomial test at a significance
      level of 0.0250. The null hypothesis can be rejected, if at least 10 out of 50 patients
      treated show a PFS ratio ≥ 1.3. The investigators therefore aim to enroll 49 leukemia
      patients and 49 lymphoma patients.

      Target population. Patients with relapsed/ refractory acute leukemia and relapsed/ refractory
      aggressive lymphoma after standard treatment. Standard treatment is defined according to
      actual National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN)
      (http://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/f_guidelines.asp) and/or local guidelines.
      49 acute leukemia subjects and 49 lymphoma subjects will be screened for enrolment in the
      trial. Deviations from inclusion criteria are not allowed because they can potentially
      jeopardize the scientific integrity of the study, regulatory acceptability or subject safety.
      Therefore, adherence to the criteria as specified in the protocol is essential. Inclusion
      criteria as well as exclusion criteria must be respected.
    
  