
    
      Rationale: The drug combination called CHOP, or Cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan), Doxorubicin
      (Adriamycin), Vincristine (Oncovin), and Prednisone (Deltasone), has been used against
      different types of lymphoma for many years. Researchers are investigating what other
      therapies to combine with the CHOP regimen to improve outcomes for patients with lymphoma.
      The current study combines CHOP with alemtuzumab, a monoclonal antibody used against
      leukemia. Monoclonal antibodies are a type of immunotherapy used against some types of
      cancer. They are produced in a laboratory and designed to target as well as bind with cells
      that carry specific proteins. Alemtuzumab is designed to target leukemia cells that express a
      specific protein. The specific protein recognized by alemtuzumab is the CD52 antigen. This
      antigen, or substance that causes the immune system to create a specific response, is
      expressed on normal B and T cells, as well as on abnormal T cells characteristic of certain
      cancers. Alemtuzumab causes the CD52 antigen to bind with B-cell lymphocytes. This study will
      also assess the theory that alemtuzumab may increase the effectiveness of the chemotherapy
      agents included in the CHOP regimen.

      Treatment: Patients in this study will receive alemtuzumab and CHOP. Alemtuzumab will be
      given through injections into the skin and CHOP will be administered through intravenous
      infusions. Patients will receive alemtuzumab alone during the first week of the study. An
      increasing amount of alemtuzumab will be given during the first week. If patients cannot
      tolerate the highest amount of alemtuzumab determined as appropriate within one week, they
      will be removed from the study. Once the highest dose of alemtuzumab has been achieved,
      patients will then receive both alemtuzumab and CHOP every three weeks. This schedule will be
      repeated up to eight times. Several tests and exams will be given throughout the study to
      closely monitor patients. Treatments will be discontinued due to disease growth or
      unacceptable side effects.
    
  