
    
      Background

      Compared with the general population, patients with schizophrenia have an increased risk of
      death from atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases (ASCVD) that reflect coronary heart
      disease, stroke and peripheral vascular disease (Newcomer, 2007). Among the factors
      contributing to the increased prevalence of ASCVD in schizophrenia are a) unhealthy lifestyle
      (cigarette smoking, lack of physical activity, increased consumption of calorie-dense foods
      rich in saturated fats and carbohydrates), b) genetic vulnerability to glucose intolerance
      and diabetes; c) metabolic side-effects of psychotropic drugs; and d) lack of access or
      compliance with community-based medical care, particularly clozapine or olanzapine.
      Biologically, the common pathway leading to increased risk of ASCVD in schizophrenia is the
      metabolic syndrome, an entity defined as 3 or more of the following 5 characteristics:
      abdominal obesity, increased blood pressure, increased fasting glucose, increased levels of
      triglycerides and abnormally low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. The
      prevalence of metabolic syndrome in schizophrenia ranges form 29% to 63% and is significantly
      greater than the frequency of 21% in the general population (Correll et al., 2006). As in the
      general population, the metabolic syndrome of patients with schizophrenia is explained by
      increased intraabdominal adiposity leading to insulin resistance and excess of circulating
      free fatty acids which are converted into triglyceride-rich lipoproteins with atherogenic
      potential.

      The treatment of metabolic syndrome relies primarily on therapeutic lifestyle changes aiming
      to reduce weight, decrease intake of saturated fats and carbohydrates with high glycemic
      index, eliminate smoking, and increase physical activity. Drug therapy is required for the
      patients who fail to respond to lifestyle changes and the American Heart Association (AHA)
      has published detailed guidelines for the pharmacologic management of metabolic syndrome
      (Grundy et al., 2005). These guidelines are based on research indicating substantial
      improvement in the risk of ASCVD of patients with metabolic syndrome treated with metformin
      and acarbose for impaired glucose tolerance; statins, fibrates and nicotinic acid for lipid
      abnormalities; angiotensin receptor blockers for increased blood pressure; and sibutramine
      and orlistat for weight management. Some of these interventions (e.g., metformin and
      sibutramine for weight management) have been completed in research settings with small
      samples of patients with schizophrenia (Henderson et al., 2005; Wu et al., 2008) and have
      produced promising results. However, treatment trials using the comprehensive AHA guidelines
      have not yet been conducted in schizophrenics with metabolic syndrome.

      Current Standard of Care at Zucker Hillside Hospital

      The Aftercare Clinic at Zucker Hillside Hospital has the oldest Clozapine Clinic in the U.S.
      Opened in 1987, the Clozapine Clinic has a current enrollment of 230 adult patients.
      According to hospital policy, all Clozapine Clinic patients must have an annual physical
      evaluation and laboratory tests for the detection of obesity, dyslipidemia, glucose
      intolerance, hypertension and metabolic syndrome. The mandatory physical examinations are
      performed by each patient's outside physician or by the Clinic's Nurse Practitioners.
      Laboratory testing is performed at Long Island Jewish Medical Center's laboratories. The
      physical examinations and laboratory findings are reviewed by each patient's psychiatrists.
      Patients with physical or laboratory abnormalities are referred for care to internal medicine
      specialists (i.e., general internal medicine, endocrinology, cardiology) in private practice
      or to the appropriate outpatient clinics at Long Island Jewish Medical Center as deemed
      necessary by their psychiatrists. At the present time, it is not known how many schizophrenia
      patients with metabolic syndrome treated in the Aftercare Program (outpatient clinic) at ZHH
      receive care according to the standard defined by the American Heart Association.

      Objective

      We plan to evaluate the effect of application of AHA guidelines for the treatment of
      metabolic syndrome in patients with schizophrenia who are receiving clozapine, an
      antipsychotic known to produce weight gain and metabolic abnormalities in a majority of
      patients (Newcomer, 2006). The study will include only outpatients receiving care in the
      Clozapine Clinic. .

      The study's primary aim is to compare the effectiveness of managing metabolic syndrome in
      schizophrenia at the site of psychiatric outpatient services (integrated care) with treatment
      obtained and coordinated by the patients Hillside psychiatrist (usual care). We propose that
      Integrated care will remove access barriers, improve compliance, enhance communication
      between psychiatry and internal medicine providers, and facilitate education for weight
      management and smoking cessation. The management of metabolic syndrome for patients receiving
      integrated care will adhere to the AHA guidelines (Grundy et al., 2005) which describe
      dietary, exercise and pharmacologic interventions that have been extensively validated in the
      general population. All of the medications suggested in the guidelines have been FDA-approved
      for the individual components of metabolic syndrome. The 'usual care' group will receive the
      current standard of care set by Hillside Hospital.

      Importance of the Study

      This is the first randomized trial of a "no-barriers" model of medical care for an
      underserved and vulnerable mentally ill population. To increase homogeneity of the study
      population and significance of the expected difference between integrated and usual care, the
      study will assess only patients with the same psychiatric diagnosis (schizophrenia), treated
      with the same psychotropic (clozapine) in a single, well-established outpatient setting. The
      duration of the study is adequate to demonstrate whether the metabolic syndrome components
      respond to life style modification and /or specific pharmacological intervention.

      Research Design and Methods

      Hypothesis

      Integrated, on-site, medical management of metabolic syndrome in patients with schizophrenia
      is superior to usual care in the community, primarily because it will remove barriers related
      to access to medical providers and increase compliance with drug therapy and laboratory
      testing. The improvement will lead to decreased frequency of metabolic syndrome in the
      sample, decreased risk of future ASCVD events (as predicted by AHA-recommended instruments),
      decreased waist circumference, fasting glucose, blood pressure and triglyceride levels and
      increased levels of HDL.
    
  