
    
      Rationale:

      Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by both motor and non-motor symptoms, including
      cognitive decline. Mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI) is already present at time of diagnosis
      in 24-36% of PD patients. Cognitive impairment in PD is associated with both cholinergic and
      dopaminergic deficiencies in the brain. Although dopaminergic neuronal degeneration is quite
      well established in relationship to the motor impairment, the rate and extent of the
      cholinergic neuronal degeneration in the course of PD is unknown. It is also unclear how
      cholinergic and dopaminergic degeneration contributes to cognitive deficits found in early
      and more advanced PD and its role in the progression over time.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective is to establish the relationship between cognitive impairment and
      cholinergic neurodegeneration in de novo PD patients, by studying cholinergic imaging using [
      18 F]Fluoroethoxy-Benzovesamicol ([18F]FEOBV) positron emission tomography (PET) and
      neuropsychological performance over time.

      Secondary objectives include: (1) the investigation of possible predictive factors using
      optical coherence tomography and (2) to determine the relative contributions of PD diagnosis
      and dopaminergic medication use to the changes in microbiota composition observed in PD
      patients.

      Study design:

      At baseline patients will undergo the following investigations and questionnaires:
      Demographics, detailed medical history, neuropsychological assessment, imaging including MRI
      brain, dopaminergic Fluoro-18-L-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (18F-FDOPA) and cholinergic FEOBV PET,
      optical coherence tomography (OCT) and microbiota composition. At one year follow-up subjects
      will undergo motor-, neuropsychological, and microbiota assessment. At 3 year follow up
      baseline measurements will be repeated in its entirety with the exception of the genetic and
      gastrointestinal assessments.

      Study population:

      150 de novo PD patients, recruited from the neurological practices in the northern area of
      the Netherlands and healthy control subjects. Healthy age-,sex- and constipation-matched
      controls will be assessed on microbiota composition

      Assessment and endpoints related to gastroenterological assessment have been approved under a
      separate research protocol (NL61123.042.17 - CCMO) and has been officially linked to the
      overall protocol.
    
  