
    
      At birth, the neonatal gastro-intestinal (GI) tract is rapidly colonized by maternal and
      environmental bacteria; the first colonizers are generally aerobes and facultative anaerobes,
      followed by strict anaerobes (e.g. Bifidobacterium spp., Bacteroides spp., and Clostridium
      spp.). The composition of gut microbiota is influenced by several factors, such as mode of
      delivery, gestational age, maternal intestinal and vaginal microbiota, type of feeding,
      hospitalization after birth and use of antibiotics and probiotics.

      Gut microbiota of term infants, vaginally delivered and exclusively breastfed, is considered
      to be ideally healthy, with a low count of C. difficile and E. coli and a high number of
      Bidifobacteria and Lactobacilli, which positively influence the host's health by activating
      immunocompetent cells in the GI tract, promoting the production of secretory IgA and
      increasing the bactericidal activity of neutrophils and cell-mediated immunity such as NK
      cell activity.

      Group B Streptococcus (GBS) is one of the most important causes of neonatal infections and
      sepsis. Infants vaginally delivered may acquire GBS during the birth process from maternal
      vagina, cervix or rectum, where it resides in approximately 10-20% of pregnant women. Since
      the mid-90s, the incidence of early-onset GBS sepsis is significantly reduced, due to the
      introduction of GBS universal screening during late pregnancy and consequent intrapartum
      antibiotic prophylaxis (IAP) in GBS-positive women.

      Recent data suggest that the use of antibiotics in early life could alter the commensal gut
      microbiota, thereby impairing the balance between health and disease later in life. The
      effect of IAP on bacterial colonization of the infant's gut has not been largely
      investigated. Moreover, currently available data on this issue largely derive from studies
      performed using culture-based techniques; however, accurate culture-based results are
      influenced by the selection of the correct media, temperature, oxygen content and time for
      growth, and for this reason as little as 10-50% of the entire gut bacteria are easily
      cultured. Molecular techniques, based on the amplification of the 16S ribosomal bacterial RNA
      gene to differentiate prokaryotic taxa, have been recently developed for the study of gut
      microbiota, thus enabling a more detailed characterization of bacterial communities than
      standard culture.

      We have previously evaluated the effect of IAP in a relatively small sample of exclusively
      breast-fed term infants vaginally delivered by means of molecular techniques; at 7 days of
      life there were several differences in microbiota composition between infants IAP-exposed and
      not exposed.

      The aim of the present paper is thus to evaluate these differences in further detail,
      expanding the initial sample and following up infants until one month of age. Influences of
      type of feeding on microbiota composition are also explored.

      Healthy term infants, vaginally delivered, with birth weight adequate for gestational age,
      and whose mothers had been screened for GBS at 35-37 weeks gestation, are enrolled in the
      study.

      Infants are excluded if:

        -  preterm or small/large for gestational age

        -  born by caesarean section

        -  the mother has received any antibiotic in the 4 weeks before delivery;

        -  maternal IAP is performed for reasons other than GBS positivity (i.e. prolonged rupture
           of membranes in GBS-negative women);

        -  maternal IAP is inadequate;

        -  maternal IAP is performed with antibiotics other than ampicillin, such as erythromycin;

        -  the infant has major congenital malformations;

        -  the infant develops signs of infection and/or received any antibiotic treatment after
           birth;

        -  the infant has any serious clinical conditions that contraindicated his/her
           participation in the study.

      Infants are allocated into two groups according to maternal GBS status and IAP:

        -  IAP group: infants born to GBS-positive mothers who have received adequate IAP.
           According to the Institutional treatment protocol for GBS prophylaxis (derived from CDC
           guidelines), iv ampicillin is given every 4 hours until delivery (first dose 2 g,
           following doses 1 g each). IAP is considered adequate if the mother has received at
           least two doses of ampicillin before delivery.

        -  Control group: infants born to GBS-negative mothers, who do not receive any antibiotic
           treatment before/at delivery.

      Written informed consent is obtained from each infant's parent/legal guardian when the infant
      is about to be discharged from the nursery (48-72 hours of life). Patients' characteristics,
      including gestational age, birth weight, gender, and Apgar score at 1' and 5' after birth,
      are summarized in a specific case report form.

      Two faecal samples from each infant are collected during follow up visits at 7 and 30 days of
      life. At each visit, information on weight gain, clinical conditions, feeding, and on-going
      treatments (i.e. use of prebiotics, probiotics, antibiotics), are collected from the infants'
      parents.

      After collection, faecal samples are put into numbered screw-capped sterile plastic
      containers and immediately frozen at -80 °C, until they are processed for bacterial DNA
      extraction.

      Microbiological analyses are performed at the Department of Agricultural Sciences, University
      of Bologna. Investigators who perform the analyses are blind to group identity of the infants
      (IAP or control group).

      Two hundred milligrams of faeces are used for bacterial DNA extraction using the QIAamp DNA
      Stool Mini Kit (QIAGEN, West Sussex, UK). Extracted DNA is stored at -80 °C. The purity and
      concentration of extracted DNA are determined by measuring the ratio of the absorbance at 260
      and 280 nm (Infinite® 200 PRO NanoQuant, Tecan, Mannedorf, Switzerland).

      Quantification of selected microbial groups (Lactobacillus spp., Bifidobacterium spp.,
      Bacteroides fragilis) is performed with real-time PCR. Data obtained from amplification are
      transformed to obtain the number of bacterial cells per gram of faeces, expressed as log
      colony forming unit (CFU)/g.

      The obtained data are analyzed using IBM SPSS Statistic version 20.0.0 (IBM Corporation, IBM
      Corporation Armonk, New York, United States). Baseline characteristics in the IAP and control
      groups are compared using the independent-samples Mann-Whitney U test for continuous
      variables and chi-square test for categorical variables. The influence of IAP on faecal
      bacterial count at 7 and 30 days of life will is evaluated using the independent-samples
      Mann-Whitney U test. A hierarchical multiple regression analysis is performed in order to
      estimate the effect of IAP on faecal bacterial count after controlling for type of infant
      feeding (coded as a binary categorical variable: exclusive breastfeeding vs. any formula
      feeding). A p value <0.05 is considered as statistically significant.
    
  