
    
      All consecutive patients with acute symptoms and an age over 70 years will be recruited for
      the study during 6 months. Medical history, physical examination, vital signs including heart
      rate, blood pressure, body temperature, and any concomitant diseases are raised on admission
      in the Emergency Department. Blood samples are taken for determination of routine laboratory.
      Highly sensitive troponin T is determined as part of the routine. Troponin T is measured from
      the same blood sample with a conventional test of the 4th generation. A second blood sample
      is taken as part of routine 4-6 hours after the onset of symptoms to confirm or rule out any
      acute coronary syndrome. Patients are divided according to the interval between the onset of
      symptoms and presentation at the hospital in an "early"(<4 hours) and "late"(> = 4 hours)
      group.

      The Barthel Index as a geriatric assessment is raised. An electrocardiogram is written in all
      patients at recording and evaluated. An echocardiographic examination is performed in all
      patients for measurement of heart valve function, left ventricular diameter, ejection
      fraction (LVEF) and diastolic function to differentiate into other mechanisms for the release
      of troponin. According to the results of the echocardiographic examination, patients are
      divided into sub-groups (LV-EF> = 55%) and without preserved ejection fraction (LVEF <55%).
      The recording physician estimates after receiving the results of the investigations and
      routine laboratory whether a myocardial infarction or heart failure is present. He
      subsequently makes the decision about further treatment. The medical records will be
      evaluated after completion of the stay in hospital by two experienced cardiologists, whether
      a heart attack, heart failure or other disease was present. High sensitivity Troponin T and
      Troponin T of the 4th generation are compared for the early and correct diagnosis of acute
      coronary syndrome.

      Objectives:

        1. Incidence of acute coronary syndromes without ST-segment elevation in elderly patients
           by using the highly sensitive biomarker troponin T,

        2. Comparison with the incidence of acute coronary syndromes without ST-segment elevation
           in the same group by the use of troponin T of the 4th generation

        3. Survey on differential diagnoses such as heart failure or other cardiac diseases.
    
  