
    
      Physical inactivity is a significant risk for various cardiovascular diseases including
      hypertension, diabetes, and stroke. To address the sitting disease Sackner Wellness Products
      has patented 2 non-invasive methods for inducing passive movement while in seated or supine
      posture the Gentle Jogger® and Gentle Jumper®, each simulating the activities of jogging and
      jumping respectively. Passive simulation of jogging and jumping introduces pulses into the
      circulation as the feet strike a semi-rigid surface within the chassis of the device. These
      pulsations stimulate release of beneficial mediators which are important to cardiovascular
      health. The study will recruit healthy subjects in a younger age group (25-59 yrs ) and older
      age group (> 60 yrs) in order to measure changes in blood pressure, cardiovascular indices of
      vasodilation, heart rate variability, and other non-invasively acquired biometric information
      in different postures [(1) supine, 2) semi-recumbent, 3) sitting, 4) Trendelenburg and 5)
      reverse Trendelenburg )], while at rest and during and after use of the GJogger and GJumper.
      Additionally, a subgroup of subjects will be asked to perform texting of a specified script
      in order to determine whether or not GJogger is a distraction during text messaging.

      Participants will also be recruited for a sub-study of the above larger study. This sub-study
      will determine the effects of a single device Gentle Jogger in setaed and supine posture over
      a 30 min period on continuously measured non-invasive blood pressure, and compared the latter
      to SHAM. On day 1 Subjects will be randomized to begin in seated or supine posture with 30
      min of SHAM, and 30 min of Gentle Jogger, 3 days latter the subject will cross over to start
      with the opposite posture of day 1.

      This study will determine the effects of 30 min of sedentary supine or seated (SHAM) and the
      effects of 30 min of G. Jogger in these two postures on continuous noninvasive measured blood
      pressure

      Volunteers will be paid for their participation in the study The Gentle Jogger and Gentle
      Jumper are non-FDA regulated wellness devices (2016) in which, 1) GJogger and GJumper as part
      of a healthy lifestyle may help to prevent certain chronic diseases or conditions such as
      heart disease, high blood pressure, and type 2 diabetes and, 2) may help living well with
      certain chronic diseases or conditions such as s heart disease, high blood pressure, and type
      2 diabetes.
    
  