
    
      Population of study & disease condition : 2 equal groups (n=30), female patients enrolled for
      minor gynecological procedures (D&C or hysteroscopy), All patients received general
      anesthesia with spontaneous ventilation using Supra-glottic airway Device (SAD). Group A
      (Baska) & group B ( I-gel).

      Inclusion Criteria: Age: 18-55, American Society of Anesthesia (ASA) 1 or 2, BMI<35 & Low
      risk of aspiration.

      Exclusion Criteria: Anticipated upper airway problem, Gastrointestinal tract (GIT, disease,
      pregnancy & High risk of aspiration.

      Methodology: All patients received fentanyl 1 micro gram/Kg, Propofol(2-4mg/Kg) was titrated
      to induce anesthesia, followed by manual ventilation with sevoflurane (2-4%) in Oxygen.All
      devices were inserted by one of 2 investigators.

      Data collection: 1- Demographic Data: age,weight,height.2-duration of anesthesia.3- Data
      related to device insertion: Time of insertion,duration of anesthesia, seal pressure,peak
      airway pressure, Fiberoptic (FO)view of the larynx ,vomiting or regurgitation, postoperative
      laryngeal spasm or blood on the device after removal.

      Primary outcome: To detect seal pressure and fitting against laryngeal aperture detected by
      FO. Secondary outcome:To determine Peak pressure, incidence of complications: vomiting or
      regurgitation, blood on the device after removal (indicating trauma to the airway) or
      postoperative laryngeal spasm..

      Statistical analysis: For analysis of continuous variables independent sample t-test will be
      applied and for categorical variables chi-square test will be used.value of p<0.05 will be
      considered significant.

      Sample size:

      Sample size was calculated using EpiCalc program using the following data : mean seal
      pressure for Baska :29.98 , mean seal pressure for I-Gel: 25.62. SD: 4.9

      , study power 80% confidence interval . P value<0.05. the calculated sample size was found to
      be 19 for each group (overall 38), so the investigators will allocate 30 patient in each
      group to avoid drop out.

      Statistical analysis:

      Source of funding This study will be attributed to Department of Anesthesiology, Faculty of
      medicine, Cairo University. Support will be provided solely from departmental sources.
      Keywords: Baska, I-Gel, Supra-glottic airway devices, seal pressure
    
  