
    
      Epidemiologic research has clearly established the significant public health importance of
      mental disorders in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC). Among mental disorders,
      depression has become a major problem as a single condition and, more often, as part of
      complex clinical settings in which multiple conditions and risk factors are combined.

      There is substantial co-morbidity between depression and chronic physical conditions, and the
      outcome of both conditions is impaired when there is this co-morbidity. Most of the disease
      burden in Latin America is attributable to chronic diseases such as cardio-vascular diseases
      as hypertension and diabetes, as well as to mental disorders such as depression. Despite the
      public health impact of depression, it often goes unrecognized and untreated. One important
      factor for this treatment gap are the limited financial and human resources. The mental
      health resources available in LMIC are often not optimally distributed either. Funds and
      trained personnel are typically allocated to tertiary health care services, such as
      psychiatric hospitals.

      Therefore, any short- and medium-term efforts to develop, evaluate, and disseminate effective
      mental health interventions in LMIC must adapt to these severe workforce shortages, resource
      limitations, and budgetary inequities. The mental health field needs to consider developing
      self-help automated interventions that can reach people where there is insufficient access to
      specialized health care providers. This can be partially addressed applying two strategies:
      1) increasing effective self-management; and 2) task-shifting roles to less specialized but
      appropriately trained health workers.

      The investigators are conducting a randomized controlled trial with individuals with chronic
      diseases, i.e. hypertension and/or diabetes, and symptoms of depression in primary health
      centers and hospitals in Lima, Peru. Participants will be randomly assigned to the control
      arm or the intervention arm. The later will receive the CONEMO intervention, monitored by
      nurses.

      The focus of this project is on using a self-help intervention that provides advice, support,
      and motivation. However, studies suggest that depressed patients left alone with the devices
      fail to make good use of self-help interventions. Therefore, nurses will monitor participants
      by a web-based dashboard connected to the smartphone application (CONEMO), motivate to
      continue using CONEMO if participants are non-adherent and give technical support. Nurses
      will take part in supervision meetings at least once a week.

      Method:

      CONEMO is a randomized controlled trial conducted with 432 chronic patients who present
      diabetes and/or hypertension and depressive symptoms recruited in primary health care centers
      and public hospitals in Lima, Peru. Half of these participants will be randomized to receive
      the CONEMO intervention and the other half will receive enhanced usual care. The
      randomization will be made based on 2 strata: the health center/hospital the participant
      comes from and his/her PHQ9 score at screening (≤14; ≥15).

      The intervention, based on behavior activation, is delivered by a smartphone and monitored by
      nurses who mediate this intervention, motivating and supporting the participant and
      monitoring his/her performance. The CONEMO intervention is delivered 3 times a week for a
      period of 6 weeks, summing up to a total of 18 sessions. Intensity of depressive symptoms is
      assessed by research assistants using the PHQ-9 at baseline, 3- and 6-month follow-up
      assessments.

      Outcomes:

      The primary outcome in this study is the proportion of participants with a reduction of 50%
      or more in the PHQ-9 score at the 3-month assessment. The secondary outcomes are the
      proportion of participants with a reduction of 50% or more in the PHQ-9 score at the 6-month
      assessment, and the improvement in quality of life, adherence to diabetes, level of activity
      and hypertension medication and social functioning. There will also be a cost-effectiveness
      evaluation using a intention to treat analysis, and a process evaluation. For the process
      evaluation, data will be collected from questionnaires about the CONEMO system, filled out by
      with participants at 3 months after inclusion, and interviews with the nurses at the end of
      the intervention.
    
  