
    
      Purpose and rationale Assessment of lung function requires the evaluation of pulmonary
      function by spirometry. However, some patients (e.g. children, elderly, or diseased
      individuals) may have difficulty performing the related forced maximal respiratory maneuver
      correctly. Forced oscillation technique (FOT) is increasingly being used in clinical settings
      to evaluate lung function noninvasively by measuring the mechanical input impedance of the
      respiratory system. FOT measures lung impedance during tidal breathing, requiring minimal
      patient cooperation. Recently a new methodology (within breath analysis) has emerged to
      evaluate changes that occur in the impedance during the breathing activity. The within-breath
      calculation of impedance allows separating the contribution of inspiration and expiration to
      the measured parameters.

      The purpose of this study is to establish reference ranges for within breath FOT parameters
      and their short term variability.

      Objectives Primary: To derive equations to predict normal values and normality ranges for
      within-breath respiratory system resistance, reactance and related parameters at the selected
      stimulating waveform and to measure the short term variability of such parameters.

      Secondary: To demonstrate the equivalence of the results of a single multiple-breath test to
      results obtained as an average of 3 consecutive repeated tests.

      Study design This will be a prospective multi-center trial of healthy subjects. After signing
      the Informed Consent, an interview and physical examination will be performed. The examiner
      will confirm that subjects are able to perform acceptable and repeatable spirometry. FOT
      measurements will be performed, followed by standard spirometry measurements.

      Study Duration This is a single visit study. Subject participation will be completed in 1
      hour and 15 min. Enrollment of all subjects is expected to take 23 weeks (6 months).
    
  