
    
      Patients with poor intravenous (IV) access present a daily challenge to emergency department
      (ED) practitioners. Placement of an ultrasound (US)-guided peripheral IV catheter in this
      patient population is a viable and safe option. Ultrasound-guided IVs are often the last
      recourse for IV access before resorting to more invasive procedures in patients with
      difficult access. Successful cannulation with US-guided IV occurs in more than 90% of cases
      compared with 25-35% with traditional IV placement in patients with difficult vascular
      access. Once cannulated, however, the failure rate of IV catheters placed under ultrasound
      guidance is concerning compared with traditional blind IV placement. Overall failure rates
      after successful IV cannulation for US-guided IVs is 45-56% when compared to traditional IV
      placement which is 19-25%. Because failure rate is high, it is important to approach
      insertions methodically to improve survival rates. A variable that may alter the survival of
      US-guided IVs that has not been studied is the length of catheter that resides in the vein.
      Currently the general accepted rule is that an "adequate" amount of the catheter should be in
      the vein to avoid failure of the catheter. Our preliminary data focused on defining this
      relationship. In our study, 100% of catheters failed in which less than 30% of the catheter
      was placed within the vein and no failures in those IVs in which at least 65% of the catheter
      was in the vein. This study was performed by the PI at Beaumont this past year and is
      published in Emergency Medicine Journal.

      This study is a prospective randomized controlled study of catheter longevity comparing a
      4.78 cm (1.88 in) catheter to a longer 6.35 cm (2.5 in) catheter. Subjects will consist of a
      convenience sample of patients with difficult IV access presenting to the Beaumont Hospitals
      emergency department that require US-guided IV access.

      Standard of care is defined as use of a readily available 1.88 inch IV catheter that is used
      daily by emergency department personnel. Following consent, patients will be randomized to
      the control arm using the standard 4.78 cm catheter, or the experimental arm using a 6.35 cm
      catheter. All catheters are 20 gauge in diameter.

      After patient enrollment, the insertion tech, nurse or physician who has been credentialed in
      ultrasound-guided vascular access will place catheters in study subjects. Staff are expected
      to attempt a minimum of 3 attempts before enlisting another provider for help.

      After initial assessment, follow-up functionality of the catheter will be assessed every 24
      hours by the research team as long as the patient is hospitalized, up to 30 days. Function of
      the catheter will be assessed daily by research staff. Function is defined by a catheter's
      ability to draw back 5 ml of blood, flush with 5 ml normal saline without resistance, or if
      IV fluids or medication are continually infusing through the IV.

      Other data variables collected include: patient pertinent medical history, vitals, age, sex,
      cannulation success or failure, vein diameter, length of catheter in vein as well as % length
      of the catheter in the vein, angle of insertion, number of venous access attempts, time to IV
      insertion (tourniquet to tegaderm), location of IV insertion, medications infused or use for
      ionic contrast injection for computed tomography.
    
  