
    
      Venous thromboembolism ("VTE" including pulmonary embolism "PE" and deep venous thrombosis
      "DVT") is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Only about half of eligible
      hospitalized medical patients receive appropriate thromboprophylaxis. Understanding VTE risk
      factors predictive of VTE among hospitalized medical patients may promote superior
      thromboprophylaxis. To date a systematic review of VTE risk assessment strategies among
      hospitalized medical patients, and a meta-analysis reporting the rate of VTE among patient
      groups at varying levels of risk for VTE does not exist.

      The investigators will use the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and
      Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) checklist for reporting systematic reviews and meta-analyses to
      develop this systematic review and meta-analysis.

      The investigators will perform a systematic review of the literature and report VTE risk
      assessment models that have been derived and validated among hospitalized medical patients.
      The investigators will perform a meta-analysis of studies that report a rate of VTE among
      patients identified as being at elevated risk for VTE and those that are not. The
      investigators pre-specify that they are going to analyze the prospective and retrospective
      studies captured by the literature search in two ways. First, the investigators will perform
      an analysis that groups both prospective and retrospective studies together. The
      investigators will also perform an analysis that separates out the prospective and
      retrospective studies. While this will decrease our sample size (and thus power), this
      approach may allow us to identify any bias or confounding present due to the retrospective
      study design and then control for it. Notably confirmation that both retrospective and
      prospective studies identified the same findings would enhance the clinical usefulness of our
      findings.
    
  