
    
      Inadequate sleep quality and duration may result in adverse health outcomes and poorer
      quality of life. Research thus far identify interventions such as behavior modification and
      pharmaceuticals to aid sleep. According to Stats Canada (2007-2013 Canadian Health Measures
      Survey), despite these available interventions, roughly half of men and women (43% and 55%,
      respectively) aged 18-64 have difficulty falling or staying asleep; these results are similar
      to those reported in 2005. The lack of improvement in sleep might reflect important
      limitations with the current interventions; individuals with sleep disorders may find
      adherence to such interventions difficult to maintain (e.g. behavior modification) or the
      therapies may pose a risk (e.g. dependence on pharmaceuticals). There is a clear need for
      alternative therapeutic interventions, particularly those that are simple and cost effective.

      Observational and anecdotal evidence supports honey as an alternative to promote better
      sleep. During sleep, the brain typically utilizes liver glycogen stores to provide continuous
      and adequate energy; foods that promote liver glycogen storage before sleep may ensure
      availability of this energy source and therefore lead to better sleep.4 Raw honey is a
      rapidly digestible and metabolizable dense energy source, and thus may provide this sleep
      time energy reserve. Additionally, honey may promote melatonin formation due to its possible
      tryptophan content (a precursor to melatonin) that both helps to initiate sleep as well as
      promote release of hormones that facilitate whole body recovery during sleep.

      Based on this information, we completed a preliminary open-label proof-of-principle study to
      assess the feasibility and potential effectiveness of honey in improving sleep quality. In a
      cross-over study of poor sleepers, honey improved some areas of sleep compared to melatonin.
      The results of this study are the driving factor for the randomized, double-blind, cross-over
      study in poor sleepers proposed here.
    
  