
    
      The treatment of diabetes type 2 is a major challenge for the health care system. According
      to the International Diabetes Federation (IDF), around 382 million people between the ages of
      20 and 79 are currently affected worldwide. The presence of diabetes is associated with
      personal suffering, impaired quality of life and a deficient treatment leads to complications
      like retinal ablation, neuropathy, nephropathy and the diabetic-foot syndrome. An appropriate
      treatment is dedicated to the purpose of adjusting the blood glucose, is very complex and
      involves many areas of life. Internet-administrated psychological interventions are easily
      accessible and preliminary evidence suggests that online programs promote lifestyle changes,
      i.e. nutrition and exercises, of people with diabetes mellitus type 2. However, no trial has
      yet examined weather a CBT-based internet intervention designed to meet the needs of PwDM can
      achieve sustained improve adherence behavior like nutrition, physical activity and medication
      intake, when offered as adjunct to treatment as usual.

      The internet-based intervention evaluated in this trial was designed with the aim of
      enhancing adherence to PwDM over a period of 60 days. The intervention focuses issues in
      disease self-management including lifestyle habits (e.g. nutrition, exercise) and medication
      adherence. The program comprised psychotherapeutic techniques gleaned primarily from CBT to
      promote motivation for health behavior, conveying goal setting, mediating knowledge about
      diabetes (basics, symptoms & complications, diagnosis, therapy) , and increasing activation
      to reduce depressive symptoms and increasing mindfulness skills. The delivery and training of
      content is continuously individualized to match users' preferences and needs, based on
      responses within the program. The intervention is delivered via the Internet and protected by
      individually assigned passwords.

      This randomized controlled trial will include 300 participants with diabetes mellitus type 2.
      Participants will be recruited from various settings, including diabetes outpatient treatment
      centers and internet forums/groups. Methods such as newspaper articles, flyers, posters, and
      media articles will be used to inform potential participants about the study (all material
      will be in German). Participants will be screened for inclusion and exclusion criteria via
      telephone, and randomly assigned to either (1) a treatment group that may use care as usual
      (CAU) and in addition immediately receives two-month access to the novel, internet
      -administrated intervention (Covivio), (2) an active control group that may also use CAU and
      in addition immediate receives two-month access to a psychological online-relaxation-training
      (Relaxio), or (3) a wait list control group, in which they receive CAU. Measurements are
      collected online at pre-treatment (T0), post-treatment (T1), and three (T2) and six months
      (T3) follow-up. After the last follow-up (T3), all participants gain access to the
      online-program which they had not yet been able to use.
    
  