
    
      This is a multi-centre prospective observational study to develop new quantitative
      echocardiography diagnostic criteria sensitive to identify the presence of chronic pulmonary
      hypertension early in postnatal course. The investigators hypothesize that echocardiographic
      markers of pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) and right ventricular (RV) function will allow
      early identification of extremely low birth weight (ELBW) preterm neonates who subsequently
      develop chronic pulmonary hypertension in association with chronic neonatal lung disease.
      More specifically, based on previous work and preliminary data, the investigators hypothesize
      that tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE- a routinely used marker of right
      heart function) and pulmonary artery acceleration time (PAAT- a routinely used marker of
      resistance in the pulmonary blood vessels) either alone or in combination will be the most
      sensitive parameters for early identification reducing the time to diagnosis compared to
      contemporary clinical practice.

      The aim of the study is to recruit a large cohort of extreme premature neonates at two weeks
      of age and sequentially perform two "early-diagnostic assessments". First assessment will be
      performed between 14-21 days of life and the second at a corrected gestational age (CGA) of
      32 weeks. Assessment will include a focused ultrasound of the heart to measure pre-defined
      markers which are under investigation. The investigators will test the diagnostic utility of
      these markers separately for each time point. All babies will also have a standard diagnostic
      assessment for evaluation of cPHT at 36 weeks CGA, as per routine practice. The study team
      will record this data for participants, along with their relevant medical details and
      clinical outcomes, including neurodevelopment assessments performed at 18 months of age as a
      routine clinical follow-up. At the end of this study, the investigators will divide the
      cohort into those who developed cPHT and those who did not as per currently used standard
      criteria and will compare the results of new parameters obtained at earlier time points. The
      sensitivity of each marker to pick-up early cPHT will be calculated and its correlation with
      health outcomes will be established.
    
  