
    
      Adults with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) or major depressive disorder (MDD) exhibit
      abnormalities in the structure and function of the amygdala and hippocampus (temporal lobe),
      as well as in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and striatum (four brain structures underlying the
      emotional processing and reward systems). However, while these psychiatric disorders often
      emerge in childhood, the integrity of these neural structures has been minimally studied in
      psychiatrically impaired children and adolescents. In the current proposal, functional MRI
      (fMRI) will be used to evaluate the amygdala, hippocampus, PFC and striatum in (1)
      psychiatrically healthy adolescents; (2) adolescents with trauma history and PTSD or anxiety
      symptoms; (3) adolescents with trauma history, symptoms of depression and either PTSD or
      anxiety symptoms; and (4) adolescents with only major depressive or PTSD/anxiety symptoms;
      (5) adolescents with trauma and no trauma related symptoms. The proposed study is conducted
      in three separate experiments.

      At this stage of the protocol, we completed experiment 1, and a pilot study to help guide
      experiments 2 and 3. In Experiment 1, we determined whether a fear conditioning paradigm
      elicited amygdala activity in healthy adolescents. The pilot study examined test-retest
      reliability of the fMRI signal in healthy adolescents and adults.

      In Experiment 2, we will examine the functioning of the amygdala, hippocampus, PFC and
      striatum in healthy adolescents and those with the psychiatric conditions described above.
      During image acquisition, four cognitive tasks, targeting these regions, will be used: 1) a
      social interaction task, 2) an inhibition task (the Stop task or the antisaccade task), 3) an
      emotional rating/explicit memory task and 4) a probe detection task. One hundred twenty five
      participants (25 in five groups) will be recruited in experiment 2.

      Experiment 3 will address the same question as in experiment 2 in relation to treatment
      response. In other words, in contrast to experiment 2, patients will be studied prior and
      after treatment of the psychopathology associated with their traumatic experience. The sample
      will include 125 patients (25 in each of the 4 groups) and 25 controls.
    
  