
    
      Fractures of the trochanter in the elderly have a terrible prognosis both vital and
      functional. It is certainly possible to reduce the medical and economic impact of this
      disease by reducing surgical trauma, by means of minimally invasive osteosynthesis material
      adapted to this approach. This minimally invasive approach should, however, guarantee a
      result at least equal to the standard approach. The goal is to have a technique, easily to
      transmit, using a percutaneous approach, but which may be converted to conventional surgery
      in case of difficulty, and with implants appropriate for trochanteric fractures.

      With this in mind, the dynamic hip screw MISS® (Minimally Invasive Screw System) was
      developed and has already demonstrated its effectiveness in terms of anatomical results. It
      is as effective than the PHS® hip screw design for standard approach. The two implants have
      the same plate and screw and differ only by the system for fixing the screw on the plate to
      allow minimal invasive approach.

      The main objective of the study is to show that the use of dynamic hip screw MISS is
      associated with lower morbidity (in terms of bleeding) in comparison with the material PHS
      standard (Pertrochanteric Hip Screw) implanted by standard approach.

      The secondary objectives are :

        -  Check the quality of reduction and stability of osteosynthesis with the MISS are
           equivalent to those of the PHS.

        -  Assessing the economic impact on the duration of use of operating rooms and the length
           of hospitalization

      The study is a randomized trial with multicenter parallel group with collection of blinded
      endpoint : PROBE Study (Prospective Randomized Blinded Endpoint), comparing two techniques :
      minimally invasive approach versus standard approach, Apart from the incision, and the system
      fixing the screw to the plate, all other periods of the operation will be identical.
      Operation is done on table fracture with X-rays control with C arm. Associated therapies will
      be identical in both groups and follow the protocols of the department.

      Number of patients : 54 in each group = 108 patients Duration of the research Duration of the
      inclusion period: 21 months Duration of participation for each patient: three months Total
      duration of the study: 24 months

      Expected effects :

      For patients: intervention better supported, postoperative more simple, shortened length of
      stay and faster rehabilitation.

      For the hospital: intervention shorter and simpler, lower occupation time of block, decreased
      average length of stay.

      For society: reduced cost of care of these patients by society
    
  