
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Define acute toxicity, subsequent malignant neoplasm (SMN) risk and visual outcomes in
      retinoblastoma (RB) survivors and compare patient centered psychosocial and neurocognitive
      and physical outcomes in survivors with normative data and sibling controls.

      II. Create the first Clinically-Annotated Patient Tissues to Analyze Gene INteractions to
      assess biologic correlates of disease and facilitate future research: The RIVERBOAT-CAPTAIN
      biorepository, including germline deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and tumor tissue from patients,
      with detailed patient, disease and treatment-related information.

      III. Using the RIVERBOAT-CAPTAIN clinically-annotated biorepository, determine the interplay
      between specific RB1 mutation type and the role of additional modifier genes in determining
      those tumor phenotypes that drive treatment decisions.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      RETROSPECTIVE COHORT: Patients treated between 2008-2018 undergo collection of saliva samples
      at >= 6 months after treatment, and undergo vision assessment at >= 6 months after treatment
      and again 1 year later if necessary. Previously collected tissue samples at the time of
      surgery are also obtained. Patients also complete questionnaires at >= 6 months after
      treatment and again 2 years later.

      PROSPECTIVE COHORT: Patients treated between 2018-2023 undergo collection of saliva samples
      at the time of enrollment and at 6 months after treatment. Patients also undergo vision
      assessment at the time of enrollment, at 6 months, and 18 months after completion of
      treatment. Patients also complete questionnaires at 6 months and again 2 years later, as well
      as undergo collection of tissue samples at the time of surgery. Immediate family members with
      history of RB or RB1 gene mutation also undergo collection saliva samples.
    
  