
    
      Objective

      Recent research implicates auditory processing deficits in the etiology of language
      impairments, but no standard methodology has been employed to determine whether auditory
      processing deficits are heritable traits. We will investigate whether auditory processing
      skills and auditory processing disorders (APDs) are hereditary.

      Study Population

      We will study same-sex twins (healthy volunteers) and individuals who score in the top or
      bottom 10th percentile on auditory processing tests and their first-degree family members.

      Design: A Two-Phase, Staged Study

      Our approach uses the two classical methods of demonstrating heritability: comparison of
      monozygotic (MZ) to dizygotic (DZ) concordance rates in twins and measuring familial
      aggregation of a trait. While there are a variety of auditory processing tests in common use,
      there is no standard battery of tests for the diagnosis of APD.

      Moreover, the normal variation in performance on many of these tests is not known. We will
      systematically evaluate tests of auditory processing for variation in the general population
      and for evidence of heritability.

      Phase 1 Twin study

      We will evaluate a variety of auditory processing tests in MZ and same-sex DZ twins. This
      initial phase of the study is designed to provide data so that the performance of MZ twin
      pairs can be compared to the performance of DZ twin pairs. Statistical modeling will be used
      to estimate the relative contributions of heredity and environment to auditory processing
      skills. In addition, we will examine variation in auditory processing skills in the general
      population of twins. This will allow us to identify auditory processing skills and tests that
      have the greatest heritable components, and to establish normative data for the tests we
      administer.

      Phase 2 Family aggregation study

      Based on the outcomes of Phase 1, auditory processing tests of skills with the highest
      heritable component will be selected for evaluation of probands. Those who score in the top
      and bottom 10th percentile will be eligible for participation as probands in this phase of
      the study. Variation of these skills in the general population, as determined by the twin
      data (Phase 1) or published norms, when they are available, will be used to determine the top
      and bottom 10th percentiles. This same test set will be administered to probands and at least
      two first-degree relatives allowing us to determine whether traits related to auditory
      processing occur within the family at a rate greater than chance.

      Outcome Measures

      Phase 1 outcome measures will be individual performance on tests of auditory processing
      skills and comparative performance of MZ and DZ co-twin pairs on these tests. Phase II
      outcome measures will be the performance on auditory processing measures of probands and
      their family members, and affectance rates observed in these families.<TAB>
    
  