
    
      Phase I: The feasibility cohort will consist of a convenience sample. Dr. Glassberg will wear
      the SCD-FNB pager at all times and will enroll patients whenever logistically possible.

      Participants: ED patients aged >18 who require admission for vasoocclusive pain involving the
      lower extremities. Vasoocclusive pain is defined as acute onset of corporeal pain, not
      controlled by oral analgesics, in a patient with SCD with no other apparent cause.

      Description of Standard Analgesic Practices: All patients enrolled in the study will receive
      standardized care based on ED computer order sets designed by Drs. Shi & Glassberg and other
      members of the Hematology and Emergency departments (appendix E). Based on NIH52 and American
      Pain Society53 guidelines and current clinical evidence, these protocols were established to
      ensure delivery of optimal opiate therapy for patients with VOC pain. Initially, the patient
      will receive IV doses of opiates at the EP's discretion, followed by initiation of morphine
      or hydro-morphone PCA (patient controlled analgesia). PCA will continue when patient is moved
      to the inpatient floor, where care will also be guided by standardized order sets.

      Description of the FNB Intervention: Throughout the FNB procedure, the patient will have
      continuous EKG, NIBP and O2 saturation monitoring. With the patient in the supine position,
      the leg to be blocked will be slightly abducted and externally rotated. The femoral crease
      and the area approximately 3 inches above and below is prepped and draped in usual sterile
      fashion. 1-2 ml of local anesthetic will be injected at the probable site of insertion. A
      sterile ultrasound probe is used to identify the femoral vessels and the femoral nerve, which
      usually lies 1-2 cm lateral to the artery. The femoral nerve sheath is then entered under
      direct visualization. Before injection, the syringe will be gently aspirated with negative
      blood return to ensure that the needle is not intravascular. 20mL of 0.25% bupivicaine will
      then be given, and deposition of anesthetic will be visualized within the nerve sheath.
      Intermittent aspiration and continuous ultrasound visualization during anesthetic delivery
      will ensure that the tip of the needle has not migrated. Injection will also be stopped and
      the needle repositioned if the patient complains of new or worsening pain, as this may
      indicate intraneural injection. If subjects are experiencing pain in both lower extremities,
      both extremities will be blocked; if subjects are experiencing pain in one lower extremity,
      only the affected extremity will be blocked.

      Outcomes: This study is not exploring the efficacy of the intervention, nor is the
      intervention being compared to a control. Phase one is simply to verify that FNB is a
      feasible procedure to be performed in the ER in this population.
    
  