
    
      Olanzapine offers greater therapeutic antipsychotic benefit than the other non-clozapine
      antipsychotic medications available in the U.S., making it a desirable choice for the
      long-term maintenance treatment of patients with schizophrenia (Lieberman et al, 2005).
      Long-term compliance with an efficacious antipsychotic medication is fundamental to optimal
      therapeutic outcomes. Toward this goal, a long-acting injectable preparation of olanzapine
      will soon be available.

      However, the long-term use of olanzapine has been limited by its substantial, un-wanted
      effects on metabolism that result in weight gain, increases in insulin resistance, increases
      in non-HDL-cholesterol, and increases in C-reactive protein (Lieberman et al, 2005; McEvoy et
      al, 2005;Meyer et al, 2008; McEvoy et al, in submission). Over the long term, insulin
      resistance contributes to the accelerated incidence of diabetes mellitus that has been
      observed among patients with schizophrenia since the availability of the atypical
      antipsychotic medication (Basu A, 2006). Over the long term, elevated non-HDL-cholesterol and
      increased inflammation contribute independently to the accelerated cardiovascular mortality
      that has been observed among patients with schizophrenia since the availability of the
      atypical antipsychotic medications (Saha et al, 2007, Capasso et al, 2007). Inflammation, as
      measured by C-reactive protein, provides added, independent predictive value of
      cardiovascular risk beyond that of measures of insulin resistance and elevated
      non-HDL-cholesterol.

      Established strategies exist that may attenuate these unwanted effects of olanzapine on
      metabolism and inflammation. Metformin has been shown to reduce weight gain and insulin
      resistance in pre-diabetic, obese individuals without mental problems (Salpeper et al, 2008)
      and in patients treated with atypical antipsychotic medications (Wu et al, 2008). Statins
      have been shown to reduce non-HDL-cholesterol and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality (Lee
      et al, 2007). Both metformin and statins have been shown to reduce C-reactive protein (Bulcau
      et al, 2007).

      We propose to implement a pilot study to estimate the effects sizes (for change in
      triglycerides, change in non-HDL-cholesterol, and change in CRP) of added metformin, added
      simvastatin, or added metformin and simvastatin, versus added no intervention in 120
      newly-admitted, acutely psychotic, recently un-medicated patients with schizophrenia over 4
      weeks of prospective treatment with olanzapine. We will also compare these patients (baseline
      values, in the not recently medicated state) to 40 age, race, and gender matched control
      subjects on fasting triglycerides, non-HDL-cholesterol, and CRP levels.

      We will recruit newly admitted patients experiencing an acute psychotic relapse of
      schizophrenia (related to failure to take their prescribed antipsychotic medication). After
      baseline assessments and samplings have been completed, all patient will be treated with
      olanzapine zydis 15 mg QHS for 28 days. All patients will be randomized 1:1:1:1 to added
      metformin, added simvastatin, added metformin and simvastatin, or no intervention. All
      treatments will be open label. Repeated assessments of weight, non-HDL-cholesterol,
      triglycerides and C-reactive protein will be obtained. Subjects will remain as inpatients at
      JUH for the duration of the study.
    
  