
    
      Intravitreal injections of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitors have being
      increasingly used in the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD) in
      ophthalmic practice.1-4 The most commonly used VEGF inhibitors are bevacizumab (Avastin®,
      Genentech, San Francisco, California, USA), ranibizumab (Lucentis®, Genentech, San Francisco,
      California, USA) and aflibercept (Eylea®, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., Tarrytown, New
      York, USA) among which aflibercept and ranibizumab were approved by the Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) for this indication.

      Aflibercept is the most recently developed VEGF inhibitor with a recombinant fusion protein
      consisting of human VEGF receptor extracellular domains from receptors 1 and 2 (VEGFR1 and
      VEGFR2) fused to the Fc domain of human IgG. This protein contains all human amino acid
      sequences, which minimizes the potential for immunogenicity in patients. The prolonged
      intravitreal half-life of aflibercept compared with ranibizumab can translate to a lower
      treatment load in terms of injections, monitoring, and medical visits. Several in vitro
      studies have shown that aflibercept, at the concentration usually used for treating retinal
      disorders had no toxicity to the ocular cells. However, although both ranibizumab and
      bevacizumab have been shown not to have harmful effects on corneal endothelium the effect of
      intravitreal aflibercept on human corneal endothelium has not been reported so far.
      Considering the functional importance of the corneal endothelium, particularly in aged
      population, the present study was designed to evaluate the in vivo toxicity of aflibercept on
      human corneal endothelial cells in patients with neovascular AMD.

      Thirty-four eyes of 34 consecutive patients with neovascular AMD (19 male, 15 female; mean
      age 66.4±3.4 years; age range 57-76 years) were recruited for this observational prospective
      study. The study protocol was approved by the ethics committee and adhered to the tenets of
      the Declaration of Helsinki. All participants signed the informed consent before any
      study-related procedure.

      All participants received one monthly intravitreal injection of aflibercept for three
      consecutive months, and later treatments were applied as needed. The follow-up period was six
      months.

      The procedure for the intravitreal aflibercept injection was performed using standard aseptic
      techniques. After providing local anesthesia with proparacaine hydrochloride eye drops
      (Alcaine, Alcon Laboratories Inc, Fort Worth, Texas, USA), the eyelids and the inferior
      conjunctival fornix were sterilized with 5% povidone iodine. Aflibercept (2.0 mg, 0.05 ml)
      was injected through the pars plana (4 mm behind the limbus) using a 27-gauge needle.

      Noncontact specular microscopy (Tomey EM-3000 Specular Microscope, Tomey Corp, Japan) was
      performed on the central cornea before the first intravitreal aflibercept injection and 1, 3,
      6 months after the injection. A blinded observer (S.D.) obtained the corneal endothelial
      images. The specular microscope automatically evaluated the endothelial cell density (ECD),
      the coefficient of variation of the cell size (CoV), an objective measure of polymegathism,
      and the percentage of the hexagonal cells (Hex%), an index of pleomorphism. Specular
      microscopy also provided optical pachymetry measurements. The acute toxic of aflibercept on
      endothelium was evaluated by the the presence of corneal edema and anterior chamber reaction,
      and intraocular pressure on the first day after the injection. The nontreated eyes served as
      the control group.

      Intravitreal injection of aflibercept did not have any negative effect in human corneal
      endothelial cells.The signs of acute toxic effect of aflibercept on endothelium, which are
      corneal edema, anterior chamber reaction, or high intraocular pressure, were not recorded in
      any of the eyes on the first day after the injection.

      Aflibercept is a recently approved anti-VEGF offering a new therapy for treatment of
      neovascular AMD. It is a fusion protein of VEGF receptors 1 and 2. It has higher affinity to
      VEGF compared with ranibizumab or bevacizumab which indicates longer duration of action for
      aflibercept. In experimental and clinical trials, the efficacy of aflibercept in treatment of
      AMD has been shown to be comparable to that of ranibizumab and bevacizumab. In studies
      comparing aflibercept with bevacizumab or ranibizumab, aflibercept had fewer negative effects
      on retinal cell lines such as change in cell morphology, apoptosis or permanent decrease in
      cell viability, cell density or proliferation. Aflibercept has greater binding affinity for
      VEGF than ranibizumab and bevacizumab and requires less-frequent intravitreal injection than
      ranibizumab and bevacizumab. The vitreous half-life of aflibercept is shorter than
      bevacizumab, but longer than ranibizumab. In retina pigment epithelium and retina cultures
      prepared from pigs' eyes, aflibercept completely inhibited VEGF for six hours at a minimal
      concentration, and displayed a prolonged VEGF inhibition compared to bevacizumab and
      ranibizumab. However, this advantage of aflibercept raises concerns about possible side
      effects of long-term usage.

      The corneal endothelium is a barrier to fluid flow from the aqueous humor to the stroma. It
      is responsible for maintaining corneal transparency by regulating stromal hydration. The
      endothelial cell density decreases with age, and further damage to corneal endothelium by
      disease, trauma or drugs, may lead to its loss of function, which cause corneal edema,
      decreased corneal clarity, and loss of visual acuity. Therefore, keeping corneal endothelium
      healthy has a vital importance particularly for aged patients. Intravitreal injection causes
      significant concentration of VEGF inhibitors get into contact with human corneal endothelial
      cells. Previous studies indicated that VEGF and its receptors are expressed in the corneal
      endothelium and epithelium, and VEGF inhibitors can be detected in aqueous humour after
      intravitreal injection, both of which showing that VEGF inhibitors have potential to be
      cytotoxic to human corneal endothelial cells.The effect of the intravitreal injection of
      ranibizumab or bevacizumab on corneal endothelium has been studied before. Perez-Rico et al.
      reported that intravitreal injections of ranibizumab did not have significant effect on
      endothelial cell density, CoV, and Hex% at seven days or six months after the injection. The
      repeated intravitreal injections of ranibizumab over six months did not also cause
      substantial changes in the corneal endothelium. Chiang et al. evaluated human corneal
      thickness change and corneal endothelial cell density up to six months after intravitreal
      injection of 2.5 mg bevacizumab and found that intravitreal bevacizumab has no harmful
      effects on the corneal endothelium. In vitro studies also showed that bevacizumab is not
      toxic to corneal cells of human origin. Furthermore, although intracameral injection of
      ranibizumab caused deterioration in endothelial cell morphology in rabbit cornea,
      intracameral injection of bevacizumab did not affect endothelial cell viability or morphology
      in the rabbit or human cornea. Bevacizumab did not induce apoptosis or necrosis in human
      corneal endothelial and fibroblast cells in vitro. In a recent study, it was reported that
      monthly intravitreal bevacizumab or ranibizumab injections for three consecutive months does
      not affect corneal morphology and has no harmful effects on the endothelium in patients with
      diabetic macular edema. The findings of this present study also agree with these studies
      showing that neither ranibizumab nor bevacizumab has negative effect on corneal endothelial
      cells. The investigators found that the CCT, ECD, CoV, and Hex% did not change over six
      months after intravitreal injection of aflibercept in either eyes. Furthermore, the CCT, ECD,
      CoV, and Hex% did not show statistically significant difference between the eye treated with
      intravitreal aflibercept and contralateral untreated eye before and during 6-month follow-up
      after intravitreal injection.

      The main limitation of the study was the limited sample size, which precludes us reaching a
      definitive conclusion on the effect of intravitreal aflibercept on human corneal endothelium.
      Nevertheless, this pilot study provides first evidence that intravitreal aflibercept
      injections do not have negative effect on human corneal endothelium.

      In conclusion, intravitreal injection of clinicaly effective doses of aflibercept for four
      times on average during the 6-month period do not induce any harmful effect on human corneal
      endothelium evaluated by specular microscopy. Further prospective, large-scale, prolonged
      studies are needed to confirm that intravitreal aflibercept can be used safely without any
      corneal toxicity to treat neovascular AMD.
    
  