
    
      The study is a prospective randomised controlled trial. Patients are randomised to two
      groups, (1) an immediate intervention group that receives the self-help intervention
      immediately after recruitment, and (2) a delayed intervention group which receives the
      intervention at one-month follow-up. Patients are assessed at baseline, at one-month and at
      two-month follow-up.

      Patients attending the neurology outpatient clinic with a confirmed diagnosis of either
      epilepsy or NEAD are invited to take part in the study. The diagnosis is based on a clinical
      judgement of a consultant neurologist. Information concerning the purposes and procedures of
      the study is sent to patients at least 48 hours in advance of their appointment in the
      neurology outpatient clinic.

      Potential participants are screened for their suitability to take part in the study when they
      come to the neurology clinic. This is based on the exclusion/inclusion criteria and the
      patients' motivation to participate, which is assessed by five questions asking about the
      relevance of stress to their lives and to their seizure experiences as well as their interest
      in participating. Suitable participants have an opportunity to discuss any questions which
      have arisen from reading the patients information sheet with a member of the research team.
      Patients willing to take part in the project sign a consent form and complete a set of
      baseline questionnaires at the time of their hospital appointment with the neurologist,
      assessing their demographic characteristics, quality of life, stress levels, anxiety,
      depression, seizure frequency and severity, and their tendency to self-affirm spontaneously.
      As part of the baseline assessment, patients are also asked to provide two salivary samples
      the following day (one at 9am in the morning, one at 10pm in the evening) for a measure of
      baseline levels of salivary cortisol as a marker of physiological stress. Patients complete a
      seizure diary for the duration of the study.

      Patients receive treatment according to the random allocation to the immediate or delayed
      intervention groups. Patients in the immediate intervention group are provided with a booklet
      containing the self-help materials as soon as they have provided baseline data and before
      they leave the hospital on the day of recruitment. They are encouraged to read and work
      through the booklet over the following week and the researcher contacts them by telephone one
      week after the baseline assessment, in order to check their progress and to obtain feedback
      on the booklet, provided they had previously consented to being contacted by telephone.

      The first follow-up is arranged for both groups at one month after the initial assessment.
      Subjects are contacted by post. The follow-up assessment involves completing the quality of
      life, stress, anxiety, depression, and seizure severity questionnaires, submitting the
      seizure diary for the past month and providing two saliva samples, one in the morning and one
      in the evening. Patients in the delayed intervention group also receive the self-help
      intervention booklet as part of the first follow-up assessment and are encouraged to use the
      booklet in an accompanying letter. Patients in the delayed intervention group are further
      contacted by telephone one week after receiving the booklet and asked to provide feedback on
      their progress and on the booklet itself.

      Both groups are then contacted again by letter (or telephone) for a final follow-up two
      months after the initial assessment. Participants are asked to complete the quality of life,
      stress, anxiety, depression, and seizure severity questionnaires, to submit their seizure
      diaries and to provide two final saliva samples, one in the morning and one in the evening.
    
  