
    
      Congenital heart disease is a relatively common disease seen in 8/1,000 live births. Many of
      these diseases are associated with hypoxemia. Hypoxemia results from the mixing of pulmonary
      and systemic blood or from the mixing of parallel circulations as seen in transposition of
      the great vessels. Pulse oximetry can be used to measure hypoxemia. Pulse oximetry estimates
      oxygen saturation by measuring absorption of light in human tissue beds. The amount of light
      absorption varies depending on the amount of deoxygenated blood in the tissue measured.
      Measuring the changes in light absorption allows for an estimation of arterial oxygen
      saturation and therefore the amount of hypoxemia. Most manufacturers claim a confidence
      interval of 4% for their oximeters. There have been a few studies recently describing the
      presenting pulse oximetry of known congenital heart disease. However, these were small
      studies with a small sample size of patients. Moreover, there is no literature describing the
      hourly variation in pulse oximetry among know congenital heart disease patients.

      We hypothesize that there is a low presenting pulse oximetry in patients with congenital
      heart disease and that there will be no significant variation in the hourly variation in
      oximetry readings in these patients.

      This is a retrospective chart review examining the presenting pulse oximetry of patients with
      known cyanotic heart lesions. The treatment group will be untreated patients with known
      lesions. All charts of children presenting to Sibley Heart Center with known cyanotic heart
      lesions from January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004 will be reviewed.

      The aim of the study is to describe the presenting pulse oximetry reading in patients who
      have a known lesion which will cause them to have a low oximetry reading. The following
      information will be collected from the charts:

        -  Presenting pulse oximetry

        -  Heart lesion

      The second aim will be to characterize the hourly variation in pulse oximetry from these
      patients. The following information will be collected:

        -  Hourly pulse oximetry readings

        -  Heart lesion

        -  Clinical course
    
  