
    
      This study has been designed to prospectively evaluate the clinical results of the use of
      Continuous Compartment Pressure Monitoring (CCPM) in the treatment of tibial fractures.

      Fractures of the tibia cause local haemorrhage, tissue edema and swelling within the
      indistensible fascial compartments of the leg. In a proportion of patients, pressure within
      the compartments rises sufficiently high to reduce capillary bed perfusion, resulting in
      tissue ischemia. This condition is termed compartment syndrome and complicates approximately
      5% tibial fractures. The early and late morbidity from untreated compartment syndrome is
      important. In the early period, severe pain, local muscle necrosis and infection may occur,
      and systemically, rhabdomyolysis may result in renal failure. Multiple surgical procedures
      and a prolonged period of hospital treatment may be required to address these complications.
      Ultimately the affected limb may loose viability and require amputation. Later, non-union of
      bone, contracture of muscle and permanent nerve palsy may result in a limb that is painful,
      deformed, weak and stiff with dystrophic and vulnerable skin. This may result in functional
      impairment, loss of employment, or again amputation.

      The treatment of compartment syndrome by emergency fasciotomy of all four leg compartments is
      universally accepted. However, there is a small but significant level of morbidity associated
      with this procedure. Local cutaneous nerves may be inadvertently divided, the open wounds may
      become infected, and the staged closure of such wounds may require several operative
      procedures under general anaesthetic. The resulting scars are cosmetically prominent and
      unsightly, and may be hypersensitive or fragile.

      The diagnosis of compartment syndrome may be problematic. The clinical features are well
      described, but in the individual patient may be equivocal, atypical, or masked by analgesia
      or obtunded consciousness. Although cases of acute compartment syndrome are very rarely
      missed altogether in contemporary practice, the diagnosis can be delayed for many hours
      because of uncertainty or lack of awareness of the importance of a subtle and evolving
      clinical picture. This delay in diagnosis exposes the patient to prolonged compartmental
      ischemia and an increased risk of complications.
    
  