
    
      OBJECTIVES: Epilepsy surgery is emerging as a potent therapeutic intervention for a large
      group of patients with uncontrolled temporal lobe epilepsy, particularly when performed early
      in the course of the illness. Seizure freedom is an important goal of seizure surgery, but
      post-operative neuropsychological functioning is another equally important outcome measure.
      Both endpoints require careful pre-operative evaluation of the individual patient and better
      understanding of the functional neuroanatomy of the temporal lobe. In this study fMRI and DTI
      will be performed in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy and normal volunteers in an attempt
      to

        1. investigate the role of the anterior temporal cortex in semantic processing,

        2. evaluate the role of the amygdala in affective processing,

        3. correlate the extent of white matter pathway resection with cognitive outcome after
           temporal lobectomy.

      STUDY POPULATION: We plan to study 30 patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (right-sided,
      left-sided seizure foci) pre and post temporal lobectomy as well as 30 normal volunteers.

      DESIGN: The study will be done in two parts both consisting of identical tasks. For the
      patient group part 1 will be performed prior to temporal lobectomy and part 2, 6-12 months
      after temporal lobectomy. For the normal volunteer group parts 1 and 2 will be performed at
      time interval of 6-12 months.

      During part 1 all study subjects will undergo neuropsychological evaluation. FMRI will be
      performed with two tasks: animal and tool naming (to evaluate semantic processing) and rating
      of emotionally pleasant or unpleasant pictures (to evaluate affective processing). All
      subjects will also undergo diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) for the visualization of white
      matter pathways.

      During part 2 of the study all of the above tests will be repeated.

      FMRI data will be analyzed within the framework of the general linear model in a program such
      as AFNI 2.5. Statistical comparisons between activation patterns in scans acquired during
      part 1 and part 2 within either group (intragroup comparison) will be done by voxel wise
      paired t-test. In a second analysis all 4 groups will be compared in a mixed model. The DTI
      data will be correlated with the neuropsychological outcome to asses the contribution of
      white matter abnormalities pre-operatively or severance of white matter pathways
      post-operative on neuropsychological functioning.

      OUTCOME PARAMETERS: Outcome parameters are changes in the fMRI activation pattern post
      temporal lobectomy and disruption of anisotropy on the diffusion tensor images.
    
  