
    
      Patients and methods Study cohort Patients with acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding (AUGIB)
      who were admitted to Kaohsiung Veterans General Hospital between January 2011 and January
      2012 were screened. Inclusion criteria were (i) over 20 years of age and (ii) patients with
      high-risk peptic ulcer bleeding. Acute hemorrhage from upper gastrointestine was defined as
      classical presentation with hematemesis, coffee-ground emesis, and/or melena. High-risk
      bleeding ulcers were defined as participants with stigmata of a bleeding visible vessels (eg,
      spurting, oozing), a non-bleeding visible vessels (NBVV) or adherent clot.4 A NBVV at
      endoscopy was defined as a raised red, red-blue or pale hemispheric vessel protruding from
      the ulcer bed, without active bleeding. An adherent clot was defined as an overlying blood
      clot that was resistant to vigorous irrigation.

      Exclusion criteria were as follows: (i) the presence of another possible bleeding site (eg,
      gastroesophageal varix, gastric cancer, reflux esophagitis); (ii) coexistence of actively
      severe ill diseases (eg, septic shock, stroke, myocardial infarction, surgical abdomen);
      (iii) treatment with an anticoagulant (eg, warfarin); (iv) pregnancy; (v) the presence of
      operated stomach or; (vi) refusal to participate in the study.

      In current study, baseline characteristics of both study groups were collected at the first
      24 hours after admission. Some definitions of events were expressed herein: smoking was
      defined as inhalation of smoke from burning tobacco daily in recent 3 months; habitual
      consumption of alcohol was defined as participants imbibing alcohol twice or more per week in
      recent 3 months; shock was considered systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg or diastolic
      less than 60 mmHg, and heart rate over 100 beats per minute; comorbid diseases included
      unresolved malignancy, diabetes mellitus, liver cirrhosis, uremia, congestive heart failure,
      chronic pulmonary obstructive disease and pneumonia; and coagulopathy was defined as
      prothrombin time > 14 seconds and/or activated partial thromboplastin time > 45 seconds.

      Randomization In this prospective, parallel-group, randomized controlled trial, eligible
      patients were randomized into two groups using opaque-sealed envelopes numbered according to
      a table of random numbers before the fist therapeutic endoscopy (index endoscopy): the
      Combined group and the Injection group. Informed consent was obtained from each enrolled
      participant. Combined group patients received APC therapy following distilled water injection
      at index endoscopy. Injection group patients underwent distilled water alone at index
      endoscopy. Thereafter both treatment groups were treated with intravenous pantoprazole
      (Pantoloc i.v., Nycomed GmbH, Singen, Germany) 40 mg every 12 hours during the first 3 days,
      followed by oral pantoprazole (Pantoloc, Takeda GmbH, Oranienburg, Germany) 40 mg daily until
      the end of 56-day study period. Primary end point was rebleeding. Secondary end points
      included initial hemostasis, the need for surgery, transfusion requirements, the period of
      hospitalization, severe adverse event (stricture, obstruction or perforation) and death at 30
      days postrandomization.
    
  