
    
      Administration of study drug

      The administration of tranexamic acid/placebo will start following the induction of general
      anesthesia. A bolus dose will be given intravenously over 30 minutes followed by a continuous
      infusion administered up to 6 hours postoperatively.

      Drugs used for anesthesia and postoperative analgesia will be left to the discretion of the
      attending anesthesiologist. The administration of fluids (crystalloids, colloids and blood
      products) will be recorded.

      Transfusion: The transfusion trigger will be < 80 g/L during surgery if the situation is
      stable. Transfusion may be initiated according to the attending anesthesiologist if the
      situation is unstable. In the case of massive bleeding, transfusion will follow our standard
      institutional protocol. The presence of microvascular bleeding at the surgical site will be
      assessed by the surgeon. The Cellsaver will not be used.

      The transfusion trigger during the postoperative period will be < 80 g/L. Blood losses and
      the need for transfusion will be recorded from the moment of surgery up to 72 hours
      postoperatively.

      Laboratory testing

      Before surgery: hemoglobin and coagulogram values will be recorded.

      During surgery: the patient's coagulation status will be assessed using a thromboelastograph
      (TEG). Thromboelastography is a simple coagulation test that enables evaluation of all
      components of hemostasis. TEG testing will be performed at the induction of anesthesia and
      every 2 hours throughout surgery. An additional blood sample for TEG analysis will be
      collected at the end of surgery if the previous test was performed more than an hour before
      the end of surgery.

      After surgery: laboratory testing for hemoglobin, coagulogram, fibrinogen and d-dimer will be
      performed in the recovery room. Hemoglobin will also be measured on postoperative days 1, 2
      and 3. Blood samples to assess cardiac troponin levels will be collected on postoperative
      days 1 and 2.

      Ultrasound : Patients will have an ultrasound examination of the inferior limbs before
      discharge from the hospital to detect deep vein thrombosis.

      Follow-up The presence of adverse events during the course of the hospital stay will be
      noted.

      At 30 days, patients will be contacted by phone to detect any other adverse events.
    
  