
    
      Hemophilia A is an X-linked bleeding disorder caused by a deficiency or abnormality of factor
      VIII. It is the most common inherited coagulation protein deficiency with an incidence of
      approximately 1 in 10,000 males. More than 75% of hemophilic patients suffer the severe type
      of the disease.

      Hemophilia treatments are readily available in developed countries; however, it is estimated
      that 70% of people with this disease worldwide are undiagnosed or undertreated. Moreover,
      about 20% of hemophilia A patients develop inhibitors to treatment and consequently are
      difficult to treat.

      Exogenous factor 8 replacement for hemophilia patients presents a great financial and medical
      challenge. The optimum therapeutic option for these patients is to provide endogenous
      secretion of the factor. This was proposed through liver transplantation. Liver
      transplantation in human and canine hemophilia A results in an increase in factor VIII levels
      to normal and thus cures the bleeding diathesis. Given the problems of donor availability,
      major operative procedure and the need for lifelong immunosuppression, cell-based therapy
      using isolated hepatocytes has been proposed as a promising option to treat clotting
      disorders. The therapeutic effectiveness of human hepatocytes transplanted under the kidney
      capsules of mice has been demonstrated. Transplantation of wild-type rats with deficient
      bilirubin conjugation after ischemia/reperfusion damage resulted in 30% decrease in serum
      bilirubin, the appearance of bilirubin conjugates in bile and the expression of normal
      glucuronyltransferase enzyme denoting that transplantation of a small number of hepatocytes
      can result in partial correction of functional defects.

      Although cellular transplantation of hepatocytes solves the operative risk, it has the
      disadvantage of difficult propagation of hepatocytes in vitro.

      An alternative to hepatocyte transplantation is the use of in-vitro transdifferentiated bone
      marrow derived stem cells.

      In the past few years, a novel option to regenerate damaged liver from bone marrow-derived
      cells has been proposed by many investigators. Studies showed that bone marrow cells not only
      differentiated into hepatic and liver sinusoidal endothelial cells but they also expressed
      the intact gene of the FVIII A3 domain.

      Mesenchymal stem cells have many advantages as candidates for cellular therapy. They can be
      propagated in-vitro, do not evoke immune reaction as they express only human leukocyte
      antigen (HLA)-G, and have been proven to adopt hepatocyte phenotype in vitro.

      In hemophilia A patients, the mother is a carrier, the father is completely normal, and the
      female siblings have a 50% chance of being normal or carrier. Thus, the possibility of
      finding an HLA-matched donor with normal FVIII activity in the family is present. The use of
      mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) have the following advantaged over BM-HSCs:

        1. MSCs can differentiate into both hepatic and endothelial phenotypes

        2. MSCs do not express HLA antigens except HLA-G which caused immunosuppression, thus
           matching for MSC transplantation can be easier.

      The hypothesis of the present study is to use allogenic bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem
      cells induced to adopt hepatocyte phenotype in vitro as a cellular therapy product in
      hemophilia patients.

      Donors will be subjected to:

        1. Bone marrow aspiration under local or short general anaesthesia, 40-60ml BM will be
           collected on heparinized syringes.

        2. Mononuclear cell fraction will be separated using SEPAX machine (Biosafe)

        3. MSCs will be isolated using plastic adherence and subjected to hepatic induction using
           sequential fibroblast growth factor and hepatocyte growth factor addition under GMP
           conditions.

        4. Verification of hepatic induction will be done using morphological, molecular and
           proteomic screening.

        5. Cells will then be harvested using 0.25% trypsin, washed and suspended in sterile saline
           in a dose of 2 million cells per kg body weight in a final volume of 5ml and injected
           into the hepatic parenchyma under sonographic monitoring.
    
  