
    
      Seventy-two patients with cervical radiculopathy undergoing an initial ESI for this pain
      episode will undergo a comprehensive history and physical examination that includes the
      presence of Spurling test, midline and paraspinal tenderness, 9 non-organic tests in 5
      categories, and 3 questionnaires to assess depression, anxiety, sleep, and somatization.

      Non-organic signs that the investigators will evaluate are:

        1. Tenderness

             1. Superficial

             2. Non-anatomical (e.g. cervical radicular pain causing tenderness in the arm or
                mid-back)

        2. Sham stimulation

             1. Downward pressure on head elicits neck pain

             2. With hands clasped behind neck, passive rotation of shoulders elicits neck pain

        3. Distraction

           a. Inability to rotate head > 45 degrees during overt range-of-motion testing, but
           significantly greater range of motion when patient is lying prone and asked to turn head
           to respond to physician request (e.g. sign paper, count fingers, answer question).

        4. Regional disturbances

             1. Sensory disturbances that deviate from normal neuroanatomy or pathology (e.g.
                single herniated disc causing pain throughout entire arm or radiating into lower
                back)

             2. Motor disturbances that deviate from normal neuroanatomy or pathology (e.g.
                dramatic non-neurological weakness, give-away weakness)

        5. Overreaction

             1. Verbal (e.g. crying, screaming)

             2. Non-verbal (e.g. exaggerated grimacing, clutching affected area, abnormally slow or
                rigid movements)

      The investigators will evaluate MRI results to determine the precise pathology. Patients will
      then receive interlaminar cervical ESI. In accordance with standard practice, a Tuohy needle
      will be directed towards the side of the radicular pain, with correct needle position in the
      epidural space being confirmed with real-time contrast injection. Once the physician is
      satisfied with the spread, a 3 mL solution consisting of depo-methylprednisolone 40 mg + 2 mL
      normal saline will be injected. At Seoul National University, due to Korean healthcare
      regulations, the mixture will be a 3 mL solution containing 10 mg of dexamethasone and 2 mL
      saline. The primary outcome measure will be the difference in the proportion of people with a
      positive categorical outcome, defined as a >/= 2-point decrease in average arm pain 4 weeks
      post-procedure coupled with a score >/= 5 on a 7-point patient global impression of change
      (PGIC) scale 4 weeks post-treatment, indicating subjective improvement. Secondary outcome
      measures will include mean reductions in average and worst 0-10 numerical rating scale (NRS)
      arm pain scores over the past 7 days, mean reduction in average and worst neck pain scores,
      neck disability index (NDI) score, medication usage, patient global impression of change
      (PGIC), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Athens Insomnia Scale (AIS), Somatic
      Symptom Scale-8 (SSS-8), and side effects. Individuals who experience a positive categorical
      outcome at 4 weeks will continue to be evaluated at 12 weeks, while those with a negative
      outcome will exit the study.
    
  