
    
      During bypass, venous drainage is essential for maintaining proper perfusion of a pediatric
      patient. The quality of venous drainage has a large impact on the level of care the patient
      is provided. This study will investigate blood flow velocities through right angle venous
      cannulae which are utilized during bypass. The flows from each cannulae will be analyzed by
      using doppler flow probes which employ Transit Time Technology. This type of technology has
      crystals within the flow probes which send magnetic signals through the tubing with the
      purpose to determine the most accurate flows of blood. There is little evidence that
      identifies the actual amount of blood flow generated from each venous cannulae in a clinical
      setting. Manufacturers of venous cannulae for CPB publish flow ratings for the different
      sized cannulae available. These flow ratings are gathered from data produced in a
      non-clinical lab and are often very inaccurate. Because of this inaccuracy, selection is
      based on experience rather than published clinical data. This study would be instrumental in
      determining any and all potential risks or benefits to the patient as a result of the amount
      of drainage provided by the venous cannulae during bypass. A sample size of 50 patients
      (n=50) over one day old will be utilized for this study. The specific venous cannulae sizes
      that will be analyzed are the 12Fr, 14Fr, 16Fr, 18Fr, 20Fr, 24Fr, & 28Fr DLP (DLP and Fr are
      the type and size of cannulae, respectively) right angle cannulae. The doppler flow probes
      that will be utilized during this study are reusable, non-invasive, clamp-on devices which
      measure blood flow through the CPB tubing. Each patient will have one flow probe placed on
      each venous cannulae prior to starting CPB. Bypass itself will not be altered in anyway.
      Hemoglobin blood levels, blood temperature, and pressure from the venous line will be
      recorded throughout CPB and are digitally sampled via the CPB machine (e.g. no blood draw
      required). To further examine the quality of venous drainage, a pressure transducer will be
      attached to the venous line measuring the amount of negative pressure being generated by the
      venous cannulae. The negative pressure line will be attached to the venous line at a stopcock
      that is already present in our CPB circuit. Each cannulae size will be analyzed three times
      to acquire the proper amount of data needed to fulfill the statistical and practical needs
      for the study. A descriptive analysis of the continuous and categorical data will be
      performed using means, standard deviations, confidence intervals, proportions, and frequency
      distributions. Statistical testing will include parametric and non-parametric bi-variate and
      multi-variate techniques as appropriate to the variables' level of measurement and
      distributions.
    
  