
    
      Parkinson's disease is a large cause of disability worldwide. The complex combination of
      motor and non-motor symptoms brings an increasing impairment in functionality and,
      consequently, a progressively decrease in the quality of life of the people living with PD
      and their families. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that for health care,
      especially in chronic diseases, care should be centered on the person (people-centered care).
      This model enlarges the focus on biological aspects, including psychological and social
      aspects, building a multidimensional perspective on an individual, which can only be reached
      by integrated and interprofessional care.

      According to this model, education is crucial to empower the person to occupy an active role
      in the health process, gaining greater control over decisions and actions affecting their
      health. Patient empowerment has been associated with positive health and clinical outcomes,
      including improved disease management, effective use of health services, improved health
      status, and medication adherence. However, there are several barriers for participants to
      attending this kind of program. Reasons for nonparticipation include mobility-reducing
      physical health issues, time constraints, distance, insufficient funds, lack of respite care
      if caring for someone else, and transportation. Thus, using a home-based video class may be
      one opportunity to reduce these known barriers and improve the accessibility of education
      programs. This delivery strategy can be beneficial for no high-income countries.

      Objective: The objective of this study is to compare the effects of two similar long-term
      interprofessional programs, one of them delivers by in-person classes, and another delivers
      by online classes on the quality of life of people with Parkinson's.

      Method: People with a confirmed diagnosis of Idiopathic Parkinson's disease, in stage 1-4 of
      disease evolution according to Hoehn and Yahr classification will be randomized into 3
      groups: (1) Face-to-face group (FFG), in which participants, in groups of 10 persons,
      followed a multidisciplinary health education program composed of 10 monthly face-to-face
      lectures; (2) Remote group (RG), in which individuals followed the same lectures delivered by
      online; and (3) Control group (CG), in which participants followed no lecture. People who
      have severe cognitive decline and uncorrected visual or hearing impairment will be excluded.
      Participants from both groups will be instructed to follow their usual routine for the
      treatment of the disease. The lectures on the management of motor and non-motor alterations
      associate with PD will be offered by a nurse, physiotherapist, occupational therapist, speech
      therapist, neurologist, lawyer, nutritionist, and psychologist. The participants will be
      evaluated before (BED) and after (ABP) the education program conclusion (10 lectures). Health
      quality of life, adopted as a primary outcome, will be evaluated by Parkinson´s disease
      questionnaire 39 (PDQ-39). The independence in daily living activities, motor and non-motor
      symptoms severity, and global cognitive capacity, adopted as secondary measures, will be
      evaluated by Unified Parkinson´s disease rating scale (UPDRS) and Montreal Cognitive
      Assessment (MoCA), respectively. Besides, all participants will be asked to answer a survey
      to evaluate the knowledge improvement of key learning points of lectures. The survey
      consisted of 20 questions (2 per lecture) where the minimum level (score 0) indicated the
      absence of knowledge and maximal level (score 5) indicated the full understanding of
      lectures' key points. The results will be analyzed by ANOVA for repeated measures considering
      as factor group (FFG, RG, CG) and assessment points (BED, AEP).
    
  