
    
      Objective: The primary objective of this study is to compare efficacy of MWA to the efficacy
      of SBRT with regards to the primary endpoint (local tumour progression free survival at 1
      year [1-year LTPFS]) in patients with unresectable CRLM (3 - 5 cm) that are unsuitable for
      surgery due to either comorbidities, a history of extensive abdominal surgery, a poor
      performance status or due to a certain unfavourable anatomical location of the tumour.

      Study design: COLLISION XL is a prospective multi-centre phase-II randomized controlled
      trial.

      Study population: 68 patients with 1-3 unresectable lesions of 3 - 5cm, unsuitable for
      (further) chemotherapy regimens, suitable for both MWA and SBRT and no or limited
      extrahepatic disease (1 extrahepatic lesion is allowed, not including positive para-aortal
      lymph nodes, celiac lymph nodes, adrenal metastases, pleural carcinomatosis or peritoneal
      carcinomatosis) are considered eligible. Supplementary resections for resectable lesions and
      thermal ablations for unresectable CRLM ≤3cm are allowed. A maximum number of 10 CRLM are
      allowed for patients with no extrahepatic disease and a maximum number of 5 lesions are
      allowed for patients with limited extrahepatic disease.

      Intervention: SBRT or MWA. The panel, consisting of at least two interventional radiologists,
      two hepatobiliary surgeons and two radiation oncologists, will appoint lesions of 3-5cm that
      are unresectable and suitable for both MWA and SBRT, as target lesions. All lesions that are
      not suitable for ablation should be resectable and all unresectable lesions <3cm should be
      suitable for thermal ablation.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Primary endpoint is local tumour progression free survival
      (LTPFS) at 1 year from randomization. Secondary endpoints are local tumour progression free
      survival time, OS, disease-free survival (DFS), time to progression (TTP), procedural
      morbidity/toxicity and mortality, assessment of pain and quality of life (QoL) and
      cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
    
  