
    
      Obesity is a public health problem as it is associated with many co-morbidities, decreased
      life expectancy and high health care costs. In 2008, prevalence of obesity and overweight,
      combined, in Canada was 62.1%. Supported by Canadian Institute of Health Research (CIHR) and
      Public Health Agencies of Canada Innovation strategy, the Canadian Obesity Network developed
      a novel tool for obesity counseling and management in primary care settings know as the "5As
      of Obesity Management". However, despite current dissemination strategies and extensive
      provider education in the 5As, the uptake of current practices for weight management has been
      inconsistent. Evidence suggests that treating obesity can reduce the incidence of a number of
      chronic diseases, and that obesity is not effectively managed in our current health care
      system.This project was co-created by, and will be implemented with, our partners the
      Southside Primary Care Network (SSPCN).

      The main goal of this project is to develop and evaluate a pragmatic intervention called the
      5As Team Intervention(5AsT) which acts on health professionals, forming them into a 6 month
      learning collaborative that undergoes an iterative, action based process to address
      facilitators and barriers to weight management.

      Primary Objective:

      Increase the number of weight management visits conducted by SSPCN Registered Nurses/Nurse
      Practitioners (RN/NPs).

      Primary questions:

        1. Does the 5As Team (5AsT) intervention affect the number of weight management visits
           conducted by SSPCN practitioners (RN/NP) in their SSPCN practice?

        2. Under what circumstances does the 5AsT intervention affect the number of weight
           management visits conducted by the SSPCN practitioners?

        3. Are changes in weight management visit rates sustained following the intervention
           period?

        4. What is the impact of implementation of 5AsT on practice level outcomes - on unique 5As
           Teams and the SSPCN?

      Secondary Objective:

      To evaluate the impact of SSPCN weight management programming, with and without this 5AsT
      intervention, on patient important outcomes including: weight (BMI), blood pressure, self
      reported health status (EQ5D,SF-12), and patient-reported measures of chronic disease
      management for obesity (modified PACIC), as well as completion of appropriate laboratory
      studies (HbA1c for diabetics, fasting glucose, and cholesterol panel for age>40).

      Design: This is a mixed methods, pragmatic cluster randomized trial in regular practice. The
      quantitative portion focuses on provider weight management visits, and patient-important
      outcomes above. For the patient study, 2 primary patient outcomes the study is powered for
      are BMI and SF-12, the remainder above are secondary patient outcomes. The qualitative
      portion seeks to understand the implementation process and the efficacy of the 5AsT
      intervention. Practitioners affiliated with different clinical groups will be randomized to
      intervention or control. All practitioners receive a robust didactic training program in
      weight management. The intervention group practitioners will participate in a 6 month 5AsT
      learning collaborative to address barriers to implementation of effective weight management
      strategies based upon the 5As of Obesity Management tool kit. Interested patients presenting
      to the central SSPCN programming will be recruited to participate in the study. There is no
      study intervention on the patients; the study will only observe how they are doing on their
      weight management journey in the SSPCN - whether they come from an intervention or control
      practice group. We will conduct a rigorous qualitative analysis of the intervention process
      using numerous qualitative tools to assess both the intervention itself and participant
      views. A qualitative plan has been created that outlines the use of field notes, focus groups
      and interviews to collect data and the use of Thematic Analysis and Nvivo software for
      analysis.

      Intervention: The 5As Team (5AsT) Program intervention in this study is based on behavior
      change theory. The Teams are groups of SSPCN practitioners (RN/NP, Social work, Registered
      Dietitian) who practice collaboratively in the community (N=25). The intervention group (N=12
      teams) will participate in an additional 6 month intensive learning collaborative model
      designed around the 5As of obesity management, but which addresses areas identified as
      barriers (i.e. weight bias, clinical environment, clinic processes & team based care, mental
      health, counseling around emotional eating, caregiver fatigue, designing appropriate patient
      follow-up, and additional topics identified by the professionals). A clinical Champion
      identified by our partner SSPCN will be available to provide 1:1 support and coaching of the
      practitioners & teams as needed. The practitioners will work collaboratively to do their own
      needs assessment, and will identify additional resources or tools that they need to overcome
      the barriers to weight management in their setting. The research team will use a Practice
      Facilitation model to provide additional resource and support to the change process for the
      practitioners.

      Setting: The SSPCN is one of the largest Primary Care Networks (PCN) in Alberta, which serves
      an ethnically and socially diverse population from 45 community family practices. The SSPCN
      centralizes programs that are not available at independent family practices. Also, each
      primary care center has a SSPCN team of personnel who reports directly to the SSPCN, and are
      responsible for delivering services to patients from that patient catchment.
    
  