
    
      BACKGROUND The indications for initiating long-term opioid treatment for chronic non-cancer
      pain are often unclear and may be associated with poor outcomes and problematic use. Few
      available studies demonstrated that opioids do not provide advantages regarding pain control,
      quality of life and functional capacity in this population and may have numerous serious
      adverse effects and consequences.

      AIMS

      This study aimed at:

        1. evaluating the feasibility of a opioid tapering off program to patients with chronic
           pain,

        2. investigating the influence of opioid tapering off on cognitive function, pain, symptoms
           of opioid withdrawal, anxiety , depression, and health related quality of life,

        3. investigating the prevalence of addiction in chronic pain patients in a long-term
           treatment,

        4. determining the predictive value of the Pain Medication Questionnaire (PMQ) in patients
           with chronic pain,

        5. investigating how opioid tapering off influences PMQ.

      METHODS

      Study design

      This is a prospective, single centre, open-label, parallel-group randomized controlled trial
      (1:1) conducted at the Multidisciplinary Pain Centre of Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University
      Hospital, Denmark.

      Two phases with nine assessments were planned. The Phase 1 was the stabilization phase and
      consisted of two assessments: the first assessment (baseline) was done when patients were
      admitted to the pain centre and the second assessment was done when medical treatment was
      considered stable for at least three weeks (stable dose levels and regular intervals). In the
      following patients went through Phase 2 and were randomized to receive the intervention
      (Taper off Group) or continue the same stable treatment (Control Group). Seven assessments
      were planned to this phase: third and fourth assessments were done in intervals of two to
      three weeks and the following assessments (fifth to ninth) with intervals of one month in
      between.

      Intervention

      The taper-off intervention consisted of a reduction of 10% of the daily opioid dose every 1-2
      weeks until discontinuation of opioid treatment for up to six months. Clonidine use (25mg -
      150mg/day) was allowed in cases of opioid withdrawal symptoms, according to medical
      prescription.

      Analysis

      Statistical analysis will be performed to compare baseline characteristics between groups
      (patients that complete the study vs. patients that dropped out and intervention vs. control
      group). Comparative analysis of primary and secondary outcomes between groups will also be
      performed to identify significant differences associated with the intervention.
    
  