
    
      Based on results from previous studies we hypothesize that the nose plays a more significant
      role in normal sleep respiration and in particular a larger role in sleep disordered
      breathing than previously recorded.

      The overall aim of this project is to gain insight into nasal respiration during wake and
      sleep, its anatomy, physiology and pathophysiology.

      Additionally, we will look at olfactory dysfunction, or reduced sense of smell, a known
      problem in OSAS patients (n=30), and try to determine if this dysfunction has to do with
      disturbed sleep architecture or as a result of frequent deoxygenations during the night.

      To do this we propose to implement current diagnostic tools available in the diagnostics of
      sleep disordered breathing such as polysomnography (PSG), in combination with rhinological
      investigations with 4-phase rhinomanometry and techniques such as two-way fluid structure
      interaction (FSI) computational fluid dynamic (CFD) analysis of patients. For olfactory
      testing we will use standardized smell tests. These examinations in combination will give us
      a more detailed view of the factors that influence nasal respiration.

      Additionally, we will use an interventional approach in the proposed study. Patient nasal
      resistance will be modified under monitored sleep by implementing conventional decongestant
      nasal spray in an double blinded RCT in order to study the effect of varying nasal resistance
      on nocturnal respiration and sleep architecture.

      Findings, where applicable, will be compared with two-way fluid structure interaction
      computational fluid dynamic models of patients in all studies to find correlative values and
      thus assess the predicative value of such computer models.

      In the short term these findings could improve patient adherence to CPAP by lowering CPAP
      pressure. Long term aims are to improve the accuracy of nasal surgery.

      Potential end points in our research are as follows:

      A better understanding of nasal respiration as a whole Better treatment adherence and
      satisfaction in sleep apnea patients Improved treatment strategies for sleep apnea patients
      Improved diagnostics of nasal airflow pathology More focused targeting of medical and
      surgical intervention in impaired nasal airflow
    
  