
    
      In dialysis patients the degree of anemia is highly correlated to both morbidity and
      mortality. A drop in Hb by 10 g/L translates into an increase in the rate of hospitalizations
      of 5 to 6 % and a rise in mortality by 4 to 5 %. The past two decades have seen great
      progress in the treatment of renal anemia with the advent of erythropoietin, and, more
      recently, darbepoetin. Quite soon, however, it became clear, that anemia in patients with
      chronic renal failure is complicated by a lack of bioavailable iron, which confers these
      patients partly resistant to treatment with erythropoietin/darbepoetin.

      There are several parameters in use to estimate total body iron stores in the diagnosis of
      iron deficiency and iron deficiency anemia. Serum iron represents only a minor fraction of
      total body iron and is subject to major fluctuations due to influx or efflux from tissue iron
      stores. In addition, it shows a great diurnal variability, and is therefore a very poor
      parameter of iron deficiency. Iron saturation of its transporter protein in blood,
      transferrin, is similarly difficult to interpret, as it depends also in part on the
      determination of serum iron levels. Ferritin, the tissue iron storage protein, is released
      into the circulation during active liver cell damage, and, quite unlike serum transferrin
      levels, ferritin levels rise during the acute phase response of the inflammatory reaction. In
      most cases, however, the serum ferritin level, if substantiated by the concurrent
      determination of the C-reactive protein and the alanine-leucine-aminotransferase (ALT) to
      exclude both, occult liver cell damage and inflammation, correlates well with total body iron
      stores and total body iron deficiency, respectively.

      The serum ferritin level, however, is a poor marker of functional iron deficiency when
      erythropoiesis is inhibited by the relative lack bioavailable iron in high turnover states of
      the bone marrow such as in hemolysis and in the thalassemias. Correspondingly, in patients
      with hemochromatosis and an increased functional iron availability, erythropoiesis will be
      augmented following acute blood losses.

      To date no golden standard exists to measure functional iron deficiency in a routine clinical
      setting. As a matter of fact, in some clinical studies functional iron deficiency is still
      diagnosed indirectly and retrospectively by the effect of an iron substitution therapy
      (increase in Hb by 10 g/L following 4 weeks of iron supplementation)

      The percentage of hemoglobin-deficient, hypochromic erythrocytes, as measured by some
      hemocytometers, reflects the availability of iron for erythropoiesis and has become a
      surrogate marker of functional iron deficiency. As the lifespan of erythrocytes varies
      according to the degree of the patient's uremia between approximately 60 and 120 days,
      hypochromic erythrocytes, measured as a percentage of total erythrocytes (%-Hypo), become
      detectable only late in the course of erythropoietin therapy, and are therefore thought by
      some to be of only limited sensitivity in the diagnosis of functional iron deficiency.

      With the automated measurement of reticulocytes, it has become now possible on some
      hemocytometers, such as the Advia 120, to also determine the hemoglobin content in newly
      formed reticulocytes (CHr). The hemoglobin content of reticulocytes mirrors more closely the
      current availability of iron for erythropoiesis. What would make CHr so attractive for
      clinicians and the clinical laboratory, is not only its acclaimed sensitivity to detect
      functional iron deficiency, but, even more so, its easy availability, as it forms part of a
      simple reticulocyte count on a normal hemocytometer.

      In other hemocytometric systems laser light scatter patterns have been utilized to
      characterize the hemoglobin content in reticulocytes (RET-HE). This new parameter, RET-HE,
      has been shown to be of a similar sensitivity and specificity as CHr and to give comparable
      results in clinical samples (CHr, r = 0.94).

      The present study is meant to define the laboratory parameter (%-Hypo/CHr or RET-He) which is
      suited best to diagnose functional iron deficiency. The study design asks for the parameter
      with which physicians will be able to diagnose their patients so to improve the management of
      their anemia. A diagnostic parameter is searched for which improves the patients' treatment
      the most, as measured by blood hemoglobin levels (primary end point 1), at the lowest
      possible costs (primary end point 2).
    
  