
    
      The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI), in collaboration with the Eunice
      Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, is funding this
      follow-up study of the nuMoM2b cohort to evaluate the association between adverse pregnancy
      outcomes (APOs) and cardiovascular health approximately 2 to 3½ years postpartum. The study,
      called the nuMoM2b Heart Health Study or nuMoM2b HHS, utilizes the extensive database and
      tissue bank developed for nuMoM2b in which nulliparous women are evaluated over the course of
      pregnancy to study the mechanisms for and prediction of APOs. Women enrolled in the nuMoM2b
      cohort are extremely well phenotyped through prospective data collection, clinical
      evaluations, and ultrasound assessments, as well as through the use of standardized
      definitions. Demographic, psychosocial, dietary, physiologic, and outcome information were
      collected through maternal interviews, self-administered questionnaires, clinical
      measurements, ultrasounds, and medical record abstraction. Samples of maternal blood, urine,
      and cervico-vaginal fluid over pregnancy and cord blood and placenta at delivery were
      collected and banked. All women completed two sleep questionnaires and over 3,600 had
      objective overnight sleep studies at two times during pregnancy.

      Women participating in the nuMoM2b are assessed in nuMoM2b HHS for evidence of cardiovascular
      disease risk (CVDR), including sleep disordered breathing (SDB), at 2 to 3½ years postpartum.
      APOs in subsequent pregnancies also are assessed. This study characterizes the relationship
      between APOs and CVDR, identify first pregnancy profiles that portend subsequent CVDR,
      determine associations between SDB during the first pregnancy and subsequent CVDR, and
      identify modifiable factors that mediate the associations between CVDR and APOs in the first
      and subsequent pregnancy. This follow-up study will allow for the development of strategies
      to modify these CVDR factors and to improve the health of women suffering APOs.

      The nuMoM2b Heart Health Study is a prospective observational study that includes interval
      contacts and a detailed cardiovascular assessment 2 to 3½ years after delivery of the index
      pregnancy. At the cardiovascular assessment, potentially eligible women are invited to attend
      a cardiovascular screening visit. After informed consent, a urine pregnancy test is performed
      to confirm eligibility. The visit includes clinical and laboratory measurements as well as a
      structured interview to assess domains that were measured in the nuMoM2b pregnancy: physical
      activity, depression, social support, psychological stress, and nutritional status. Women
      with sleep breathing assessments during their nuMoM2b pregnancy are offered another overnight
      sleep study.

      The overarching goal is to better define the relation between outcomes of pregnancy and long
      term health of the mother. The specific aims are as follows:

      Aim 1: Define the incidence of hypertension and the cardiovascular disease risk (CVDR)
      profile of women approximately 2 to 3½ years after a first pregnancy complicated by
      preeclampsia or other adverse pregnancy outcomes (APOs: stillbirth, small for gestational age
      at birth [SGA], preterm birth, preeclampsia, pregnancy-associated hypertension, gestational
      diabetes [GDM]) compared to women having no APOs in the first pregnancy.

      Aim 2: Identify a profile in early pregnancy that portends subsequent CVDR approximately 2 to
      3½ years postpartum.

      Aim 3: Determine whether pregnancy and postpartum sleep disordered breathing (SDB) is
      associated with increased CVDR and identify specific patterns of pregnancy and postpartum SDB
      that increase CVDR.

      Aim 4: Identify modifiable factors during and after pregnancy that mediate the associations
      between APOs and the CVDR during pregnancy and approximately 2 to 3½ years postpartum.
    
  