
    
      Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) is a general term for a group of non-specific, chronic
      inflammatory disorders of the digestive tract, of unknown etiology. IBD may be divided in two
      major categories: Ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, both characterized by a tendency
      towards frequent acute relapses leading to devastating chronic destruction of the intestinal
      mucosal barrier function. Whereas Crohn's disease can affect the whole digestive tract,
      ulcerative colitis is characterized by colonic involvement only. Surgical intervention is
      frequently required in both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Therapeutic intervention
      to date predominantly is based on reduction of induced local mucosal- or systemic
      inflammation by the use of 5-ASA, corticosteroids, cyclosporine, or TNFα antibodies.

      In IBD, the delicate balance between pro-inflammatory molecules, anti-inflammatory molecules
      and immunoregulatory cells, which tightly regulate the immune system, is disrupted and this
      results in chronic, relapsing inflammation. Tissue and plasma concentrations of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IFN-gamma, IL-1ß, IL-6, IL-8 and TNFα are elevated in
      inflammatory bowel disease and correlate with IBD activity.

      In patients with inflammatory bowel diseases circulating LPS have been detected and also
      increased AP levels have been observed. The presence of the endotoxin is probably the
      consequence of the damaged intestinal mucosa leading to an increased LPS influx or gut
      translocation and causing or aggravating the systemic inflammatory response. The increased AP
      levels observed in these patients may be caused by the suboptimal detoxification of the
      gut-derived influx of LPS and a response thereof of non-intestinal organs. Thus it has been
      proposed that the liver sheds alkaline phosphatase (fast acting liver alkaline phosphatase)
      massively after having been insulted with LPS.

      Systemic consequences of IBD may be induced and/or aggravated significantly by the influx of
      LPS. The proposed normal natural defense mechanism against LPS does include, amongst others,
      the cleavage of one of the phosphate groups from LPS by endogenous AP. It is therefore
      conceivable that a reduction in the amount of active LPS in the intestinal lumen by
      exogenously administered AP will result in a corresponding relative decrease of LPS-influx in
      the circulation of a subject and, as a consequence, inhibit the LPS medicated systemic
      inflammatory response. Moreover, dephosphorylated LPS will reduce the ability of LPS to
      activate TLR-4, resulting in decreased nuclear factor κB activation and a decreased local
      inflammatory response.

      In order to investigate the clinical potential of exogenously administered BIAP for human
      use, its safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics have previously been studied in animal
      toxicology studies and in subsequent Phase I and IIa clinical trials, respectively. These
      studies were done with intravenously administered BIAP. Following these studies and the
      successful completion of animal pharmacology studies and a human volunteer study with oral AP
      the next phase in the development of exogenously administered oral AP is to test the compound
      in a limited population of patients with IBD.
    
  