
    
      All patients with suspected CES will be seen and assessed by a member of the on-call team
      i.e. either a spinal fellow, spinal SpR, orthopaedic SpR or junior doctor, on presentation.
      Clinical features will be documented and stored in the patient notes. This document will then
      be photocopied for use in the study. Digital rectal examination will be performed to assess
      anal sphincter tone, voluntary control (anal contraction) and sensation of sharp and light
      touch with a chaperone present. Those with abnormal perianal sensation will be admitted and
      referred for urgent MRI. (NB: For the purposes of this study, these patients will also
      undergo pre and post-micturition bladder scans in order to allow the correlation between
      perianal sensation and residual urine volume to be assessed thoroughly.)

      Bladder scanning will be used to measure pre and post-micturition residual urine volume in
      patients with normal perianal sensation. The on-call spinal registrar, fellow or consultant
      will conduct the bladder scanning using the BARDSCAN IIs ultrasound device. Patients with
      residual urine volume greater than 100ml will be admitted and referred for urgent MRI.
      Patients with normal perianal sensation and residual urine volume less than 100ml however
      will be discharged and receive an MRI scan as an outpatient within 5 days of presentation.
      These patients will be advised that if there is any progression of their symptoms that they
      should re-attend hospital. Any patient who re-attends, whilst waiting for their out-patient
      MRI, will be admitted for an urgent MRI.

      Assessment of patients unable to void following pre-micturition bladder scan will depend upon
      bladder volume. Those measuring greater than 100ml will be catheterised and sent for MRI,
      whereas patients with less than 100ml will be encouraged to try again in 1 hour. Patients who
      fail to void at this time will also be catheterised and sent for MRI.

      Patient Follow-up All patients will be followed-up by the consultant responsible for their
      care. Patients operated on for confirmed CES will be seen in clinic at six weeks and six
      months following surgery (or as required). Patients who do not require surgery will be seen
      in the next available clinic (usually within two weeks). Any unfortunate patients who
      continue to experience bladder and/or bowel dysfunction as a complication of CES will be
      referred to urology, urogynaecology, neurology and/ or colorectal services as appropriate.

      Data Synthesis, Management and Analysis A pro forma will be used to assess all cases of
      suspected CES. This will be completed as part of the initial assessment by a member of the
      on-call spinal team and stored in the patient's notes. Demographic data will also be
      collected. These documents will be photocopied from the notes and data transferred to an
      Excel spread sheet and stored on an RD&E NHS password protected computer. Hospital number
      will serve as the only patient identifier. Photocopies will be stored in the spinal research
      office, which will be locked when not in use. Data will be stored for ten years following the
      end of the study period before destruction.

      Statistical analysis will be carried out using IBM SPSS Statistics v21 for Mac. Descriptive
      statistics will be calculated and comparisons of means carried out according to the
      distribution of data. The sensitivity and specificity of our proposed diagnosis algorithm, as
      well as positive predictive values, will be calculated according to a 2x2 table. For between
      groups analyses ANOVA will be used and for testing differences between patients with and
      without post-residual volume >100ml, an independent t-test will be performed. A p value below
      0.05 was considered to be statistically significant.

      Dissemination of Results To the best of our knowledge this is the first study to investigate
      the use of post-micturition bladder scanning as part of a clinical algorithm for patients
      with suspected acute CES. It is the intention of the investigators to disseminate the
      outcomes of this study to regional, national and international scientific peer groups.

      Authorship, accountability and acknowledgement will follow guidance as outlined by
      International Committee of Medical Editors. For core protocol publications (reporting on
      primary and secondary objectives of the trial), the protocol team serves as the writing team,
      usually with the protocol chair as lead author. For cross-protocol publications, with the
      permission of lead investigator, other team members may act as writing team and may include
      other additional authors as appropriate. Additional authors may include other investigators,
      usually members of trial staffs or inter-departmental collaborators, and/or site
      investigators. The principal investigator or other protocol team members may present data at
      scientific meetings.
    
  