
    
      The primary goal of this Phase I pediatric oncology clinical trial will be to evaluate the
      safety and use of 4-demethyl-4-cholesteryloxycarbonylpenclomedine (DM-CHOC-PEN), as
      anticancer therapy for AYA with advanced cancer +/- central nervous system (CNS) involvement.

      DM-CHOC-PEN is a polychlorinated pyridine cholesteryloxycarbonate that crosses the blood
      brain barrier (BBB), accumulates in CNS tumor tissue in humans and has produced objective
      responses, with acceptable/reversible hepatic toxicities (in patients with prior liver
      disease) and no evidence of hematological, renal, neuro-toxicities with improved quality of
      life and overall survival in adult Phase I/II clinical trials - IND - 68,876 (1-6).

      The FDA supports the proposed Phase I clinical trial designed to identify safety, toxicities
      and an acceptable MTD in AYA cancers subjects now that the adult Phase I trial has been
      completed with acceptable toxicity and MTDs identified (2, 3, 5, 6).

      Almost 700,000 people in the US are living with tumors involving the CNS or spinal nervous
      system (SNS) tumors (6). Nearly 15% of these tumors involve the adolescent/young adult (AYA)
      population, aged 15-39 years of age (6). It is predicted that 10,617 AYA individuals will be
      diagnosed with brain or CNS tumors resulting in 434 deaths this year in the US (6). Trends in
      CNS tumors have sharply increased since 1989 for AYA individuals with a history of cancer,
      who appeared to have 'beaten the odds', only to have a reoccurrence from cancer involving the
      CNS after years of remission; the most common types of cancer in AYA individuals are -
      melanoma, leukemia and sarcomas (7). This group of individuals deserve special care.

      For males and female individuals <20 years of age, primary brain and secondary cancers of the
      CNS and spinal nervous system (SNS) are the most common causes of death from cancer and in
      the 20-39 year age group the first cause of cancer-related deaths in males and the fifth
      cause of cancer-related deaths in females. The incidence and histology of cancer types does
      vary according to subject age ( ).

      A critical component in designing an agent that will cross the protective blood brain barrier
      (BBB) is that the agent must be readily transported intracerebrally, does not produce local
      irritation/neurotoxicity and is not recycled back into the general circulation. After IV
      administration DM-CHOC-PEN readily penetrates the BBB, is not a substrate for the transporter
      protein P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and has shown anticancer activity in CNS tumors (4). The
      effective transport of DM-CHOC-PEN into CNS tumors in adults without neurotoxic behavioral
      alterations and associated events supports the drug's use in children with CNS tumors at an
      age in which brain development and maturation is still very active with cognitive lability.
      The observed responses noted in adults with metastatic cancers involving the CNS and
      cerebellum treated with DM-CHOC-PEN (Table 1) may also occur in medulloblastoma in AYA (7,
      9). Thus, the drug's unique properties and lack of toxicities noted in the adult studies
      merits the Phase I trial proposed here in children.

      The specific objectives of this Phase I study will be to:

        1. Conduct a Phase I clinical trial with DM-CHOC-PEN in AYA that have advanced cancers with
           +/- the central nervous system to document toxicities, define an acceptable maximum
           tolerated dose (MTD), and identify anticancer activity for the drug. All data will be
           communicated through an e-RAP program. This will be accomplished through IND - 68.876.

        2. Studying the pharmacokinetic/dynamic profiles of DM-CHOC-PEN and metabolites in AYAs
           with advanced cancers involving the central nervous system.

        3. Analyze data and prepare a Phase II clinical trial in AYA subjects for FDA review.
    
  