
    
      This supplement to the parent study, Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/ Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
      (ME/CFS): Activity patterns and autonomic function, is intended to enhance the larger
      home-based study with a face-to-face laboratory arm. Specifically, the investigators propose
      a pilot study to assess biobehavioral sex differences in ME/CFS during recovery after a brief
      high exertion exercise task, i.e., a six-minute walk test repeated on two consecutive days.
      The investigators expect adverse symptomatic, functional, and autonomic effects following
      this repeat exercise test. This "post-exertional malaise (PEM)" and its impact on global
      outcomes is a unique feature of ME/CFS that is being studied in the parent observational
      study conducted by participants entirely in their homes. In the proposed supplement, PEM and
      its impacts will be captured in real time under controlled conditions in the research team's
      laboratory. Of particular interest, autonomic effects of PEM on heart function and blood
      pressure using non-invasive research grade monitors. The specific aims are as follows:

      Specific Aim 1: After two high-effort six minute walk tests conducted on consecutive days,
      female subjects with ME/CFS as compared to male ME/CFS subjects will show slower recovery
      with respect to cardiovascular autonomic functioning, physical functioning, and symptom
      resolution. Specific Aim 2: Female subjects with ME/CFS as compared to males with ME/CFS will
      show greater adverse impact on autonomic and physical functioning and symptom severity after
      the day 2 exercise test.

      To more accurately characterize exercise recovery abnormalities differentiated by sex, the
      investigators propose to longitudinally monitor symptoms, activity levels, and autonomic
      status during the week before (baseline) as compared to the week after (follow-up) the two
      exercise tests. This pilot study will also provide potential cross-validation of the parent
      project which hypothesizes specific relationships between autonomic function symptom severity
      and activity limitations. A parallel analysis of sex differences will also be carried out on
      the data collected in the parent project.

      The pilot study will remain within the scope of the original aims of the parent study to
      identify biobehavioral factors related to PEM, symptom-worsening activity patterns, and
      non-improvement in ME/CFS. This supplement will expand the parent project's home-based data
      collection to a controlled setting with direct observation and verification of exercise tests
      carried out by participants in the principal investigator's laboratory.
    
  