
    
      People with diabetes and peripheral neuropathy (DM+PN) have substantial lower extremity
      impairments, functional limitations and disability. In addition to muscle weakness and poor
      balance, they also are at high risk for foot ulcerations, especially if they have a history
      of ulceration. Although there is a large and growing body of knowledge about the effect of
      exercise on people with DM, there is little evidence about the effect of exercise in people
      with DM+PN. Exercise is an important treatment component to help control the complications of
      DM. The American Diabetes Association (ADA), and the American College of Sports Medicine
      (ACSM)4 recommend that adults with DM participate in at least 30 minutes a day of
      moderate-intensity physical activity that is consistent with a brisk walk. The ADA and ACSM,
      however, discourage weight-bearing exercise for people with DM+PN due to risk of
      exercise-induced foot injury. No data support this guideline to restrict those with DM+PN
      from weight-bearing activity, and in fact, some evidence suggests that those with DM+PN who
      are most active are least likely to develop skin breakdown. The Primary Goal of this proposal
      is to conduct a pilot randomized prospective controlled clinical trial to determine if people
      with DM+PN can benefit from a progressive weight-bearing exercise program to improve
      impairments, functional limitations, disability, and pathophysiology without an increase in
      skin breakdown or foot lesions. The benefits of a weight bearing program will be compared to
      the benefits of a non weight bearing exercise program and to a non-exercising control group.
      The results of this study also will help to determine if neuropathic skin and muscle can
      adapt to increasing physical stress levels without injury which could have important
      implications for weight-bearing and exercise guidelines for people with DM+PN.

      A. SPECIFIC AIMS

      Aim 1. Determine the effect of a weight-bearing exercise program compared to a non-weight
      bearing exercise program and to a non-exercising control group on indicators of impairments,
      functional limitations, disability, and pathophysiology in patients with DM+PN.

        1. Measures of Impairment: Ankle joint range of motion, ankle plantar flexor and
           dorsiflexor muscle strength (peak torque), muscle volume (magnetic resonance imaging),
           and standing balance.

           H1: Both exercise groups will show an improvement in ankle joint range of motion and
           ankle plantar flexor / dorsiflexor muscle strength / volume compared to the
           non-exercising control group, but only the weight-bearing exercise group will show an
           improvement in standing balance because of exposure to challenging weight-bearing
           activities.

        2. Measures of Functional Limitations: Physical Performance Test, Foot & Ankle Ability
           Measure.

           H2: Both exercise groups will show improvement in the Physical Performance Test and Foot
           & Ankle Ability Measure compared to the non-exercising control group, and the
           weight-bearing exercise group will show greater improvements than the non-weight bearing
           exercise group because of improved balance and exposure to challenging weight-bearing
           activities.

        3. Measures of Disability / Participation: Diabetes Symptom Checklist, Beck Depression
           Inventory.

           H3: Both exercise groups will show improved measures of disability compared to the
           non-exercising control group, and the weight-bearing exercise group will show greater
           improvements than the non-weight bearing exercise group because of improved ability to
           participate in community activities which require weight-bearing and walking ability.

        4. Measures of Pathophysiology: HbA1c, serum lipids, DXA (body composition), and body mass
           index.

      H4: Both exercise groups will show modest but statistically significant improvements compared
      to the non-exercising control group in the above measures of pathophysiology.

      Aim 2: Determine the effect of weight-bearing exercise program and non-weight bearing
      exercise program compared to a control group on 1) daily step count (steps/day), 2) an
      estimate of cumulative load (step count * plantar pressure integral), 3) unilateral increase
      in surface foot temperature, and 4) incidence of foot lesions (digital photograph).

      H5: The weight-bearing exercise group will achieve greater increases in weight-bearing
      activity (i.e., increased steps/day and cumulative load) compared to the non-weight bearing
      exercise group and the non-exercising control group; and there will be no clinically
      meaningful difference in incidence or indicators of foot lesions between groups.
    
  