
    
      Endotracheal tube (ETT) is the gold standard conduit for providing controlled ventilation
      during general anesthesia (GA). However, since the introduction of classic laryngeal mask
      airway (LMA) in the 1980's and serial evolution of supra-glottic airway devices (SGA)
      thereafter, LMAs have become a reliable alternative to ETT for carrying out controlled
      ventilation. Interestingly, of the additional advantages that the LMA proffers, including, a
      lower incidence of postoperative sore throat (POST) and superior hemodyamic profile during
      surgery; its ability to maintain equivalent depth of anesthesia (in comparison to when
      ETT-GA) with lower anesthetic requirement, is intriguing.

      A handful of studies have demonstrated that the end-tidal isoflurane concentration required
      for maintenance of GA is 0.2 -0.53% greater with use of ETT as compared to LMA. However, the
      evidence generated by these studies remains unsubstantiated because in them, anaesthetic gas
      concentration was titrated to patient's clinical profile like heart rate and blood pressure
      without the backing of specific protocol for maintaining depth-of-anaesthesia. Therefore, for
      credible evidence, assessment of quantitative anesthetic requirement for achieving and
      sustaining a steady anesthesia depth with either LMA or ETT warrants confirmation with the
      use of an objective depth-of-anesthesia monitor, such as, bispectral index (BIS).

      Closed loop anaesthesia delivery system (CLADS) is an indigenously developed patented
      (502/DEL/2003) computer-controlled and BIS-guided automated anesthesia delivery system.
      CLADS, which runs on a control algorithm based on the relationship between diverse rates of
      propofol infusion and the processed EEG variable; delivers propofol infusion at a rate which
      is continuously adjusted by patient's state of depth of anesthesia as per BIS monitoring
      input. This automated system maintains anaesthesia depth with high accuracy and objectively
      determines propofol delivery quantitatively.

      Of the several variants of SGA available today, the ProSeal laryngeal mask airway (PLMA) 9 is
      preferred for controlled ventilation for its unique design that serves dual function of a
      ventilation tube and an oropharyngeal drainage tube for excluding gastric contents from
      getting aspirated through the peri-laryngeal cuff seal.

      Given that CLADS can help us to accurately quantify anaesthesia, we hypothesize that there is
      no difference in anesthesia requirement for GA maintained through an ETT or a PLMA. This
      randomized controlled study aims to compare: anaesthesia requirement as determined by total
      propofol consumption (primary objective); intraoperative hemodynamic profile and incidence of
      POST (secondary objectives) in patients undergoing laparoscopic surgery with controlled
      ventilation via ETT or PLMA.
    
  