
    
      The current study is designed to determine whether a dietary supplement, the
      tocotrienol-enriched fraction of palm oil (TRF) will enhance the effects of a botanical
      supplement, Chinese Red Yeast Rice (CRYR). Originally, CRYR was sold as a dietary supplement
      in the United States until 2001. Since that time, CRYR containing monacolin K which is
      chemically identical to mevinolin sold as Mevacor (now off patent) has been classified as an
      unapproved drug. At the present time, there are many brands of CRYR sold over the counter in
      drug stores and warehouse chains in the U.S. However, none of these have the amounts of
      Monacolin K found in the CRYR which was the subject of FDA action in 2001 and none have been
      proven effective in lowering cholesterol. FDA monitors the levels of monacolin K in over the
      counter supplements and limits the approved levels to less than 2 mg when effective doses are
      between 6 and 10 mg, in this study we will use . two capsules per day where each capsule
      contains 3 mg of mevinolin as Monacolin K. The capsules also contain the rice on which the
      CRYR is fermented for a total mass of 600 mg per capsule or a total daily dose of 1200mg.

      The study was originally designed to focus on the effects of tocotrienol, utilized with a
      statin drug. However, subjects being recruited with cholesterol levels between 200 mg/dl and
      240 mg/dl did not want to take a drug. This made it impossible to recruit subjects.
      Therefore, the current protocol is being submitted using a CRYR from China which has known
      effects on serum lipid and will be used in this study to examine whether tocotrienol by
      suppressing the increase in gene expression of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-CoA reductase
      (HMG-CoA) reductase will further lower serum lipid compared to the CRYR alone.

      This objective will be achieved by recruiting individuals with cholesterol levels within the
      l range of 200 to 240 mg/dl where drug treatment is optional. After acclimation to a step 1
      American Heart Association (AHA) diet, subjects will be randomized to one of four groups to
      receive 1) Placebo; 2) CRYR alone; 3) TRF alone; or 4) CRYR and TRF in combination for 12
      weeks. Fasting lipids including cholesterol, triglyceride, and HDL cholesterol will be
      measured at baseline, 6 weeks and 12 weeks.
    
  