
    
      Infectious diseases are important causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide, and
      vaccinations are vital to reducing the risk of disease. Vaccine efficacy, however, is
      dependent on the immune system's ability to respond to vaccination antigens. Influenza
      vaccines play an important role in combating influenza. However, some populations, such as
      older adults, respond poorly to vaccination due to their compromised immune systems, with
      efficacy at 17-53% (compared to 70-90% in young adults).

      Behavioural and psychological influences have been shown to alter immune responses. An
      observational study looking into behavioural and psychological effects, which have been
      identified as immune modulators (stress, physical activity, nutrition, mood and sleep) found
      greater positive mood on the day of vaccination predicted significantly greater antibody
      responses to influenza vaccination. Following this, a feasibility study carried out on 110
      older adults demonstrated the ability to enhance positive mood prior to influenza vaccination
      using a brief digital intervention.

      The clinical trial will be the next phase of this research, where the cohort will consist of
      650 participants, aged over 65 years, who will receive the quadrivalent, cell-grown influenza
      vaccination, immediately after one of three conditions. These conditions include: the control
      arm of usual participant care for vaccination; participants watching a 15-minute digital
      intervention via a tablet that does not allow content selection; and a personalised digital
      intervention that allows for participant selection of content they would like to view for 15
      minutes. The purpose of these digital interventions is to enhance positive mood of patients
      prior to vaccination.

      The primary aim of this trial is to explore which of two brief interventions has the largest
      effect on positive mood, compared with usual care. The secondary aim is to measure vaccine
      specific antibody responses, with the hypothesis that individuals with enhanced positive mood
      will present larger vaccine specific antibody responses.

      This trial will also allow data collection on exploring recruitment, attrition, intervention
      engagement, and practicality of collecting clinical data available through electronic records
      and self-report measures to inform the design of a future definitive trial.
    
  