
    
      Screening and Informed Consent

      Subjects will be screened on a weekly basis for eligibility of enrollment. If eligible,
      patients will be approached by study staff at the initial surgical consultation. The purpose
      of the study and risks of the procedures will be explained to the subject and the consent
      process must be documented accordingly in the medical record. Subjects who agree to study
      participation must sign an IRB-approved informed consent form. Subjects will be informed that
      their participation in this study is voluntary and they may refuse to participate or
      discontinue from the study at any time. Subjects will be given the opportunity to ask the
      investigator questions so that they are adequately informed about the research. A copy of the
      signed informed consent must be provided to the subject and the informed consent process will
      be documented in source documents. If new information becomes available that may affect a
      subject's decision to continue to take part in the study, this information will be discussed
      with the subject by the investigator.

      Failure to meet submission requirements:

      Each patient will be required to meet their individual insurance companies requirements for
      submission of bariatric surgery approval. Subjects who provide study consent but then do not
      submit for insurance approval or are denied will be considered "discontinued" and will not
      require additional study follow-up visits. The reason for the discontinuation will be clearly
      delineated on the applicable case report form. Subjects in who the loop duodenal switch
      procedure is begun but not completed will be considered "discontinued" once discharged from
      the hospital and not require any additional study follow-up visits. Reasons for
      discontinuation will be recorded in the case report form.

      Additionally, female patients of child bearing age will undergo a standard of care pregnancy
      test at the time of the pre-operative surgical testing (2/3 weeks before surgery) and always
      the morning of surgery by urine HCG.

      Surgical Procedures:

      The operation will be performed per standard of care and as previously described (1-3), with
      the exception that in this protocol the duodeno-intestinal anastomosis will be performed at
      approximately 300 cc with moderate stretch from the ileocecal valve, rather than 200 cm or
      250 cm, as in previous reports (Cottam et al, 2015). The purpose of this change is to allow
      greater nutrient absorption since a previous report observed no difference in mean excess
      weight loss between 200 cm and 250 cm (3). In addition, the sleeve gastrectomy will be
      performed over a 40 French bougie. The duodeno-intestinal anastomosis will be hand-sewn.

      Subjects will be maintained on a low-calorie diet for the first post-operative month, as per
      standard of care. In addition, multivitamin supplements, calcium, and iron should be
      prescribed and maintained per standard of care.
    
  