
    
      Understanding participants experiences as research volunteers is critical to improving the
      effectiveness of human participant protection programs, and strengthening the public trust in
      the clinical research enterprise. Institutional Review Boards, investigators and regulators
      have few tools, little direct information, and no validated outcome measures in this regard.
      Yet, to operate rationally, IRBs and investigations need not only data on local performance,
      but also the critical ability to benchmark among peers and identify best practices.
      Historically, studies evaluating participant s comprehension of the informed consent document
      or evaluating the informed consent process have served, at best, as indirect measures of the
      quality of the participant s experience, focusing primarily on the readability of text and
      institutional process. Few if any studies have assessed the nature, quality and efficiency of
      the entire clinical research process from the participant s perspective, nor produced results
      that are actionable and relevant to the research participant experience.

      This study is the second phase of a two-part study designed to directly measure research
      participants perceptions of the clinical research process as defined by what research
      participants themselves have articulated in focus groups as the relevant aspects of their
      clinical research experience. In the first phase of the project, from May 2008- November
      2008, 89 research volunteers and 29 research professionals from eight academic research
      institutions were enrolled into 18 focus groups to assess the key dimensions of the research
      experience. Using qualitative research methods, the main themes of the research participant
      experience were extracted from the analysis of the transcripts of those focus groups and a
      draft survey was constructed. The current protocol describes the fielding and validation of
      the Research Participant Perception Survey instrument in 15 academic research institutions
      across the Clinical and Translational Science Awards (CTSA) consortium. The scope of the
      fielding and validation study is enhanced by the support of a CTSA Administrative Supplement
      which facilitated the increase of the number of participating centers from 9 to 15
      institutions, and enlarges the sample size of completed surveys from 3600 to 5400 completed
      participant surveys (based on 340 completed surveys/institution for 95% confidence
      intervals.) Based on prior experience of 45% return rates, it is estimated that 10,000
      surveys will be deployed across the 15 institutions in order to obtain the targeted 5400
      completed surveys.

      Leveraging the hospital survey expertise of our colleagues at NRC Picker, the fielding of the
      draft survey instrument is designed to validate the instrument and to attain highly relevant,
      actionable process and outcome measures. Survey data may be used for benchmarking and to
      assist centers in identifying best practices to offer the consortium. Center-specific survey
      data may be used to improve the clinical research participant experience, enhance public
      trust, and to strengthen the clinical research enterprise. Information regarding the
      processes of study design and implementation during this intra-consortium collaboration will
      also be derived to streamline and improve such collaborations in the future.
    
  