
    
      -  Participants will come in for chemotherapy treatment as scheduled by their oncologist.
           The frequency of the visits will depend upon the chemotherapy regimen the participant is
           receiving.

        -  With each visit, the participants will have a physical exam and will be asked questions
           about their general health and specific questions about any problems that they might be
           having and any medications they may be taking. At each of these visits, routine blood
           work will be taken to monitor the participant's health.

        -  While the participants are receiving oxaliplatin, the infusion nurse will monitor them
           for any evidence of hypersensitivity reaction. Participants will also leave with a diary
           to record any symptoms that may occur for 24 hours after they have completed the
           infusion of oxaliplatin.

        -  In the optional portion of the study, participants will undergo allergy skin testing in
           the Allergy Service at Brigham and Women's Hospital The skin testing will be done at
           three time points: before the first dose of oxaliplatin, before the 5th dose of
           oxaliplatin, and before the 10th dose of oxaliplatin.

        -  Desensitization is a method used to help a person with an allergy tolerate exposure to a
           specific allergic agent. Desensitization to a medication such as oxaliplatin involves
           giving the medication in slowly increasing amounts, starting with tiny doses, and ending
           with the full dose prescribed by the physician. Patients participating in this part of
           the study will have the desensitization at Brigham and Women's Hospital in the Medical
           Intensive Care Unit (ICU or MICU) to ensure close supervision. Desensitization to
           oxaliplatin involves a multi-step procedure where the oxaliplatin dose is started at
           very small doses and the rate of infusion is increased every 15 minutes until the
           "target rate" is achieved. This rate is then maintained until the full dose of
           medication has been infused. This usually takes approximately 6 hours if no adverse
           reactions are experienced.
    
  