
    
      Management of cancer is a complex process which involves numerous stakeholders. In view of
      this, institutions worldwide have adopted the use of Multidisciplinary Tumor Boards (MTBs)
      for delivery of cancer care. By tapping on the collective specialized knowledge and
      experience of various specialties, MTBs have been shown in some studies to result in more
      appropriate recommendations and improved patient outcomes. At our institution, cancer cases
      are similarly discussed at regular MTBs which comprises surgeons, oncologists, pathologists
      and radiologists who review and recommend treatments.

      However, in smaller centres or centres with limited resources and minimal multi-disciplinary
      expertise, delivery of timely and appropriate cancer care could be a challenge. Additionally,
      clinicians, with their busy schedule, may not be able to keep abreast of new developments in
      cancer research. With rapid advances in scientific research, this pool of knowledge is
      expected to continue to burgeon, making keeping up-to-date increasingly onerous.

      To address this need, clinicians have adopted the use of Clinical Decision Support Systems
      (CDSSs) to augment clinical care and decision-making. These are platforms which aim to
      improve healthcare delivery by enhancing medical decisions with targeted clinical knowledge,
      patient information, and other health information. Various studies have shown CDSSs to be
      beneficial in selected settings such as patient safety and diagnosis [4], and to even
      increase adherence to clinical guidelines. In recent years, advancements in artificial
      intelligence have also seen its use expand to include oncologic therapy selection, with IBM's
      Watson for Oncology (WFO) being the most prominent and only platform in use to-date. In a
      2018 study, WFO's ability to provide treatment advice for breast cancer was compared against
      recommendations from a multidisciplinary board, where it showed a high degree of concordance.
      Since then, several other studies have sought to examine WFO's ability to provide treatment
      recommendations for cancer such as ovarian, gastric, lung, cervical and colorectal cancers,
      with mixed results. In particular, both studies which examined the recommendations for
      gastric cancers showed a much lower concordance rate compared to other cancers.

      In view of the above, we sought to develop an alternative CDSS for oncologic therapy
      selection through partnership with Ping An Technology (Shenzhen, China), beginning with
      gastric and esophageal cancer. This would be done in a piecemeal fashion, with the prototype
      platform utilizing only international guidelines and high-quality published evidence from
      journals to arrive at case-specific treatment recommendations. This platform would then be
      evaluated retrospectively and prospectively by comparing its recommendations with that from
      the multidisciplinary tumor boards of several tertiary care institutions to determine the
      concordance rate.
    
  