
    
      Objective: To evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of the combination of vacuum-assisted in
      comparison with traditional therapy in wound healing in deep neck abscess.

      Material and Methods Type of Study: Clinical Trial (Randomized) controlled This project was
      performed in patients from the Service of Otolaryngology, IMSS, diagnosed with deep neck
      abscess.

      Procedure There were two groups: Group A, 14 patients treated with VAC therapy, group B,
      patients treated with conventional therapy Group A: within the first three days the VAC
      therapy will be placed , proceeding as follows : organize the material , bandage removal ,
      cleaning of the wound with irrigation solution , cut the sponge and placement on the wound ,
      use of polyvinyl alcohol and / or silver foam, insertion of the tube seal and connection to
      the containing recipient. Wound cleaning will performed with irrigating solution and
      replacement of the sponges every 72 hours according to evolution, photographs will be taken
      to assess the percentage of viable tissue and granulation. A Sample to culture will be taken
      prior to placement of VAC therapy , during the use of it and at the time of removal of the
      system. When the wound presents clinical signs of improvement (elimination of purulent
      discharge and granulation tissue ) VAC therapy will be withdrawn , and follow by delayed
      primary closure.

      Patients will be assign to group B: 14 patients on admission, after surgical drainage, a
      culture will be taken, photographs every three days (during hospital stay ) and secretion
      culture; daily cleaning stipulated by the service will be perform. The control of the
      patients will be made until wound closure (presence of epithelialization tissue) .

      Statistical Analysis Nominal variables will be analyzed using percentage frequencies, X2 test
      or Fisher exact test. Numeric variables using Student's t test for independent samples and
      ANOVA with post hoc Scheffe test. U Mann Whitney and Kruskal Wallis tests will be used as
      long as data do not conform to normal distribution. All values of p <0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant. The analysis will be perform with statistical program SPSS v. 18
      for Windows program.
    
  