
    
      Subjects scheduled for amputation will be randomized to either receive perioperative plasma
      ball (sham) or mirror therapy, which involves a daily session of 30 minutes of performing
      physical therapy exercises using either a mirror or plasma ball under the supervision of a
      certified physical therapist. Subjects scheduled to undergo limb amputation who opt in for
      the fMRI portion of the study will undergo a pre-treatment baseline fMRI (2 weeks prior to
      scheduled amputation, if possible, but as late as 1 day pre-operative), a post-mirror or sham
      therapy (preoperative-day before) fMRI, post-operative fMRI at 4 weeks and one year.
      Performing a baseline fMRI prior to any treatment, will provide objective data regarding the
      location and extent of cortical involvement prior to initiating mirror therapy. Those
      subjects randomized to the mirror therapy limb will undergo 14 days of daily mirror therapy
      sessions preoperatively which will consist of observing the unaffected limb reflected for 30
      minutes in a mirror positioned in the midline to block the view of the affected limb. Those
      randomized to standard therapy will participate in an equivalent period of time undergoing a
      sham therapy with a 22" plasma globe involving contralateral limb interaction with the
      sphere. All therapy sessions will be supervised by a physical therapist with the exception of
      weekends when the patients will continue therapy on an independent basis. The subjects will
      then undergo a repeat fMRI (or first baseline, depending if pre-operative fMRI was possible)
      after completion of preoperative mirror or sham therapies and prior to surgical amputation to
      evaluate for changes suggestive of mirror therapy induced normalization in cortical patterns.

      Control subject group will undergo 3 questionnaires and one functional fMRI exam. Imaging
      protocol will be identical to preoperative imaging protocol for amputation subjects. This
      data will aid in establishing baseline fMR activation values for all fMR paradigms tested.
      The control group will not be randomized to receive either perioperative plasma ball (sham)
      or mirror therapy.

      All Subjects scheduled for surgery will then undergo amputation under the anesthetic
      technique of provider choice. If regional/neuraxial anesthetic techniques are used they will
      be standardized up to 1 day preoperative and 3 days postoperative. If using dexmedetomidine
      and/or ketamine infusions, their use will be limit to intraoperative periods at doses of 0.2
      mcg/kg/hr and 0.15mg/kg/hr limit respectively. Anesthesiologist/Anesthetist choice will be
      permitted for all other intraoperative and postoperative meds. Within 1 week of amputation
      subjects will again repeat 14 days of their respectively assigned therapy limbs as described
      above in addition to routine post amputation care. All subjects will then be evaluated at
      four weeks postoperatively with measures delineated in section 5.(Statistics) to determine 1)
      incidence and severity of phantom limb pain 2) participation in therapy and ability to meet
      functional endpoints 3) quality of life. These same measures will be assessed at 12 weeks (3
      months) and again at one year post procedure. A repeat fMRI will be obtained in those
      Subjects participating in the fMRI limb in order to evaluate how the postoperative cortical
      mapping compares to prior preoperative and postoperative studies.
    
  