
    
      OBJECTIVE: In the first of two preliminary studies, the investigators demonstrated in
      individuals with chronic PTSD that a single (combined 40 mg short- and 60 mg long-acting)
      24-hour oral dose of propranolol, compared to placebo, given immediately following
      reactivation of the PTSD-related memory of the traumatic event, significantly reduced
      physiological responses during script-driven imagery of that event measured one week later.
      These results support blockade of reconsolidation of the traumatic memory, a process that is
      entirely distinct from extinction. In addition, the investigators found a trend for
      post-reactivation propranolol to reduce self-reported PTSD symptoms, measured via the Impact
      of Event Scale-Revised (IES-R). In the second preliminary study, the investigators performed
      6 weekly treatments that consisted of the subject describing their PTSD-related traumatic
      events for approximately 10 minutes followed by 0.67 mg/kg (minimum 40 mg) short-acting
      propranolol plus 1 mg/kg (minimum 60 mg) long-acting propranolol. The mean Clinician
      Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS) Total Score following the six treatment sessions was reduced
      by 44% (p=.02). The proposed work will examine whether repeated treatments may succeed in
      producing more substantive symptomatic improvement.

      RESEARCH PLAN: The study design will be a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
      clinical trial. A crossover design is not being proposed because the effect is expected to be
      neither short-term nor reversible. Rather, at the conclusion of the formal study period,
      individuals randomized to the placebo condition will be offered an equal number of treatment
      sessions with propranolol. A placebo control will be used, rather than an active treatment
      control, because the proposed study will be a "proof of concept" test of post-reactivation
      pharmacological reduction of traumatic memories. The control (and active) treatments will be
      structured so as to minimize the chance of extinction. The investigators recognize that
      eventually this new treatment will need to be tested against established PTSD treatments,
      including exposure, if its clinical utility is to be established. The investigators regard
      this as a matter for subsequent studies should the present study yield promising results.
      However, the investigators do intend to compare the effect size the investigators find for
      the proposed intervention with published effect sizes for other PTSD psychotherapies.

      METHODOLOGY: Participants will include male and female combat Veterans of the Afghanistan and
      Iraqi wars meeting DSM-IV criteria for chronic PTSD, recruited locally from the Manchester
      VAMC Mental Hygiene Clinic or through advertising. The presence of PTSD will be assessed
      using the CAPS. Participants will be randomly assigned to the propranolol or placebo drug
      condition. During each of six memory reactivation sessions, the participant will meet with a
      psychiatrist, who will ask the participant to spend ten minutes describing the event that
      caused their PTSD, and their reactions to it. The interviewer will facilitate this process by
      asking questions, keeping the participant focused on the traumatic event and encouraging
      him/her to identify aspects of the traumatic event that continue to provoke emotional
      distress. The traumatic memory reactivation will be immediately followed by administration of
      propranolol or placebo. Following the six treatment sessions, script-driven imagery will be
      used to assess HR, SC, and facial EMG responses to recollections of the traumatic event and
      PTSD symptoms will be assessed using the CAPS. A previously developed discriminant function
      will be used to classify each person as a physiologic "responder" or "non-responder." There
      will also be a 6-month follow-up assessment.

      CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The mechanism of memory reconsolidation offers the possibility that
      cellular plasticity can be capitalized on to reverse the neuroanatomical and
      neurophysiological underpinnings of traumatic memories. The possibility that a traumatic
      memory could be significantly weakened by an intervention as simple as the post-reactivation
      administration of a widely used and safe medication has profound implications for the
      treatment of PTSD.
    
  