
    
      Idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) is one of the most prevalent spinal deformity that may progress
      sharply during growth. According to the severity of the curve, the major treatment approaches
      for patient with AIS include exercises, bracing and surgery, to correct, prevent or stop the
      progression of the deformity.In North America, Scoliosis Research Society (SRS) has been
      published the standard of care for AIS: patients with curves between 10 and 25° should be
      observation who are still growing. While in the Europe, the International Scientific Society
      on Scoliosis Orthopaedic and Rehabilitation Treatment (SOSORT) has recommended that the
      physiotherapeutic scoliosis-specific exercises should be the first step to treat idiopathic
      scoliosis to prevent/limit progression of the deformity. Three-dimensionally corrective
      exercise for scoliosis is based the theory of physiotherapeutic scoliosis specific exercises,
      which focuses on 3-dimension self-correction and consists of two parts:1)outpatient treatment
      including stretching, three-dimensional self-correction, balance and stability training,
      combined with manual fascia relaxation therapy, and and breathing training; 2)family
      rehabilitation: combines self-correcting gymnastics with daily posture management, etc.,
      forming the individual exercise approach for each patient. Nevertheless, the evidence
      concerning three-dimensionally corrective exercise for scoliosis is inadequate. Therefore,
      the objective of this study is to determine the effect of three-dimensionally corrective
      exercise intervention on the change of Cobb angle, trunk rotation, sagittal profile, lung
      function, exercise endurance and health related quality-of-life, compared to conventional
      exercise therapy for patients with mild and moderate AIS.

      The present study is a single-center prospective non-randomised controlled trial conducted at
      the department of rehabilitation medicine, Xinhua Hospital affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong
      University School of Medicine. The demographic data (height, weight), menarche status for the
      girls, family history, will be recorded by the physician.

      Informed consent will be obtained from each patient and one of their parents prior to
      inclusion. Eligible subjects will be assigned by a 1:1 allocation ratio either to the
      experimental group, in which they will perform three-dimensionally integrated exercise for
      scoliosis, or the control group, in which they will receive the standard of care with
      observation according to the Scoliosis Research Society criteria. Blinded assessments at
      baseline and immediately post 12-month intervention will include radiographic measurement,
      trunk rotation, sagittal profile, lung function, exercise endurance and health related
      quality-of-life.
    
  