
    
      Patients were extracted from a database designed for prospective clinical research on benign
      and malignant oesophageal diseases. For this study, the investigators considered patients who
      underwent operations for end-stage achalasia from January 1987-July 2018 and patients who
      survived after primary esophagectomy for oesophageal cancer between January 2008 and December
      2018 without undergoing neoadjuvant/adjuvant therapy. End-stage achalasia was diagnosed on
      the basis of clinical history, upper gastrointestinal tract endoscopy and barium swallow
      results (oesophageal diameter larger than 6 cm, distal oesophagus kinked towards the left
      side, outside the axis). Standard oesophageal manometry, or more recently, high-resolution
      manometry, was routinely performed. Cases of pseudo-achalasia (oesophageal dilation secondary
      to organic stenosis of the cardia) were excluded based on clinical, endoscopic and histology
      patterns. In the presence of end-stage achalasia Pull-down Heller-Dor was the first primary
      treatment option for patients with the following: a) no severe mucosal inflammation or
      moderate/high grade dysplasia and b) redo surgery exclusively for dysphagia relapse due to
      insufficient myotomy. Esophagectomy was the treatment of choice for patients with the
      following: a) relapsed dysphagia after myotomy due to scarring that caused stenosis of the
      cardia, b) iterative surgery, c) cancerization risk patterns, and d) a diagnosis of cancer.

      The pull-down Helle-Dor procedure aimed to restore the vertical axis of the intraabdominal
      portion of the oesophagus as much as possible. In brief, before performing the myotomy and
      the anterior fundoplication, at least 6 cm of the mediastinal oesophagus was fully isolated;
      two or more U intramuscular stitches were applied on the curling of the right side of the
      oesophagus, pulled down and rotated towards the right side of the gastro-oesophageal
      junction. The pull-down Heller-Dor operation was performed under manometric control.

      Esophagectomy was performed with open technique, or recently, with a minimally invasive
      technique. The stomach was always the oesophageal substitute, and the oesophagogastric
      anastomosis was preferably located at the thoracic dome or at the neck to minimize the risk
      of postoperative reflux oesophagitis or cancer growth in the residual dilated oesophagus.
      Patients who underwent esophagectomy for cancer not related to achalasia were extracted from
      the relative case series to form a control group that matched the end-stage achalasia study
      group according to age and surgical technique; these patients had not undergone neoadjuvant
      or adjuvant chemotherapy and were cancer free at follow-up.

      The duration of achalasia symptoms was calculated starting from the date of onset to the date
      of surgery at the investigator's institution. After surgery, the patients underwent a timed
      follow-up composed of clinical interviews, upper GI tract barium swallow and endoscopy. The
      symptoms were evaluated according to semi-quantitative scales graded from 0 (absence) to 3
      (maximal intensity) based on Van Trappen's criteria for dysphagia and Visick's criteria for
      gastro-oesophageal reflux. Upper GI endoscopy aimed to detect post Heller's myotomy reflux
      oesophagitis, Barrett's oesophagus and areas suspected for dysplasia or cancer. Reflux
      oesophagitis was initially assessed according to the Savary-Miller and Ismail Beigi criteria
      and successively assessed according to the Los Angeles classification. The final outcome of
      surgical therapy was assessed according to a semi-quantitative scale graded as excellent,
      good, fair and poor, according to quantitative grades for dysphagia, reflux symptoms and
      oesophagitis.

      Quality of life was assessed by the version of the 36-Item Short Form Survey (SF-36)
      validated for Italy. The questionnaire was a generic Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQL)
      measure that investigated eight specific health domains: physical functioning (PF),
      restrictions in activities due to physical (RP) or emotional health (RE), bodily pain (BP),
      general health (GH), vitality (VT), mental health (MH) and social functioning (SF). The SF-36
      scores for each health domain ranged from 0 (poor HRQL) to 100 (best HRQL). Patients
      self-administered the questionnaires they received in mail for the specific purpose of this
      study.
    
  