
    
      This study proposes to combine alemtuzumab, which effectively treats peripheral blood and
      bone marrow disease in CLL, with rituximab, which has activity in lymph node disease, in a
      streamlined and convenient administration schedule. Preclinical data support synergistic
      interaction of the two. The primary objectives are (1) to determine the overall and complete
      response (CR) rate in patients with relapsed CLL and to determine the safety of the
      combination, and (2) the safety of higher doses of alemtuzumab at less frequent intervals.
      Secondary objectives are (1) to describe the duration of response, progression-free survival,
      and overall survival in patients not proceeding to allo transplant, (2) to determine the
      improvement in overall and complete response associated with administration of a 2nd eight
      week course of therapy, and (3) to assess minimal residual disease in certain patients and to
      correlate those results with survival. If at least 16 responses are observed among 35
      patients, then the treatment will be considered promising.

      The development of antibody therapies has held promise for CLL, since CLL therapies have been
      palliative, with no established therapy shown to improve survival. Studies have suggested
      that in contrast to what is seen with fludarabine and alkylating agents, response rates to
      alemtuzumab are maintained in CLL subjects with P53 mutations. Tolerability of rituximab and
      its major activity in nodes make it an attractive candidate for combination with alemtuzumab.

      This is a single center (DF/HCC), single arm, multi cohort, phase I study, with treatment on
      an outpatient basis. If the initial alemtuzumab dose of 30 mg sc d1, 3,and 5 is tolerated,
      there will be dose escalations in cohorts of 3, up to 90 mg d1 per week. Following
      determination of a maximum tolerated dose, accrual of all remaining patients will occur at
      that dose. Subjects will be restaged after 8 weeks of therapy, and may proceed to transplant.
      If deriving benefit, but not in CR, subjects may receive another 8 weeks of therapy.
    
  