
    
      Interested patients will complete an eligibility screening using a REDCap link (see
      eligibility survey). The eligibility screening takes 5-10 minutes to complete.

      If ineligible, the participant will be sent an email notification (see study protocol).

      If eligible, the potential participant will be sent a link to a video containing a detailed
      overview of the informed consent as well as a link to sign the informed consent. There will
      be a place for the participant to type in their electronic signature, which will constitute
      their consent to participate in the study (see informed consent). After signing the informed
      consent, participants will be sent an additional email with their study start date, which
      will fall on the next Monday after signing the informed consent so that all participants
      begin participating on a Monday. On the day of their study start date, participants will be
      sent a welcome email as well as a link to complete the baseline self-report measure (listed
      below) via REDCap.

      Within the welcome email, there will be step-by-step instructions for accessing the podcast
      intervention via a smartphone app. Participants will be asked to view 60 minutes per week of
      podcasts through a smartphone app. The podcast videos will contain general cancer-related
      health education material. A total of 60 minutes per week will be prescribed, however,
      participants will have the ability to view additional videos each week. Furthermore,
      participants will also track their podcast video viewing each week in a weekly log (see
      weekly log) by recording each time they view a video, the video that they viewed, and how
      long they viewed the video.

      The investigators will use self-report questionnaires at baseline (week 0), mid-point (week
      6), and post-intervention (week 12) administered via REDCap (see baseline, mid-point, and
      post-intervention surveys). Demographics data and MPN-related health information will be
      collected at baseline and satisfaction-related data will be collected within the
      post-intervention questionnaire. Feasibility measures will include acceptability, demand, and
      practicality.
    
  