
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of PI3K delta inhibitor TGR-1202 (TGR-1202) and
      ibrutinib in relapsed and refractory (rel/ref) diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) defined as the sum of complete responses (CR)
      and partial responses (PR).

      II. To determine the event-free survival (EFS), time to response (TTR), and duration of
      response (DOR) in patients with rel/ref DLBCL.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate molecular profiling of patient samples (optional lymph node biopsies) obtained
      at days 0 (pre-treatment; core biopsy), day 8 (fine needle aspiration) and end of treatment
      (progressive disease or end of study treatment-1 year; core biopsy).

      II. To evaluate the baseline characteristics and dynamic shifts in mutational Landscape,
      transcriptional signatures and intracellular signaling cascades in primary tumor cells.

      III. To define the mutational status of 384 genes that mutated in DLBCL, including cluster of
      differentiation (CD)79B, caspase recruitment domain family member 11 (CARD11), and myeloid
      differentiation primary response 88 (MYD88).

      IV. To evaluate signatures of B-cell receptor signaling and the back-up pathway of oxidative
      phosphorylation.

      V. To measure the basal and induced level of activation of components within parallel
      signaling pathways downstream of the B-cell receptor.

      VI. To monitor changes in T-cell characteristics in response to exposure to TGR-1202 and
      ibrutinib.

      VII. To perform quantitative response evaluation by peripheral blood cell-free
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequencing at enrollment, day 8, 1 month, at every response
      assessment time point compared to standard radiographic response evaluation by positron
      emission tomography (PET)/ computed tomography (CT) or CT and end of treatment (progressive
      disease or end of study treatment-1 year).

      VIII. To evaluate the genetic profiling for drug resistance mutations. IX. To evaluate DLBCL
      subtype analysis by immunohistochemistry compared to Nanostring assessment.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 groups.

      GROUP A: Patients receive PI3K delta inhibitor TGR-1202 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days
      1-28 and ibrutinib PO QD on days 9-28 of course 1 and days 1-28 of subsequent courses.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP B: Patients receive ibrutinib PO QD on days 1-28 and PI3K delta inhibitor TGR-1202 PO
      QD and days 9-28 of course 1 and days 1-28 of subsequent courses. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP C: Patients then receive PI3K delta inhibitor TGR-1202 PO QD and ibrutinib PO QD on
      days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and after 1 year.
    
  