
    
      The SUBstituting with Preferred OPtions (SUB-POP) trial, is a parallel-arm randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) to test the effects of substituting SSBs with non-caloric options on
      body weight and markers of type 2 diabetes and cardiometabolic health. Eligible adult
      participants will be randomized to 1 of 4 beverage groups and receive at-home monthly
      deliveries of beverages for 6 months. In-person clinic visits will be conducted at baseline,
      6, and 12 months. After the 6 months of assigned beverage substitution and delivery, all
      participants will be instructed to substitute SSBs with water only for a final 6-month
      observational period. In-person clinic visits will collect technician-measured
      anthropometrics, blood pressure, biospecimen samples (blood, urine, stool [subset]), and
      assess physical activity, diet, beverage frequency, and taste preference. The SUB-POP
      app-based assessments and online diet recall will ascertain daily beverage intake, while diet
      (via 3 24-hour recalls), physical activity, and overall beverage frequency will be collected
      every 1-3 months. A subset will receive at-home digital scales to transmit daily body weight
      for energy balance and caloric compensation modeling. SUB-POP is a novel RCT that will enroll
      adult regular SSB consumers with overweight or obesity to evaluate the effectiveness of
      substituting SSBs with non-caloric options in a real-world, un-blinded setting. The trial
      will leverage social media recruitment methods, achieve ≥30% non-White participants,
      implement innovative intervention delivery, adherence, and data collection tools, and
      partition the artificially-sweetened beverage (ASB) substitution intervention to the two most
      common artificial sweetener types (aspartame, sucralose) to explore potential heterogeneity.
      Whether ASBs, which are largely free of calories and sugar, provide a healthful interim
      strategy to transition to water among habitual SSB consumers is unknown. Thus, by addressing
      this large gap in the understanding of how to address a highly prevalent and concerning
      dietary exposure, the investigators will inform dietary guidelines and clinical
      recommendations for the prevention of obesity, type 2 diabetes, and cardiometabolic disease
      risks. The primary outcomes are change in body weight from baseline to 6 months between the 3
      beverage substitution groups (aspartame ASBs, sucralose ASBs, and water) vs. the maintain
      SSBs control group, adjusting for multiple comparisons. The investigators and staff will be
      blinded to group assignment at outcome assessments. Intention-to-treat analysis will be used.
    
  