
    
      The eSTAMP project will evaluate the use and impact of providing rapid HIV tests for use to
      men who have sex with men (MSM) recruited via the internet. Data obtained through this study
      will include who will use the tests, how they were used, the utility of the tests in
      identifying HIV infections and promoting engagement in HIV care. This will inform policies to
      guide the optimal use of rapid HIV tests.

      This research project will be conducted in four sequential parts to evaluate the
      acceptability, use and effectiveness of rapid HIV test kits among MSM in cities with high HIV
      prevalence. Each part will be independent and they will provide information to implement the
      next part of the study. At the end of each part, the data will be evaluated. The findings
      will guide the implementation of subsequent parts of the study.

      Part 1 will evaluate the materials, packaging and instructions for conducting self-testing
      activities. MSM will be recruited from prior research studies or over the internet to
      participate in focus groups and in-depth interviews by Emory University or Northwestern
      University. These activities will take place in Atlanta, GA and Chicago, IL. Completed.

      Part 2 will evaluate the user proficiency of participants performing the rapid HIV test on
      themselves while under observation using the instructional and materials developed in the
      previous part of the study. MSM who had participated in prior research studies and consented
      to future contact for involvement in additional studies were recruited by Emory University.
      Participants will conduct activities at Emory University in Atlanta, GA. Completed.

      Part 3 will evaluate the performance of the rapid HIV tests by the proposed study population
      in real world settings. Participants will be recruited via the internet and directed to a
      research study site for further study activities. Participants will be shipped study
      materials (one OraQuick In-home HIV test, one SureCheck HIV 1/2 Assay and one dried blood
      spot (DBS) collection kit). Participants will report their rapid HIV test results online and
      return the DBS card for laboratory HIV testing. Completed.

      Part 4 will evaluate the use and effectiveness of providing free rapid HIV tests as a public
      health strategy for increasing testing among MSM. We will recruit 3200 participants who
      report being HIV negative or unaware of their HIV status for the main trial. These
      participants will be randomly assigned to either the intervention or comparison condition
      after completing a baseline survey. An additional 150 MSM who report being HIV-positive will
      be recruited to evaluate the distribution of rapid HIV tests to their network partners.

      Comparison arm: After completing the baseline survey, comparison arm participants will
      receive a welcome greeting and HIV prevention information. The online information will cover
      the importance of testing, links to AIDSVu and other resources to locate HIV testing services
      and prevention information in their area. Comparison arm participants will receive follow-up
      surveys at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months. After completing the 12 month assessment, participants will
      be sent a performance kit consisting of 1 oral fluid HIV test kit (OraQuick) and 1
      finger-stick blood HIV test kit (Sure Check) and a DBS specimen collection kit that will be
      returned for HIV testing at the CDC laboratory.

      Intervention arm: After completing the baseline survey, a welcome kit with 4 rapid HIV tests
      (2 oral fluid test kits [OraQuick] and 2 finger-stick blood test kits [Sure Check] will be
      sent to participants in the intervention arm to use and/or give away. Intervention arm
      participants will receive follow-up surveys at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months and have the option to
      order additional test kits at 3, 6 and 9 months to replenish kits that have been used or
      distributed. After completing the 12 month assessment, participants will be sent a
      performance kit consisting of 1 oral fluid HIV test kit (OraQuick) and 1 finger-stick blood
      HIV test kit (Sure Check) and a DBS specimen collection kit that will be returned for HIV
      testing at the CDC laboratory.

      The men who report being HIV-positive who will be assigned to a one-arm descriptive cohort.
      Participants in this group will take a baseline survey and will receive rapid HIV test kits
      (OraQuick) to distribute to persons in their social and sexual networks (secondary users).
      Men in the HIV-positive group will complete a short follow-up survey at 3 months. Secondary
      users who use the tests will have access to study materials and referral information.
    
  