
    
      Adenomas are polyps of the colorectum that have the potential to develop into colon cancer
      [1]. However, some adenomas never become malignant and if they do, progression from adenoma
      into cancer usually takes a long time. As a result, screening colonoscopy programs were
      established in order to detect and resect adenomas at an early stage [2]. After resection,
      polyps should be sent to pathology in order to make a histological diagnosis. Not every
      colorectal polyp has adenomatous histology. Approximately 40-50% of all polyps contain other
      benign histology (e.g. hyperplastic polyps). These polyps do not bear the risk of colon
      cancer.

      The implementation of screening programs has led to increasing numbers of colonoscopies in
      the last years [3]. This approach naturally implies higher amounts of detected polyps. The
      removal of these polyps and consultation of a pathologist in order to make a diagnosis is
      time consuming and expensive. An optical- based prediction of polyp histology (adenomatous
      versus non- adenomatous) would enable endoscopists to save money and to inform patients
      faster about examination results. The approach of predicting polyp histology on the basis of
      optical features is called the "optical biopsy" method. The prediction is made by the
      endoscopists during real-time colonoscopy. The aim of this strategy is to make an optical
      diagnosis which enables users to resect polyps without sending the specimen to pathology.
      Narrow Band Imaging (NBI) is a light-filter device which can be switched on during
      colonoscopy. NBI is useful to better display vascular patterns of the colon mucosa. It has
      been shown that the use of NBI can facilitate optical classification of colorectal polyps
      [5]. A NBI- based classification schemes exists which can be used to assign polyps into
      specific polyp categories (adenomatous versus non- adenomatous) [6].

      Prior to the implementation of the optical classification approach for routine use in
      endoscopy it is necessary to proof its feasibility and accuracy [7]. Otherwise the approach
      would entail the risk of wrong diagnoses which could lead to wrong recommendations on further
      diagnostic or therapeutic steps.

      Until now, some clinical trials have shown good accuracy for the optical biopsy method [5].
      However, there is growing evidence that optical biopsy does not yet meet demanded accuracy
      thresholds [8]. The aim of our study is to create a computer program that is able to
      distinguish between adenomas, serrated adenomas and hyperplastic polyps. Video sequences of
      colorectal polyps will be used for machine learning (validation phase). Afterwards a set of
      100 videos will be used to test whether the computer program is able to distinguish between
      adenomatous and non- adenomatous polyps (primary endpoint). Statistical measures (accuracy,
      sensitivity, specificity) will be calculated. The 100 videos will also be presented to human
      experts who will also predict polyp diagnoses based on optical features. Comparing the
      accuracy of optical predictions made by the computer and by human experts will be another
      endpoint of the study.
    
  