
    
      This is a phase 1b/2 study, designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of
      VX15/2503 in combination with avelumab in subjects diagnosed with advanced (stage IIIB/IV)
      NSCLC who have either progressed on first or second-line systemic anticancer therapy or who
      have declined treatment with first or second-line system anticancer therapy. The primary
      objective (Dose Escalation Phase) is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of ascending
      doses of VX15/2503 Q2W in combination with avelumab 10mg/kg Q2W. The second primary objective
      (Dose Expansion Phase) is to evaluate safety and tolerability of the recommended phase 2 dose
      of VX15/2503 administered in combination with 10 mg/kg avelumab Q2W. The secondary objectives
      include (Dose Expansion Phase), a preliminary estimate of efficacy using the following in
      accordance with Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, Objective Response
      (OR), Duration of Response (DoR) and Progression-Free Survival (PFS), as well as making a
      preliminary estimate of efficacy using the following in accordance with iRECIST, OR, DoR and
      PFS. Additional secondary objectives are to characterize the pharmacokinetics profile of
      VX15/2503 and avelumab administered Q2W in combination, evaluate the immunogenicity of
      VX15/2503 and avelumab administered Q2W and evaluate VX15/2503 and avelumab pharmacodynamics
      markers including but not limited to receptor occupancy. Exploratory objectives include
      identification of candidate biomarkers of activity and biomarkers that may predict response
      to treatment with combination therapy of VX15/2503 and avelumab.

      Enrollment will involve approximately 62 individuals who are 18 years of age or older with
      advanced non-small cell lung cancer. The study will be divided into two phases, dose
      escalation with up to 18 Immunotherapy naive subjects and dose expansion with up to 50
      subjects (up to 22 subjects that are Immunotherapy naive and up to 28 subjects that have
      failed on Immunotherapy). Subjects that are enrolled in the dose escalation phase may
      continue into the dose expansion phase, as long as there is no evidence of disease
      progression. The subjects entering the dose expansion phase from dose escalation, may have
      their dose increased to the recommend phase 2 dose, once it is determined. Any subjects that
      have evidence of disease progression will be taken off of treatment and will have a post
      treatment safety follow-up visit 10 weeks after last treatment. Subjects that have
      discontinued study drug will also continue to be followed every 3 months for survival, or
      lost to follow-up. It is estimated that the study will take approximately 33 months between
      first subject enrolled and last subject visit.
    
  