
    
      Melatonin is a hormone that is made by the part of the brain called the pineal gland and may
      help in letting your body know when it is time to go to sleep and when it is time to wake up.
      The researchers feel melatonin might help to improve your appetite, improve your overall
      sense of well-being, and maintain your current weight.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will see a nutritionist at
      the first (baseline) visit. The nutritionist will measure the amount of calories you consume.
      You will be asked to report all food and drinks you have had in a 3-day period. If you are
      unable to remember what you have eaten and drunk in the last 3 days, you will be asked by the
      nutritionist to list all the food and drinks you have had within the last 24 hours.

      Your arm muscle diameter and your skin fold below your shoulder blade will be measured on the
      arm you don't normally use to write with. This is to determine your body fat, lean mass and
      water content of your body.

      Your resting energy expenditure will be measured. You will be asked to wear a breathing mask
      and to blow into a tube. This will allow your breath to be analyzed, to measure how many
      calories your body is using while you are at rest.

      Blood (about 1-2 tablespoons) will be drawn for tests to make sure there are no other
      treatable causes for your weight loss.

      This blood test may not need to be repeated if you have had a blood test in the last 3
      months.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of a coin) to one of 2 groups. Participants in Group 1 will take melatonin daily
      before bedtime for 4 weeks. Patients in Group 2 will take a placebo daily before bedtime for
      4 weeks. A placebo is a substance that looks like the study drug but which has no active
      ingredients. You will have an equal chance (50/50) of being placed in either group. Neither
      you nor any of the medical staff or researchers on this study will know if you are receiving
      the study drug or placebo.

      On Week 2, you will return to the clinic and you will repeat all the tests done at the
      baseline visit. If you are unable to return to M. D. Anderson to complete the evaluations on
      Day 14 (± 2 days), the research nurse will contact you by telephone and ask you about any
      side effects you are experiencing.

      At Week 4, you will return to the clinic and all the tests done at baseline will be repeated.

      At the end of 4 weeks, all study patients in both groups will be given the opportunity to
      take melatonin before going to sleep at night for an additional 4 weeks. If you choose not to
      continue on melatonin for an additional 4 weeks, you will be taken off study and blood will
      be drawn for your end of study tests which include albumin, C-reactive protein (CRP), thyroid
      stimulating hormone (TSH), vitamin B-12, and cortisol. These tests will require about 1-2
      tablespoons of blood to be drawn. If you choose to continue on melatonin for an additional 4
      weeks, you will be asked to return to the outpatient clinic at Week 6 to repeat the tests
      done at baseline.

      Your end of study tests will be done at the end of 8 weeks.

      You will continue to visit the study doctor at the outpatient clinic as long he feels it is
      necessary. At these visits, your height and weight will be recorded and you will be asked
      what food and drinks you have had.

      This is an investigational study. Melatonin is not currently approved by the FDA except to
      treat blind people with no light perception for sleep disorders-and is considered a
      food/nutritional supplement. Up to 126 patients will be enrolled at MD Anderson and at Duke
      University Medical Center in Durham, North Carolina.
    
  