
    
      Tears of the rotator cuff are a significant cause of shoulder pain. Rates of surgical repair
      have risen approximately 200% over the last 20 years across Europe and the USA. 9 189 repairs
      were undertaken in 2015/ 2016 in the NHS. The cost of surgery ranges from £2 897 to £5 593
      meaning that direct NHS treatment costs alone are £26.6 to £51.4 million annually.

      If a patient is suspected of having a traumatic rotator cuff tear, then guidance from the
      British Elbow and Shoulder Society and British Orthopaedic Association suggests this is a
      'red flag' needing urgent surgical opinion. But, this guidance is open to question. Three
      randomised controlled trials (RCT) (n = 252) have been synthesised in a systematic review
      which concluded that surgery is not more effective than conservative care for rotator cuff
      tears. But, of the 252 patients included, only 40 (16%), were diagnosed with traumatic tears.
      Hence, there is a dearth of randomised evidence to inform decision-making.

      Given uncertainty about the comparative effectiveness of surgery and considering the cost,
      risk, for example infection, there is an urgent need to carry out high-quality research in
      this area.

      Research Question: In patients diagnosed with traumatic tears of the rotator cuff, is it
      feasible to conduct a future multicentre RCT to test the hypothesis that physiotherapist-led
      exercise is not inferior to surgical repair in terms of clinical outcomes but is more
      cost-effective.

      Research Design: Two-arm, parallel group, pilot and feasibility RCT with nested Quintet
      Recruitment Intervention (QRI) and qualitative interviews.

      Setting: Eight NHS hospitals.

      Objectives:

        1. Determine feasibility of recruiting and retaining patients,

        2. Identify barriers and facilitators to recruitment and retention, including patient and
           clinician equipoise and proportion and reasons for treatment cross-over (reflective of
           known challenges in surgical RCTs),

        3. Estimate the number of potential and willing sites for the future main trial.

      Participants: Adults with traumatic tears of the rotator cuff, eligible for surgery.

      Intervention/ control: Participants will be allocated on a 1:1 ratio, stratified by tear size
      to: 1) Structured and progressive physiotherapist-led exercise; 2) Surgical repair and usual
      post-operative rehabilitation.

      Key feasibility outcomes: 1) Numbers of patients screened, eligible, approached, consenting,
      randomised, and accepting allocation; 2) Rate of retention and follow-up; 3) Feasibility of
      recruiting participating sites; 4) Participant satisfaction.

      Key clinical outcomes: 1) Shoulder pain and function (Oxford Shoulder Score): Quality of life
      (EQ-5D-5L) at baseline, three, and six months.

      Health economic outcomes: Health care resource use and days lost from work over six-months.

      Sample size: 76 participants.

      Analysis: Analysis will focus on process outcomes (recruitment, retention, and treatment
      cross-over). Means and confidence intervals of clinical outcomes will be calculated only to
      inform the sample size calculation for the future main trial.

      The QRI will use targeted methods including interviews with clinicians and patients,
      audio-recording of recruitment appointments and document review to understand and then
      develop an action plan to optimise recruitment and informed consent. Semi-structured
      qualitative interviews will explore treatment acceptability and the data will be analysed
      thematically.
    
  