
    
      Inaugurated in 1995, SwissNeoNet now routinely collects data from 9 level III, 10 level IIB
      and 14 neuro-/developmental pediatric units encompassing information about the care and
      outcomes of high-risk newborn infants. Data collection is monitored for population coverage,
      dataset completeness, plausibility and reliability. Data quality is audited within a three
      year cycle.

      Quality improvement

      SwissNeoNet releases an annual quality report for participating centers encompassing up to 20
      process- and outcome quality indicators. It annually collects data on unit infrastructure
      evaluated by the Committee for the Accreditation of Neonatology Units (CANU). To discuss
      quality issues and educational purposes, it hosts bi-annual meetings/symposia for the NEO
      Directors Group and the Follow-up Group, respectively. The SwissNeoNet member platform offers
      tools for unit-to-unit quality improvement collaboration (mailing lists, event-organizer,
      forum, file-sharing and survey builder).

      Research

      SwissNeoNet coordinates cross-sectional and longitudinal cohort studies that are performed by
      local researchers using SwissNeoNet's prospectively collected data. These studies focus on
      mortality, morbidity and/or long-term outcome issues and the analysis of risk factors for
      development. The network disseminates its research in scientific articles in peer reviewed
      medical journals.

      Support

      SwissNeoNet supports the units logistically to ensure that each patient receives primary care
      (NICU bed availability) and follow-up assessments at 9 to 12 months corrected, 18 to 24
      months corrected, and at 5.5 to 6 years of age (FU missing lists) to ensure early diagnosis
      and intervention. With regards to its Follow-up program, the SwissNeoNet also supports
      training of new staff and coordinates the launch of new testing instruments between centers.
    
  