
    
      The aims of the present study are:

      1) primary objective: To test the effectiveness of adding a semi-automated tele coaching
      intervention to enhance physical activity in patients after a first double lung
      transplantation, assessed at 12 weeks.

      2) Secondary objectives:

        1. To test the long term effect of a semi-automated tele coaching intervention on physical
           activity, assessed at 52 weeks.

        2. To analyze the association between baseline physical activity, the change in physical
           activity and long term health benefits in this population at risk

        3. To relate the day-by-day pattern of physical activity to changes in the health status of
           patients.

        4. To investigate the patient's experience with the delivered intervention.

      Therefore, the study will include stable patients at least 6 months and maximum 4 years after
      a first double lung transplantation. Based on a 1 week physical activity assessment, patients
      will be classified as active (mean steps >7500 steps) or inactive (mean steps < 7500).
      Inactive patients will be entered in a randomized controlled trial, using block
      randomization. Active patients will be followed for 1 year in a cohort study.

      The study consists of a total of 3 (active patients) or 4 (inactive patients) clinical
      visits:

        -  Visit 1 screening visit (all patients)

        -  Visit 2: randomisation visit, scheduled 1-2 weeks after visit 1 (all patients)

        -  Visit 3: short term follow up, scheduled 12 weeks after visit 2. T(only in patients who
           have been randomized)

        -  Visit 4: long term follow up, scheduled 52 weeks after visit 2. (all patients)

      Active patients will be measured again 52 weeks after visit 2. They will not receive any
      intervention during the 1 year follow up. Patients who enter the randomized controlled trial
      will either receive

        -  A mulitcomponent tele coaching intervention that consists of 1) education about the
           importance of physical activity and a one-to-one interview with the coach discussing
           motivation and barriers to be active, 2) a step counter providing direct feedback, 3)
           application installed on a smartphone providing an adaptive goal and daily and weekly
           feedback and 4) contact with the coach if the patient is not compliant with the
           intervention, not increasing physical activity or when the patient reports a change in
           medication. The patient is asked to have a daily interaction with the smartphone
           application.

        -  A sham intervention that consist of 1) education about the importance of physical
           activity and a personal (fixed) goal expressed in terms of steps. The patient is asked
           to try to reach this goal, 2) a step counter providing direct feedback, 3) application
           installed on a smartphone only displaying a graph with the activity of the present week
           and the personal (fixed) goal, 4) contact with the coach if the patient reports a change
           in medication. The patient is asked to have at least a weekly interaction with the
           application.
    
  