
    
      Introduction: Sleep disorders are becoming a widespread health problem within the general
      population. Beyond the tiredness itself, these disorders have been found to be related to
      physical and mental issues like cardiovascular pathologies, obesity, depression and anxiety.
      This makes clear the necessity of achieving a quality rest to prevent potential chronic
      diseases. On this issue, Polysomnography (PSG) is currently the accepted Gold Standard for
      sleep studies as it measures multiple variables that lead to a clear diagnosis of any sleep
      disorder. However, it has some clear drawbacks as it can only be performed by qualified
      technicians, has a high cost and complexity and is very invasive. In the last years, several
      studies that focus on validating wearable devices as useful sleep trackers have emerged. In
      this study, the investigators intend to assess the capability of the new Xiaomi Mi Band 5 to
      be used as a tool for sleep self-assessment for patients. The interest in studying this
      smartband is due to its low price and acceptance among the population. If this device proves
      to be a good sleep tracker, it would allow the population to assess their own sleep and
      consider if they need to visit their medical practitioner, which would improve the prognosis
      of any underlying condition they may be developing derived from their restlessness.

      Objective: Determine whether sleep stages recorded by the new Xiaomi Mi Band 5 can
      effectively replace PSG sleep stages classification in patients that undergo a sleep study.
      The following features will be calculated for both devices: total sleep time, sleep
      efficiency, sleep latency and wake after sleep onset. Sleep stages will also be recorded.

      Methods and analysis: the study will be carried out with patients in a hospital from A Coruña
      (Galicia, Spain) that are > 18 years old. Patients who are performed a polysomnography test
      will be given the wearables so the investigators can record sleep stages with both techniques
      in order to compare both recordings afterwards.

      This is an observational, analytic and longitudinal study. In other words, in this study
      different variables from the population of interest will be observed and recorded without any
      direct intervention, so as to establish causality associations between these variables. It is
      considered as longitudinal since a six-months tracking of the variables will be performed,
      continually (and sometimes occasionally) recording and monitoring sleep quality (wearable
      wristbands).

      The data obtained from PSG and Xiaomi Mi Band 5 will be preprocessed and explored before
      extracting the features of interest for the study. Then, Paired sample T-Test will be
      performed to compare the means among the different variables, Bland-Altman plots will be used
      to assess the concordance between both techniques and, finally, Epoch by Epoch analysis will
      be performed to compare the classification of the sleep stages carried out by both PSG and
      Xiaomi.
    
  