
    
      Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common malignant primary tumor of the brain with an annual
      incidence of approximately 3/100.000. Since 2005 the treatment for newly diagnosed GBM
      consisted of maximal surgical resection, approx. 60 Gy of radiotherapy together with
      chemotherapy using temozolomide (TMZ), followed by 6 cycles of maintenance chemotherapy. This
      treatment regimen demonstrated increased median overall survival (OS) from 12.1 to 14.6
      months in comparison to surgery and radiotherapy alone in 2005.

      Since 2005, despite plenty of clinical phase III trials conducted, Tumor Treating Fields
      (TTFields) therapy was the first treatment shown to significantly increase median
      progression-free survival (PFS), OS and one to five year survival rates compared to the
      previous standard of care. These results led to FDA approval of TTFields for newly diagnosed
      GBM and were acknowledged since then by several guidelines recommending TTFields for GBM
      therapy (e.g. NCCN guidelines for CNS cancers V.1.2018, RCC guideline tumörer I hjärna och
      ryggmärg 2020-01-14 V3.0, DGHO guideline for glioma in adults ICD-10 C71 March 2019). Today,
      several national committees in Europe already list TTFields as reimbursed treatment (e.g.
      Austria, Sweden, Germany).

      Data with TTFields therapy in real-world setting is limited and therefore further evaluation
      of different treatment aspects of TTFields therapy in clinical routine are of interest. In
      particular the QoL-related aspects neurocognitive functioning, daily activity and sleep
      quality in this patient cohort is of major interest, given the limited life expectancy with
      this disease.

      This non-interventional study aims to investigate change over time in neurocognitive
      functioning, sleep quality, and activity in daily life as important determinants of QoL in a
      large cohort of GBM patients in Germany treated with TTFields in routine clinical care using
      low-threshold, electronic PRO and modern automated tracking data analyses. The gained results
      will allow even better understanding of TTFields therapy in daily life of GBM patients and
      consequently, better informing patients about what to expect when starting this therapy,
      increasing therapy compliance even further in the long-term.
    
  