
    
      1. Population: Patients with COPD diagnosed according to criteria established by the ATS
           (American Thoracic Society) and the SEPAR (Spanish Society of Pneumology and Thoracic
           Surgery) to submit a modereda-severe obstruction to airflow. (FEV1 <60%) and a clinical
           impact of their disease.

        2. Sample: 66 patients diagnosed at the Department of Pulmonology, Hospital Virgen del
           Rocío de Sevilla, informed consent.

        3. Exclusion criteria:

             -  other cardiorespiratory diseases.

             -  Systemic diseases

             -  Inability or discomfort to participate in an exercise program

        4. Study groups: patients will differ in COPD "prevalence chronic bronchitis " or COPD
           "prevalence emphysema, " according to the criteria allowed by the SEPAR and ATS.

           After stratification of the sample will be included in a prospective and randomized into
           three groups of 22 patients:

           Trained group 1, resistance 2 nd Group trained force 3 º Group Joint trained to strength
           and endurance

        5. Variables: Parameters will be measured at baseline and end of follow-up period of 12
           months.

             -  CXR, elementary analysis, 12-lead electrocardiogram

             -  simple spirometry and bronchodilator test

             -  Blood gases

             -  static lung volumes (FRC, RV, TLC) by plethysmography.

             -  Study of diffusion (DLCO) by single breath technique

             -  maximum muscle pressures both inspiratory and expiratory.

           CT scan (Phillips TomoScan with Easy Vision workstation version 4.2) which allows
           densitometric analysis of lung parenchyma.

             -  Estimation of muscle strength:

                  1. Repetition maximum test (Test 1 RM)

                  2. Maximum isometric quadriceps strength and biceps measured with dynamometer
                     (MIE Myometer ltd. with CAS software)

                  3. Determination of muscular fatigue in the isometric tests of quadriceps and
                     biceps, with the same system dynamometer (MIE Myometer ltd., software CAS)

             -  Two-dimensional ultrasound of the quadriceps muscle and biceps to measure the size
                of muscle fibers. Probes will be used for external parts with a frequency of 7.5
                MHz measurements were made from the skin depth to each of the different muscles and
                the thickness of each of them.

             -  Stress Test:

                  1. Maximum, with cycle ergometer and methodology already known (11), including:
                     Determining, from the respiratory gases, oxygen consumption, carbon production
                     and indirect anaerobic threshold, breathing pattern (minute ventilation, tidal
                     volume, respiratory rate) , electrocardiography and pulse oximetry during
                     exercise with heart rate control, blood pressure and dyspnea Borg scale.

                  2. Submaximal cycle ergometer resistance with 80% of the load reached the
                     ultimate test, with essentially control the resistance time, distance walked,
                     and control of saturation (pulse oximetry) and heart rate achieved.

                  3. Shuttle walking test, walk test is performed continuously walk between two
                     points separated 10 meters and control the pace of a hearing (12).

           Assessment of dyspnea and quality of life:

             1. Baseline dyspnea index and index of transitional measures functional impairment,
                magnitude of the task and the magnitude of effort (Test of Mahler).

             2. Assessment of quality of life based on the specific questionnaire (CRQ) proposed by
                Guyatt for COPD patients and modified for your understanding in Spanish-speaking
                subjects.

        6. Study design:

           The training of the different groups were carried out for 12 weeks, three times per week
           in sessions of 40 minutes duration.

             1. The resistance training will take place in cycle ergometer with a level of initial
                charge of about 70% of initial maximal oxygen consumption, increasing the load
                every two weeks as tolerated.

             2. The strength training with weight lifting practice and will consist of 4 sets of
                6-8 repetitions of simple exercises. These are held at a station multigimnástica
                (CLASSIC Fitness Center, KETTLER) and are:

                  -  Simple bending of the arms (pull cable to the chest "Chest pulls"): Effects on
                     the latissimus dorsi, deltoids and biceps. Sitting in the face of the tower of
                     strength, approaching the bar to the chest and arm span later after return to
                     the starting position.

                  -  Simple extension arms (force to the neck "Neck presses): Effects on the
                     deltoids and triceps. Sitting upright on the bench and held the weight to
                     shoulder height, arm span will be held over his head, slowly returning after
                     bending arms to starting position.

                  -  arm flexion and extension against resistance (Mariposa "Butterfly"): Effects
                     on the pectoral and deltoid muscles. Sitting upright on the bench with your
                     forearms and elbows on a lever, takes it to the midline, giving way slowly to
                     the starting position.

                  -  Extension legs (leg extension): Effects on quadriceps. Sitting on the bench
                     leg extension is performed against resistance.

                  -  Leg Curl (leg curls): Effects on femoral biceps and calves. Lying prone on the
                     bench legs are flexed against the peso.

                Resistance is increased gradually from 50% of the maximum weight you can lift the
                patient on one occasion, early in the week, up to 85%. Every two weeks the weight
                limit is reassessed to adjust the training load in each patient (Test 1 RM).

             3. In the group that carried out the joint training, half the time of each session
                will be devoted to strength training, following the same methodology (same number
                of years but with two sets of each), and the other half training resistance bike,
                beginning with one or the other interchangeably.

           Upon completion of 12 weeks of training will be repeated all baseline tests (except for
           chest CT) and compared the results.

        7. Exit criteria of the study:

             -  patient's clinical decompensation

             -  Loss of 3 or 5 consecutive sessions staple

             -  On the initiative of the patient.

        8. Statistical analysis:

      Analyzing the effect size at the expense of an improvement in work reached more than about 15
      W in the stress test, considered a standard deviation of this parameter of ± 10 W, an alpha
      of 0.05 and a beta of 0.1 (statistical power 90%) and calculating a loss ratio of 15%, we
      estimate a sample size of 22 patients for each group.

      Comparing before and after the training response in each group were performed using the
      paired t test. Comparisons between trained groups were made using analysis of variance
      (ANOVA). The Pearson correlation coefficient and linear regression analysis will allow to
      examine relationships between physiological variables. Be considered significant at p <0.05.
      The dispersion of a mean value is expressed as mean ± standard deviation.
    
  