
    
      Implant placement in the posterior part of the maxilla is frequently compromised or
      impossible due to atrophy of the alveolar process and pneumatisation of the maxillary sinus.
      Therefore, alveolar ridge augmentation is frequently necessary before or in conjunction with
      implant placement. The most commonly used method to augment the maxillary premolar and molar
      region involves the maxillary sinus floor augmentation applying the lateral window technique
      with autogenous bone graft or bone substitutes and the treatment outcome has been reported in
      systematic reviews. However, maxillary sinus floor augmentation with the lateral window
      technique and bone harvesting is associated with prolonged patient treatment time and risk of
      donor site morbidity. Hence, OSFE with or without the use of a grafting material is commonly
      used to simplify the surgical procedure, when the residual alveolar bone height is more than
      6 mm.

      OSFE with simultaneous implant placement was originally described by Summers in 1994. The
      surgical procedure involves a transalveolar up-fracture and elevation of the maxillary sinus
      floor and Schneiderian membrane using concave osteotomes. Implants are inserted
      simultaneously to support the elevated floor of the maxillary sinus. The created compartment
      between the elevated floor of the maxillary sinus and the original sinus floor is filled with
      either particulated autogenous bone graft, a bone substitute or without a grafting material.
      The final implant treatment outcome after OSFE with or without the use of a grafting material
      have previous been assessed in systematic reviews and meta-analyses disclosing high implant
      survival rates with few complications. However, the included studies are often characterized
      by a moderate to high risk of bias and the conclusions are based on short-term non-randomized
      controlled trials, whereas long-term randomized controlled trials assessing OSFE with or
      without the use of a grafting material is sparse.

      OSFE with autogenous bone graft or a bone substitute is considered the golden standard and
      the gain in alveolar bone height is enhanced with the use of a grafting material compared to
      the use of no grafting material. Bio-Oss (Geistlich Pharma AG, Wolhusen, Switzerland) is a
      deproteinized bone substitute of bovine bone origin and several studies have documented that
      Bio-Oss possesses important properties when used as a membrane-supporting material and as a
      scaffold for in-growth of host cells including biocompatibility and osteoconductivity.
      Bio-Oss has been used for different bone augmentation procedures for more than 30 years and
      OSFE with Bio-Oss is a safe and very predictable surgical procedure with few complications
      and minimal morbidity, as documented in systematic reviews and long-term studies. However,
      bone substitutes of natural transplants involves a risk of contamination, activation of host
      immune system and disease transmission as well as they can be refused by patients for
      religious reasons or because they are in contrast with chosen lifestyle. Thus, OSFE without a
      grafting material is associated with obvious advantages for the patient, including reduced
      risk of infection, less cost, reduced length of operation time and no risk of disease
      transmission.

      Survival of suprastructures and implants are the most important measures for the assessment
      of the long-term implant treatment outcome. However, long-term survival of suprastructures
      after OSFE with or without the use of a grafting material has never been compared within a
      randomized controlled trial. Moreover, patient-reported outcome measures after OSFE have
      never previously been assessed. A long-term randomized controlled trial revealed no
      significant differences in implant survival after OSFE with Bio-Oss compared with the use of
      no grafting material after five years. A newly published systematic review and meta-analysis
      disclosed no significant differences in the short-term implant survival after OSFE with or
      without the use of a grafting material and a long-term retrospective study assessing OSFE
      without the use of a grafting material reported an implant survival rate 97.7% after 15
      years. Moreover, long-term studies assessing OSFE without a graft material revealed high
      implant survival after 10 years.

      In conclusion, OSFE without the use of a grafting material seems to be a predictable
      treatment modality with high implant survival. However, the long-term survival of
      suprastructure and implants after OSFE with or without the use of a graft material is
      presently not sufficient clarified and has not been assessed in long-term randomized trial.
    
  