
    
      Background: Transdiagnostic Cognitive Behavior Therapy (TCBT) Manuals delivered in individual
      format, have been reported to be just as effective as traditional diagnosis specific CBT
      manuals. The investigators have translated and modified the "The Unified Protocol for
      Transdiagnostic Treatment of Emotional Disorders" (UP-CBT) developed by Barlow and colleagues
      for use in Mental Health Service (MHS), and shown effects comparable to traditional CBT in a
      naturalistic trial. As the use of one manual instead of several diagnosis-specific manuals
      could simplify logistics, reduce waiting time, and increase therapist expertise compared to
      diagnosis specific CBT, the study aim to test the relative efficacy of group UP-CBT and
      diagnosis specific group CBT.

      Methods/design: It is a partially blinded, pragmatic, non-inferiority, parallel, multi-center
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) of UP-CBT vs diagnosis specific CBT for depression, social
      anxiety disorder and agoraphobia/panic disorder. In both arms, the intervention consists of
      weekly group session for 14 weeks. In total, 248 patients are recruited from three regional
      MHS centers across the country and included in two intervention arms.31st July 2018 suppl:
      Inclusion number expanded to 340 due to unexpected large drop-out.

      Outcomes are measured at end of therapy and at 6 months follow-up. Weekly patient-rated
      outcomes and group evaluations are collected for every session. Outcome assessors, blind to
      delivered intervention, will perform the observer-based symptom ratings, and fidelity
      assessors will monitor manual adherence.

      Discussion: The current study will be the first RCT investigating the dissemination of the UP
      in a MHS setting and UP delivered in groups and including patients with depression. Hence the
      results are expected to add substantially to the evidence base for rational group
      psychotherapy in MHS. The planned moderator and mediator analyses could spur new hypotheses
      about mechanisms of change in psychotherapy and the association between patient
      characteristics and treatment effect.
    
  