
    
      Radial access for percutaneous cardiac procedures is the preferred method used by most
      interventional cardiologists. This method has proven to have the least complications and a
      much quicker patient's recovery time, compared to other access sites (e.g. femoral or
      brachial). Following sheath removal, a dressing is applied on the skin at the access site.
      Dressing currently in use include:

        1. Conventional absorbent - an absorbent sterile adhesive dressing. This is our current,
           standard care.

        2. Haemostatic - a sterile mineral-based absorbent dressing that aids clotting. It is not
           currently used at Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital (LHCH), but it is a licenced
           product.

      A radial compression device is placed over the dressing, and it applies the appropriate
      amount of mechanical pressure to guarantee patent haemostasis.

      This study will recruit patients who are undergoing a cardiac procedure with intended radial
      access, as part of their standard care. The aim of this study to look at new techniques to
      reduce the time to successful and complete haemostasis. This may help to expedite patient
      discharge (avoiding unplanned overnight stay), to reduce nursing times and to decrease the
      rate of post-procedural, access site-related bleeding and ischemic complications.

      At the end of the cardiac procedure, participants will be randomised in a 1:1:1 ratio to one
      of the following 3 arms:

      Arm 1 - conventional absorbent dressing and a compression device applied for 60 mins; Arm 2 -
      conventional absorbent dressing with a compression device applied for 120 mins (the current
      standard practice at LHCH); Arm 3 - haemostatic dressing and a compression device applied for
      60 mins.

      This is a low-interventional, low-risk, pragmatic study comparing strategies that are
      currently used in every-day clinical practice. The consent seeking process is proportionate
      and adapted to the design of the study.

      Data collection will be electronic and will be performed by medical and nursing staff as part
      of their normal clinical practice. This will obviate the use of paper-based case record
      forms.

      This study will actively involve medical and nursing staff across the hospital, facilitating
      multidisciplinary collaboration and integration of clinical research with everyday clinical
      practice.
    
  