
    
      Combination antiretroviral therapy can offer patients potent suppression of HIV replication
      and improved immunologic functioning. However, despite aggressive antiretroviral regimens
      currently in use, only about 50 to 60 percent of patients attain plasma viral loads below 50
      copies/ml after 24 weeks. Initiating treatment with a 4-drug regimen may increase this
      percentage, but this may also contribute to patient non-adherence, drug-related toxicities,
      potential cross-resistance to drugs used in future regimens, and high financial costs.
      Another strategy is early intensification (adding a single drug to an existing regimen) in
      patients who are at risk for attaining incomplete viral suppression after 24 weeks of
      therapy. ABC may produce a significant antiviral effect when used as an intensification agent
      in patients on a stable antiretroviral regimen. The results of this study will offer insight
      into the potential benefits of early treatment intensification.

      Patients entering this study will have initiated potent antiretroviral therapy. Between 60
      and 90 days [AS PER AMENDMENT 1/9/01: 60 and 104 days] after beginning their background
      regimen, patients are randomized to add either ABC (Arm A) or a matching placebo (Arm B) for
      12 weeks. Patients completing 12 weeks of treatment continue on study for an additional 24
      weeks to Week 36. Patients discontinue treatment if virologic failure occurs at any time.
      Patients still return to the clinic for HIV-1 RNA measurements at Weeks 12 and 36, depending
      on when discontinuation occurred. Patients who discontinue treatment at or after Week 12 due
      to virologic failure are offered open-label ABC for the remainder of the study (through Week
      36). Blood samples are collected at Weeks 4, 8, 12, 20, 28, and 36. Plasma samples for
      population sequencing of HIV-1 PR and RT genes are collected on all patients at study entry
      and at the time of virologic failure. Baseline genotype (presence or absence of PR and RT
      resistance mutations and number of resistance mutations) is correlated to treatment outcome.
      Samples from the time of failure are analyzed for the accumulation of additional resistance
      mutations. [AS PER AMENDMENT 5/5/00: Patients and their primary care physicians will be
      unblinded to the patient's treatment after the study is completed at Week 36 or if virologic
      failure occurs at or after Week 12 [AS PER AMENDMENT 1/9/01: or if ABC hypersensitivity is
      suspected].]
    
  