
    
      Currently, propranolol is the preferred treatment for problematic proliferating infantile
      hemangiomas (IHs). Although propranolol is clearly efficacious, rare side effects, such as
      hypoglycemia, may be life-threatening. The possibility of propranolol resistance and
      treatment failure is also important, and highlights the need for employing more established
      techniques in certain cases.

      Nonselective β-adrenergic antagonists, such as propranolol and timolol, are competitive
      antagonists of catecholamines at the β1- and β2-adrenergic receptors (β-ARs). β2-AR blockade
      may result in hypoglycemia as a result of decreased glycogenolysis, gluconeogenesis, and
      lipolysis. Moreover, bronchial hyperreactivity is a direct effect of nonselective β-blockers,
      resulting in bronchospasms due to pulmonic β2-AR blockade. A solution to minimize many of the
      side effects of nonselective β-blocker therapy may be the use of more selective β1-blockers
      such as metoprolol or atenolol, which, at low dosages, have little β2 activity.
      Unfortunately, there is a paucity of clinical data comparing the efficacy of selective and
      non-selective β-blocker. Furthermore, because of the broad heterogeneity of IH (e.g.,
      proliferating versus involuting), confounding with other pharmacologic exposures (e.g.,
      corticosteroids), associated complications (e.g., ulceration) and comorbid medical anomalies
      (e.g., PHACE) that can influence efficiency after IH treatment, observational studies are
      unable to definitively establish the clinical utility of β-blockers in IH. Thus, questions
      regarding the efficacy of the subtypes of β-blockers must be answered in randomized
      controlled trials, which may provide the only way to overcome the selection and ascertainment
      bias.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy of orally administered propranolol
      versus atenolol in the treatment of potentially disfiguring or functionally threatening IHs.
    
  