
    
      Globally, transgender ('trans') women have 49 times higher odds of HIV infection compared to
      other groups and trans women living with HIV (TWH) access HIV care and adhere to medication
      at significantly lower rates than other at-risk groups. Poor engagement in HIV care for TWH
      is a result of reduced access to and avoidance of healthcare due to stigma and negative
      experiences with providers, and occurs in the context of social and economic marginalization
      that foments unstable employment and housing, familial alienation, limited social support,
      and substance abuse. Interventions to mitigate these barriers to care are critical to
      reducing HIV-related disparities and poor health outcomes for this highly vulnerable
      population, particularly where disparities are most apparent, including Brazil. Peer-based
      navigation (PN) interventions have demonstrated success in improving engagement in HIV care
      in low-resource settings. The investigators recently conducted a PN intervention ('I-Care')
      in rural South Africa that significantly improved both linkage to care and retention for men
      and women. While the PN intervention addresses HIV care engagement by providing social
      support and skills to work with health providers and family, it requires specific adaptation
      and a conceptual model that addresses the unique needs of TWH identified during formative
      research and in consultations with Brazilian stakeholders in 2015. The investigators propose
      to develop and conduct a trans-specific PN intervention in Brazil, tentatively named
      'TransAmigas', which integrates the I-Care approach with the Model of Gender Affirmation
      (GA), developed by the research team to specifically address HIV prevention and care among
      trans women. The investigators will use the ADAPT-ITT methodology to develop TransAmigas,
      incorporating the GA model in the Brazilian context (Aim 1). The investigators will then
      conduct a pilot study to test the feasibility and acceptability of TransAmigas in São Paulo,
      Brazil (Aim 2) by randomizing TWH to the intervention (n=100) or to clinical referral (n=50).
      During the nine month pilot, the investigators will track both navigator and patient
      adherence to the program, recruitment needs, cohort retention, and reported satisfaction and
      preferences for program content through surveys at baseline and nine months. Finally, the
      investigators will prepare for a multi-site efficacy trial (Aim 3) by extracting clinical
      data from participants' records at the referral clinic, generating preliminary efficacy data
      by comparing retention in HIV care and viral load by intervention arm. Clinical data will
      inform future trial sample size. The study will be implemented in Sao Paulo, Brazil, where
      universal access to care and public support for gender transition care provide an enabling
      environment for this work to be most effective and where the team has established academic
      partnerships and a collaboration with the State-run reference and training clinical site
      (CRT), which includes trans-specific clinical services. If feasible, acceptable, and
      ultimately proven efficacious, TransAmigas will be the first evidence-based HIV care
      intervention for TWH globally - filling a crucial gap in programming.
    
  