
    
      BACKGROUND

      Sepsis is a common and life-threatening condition defined by organ dysfunction due to a
      dysregulated response to infection (Fleischmann, 2016). Aggressive early sepsis
      identification and treatment initiatives have decreased hospital mortality for patients with
      sepsis (Rhodes, 2017). As mortality rates have improved, there has been a growing recognition
      of the downstream effects of sepsis for the approximately 14 million annual sepsis survivors
      who encounter increased long-term mortality and morbidity across functional, cognitive, and
      psychological domains (Iwashyna, 2010; Shah, 2013; Schuler, 2018; Borges, 2015; Annane, 2015;
      Prescott, 2015). Currently, there is a disconnect between the post-acute care needs of sepsis
      survivors and the resources available to these patients (Huang, 2016; Ortego, 2015; Winters,
      2010; Nesseler, 2013). Inadequate post-sepsis care strategies are reflected by adverse
      outcomes post-sepsis including increased mortality risk and strikingly high rates of
      healthcare utilization, including a 90-day hospital readmission rate of 40% and over 3
      billion dollars in preventable costs (Prescott, 2016; Goodwin, 2015; Prescott, 2014; Jones,
      2015). To address the specific gaps in treatment for sepsis survivors, international experts
      developed best-practice recommendations to guide delivery of post-sepsis care (Prescott,
      2018). These best-practice recommendations are directed towards the specific challenges and
      sequelae following a sepsis hospitalization and include: i) identification and treatment of
      new physical, mental, and cognitive deficits; ii) review and adjustment of medications; iii)
      surveillance of treatable conditions that commonly lead to poor outcomes; and iv) focus on
      palliative care when appropriate. However, implementation of recommended post-sepsis
      practices is hindered by a gap in understanding how to best integrate interventions into the
      complex and fragmented post discharge setting (e.g., lack of provider time and patient
      engagement, limited access to care management, and insufficient institutional support)
      (Taylor, 2019; Brownson, 2012; Bodenheimer, 2008; Coleman, 2004).

      RATIONALE

      In randomized controlled trials (RCTs), including our previous work, successfully implemented
      care transition programs using nurse navigators have been shown to reduce hospital
      readmissions and costs. To better enhance transitions of care for the highest risk, complex
      patients with suspected sepsis, we propose extending this evidence using a nurse-facilitated
      care transition program for patients in the post-sepsis transition period to improve the
      implementation of recommended care practices and bridge care gaps. This approach, called the
      Sepsis Transition and Recovery (STAR) program, is the next step in the progression of our
      group's work on improving discharge transitions and sepsis processes of care. A key aspect of
      this initiative includes the ability to identify sepsis survivors at the greatest risk for
      poor outcomes. For example, one-quarter of sepsis survivors account for three-quarters of
      hospital readmissions and costs, indicating that identifying high-risk sepsis patients for
      targeted facilitation of best-practice care could efficiently impact quality and cost.

      Our STAR program uses near real-time risk modeling to identify high-risk patients and a
      centrally located nurse, virtually connected to participating hospitals, to coordinate the
      application of evidence-based recommendations for post-sepsis care, overcome barriers to
      recommended care, and bridge gaps in service that can serve as points of failure for complex
      patients. During their hospitalization, high-risk patients enter into a transition pathway
      integrated within Atrium Health Hospital Medicine's Transition Services program and includes
      the following core components: i) Introduction to STAR process prior to discharge (confirm
      provider consults e.g., PT, ID, palliative); ii) Disease-specific education and discharge
      "playbook"; iii) Virtual hospital follow-up evaluation within 48 hours including medication
      reconciliation; iv) Second, post-acute virtual follow-up within 72 hours (symptom monitoring,
      confirm provider follow-up); v) Weekly contact with care management team; vi) Referral to
      provider follow-up (e.g., primary care provider, transition clinic) as appropriate; vii)
      Coordinated transition to the next appropriate care location after 30 days from time of
      discharge. The STAR navigator also meets weekly with the Medical Director of the Atrium
      Health Transition Services program who provides additional clinical oversight of ongoing
      cases.

      The IMPACTS (Improving Morbidity during Post Acute Care Transitions for Sepsis) evaluation
      will examine if implementation of the STAR program within a large healthcare system will
      improve outcomes for high-risk sepsis patients. This randomized program evaluation is
      designed to be a seamless part of routine care in a real-world setting to generate knowledge
      of best practices for implementation and dissemination of post-sepsis transitions of care.

      INVESTIGATIONAL PLAN

      Overall Study Design

      This real-world pragmatic randomized program evaluation will compare the effectiveness of the
      Sepsis Transition And Recovery (STAR) program versus usual care on post-sepsis care and
      patient outcomes. The STAR program is informed by existing evidence and designed using the
      Chronic Care Model to increase best-practice adherence and care coordination, resulting in
      improved transitions between hospitals and post-acute care during sepsis recovery.

      Because of resource limitations, STAR can only be made available to a limited number of
      patients. To be objective in patient selection and allow for program evaluation, we will use
      a data driven approach to identify patients as eligible for program referral. First, risk
      modeling will identify patients as high risk for 30-day readmission or 30-day mortality
      during the first day of the hospital admission. Then from this pool of high-risk patients, up
      to 6 patients will be randomly selected each weekday to be referred to either receive usual
      care or care delivered through the STAR program. The number of daily patients to be
      randomized was selected to match targeted capacity for the STAR navigator and will be
      reevaluated on a biweekly basis. Because variables that affect eligibility may change during
      a hospital stay, initial eligibility will be re-confirmed at time of hospital discharge.
      Specifically, patients who have had infection diagnosis ruled-out during their
      hospitalization (i.e., rule-out documented in medical record) will be excluded for the
      purposes of analysis. All remaining eligible patients at the time of discharge will be
      included in analyses, which will be conducted using an intent-to-treat approach. Planned
      enrollment is 708 patients (n=354 patients per study arm) and STAR program follow-up will be
      completed 30 days after hospital discharge. Outcomes data will be tracked for 90 days and
      captured from routinely collected data from the Atrium Health Enterprise Data Warehouse.
      Given this evaluation protocol is part of a quality improvement intervention that relies on
      using evidence-based interventions, only utilizes data collected as part of routine care, and
      is minimal risk to patients, we requested that the institutional review board designate this
      study as expedited research and grant a waiver of informed consent.

      Primary Outcome Variable The primary outcome is a composite, dichotomous endpoint of
      all-cause mortality or unplanned hospital readmission assessed 30 days post index hospital
      discharge.

      Secondary Outcome Variable(s)

        1. all-cause 30- and 90-day mortality;

        2. all-cause 30- and 90-day hospital readmission;

        3. 30- and 90-day cause-specific hospital readmissions with primary diagnoses related to:
           a) infection, b) chronic lung disease, c) heart failure, and d) acute kidney injury;

        4. 30- and 90-day emergency department visits;

        5. 30- and 90-day acute-care costs;

        6. 30- and 90-day total healthcare costs (only in the subgroup of patients enrolled in a
           Medicare Shared Savings Plan);

        7. acute care-free days alive measured at 30 and 90 days, defined as the sum of days alive
           without inpatient, observation, and emergency department encounters (rounded to full day
           for any day with acute care utilization) during the interval after discharge.

      Subject Selection Subject selection will occur via an automated query process for patient
      list generation. Each weekday morning actively admitted patients at 3 study hospitals (i.e.,
      Carolinas Medical Center, Carolinas Medical Center - Mercy, and Atrium Health Northeast) will
      be identified from the electronic health record and Enterprise Data Warehouse and output into
      daily eligibility lists based on the study's inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      Randomization Eligible patients will be randomly allocated 1:1 to receive usual care or the
      STAR program. Clinicians and patients are not blinded to treatment allocation. Due to
      resource limitations, STAR will only be made available to a limited number of patients. Thus,
      a constrained randomization scheme will be utilized to randomly allocate up to six eligible
      patients to either STAR or usual care each weekday. The number of patients allocated to be
      randomized daily was selected to match targeted capacity for the STAR navigators and will be
      reevaluated on a biweekly basis and adjusted as needed.
    
  