
    
      Healthcare-associated infections due to antimicrobial use in long-term care facilities (LTCF)
      is an increasing problem in europe. It is well established that there exists a positive
      correlation between the amount of antibiotics used in treatment and resistant bacteria in
      both individual patients and society as a whole. A point-prevalence audit from 2017 in LTCFs
      showed that 10.5% of all LTCF residents in Denmark are treated with an antibiotic agent. In
      78% of the cases, the cause for treatment was urinary tract infection (UTI). In addition,
      this group of elderly are particularly vulnerable to healthcare-associated infections, drug
      interactions and adverse effects. Thus, there are persuasive reasons for reducing antibiotic
      use in this specific group.

      In the diagnostic process for UTI in a LTCF resident, there are several non-clinical factors
      influencing the diagnosis and leading to unnecessary treatment. First, because of dementia,
      sequelae from apoplexies, difficulties walking and other ailments, the typical LTCF resident
      is unable to express symptoms clearly and attend the GPs office. Consequently, the diagnosis
      is based on observations made by LTCF staff, which are then communicated to the General
      Practitioner (GP). Second, the prevalence of asymptomatic bacteriuria is up to 50% in this
      particular group. Though several studies have found that asymptomatic bacteriuria is a benign
      condition, it continues to be treated. Third, unspecific symptoms such as mental status
      change, falls or decreased function are unlikely to be caused by UTI. However, unspecific
      symptoms are still driving diagnosis and treatment of UTI. These factors may influence
      diagnosis and treatment in the Danish LTCF setting and therefore, a significant portion of
      the prescribed antibiotics for UTI could be due to overtreatment.

      There is some evidence suggesting that antibiotic stewardship programs focusing on education
      of LTCF staff decreases antibiotic prescriptions and increases adherence to guidelines. In
      addition, there is moderate evidence that the widely used communication tool ISBAR
      (Identification, Situation, Background, Analysis, Recommendation) improves patient safety by
      improving interprofessional communication especially when communicating over the phone. Thus,
      if LTCF staff were educated on relevant observation, how to approach ASB, unspecific symptoms
      and structured handover of clinical information, the impact of these factors on diagnosis and
      treatment of UTI in LTCF residents may decrease. Overall, antibiotic stewardship programs in
      LTCF are somewhat effective. However, most of these were targeted at prescribers only or
      prescribers and nurses and some were also prone to bias because of the choice of study
      design. At present, there exists no cluster Randomized Controlled Trials (cRCT) targeting
      only LTCF staff with nursing tasks through a combined education- and communication-centered
      intervention.
    
  