
    
      The general purpose of this project is; To determine the effect of kangaroo care and
      facilitated tucking position on cerebral oxygenation (rSO2) in premature infants.

      In this context, the study has two sub-objectives. First sub purpose; to determine the effect
      of kangaroo care application given to premature inafants hospitalized in the NICU with the
      mother on cerebral oxygenation (rSO2), physiological parameters (heart rate, peripheral
      oxygen saturation (SpO2) and respiratory rate) and comfort / comfort levels.

      This study was designed as a single blind, parallel group, pre-test and post-test randomized
      controlled trial.

      First sub purpose; total sample size was determined as 40 preterm babies (20 in each group).
      Block randomization was used in this study. During the data collection phase, the purpose of
      the study will be explained to the parents of preterm infants by the researcher, and written
      consent will be obtained from the parents who agree to participate in the study through the
      "Informed Consent Form". Introductory Information Form, Physiological Parameter and rSO2
      Follow-up Chart and Neonatal Comfort Scale created by the researcher will be used.

      Second sub purpose; to determine the effect of facilitated tucking position on the infant's
      cerebral oxygenation (rSO2), physiological parameters (heart peak beat, SpO2 and respiratory
      rate), pain and comfort / comfort levels during the heel stick procedure.

      This study was designed as a single blind, parallel group, two intervention groups in
      pre-test and post-test order, and a randomized controlled control group.

      Second sub purpose; the total sample size was determined as 66 (22 in each group). Block
      randomization was used in this study. During the data collection phase, the purpose of the
      study will be explained to the parents of preterm infants by the researcher, and written
      consent will be obtained from the parents who agree to participate in the study through the
      "Informed Consent Form". The Introductory Information Form, Physiological Parameters and rSO2
      Tracking Chart, PIPP-R and Neonatal Comfort Scale created by the researcher will be used.
    
  