
    
      The efficacy of behavior therapies may be enhanced by certain medications, particularly those
      that act on dopaminergic systems. The purpose of this project is to examine effects of
      bupropion on initiation and maintenance of cocaine abstinence in a population of cocaine
      dependent methadone maintenance patients. Bupropion appears to be the most promising
      medication for this purpose because of its previously demonstrated efficacy and safety as
      well as its pharmacological actions at dopamine systems.

      Methadone maintained cocaine dependent patients will participate (N = 200). Volunteers will
      be eligible for inclusion in the study if they are 1) enrolled in methadone maintenance
      treatment, having previously met the criteria for opioid dependence; 2) between the ages of
      18 and 65; 3) provide evidence of cocaine dependence (DSM-IV criteria, self-report, and/or
      urine tests positive for cocaine during the intake process); and 4) are willing to take study
      medications and adhere to reporting and data collection schedules.

      Exclusion Criteria are: 1) history of epilepsy or seizure, including alcohol- or
      cocaine-related seizure; 2) conditions with increased risk of seizure (e.g. head trauma with
      loss of consciousness > 30 mins), 3) current use (past 30 days) of antidepressants,
      antipsychotics, theophyllines, systemic steroids, MAO-A inhibitors, 4) recent use (past 30
      days of any medication containing bupropion or budeprion (Wellbutrin®, Zyban®), 5) allergy to
      bupropion or budeprion, 6) liver enzyme levels greater than 3x upper limit of normal (ULN);
      7) uncontrolled diabetes mellitus (glucose > 200mg%); 8) severe psychiatric diagnosis:
      schizophrenia, psychosis, major depression, mania, current suicidal ideation with plan;
      cognitive impairment severe enough to preclude informed consent or valid responses on
      questionnaires; 9) severe renal insufficiency (eGFR < 30 ml/min), 10) pregnant, breast
      feeding or unwilling to use birth control, 11) medical illness that in the view of the
      investigators would compromise participation in research, 12) advanced HIV infection
      requiring HAART 13) current eating disorder (anorexia or bulimia), 14) uncontrolled
      hypertension with blood pressure ( BP) >140/90.

      Study participants who qualify and sign informed consent will be stratified according to
      their initial response to an abstinence incentive (contingency management) procedure
      targeting cocaine negative urines. Those who stop their cocaine use will enter a study that
      examines effects of bupropion XL (300mg/day) versus placebo on relapse prevention. Those who
      fail to stop cocaine use after initial exposure to the CM procedure will enter a parallel
      study conducted concurrently that examines the effects of bupropion XL (300mg/day) on
      abstinence initiation. Our hypothesis is that bupropion as compared to placebo treatment will
      both enhance rates of abstinence initiation in those who have difficulty stopping cocaine and
      retard rates of relapse in those who initially stopped their cocaine use.

      Each study will involve a CM schedule that is uniquely tailored to the questions being asked
      but that is equated on total amount that can be earned ($675). Both studies will track
      outcomes over a 6-month time frame that includes assessment of drug use outcomes after
      incentives have stopped. In addition, the project will provide novel information about
      mechanisms of medication effects by measuring subjective drug effects, drug vs money choices,
      and self-reports of pleasure derived from daily non-drug activities. The investigators
      hypothesize that bupropion compared to placebo participants will report non-drug activities
      as more pleasurable (reinforcing), will engage in more of them and that measures of non-drug
      reinforcement will mediate abstinence outcomes.

      Overall, this research will provide new and valuable information about combined
      behavioral-pharmacological treatments and specifically the conditions under which medication
      may enhance effects of CM. If hypothesized synergies can be demonstrated, the study will
      point the way to a significant advance in improved treatment outcomes for this critical group
      of drug abusers. The proposed study is compelling because it conceptually differentiates the
      two key clinical issues in treatment of stimulant abusers- abstinence initiation and relapse
      prevention. It uses a design that efficiently and effectively tests a combined treatment
      approach for each clinical issue and as well examines cognitive function and
      reinforcement-based mediators. The research will add to understanding of the interplay
      between brain reinforcement systems and drug-seeking behavior. Finally, it will make an
      important contribution to behavioral therapy development by exploring a novel solution to
      limitations previously noted for CM that include lack of response in some patients and
      relapse after withdrawal of incentives.
    
  