
    
      If you are eligible and you choose to participate in this study, you will be asked to come to
      the Pennington Biomedical Research Center in Baton Rouge between 7:00 and 11:00am after a
      10-hour fast (nothing to eat or drink besides water for 10 hours prior to your appointment).
      The study visit will take approximately five hours. During the visit, you will complete the
      informed consent process and then complete several body measurements and body composition
      procedures immediately afterwards.

      Description of study procedures

      Body Measurements (about 10 minutes):

      A series of body measurements will be taken by trained staff. These measurements include
      height and weight. These measurements will be completed twice during this time. You will wear
      a hospital gown and bathing suit for these measurements. Your BMI will be calculated from
      these measurements.

      Body Composition and Circumference Measurements Deuterium Dilution (heavy water) This test is
      to measure the amount of water in your body. After a fasting urine sample is collected, you
      will drink a glass of water that has been enriched with an atom called a stable isotope
      (deuterium). After you drink this non-radioactive heavy water, you will provide urine samples
      several times over the next 4 hours.

      Whole Body DXA Scan, about 20 minutes This scan measures the amount of bone, muscle, and fat
      in your body. The scan will be performed using a whole-body scanner. You will be required to
      wear a hospital gown, to remove all metal-containing objects from your body, and to lie down
      on the table. You will be carefully positioned on the table, and your legs will be placed
      together using two Velcro straps. A scanner emitting low energy X-rays and a detector will
      pass along your body. You will be asked to remain completely still while the scan is in
      progress. The scan takes approximately ten minutes.

      Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis (BIA) (about 20 minutes):

      These tests will measure the amount of fat in your body. You will be asked to change into a
      hospital gown and to remove all footwear and socks/stockings. Once changed and barefoot, you
      will be asked to stand on a scale (similar to a large gym scale) and to hold on to hand
      electrodes on each side of the scale. You will be asked to step off of the scale once the
      measurement is complete (less than one minute). You will repeat this procedure on three
      different BIA systems.

      BodPod (about 30 minutes) This test will estimate the amount of fat mass and fat free mass in
      your body. You will be required to change into a swimsuit and swim cap that we will provide
      for this procedure. If your swimsuit meets the necessary criteria, you can bring and wear it
      for the procedure, or PBRC will provide one for you. You will step onto a scale for a quick
      weight measurement. Next, you will sit inside of the system like you are sitting in a chair.
      The door of the system will be closed, but you will have a window so that you can see outside
      of the system while the measurements are completed. The test will be completed in about 15
      minutes.

      Circumferences (about 30 minutes) This test will measure the circumferences of your waist,
      hip, neck, arms, and legs and the lengths of your forearm, upper arm, thigh, and lower leg.
      The circumference measurements will be made by a trained observer using a calibrated tape
      measure and an automated circumference measurement device (KX-16). These measurements will be
      made in about 30 minutes.

      Ultrasound (about 30 minutes) An ultrasound is a procedure that uses sound waves to create a
      picture of an organ or soft tissue. This test measures the size of your tissue thicknesses
      for fat and skeletal muscle. For this procedure, you will be asked to raise your shirt,
      disrobe from the waist up, or change into a hospital gown and lie flat on your back on an
      examination table, or sit on a chair, or stand for measuring your leg dimensions. A gel will
      be spread on the ultrasound probe, and the probe will be applied directly to the skin on your
      arms, legs, and abdomen. You will feel slight pressure when the probe is applied. The entire
      procedure will take approximately 30 minutes.
    
  