
    
      Although, the use of protease inhibitors (PI) containing highly active antiretroviral therapy
      (HAART) has led to a remarkable improvement in the prognosis and outcome of HIV infection,
      only 45% to 70% of treatment-naïve patients who commence HAART achieve complete virological
      suppression. The emergence of HIV resistance to antiretroviral drugs is one of the main
      obstacles to the successful long-term suppression of HIV replication. Poor adherence and
      unfavorable pharmacokinetics (PK) caused by altered absorption, genetic variations in
      metabolism and drug-drug interactions frequently lead to antiretroviral drug concentrations
      below the inhibitory concentration for 50% of the viral quasispecies (IC50) and loss of viral
      suppression.

      Enzymes of the cytochrome (CYP) P450 (CYP2C19, CYP3A4, CYP3A5) family located in the liver
      and small intestine are responsible for the metabolism of PIs. The absence of expression of
      certain enzymes from this family was recently correlated with a genetic polymorphism, which
      may have a major role in variation of cytochrome P450-mediated drug metabolism. Results of
      these studies suggest significant differences in the distribution of the polymorphism
      associated alleles between ethnic groups, in particular between Caucasians and African
      Americans. Detection of cytochrome P450 variant alleles and more detailed data on their
      allelic frequency in various ethnic groups is critical to assess their impact on PK of
      antiretroviral agents, in particular PIs.

      This research proposal is aimed at the development of a novel multidisciplinary approach to
      optimize HAART in HIV infected children. It is increasingly clear that inter-individual
      variation in drug metabolism and responsiveness has a strong genetic component. The metabolic
      pathways leading to drug clearance, bio-availability, and cellular responses are complex, and
      only beginning to be understood. Key to our understanding of inter-individual responses is
      identification of the genetic polymorphisms that contribute to this variability, the relative
      contribution of different genes/SNPs, and the possible interactions between the corresponding
      protein products or pathways. We propose to develop a dosing regimen of PIs in HIV-infected
      children that takes into account genetic variability in drug metabolism and transport, and
      resistance of the dominant viral strain (as determined by virtual phenotype).

      In order to do so, the protocol address the following Specific Aims:

        -  Specific Aim 1 (completed previously): Determine the prevalence of genetic variations in
           CYP2C19, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, and MDR-1 genes in a cohort of children and adolescents with
           HIV infection.

        -  Specific Aim 2 (completed previously): Evaluate the relationship of this genetic
           variability to the pharmacokinetic parameters (Cmin, Cmax, AUC) and toxicity (graded by
           the Division of AIDS [DAIDS] classification) of protease inhibitors in pediatric
           patients with HIV infection.

        -  Specific Aim 3 (THIS STUDY): Evaluate the impact of dose adjustment of protease
           inhibitors based on pharmacogenetic profile and virtual inhibitory quotient (VIQ) on
           clinical outcome (measured by HIV-RNA viral load and CD4+ cell count changes) and
           toxicity (graded by the DAIDS classification) in pediatric patients with HIV infection.
    
  