
    
      Imatinib mesylate is a medication that blocks certain proteins important in the development
      of cancer. Docetaxel is a drug that is designed to target and destroy cancer cells.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take 4 imatinib mesylate
      tablets by mouth once a day. Docetaxel will be given through a vein in your arm on the first
      day of each treatment cycle for a total of 6 cycles. The infusion will take 1 hour. A
      treatment cycle on this study is 21 days.

      You will need to take steroids (dexamethasone) before receiving docetaxel to try to prevent
      fluid accumulation and hypersensitivity reactions. The dexamethasone will come in a pill form
      to be taken every 12 hours for 3 days starting the day before chemotherapy. You will also
      receive additional dexamethasone by vein before the docetaxel is given.

      After you complete 6 treatment cycles, you will continue to take 4 imatinib mesylate tablets
      each day until your cancer gets worse, or you experience unacceptable side effects, or you
      withdraw from the study.

      While on this study, you will have a physical exam every 3 weeks. During the first 5 weeks of
      the study, you will have blood tests each week. About 3 teaspoons of blood will be drawn each
      time. After the first 5 weeks, you will have blood tests (3 teaspoons each) at the beginning
      of each treatment cycle. In addition, your tumor will be measured by a CT or MRI scan every 6
      weeks.

      You must agree not to use herbal remedies or other over-the-counter therapies (e.g., shark
      cartilage) during treatment.

      If you develop any unacceptable symptoms or changes in your laboratory tests, your treatment
      may be delayed and/or the dose decreased until the symptoms are gone. It may even be
      necessary to stop your treatment. Your doctor will inform you of any changes in your dosing
      schedule or in the doses of your medication after he/she evaluates you in the clinic.

      After treatment ends, you will have a follow-up visit at the clinic. At this visit, you will
      have a complete physical exam, including blood (about 3 teaspoons) and urine tests. You will
      also have a CT scan to measure the size of the tumor in your body.

      This is an investigational study. Imatinib mesylate is FDA approved for the treatment of
      leukemia. Docetaxel is FDA approved for the treatment of breast, prostate, and NSCLC. Up to
      50 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at UTMDACC.
    
  