
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of clofarabine in combination with 2, 3, or 4 Gy
      TBI in preparation for hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) from human leukocyte antigen
      (HLA)-identical related and HLA-matched unrelated donors in patients with AML. (Part 1)

      II. To determine the efficacy of the maximum tolerated dose of clofarabine combined with 2,
      3, or 4 Gy TBI in reducing the 6 month relapse rate in patients with AML compared to our
      historical experience with fludarabine and 2 Gy TBI. A satisfactory improvement will be
      considered 6 month relapse rate declines from 35% to 20% among high-risk (objective for low
      risk group terminated August 2014). (Part 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Leukemia-free and overall survivals.

      II. Non-relapse mortality (NRM) of < 5% at 100 days.

      III. Engraftment rate of >= 95%.

      IV. Prognostic significance of cytogenetics and genetic markers not detected by traditional
      karyotype analysis, with special respect to tyrosine kinase receptor mutations (such as
      fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 [FLT3]), retrovirus-associated deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)
      sequences (RAS)- and nucleophosmin gene mutations along with CCAAT/enhancer binding protein,
      alpha (C/EBP) mutations.

      V. Rigorous monitoring for minimal residual/recurring disease by standard morphologic, flow
      cytometric, and molecular techniques in order to facilitate early intervention.

      VI. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of clofarabine (pharmacokinetic samples discontinued
      January 2017).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of clofarabine.

      CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive clofarabine intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days -6
      to -2. Patients also undergo TBI on day 0.

      IMMUNOSUPPRESSION: Patients with related donors receive cyclosporine orally (PO) every 12
      hours on days -3 to 56 with taper to day 180 and mycophenolate mofetil PO every 12 hours on
      days 0 to 28. Patients with unrelated donors receive cyclosporine PO every 12 hours on days
      -3 to 100 with taper to day 180 and mycophenolate mofetil PO every 8 hours on days 0 to 40
      with taper to day 96.

      TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo allogeneic PBSCT on day 0.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 months and then every year
      thereafter.
    
  