
    
      This will be an observational study using Differences in Differences and Regression
      Discontinuity designs.

      In designing our analytic methods for this observation study, we had to consider two key
      potential sources of bias. First, rewards providers might differ from non-rewards providers
      in observed and unobserved ways such as such as quality or convenience. This might confound
      the true effect of the rewards program on service volume. That is, an analysis of the rewards
      program that simply compares service volume of rewards and non-rewards providers after launch
      of the rewards program will capture both the effects of the rewards program as well as the
      effects of other differences between rewards and non-rewards providers. Second, service
      volume of rewards program might change due to other factors coincident with the launch of the
      rewards program. Our proposed statistical methods attempt to address both these sources of
      confounding. We will examine the data in a series of way to test the robustness of our
      findings.

      Difference-in-differences (DD) linear regression We will use a difference-in-differences
      regression to examine within-employer changes in provider utilization following the
      implementation of the rewards program.

      In the first set of regressions we will use data from employers who have implemented the
      rewards program. These regressions will compare changes in provider volume following the
      launch of the rewards program for rewards providers (first difference) to change in service
      volume for non-rewards providers during the same time period. We hypothesize that rewards
      providers will experience a greater increase in volume than non-rewards providers. This
      analysis uses non-rewards providers from the same employer as a control group and assumes
      that reward providers would have experienced the same change in volume as non-reward
      providers in the absence of the rewards program.

      In another set of regressions we will use data from both employers who have launched the
      rewards program and employers who have not launched the rewards program. This analysis will
      be only feasible for providers who have a unique id across employers and who see patients
      from both rewards and non-rewards employers. These regressions will compare changes in
      provider volume for rewards providers coming from rewards employers (first difference) to
      changes in service volume for the same reward providers coming from non-reward employers
      during the same time period. We hypothesize that rewards providers will experience a greater
      increase in volume coming from rewards employers than non-rewards employers. This analysis
      uses non-reward employers as the control group and assumes that reward providers would have
      experienced similar increase in service volume from rewards and non-rewards employers in the
      absence of the rewards program. This analysis helps to address the potential bias that
      rewards providers had an increase in volume because of other factors such as quality or
      convenience.

      Regression discontinuity regressions Our second study design is a regression discontinuity
      design. Providers are designated as rewards providers based on their relative cost within a
      geographic market. Providers are ranked based on an index of prices and providers below a
      pre-specified ranking or threshold on this index are designated as rewards providers. The
      regression discontinuity model will compare changes in volumes between providers that are
      just above this threshold with providers that are just below this threshold.

      Instrumental Variables Analysis Our third study design uses an instrumental variable
      analysis. The dollar amount of the financial incentive varies between the employers who have
      introduced the program. In this analysis we will exploit that difference. We will assess
      whether the effects of rewards on service volume vary by the size and nature of the rewards.

      Independent variables As independent variables, we will use employer, month, year, geography,
      year X geography, and provider fixed effects. If there are changes in the employee population
      before and after the introduction of the Rewards program, we will control for those
      differences.
    
  