
    
      Investigators evaluated the clinical utility of Multivirus VSTs in recipients of matched
      related, matched unrelated, or haploidentical donor transplants. To date, 10 clinical-grade
      multivirus-directed VSTs have been generated from donor PBMCs. These lines were polyclonal,
      comprising both CD4+ (57±5%) and CD8+ (35±5%) cells and retained expression of the memory
      markers CD45RO+CD62L+ (58±8%). Their specificity was dependent on the prior viral exposure of
      the cell donor; 7/8 tested lines had activity against Adv,8/8 against CMV, 6/8 against EBV.
      None of the lines reacted against recipient PHA blasts - indicating lack of alloreactive
      potential in these rapidly generated lines.

      Investigators administered these multivirus-specific donor-derived VSTs to 3 allogeneic HSCT
      recipients in a dose escalation study all on DL1 (5x106/m2). There were no immediate infusion
      toxicities, and no de novo acute GvHD, demonstrating the in vivo safety of these mVST.
      Further, antiviral efficacy has been observed in 1 patient with refractory CMV. In addition,
      in a recently published paper from Baylor College of Medicien (Anapoulous et al, STM 2014)
      they have treated VSTs manufactured with a similar methodology, but targeting 5 viruses
      instead of 3 with specificity to BK virus and HHV6. In that study 10 patients were treated
      with 4 on DL1 (5x10e6/m2), 4 on DL2 (1x10e7/m2) and 2 on DL3 (2x10e7/m2) and again saw no
      immediate infusion toxicities, and no de novo acute GvHD, demonstrating the in vivo safety of
      these mVST. Three patients received the cells as viral prophylaxis (days 38-43 post-HSCT) and
      none developed viral infections at up to 3 months post-treatment. The other 7 patients
      received the cells as treatment for one or more active infections between days 59-139
      post-HSCT. Based on viral load measurements by day 42 post-infusion, the VSTs were successful
      in controlling active infections with CMV (1 complete (CR) and 1 partial response (PR)), EBV
      (2 CRs, including a case of frank PTLD); Adv (1 CR); HHV6 (1 CR); and BK (3 CR, 1 PR, 1NR).
      Of note, 3 BK virus responders had tissue disease with severe hemorrhagic cystitis and all
      had marked improvement or disappearance of hematuria following infusion. One patient
      subsequently had an episode of transient but severe bladder pain in association with
      inflammation seen on cytoscopy coincident with a 6 log fall in urine BK viral load. Only
      non-responder was a patient with BK infection whose line lacked activity for this virus,
      likely reflecting the serostatus of the donor. In addition, 3 patients subsequently
      reactivated other viruses than those for which they were initially treated, but all cleared
      these infections by week 12, without the requirement for additional cell infusions (CMV: 1CR;
      EBV: 1CR; BK: 1CR; HHV6: 1CR). Finally, 1 patient received multivirus specific VSTs under a
      single patient protocol as an emergency treatment for widespread and bulky
      rituximab-resistant EBV-PTLD. Post VST treatment there was an immediate decline in the
      patient's EBV viral load with complete and sustained resolution of PTLD, coincident with an
      increase in circulating EBV-specific T cells. However, the profound anti-tumor activity
      mediated by the rapidly-expanding EBV-directed T cells also produced a transient systemic
      inflammatory response syndrome, which was controlled with steroids and anti-TNFR antibody,
      with no long term adverse effects.

      Thus, infusion of donor-derived, multivirus specific VSTs generated with clinical grade
      pepmixes and infused either prophylactically or as treatment for one or more viral infections
      has been safe and is associated with the appearance of virus-reactive T cells in peripheral
      blood that have been able to control infection with above mentioned viruses.
    
  