
    
      This study is a multicenter, three armed, prospective randomized control trial studying the
      effect of a long-acting local anesthetic "cocktail" in patients undergoing operative fixation
      of ankle fractures.

      Primary Hypothesis Driven Aims:

        1. Determine the effectiveness of a local anesthesia "cocktail" compared to regional block
           or standard of care in controlling pain in operatively treated ankle fractures. Nearly
           one out of ten fractures treated by both orthopaedic traumatologists and general
           orthopaedic surgeons taking call are ankle fractures. As such, effective pain control in
           this group of patients represents an opportunity to make a large impact, especially in
           the context of the current opioid epidemic. Improved pain control can help improve
           patient satisfaction, outcomes, decrease length of stay, cost of care, and complications
           associated with traditional narcotic use.

             -  Hypothesis 1A: Patients receiving the intraoperative cocktail will have improved
                post-operative pain control compared to those receiving a peri-operative nerve
                block or standard of care.

             -  Hypothesis 1B: Patients receiving the intraoperative cocktail or peri-operative
                nerve block will have improved post-operative pain control when compared to
                standard of care.

             -  Null Hypothesis 1: There will be no difference in post-operative pain control
                between all treatment arms.

        2. Determine the economic impact of cocktail and regional blocks in ankle fractures. A
           common concern with the use of regional blocks is the cost of the additional procedure,
           along with logistic delays which are associated with coordinating a separate procedure.
           This study would provide valuable data about the additional costs associated with
           regional blocks and with cocktail administration which could help aid in making
           economically conscious treatment decisions.

             -  Hypothesis 2: Local cocktail administration will have significantly lower costs
                than regional block, and not be significantly more expensive than standard of care.

             -  Null Hypothesis 2: There is no difference in cost between the modalities.

      Secondary Aim:

      Demonstrate the use of long-acting local anesthetic as a viable pain management strategy in
      fracture surgery. Although long-acting local anesthetics have an established track record in
      arthroplasty, there is a paucity of evidence guiding their use in fractures. Small case
      series in trauma and foot/ankle patients have been encouraging, but a rigorously conducted,
      prospective trial in a relatively homogeneous group could generate pilot data to validate the
      use of long acting local anesthetics in fracture surgery. This knowledge may be translatable
      to other extremity injuries as well, having a greater impact than the scope of the proposed
      trial.
    
  