
    
      Thirty-two (32) subjects will be enrolled and randomly assigned to one of the two parallel
      treatment doses. The study population will be men and women of 19 years and older, with no
      allergy or history of allergy to fish. Participants must not have taken omega-3 supplements
      in the last 60 days prior to study enrollment. Pregnant or lactating women will be excluded
      from the study.

      The objective of this study is to establish the pharmacokinetic curve for two different doses
      of MaxSimil at steady-state over a 20-week period of treatment, namely two (2) or three (3)
      tablets per day. MaxSimil is a concentrated monoglyceride (MAG) form of omega-3 fish oil that
      is better absorbed by the body compared to regular fish oil. Each capsule contains 300 mg of
      monoglyceride eicosapentaenoic acid (MAG-EPA) and 130 mg of monoglyceride docosahexaenoic
      acid (MAG-DHA).

      Pharmacokinetics will be assessed by measuring the omega-3 index at eight (8) different times
      during the study. A first blood sample will be taken before the start of treatment and then
      at week four (4), eight (8), twelve (12), sixteen (16) and twenty (20). Then, two last
      measurements of the omega-3 index will be done at four (4) and seven (7) weeks after the end
      of treatment. The samples will all be taken by capillary puncture during visits at the
      clinic. A total of nine (9) visits may be done including the recruitment/screening/enrollment
      visit. Visit 1 could be done immediately after enrollment for a total of eight (8) visits
      instead of nine.

      The screening tasks include pregnancy testing for women, measurement of the omega-3 index,
      body weight and height, recording of the baseline health status and concomitant treatment.
      Then, for visits 2 to 5, study treatment will be dispensed, returned and accounted, blood
      sample will be collected for the measurement of the omega-3 index, and the health status will
      be followed for any adverse event outcome.

      Visits 6 to 8 are post-treatment follow-ups where omega-3 index testing will be done as well
      as the follow-up of the health status and concomitant medication intake.
    
  