
    
      This will be a prospective pain assessment study utilizing a simple three question survey
      given to patients undergoing bilateral PRK. Following recruitment and enrollment (see section
      4.1 and 4.2 for recruitment and consent process), patients will be randomized to be
      prescribed either 1) Group 1: codeine 30mg/acetaminophen 300mg (standard of care dosage) or
      2) Group 2: oxycodone 5mg/acetaminophen 325mg (standard of care dosage) post-operatively. All
      post-operative patients will receive standard bandage contact lenses and as needed tetracaine
      as per standard of care. Patients will be removed from the study if they take other non-study
      pain medications. They will be asked to record their pain levels four times daily as well as
      the number of as needed narcotic pain medication taken and the number of tetracaine drops
      used (to isolate a potential confounding pain control modality). Randomization will be
      performed with the aid of www.randomizer.org which will generate a randomized assignment to
      either group 1 or group 2.

      All PRK procedures will be performed per standard of care. The procedure will be performed by
      one of the 4 approved surgeons. All surgeons will use the same technique using either the
      VISX or the Allegretto laser machines. This technique will include use of a brush for
      mechanical removal of corneal epithelial cells. The surgeons will take note at this time of
      the relative adherence of the epithelium to the underlying tissue and grade the adherence on
      a scale of 0-4 (0=least adherent and 4=most adherent). In the data analysis, differences
      between surgeons and between operating platform (VISX vs Allegretto) will be compared to
      account for any possible bias in operating parameters.

      The survey will be worded as follows:

        1. "Rate your eye pain or level of discomfort at 0800, 1200, 1600 and 2000. Please write
           the number closest to your response in the table below under the appropriate day and
           time.

        2. "How many tablets of study-related pain medication did you take today in the AM/PM?"

        3. "How many times did you use topical tetracaine today in the AM/PM?"

        4. "Did you take any other non-study related pain medications?"

      Patients will be followed-up post-operatively as per standard of care. This includes
      follow-up visits at 1 day, 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months. Starting on
      post-operative day 1, the patients will be asked to record their pain levels using the pain
      survey at four hour intervals (0800, 1200, 1600, 2000). At the 1 week post-operative visit,
      the pain surveys will be collected from the patients. Visual acuity data will be extracted
      from all but the 12 month follow-up appointment and used as a secondary outcome to correlate
      any possible differences in pain scores to functional outcomes in terms of visual acuity.
    
  