
    
      BACKGROUND

      Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) has emerged as an important alternative to
      surgical aortic valve replacement. While this technology represents an important advance over
      medical therapy or surgical AVR in poor operative candidates, the absolute mortality rates
      remain high, even in the great majority in whom an optimal hemodynamic result is achieved. In
      the randomized literature, the majority of these patients die within two years and two thirds
      of these deaths are due to cardiovascular (CV) events.

      The mechanisms responsible for this limited survival are unclear from the clinical trials
      completed to date. While persistent valve disease undoubtedly plays a role in a subset of
      patients, particularly in patients with significant aortic regurgitation, the majority of
      events are due to non-valve related co-morbidities.

      The hypothesis of this study is that TAVR results in at least three simultaneous CV insults:
      1) the abrupt release of severely elevated left ventricular pressure into a non-compliant
      systemic vasculature leads to generalized endothelial cell activation, 2) the exposure of the
      pro-thrombotic and neo-antigenic contents of a degenerated aortic valve (known to
      histologically resemble atherosclerosis), and 3) the exposure of the replacement valve
      (bovine valve, stainless steel frame, polyester wrap). The investigators propose that these
      proximate events lead to platelet activation. Given the important link between thrombosis and
      inflammation governed by platelet-derived mediators and leukocyte-platelet interactions, they
      further hypothesize that monocyte activation is mediated, at least in part, by
      platelet-monocyte interactions, which has been shown to induce the expansion of inflammatory
      monocytes. Given the pro-thrombotic nature of inflammatory monocytes, they suspect a positive
      feedback loop may exist via the interplay of these thrombotic -inflammatory mechanisms, which
      may be abrogated via high potency ADP-receptor blockade.

      TRIAL DESIGN Primary Objective of the Study This trial is designed to determine whether
      high-potency ADP-receptor blockade with ticagrelor, compared to standard care with
      clopidogrel, affects platelet responsiveness and the pattern of prothrombotic monocyte
      activation seen early after TAVR.

      Primary and Secondary Outcomes The primary endpoint will be platelet responsiveness: platelet
      function will be measured one day after TAVR using the VerifyNow P2Y12 assay, and expressed
      in platelet reactivity units. The key secondary outcome measure will be the percentage of
      inflammatory monocytes, measured one day after TAVR. Inflammatory monocytes will be
      determined by flow cytometry, and expressed as a percentage of total monocytes.
    
  