
    
      Leishmaniasis is among the World's important neglected infectious diseases (NIDs). The WHO
      estimates that 350 million people are at risk of contracting leishmaniasis. Visceral
      leishmaniasis (VL) is the most severe form of the disease. Ethiopia has been recently listed
      by WHO among the fourteen countries in the world with the highest burden of VL. The
      development of novel point-of-care (PoC) diagnostics and/or a Test-of-Cure (ToC) for VL is
      deemed a key priority research area. In several endemic areas current gold standard diagnosis
      and monitoring of treatment efficacy of VL is based on parasite detection or serology.
      However, these tests are either not available for routine use or lack sufficient sensitivity
      and specificity, in particular in HIV co-infected patients. Though molecular tests such as
      PCR have become popular choices as a tool to diagnose VL, monitor treatment response and
      predict relapse, these techniques require technical skill and equipment and are considerably
      more expensive. Recent advances in diagnostics has been the development of LAMP with several
      advantages, such as no need for thermocycler, high specificity, simple read-out and no cold
      chain requirements. Therefore, LAMP has emerged as a powerful tool for PoC diagnostics. Its
      clinical utility as PoC diagnosis and/or ToC for VL in the African setting is, however,
      hardly known.

      Here, the investigators will evaluate the utility of the LAMP as a PoC and/or ToC for VL in
      an endemic area in Ethiopia. The performance of the LAMP assay as a diagnostic tool will be
      evaluated in newly diagnosed VL cases confirmed by parasite detection and/or PCR.
      Furthermore, the use of the assay as ToC will be determined by evaluating the performance of
      the assay in VL patients confirmed cured at day 17 of therapy, as assessed by negative
      parasite and/or PCR results. Additionally, the investigators plan to utilize a newly
      developed rapid molecular platform, db-PCR-NALFIA, which does not require DNA extraction, has
      an internal amplification control and simple read-out. The investigators will evaluate the
      utility of both assays also in patients co-infected with HIV. The results may have major
      policy implications as the application represents a concept that could enhance evidence-
      based translation of research to improve public health practice by contributing to
      leishmaniasis management guidelines - with overarching impacts for National, Regional and
      Global programs.
    
  