
    
      Bone sarcomas are rare primary bone cancers, although, their frequency has been increasing by
      0.3% per year over the last decade. They include a very large number of tumour types
      belonging to the family of primary malignant bone tumours and originate from bone as
      Osteosarcomas (OS), Chondrosarcomas (CS), Fibrosarcomas, Chordomas, …

      Current conventional treatments for OS combine chemotherapy and surgery. Compared with
      surgery alone, multimodal treatment of high-grade sarcomas increases disease-free survival
      probabilities from only 10%-20% to 50-65% depending on the bone sarcoma type. In general,
      despite second-line treatment, the prognosis of recurrent disease has remained poor, with
      long-term post-relapse survival of <20%.

      The outcome of bone sarcoma has been dramatically improved by the addition of chemotherapy in
      the 70' and 80' but has remained remarkably stable in the last 3 decades, with a survival
      rate largely plateaued, despite introduction of novel regimens, both in localized and
      metastatic disease, in children and in adults. Primary bone cancer presented challenges in
      new drug development partly because of their rarity and heterogeneity. Thus, improving
      treatments for these diseases is a high priority, but advances have been few in recent years.
      In this context, maintenance therapy may be an interesting option as a way to prolong the
      benefit of first-line chemotherapy.

      Regorafenib may play a role in the maintenance setting for bone sarcomas (as improved
      Progression-Free Survival and sustained responses were observed in the REGOBONE study) in
      maintaining the initial response to chemotherapy and delaying the need for further treatment
      at relapse, while exerting a manageable associated toxicity and minimal negative impact on
      health-related quality of life.

      Currently there is no available agent used as maintenance therapy after first-line
      chemotherapy. In the context of a clinical trial with close monitoring, it is, thus,
      acceptable to consider a placebo-control group.

      On this basis, this study propose to conduct a double-blinded randomized controlled trial to
      evaluate the efficacy of regorafenib versus placebo in the treatment of patients with bone
      sarcomas, who have no evidence of disease after neoadjuvant and/or adjuvant chemotherapies.

      The main goal of the present study is then to explore whether sequential addition of
      regorafenib after completion of a standard induction chemotherapy in patients with bone
      sarcomas would improve outcomes in term of event-free-survival (EFS) defined by local or
      distant recurrence of the disease.

      Results will be stratified on the "high-risk" versus "low-risk" of relapse. As response to
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy and metastatic status at time of diagnosis are known to be important
      on patient's outcome, stratification will rely on a combined criteria taking into account
      these two factors. Thus, "high-risk" of relapse will be defined by the group of patients who
      are poor responders to neoadjuvant chemotherapy and/or in metastatic setting at diagnosis,
      whereas "low-risk" of relapse will be defined by the group of patients who have no metastatic
      disease at time of diagnosis and are good responders to neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
    
  