
    
      Radius fractures are the most common fractures in adulthood and account for approximately
      17.5% of all fractures. The most common distal radius fractures are approximately 57-66%
      extra-articular (AO type A), followed by completely articular fractures (AO type C) with
      25-35% and the least rare partial articular fractures (AO type B) with 9-15%.

      The fracture mechanism of distal radius fractures is in most cases a fall on the extended
      wrist, less often a high-energy trauma. It is not uncommon for there to be additional
      accompanying ligamental injuries, which are easily overlooked.

      5-64% of intraarticular radius fractures are accompanied by injuries of the scapholunary
      ligament. However, most of these studies are carried out in smaller series, with only one
      exception. A scapholunary band lesion can occur in isolation or in combination with a distal
      radius fracture, scaphoid fracture or perilunary luxation. The prevalence of this ligament
      injury has not yet been sufficiently studied. Acute scapholunary ligament damage accompanying
      injury to a distal radius fracture, clinical testing of instability by means of the Watson
      provocation test is not possible due to pain. Thus, scapholunary dissociation is often
      initially overlooked. Additional later examinations by means of MRI or arthroscopy are
      necessary to diagnose the missed ligamentary injuries.

      In 5-10% of cases, intraarticular radius fractures are associated with complete ruptures of
      the dorsal scapholunary band, which leads to symptomatic carpal instability with the
      simultaneous presence of a rupture of the dorsal ligamentum intercarpale (DIC). The number of
      untreated SL band lesions in distal radius fractures is largely unknown.

      A scapholunary band lesion can be represented in different degrees of severity, depending on
      the still preserved portion of the scapholunary ligament and the surrounding extrinsical
      ligaments. Partial ruptures only lead to pain during movement and result in a slight
      restriction of scaphoid mobility. A scapholunary complete rupture, on the other hand, leads
      to a dissociation of ossa scaphoideum and lunatum, resulting in a Dorsal Intercalated Segment
      Instability (DISI). DISI malposition in turn leads in the long run to wrist osteoarthritis,
      called SLAC Wrist, with secondary development of osteoarthritis. The development of the full
      disease takes 10-20 years. The development of a SLAC Wrist can be counteracted preventively
      in which a scapholunary instability - also within the framework of a radius fracture - is
      detected at an early stage and correctly stabilized. However, the clinical relevance and the
      recommended treatment of scapholunary band rupture has not yet been definitively clarified.

      A complete rupture of the scapholunary band alone does not necessarily lead to instability.
      Among other things, one study shows that the dorsal ligamentum intercaraple plays a very
      important role in the stabilization of the Os lunatum and the Os scaphoideum. Only with
      additional rupture of the ligamentum intercaraple dorsal, next to the ligamentum
      scapholunare, is there a Dorsal Intercalated Segment Instability.

      The Os lunatum and the Os scaphoideum are coupled with each other by the scapholunary tape
      apparatus. With a complete rupture of the scapholunary band, both the os lunatum and the
      osscaphoideum follow the respective self-movement. The Os scaphoideum can no longer exert a
      force on the Os lunatum. Thus, without counter-action, there is a pulling force on the Os
      lunatum by the still intact ligamentum lunotriquetrale and da the Os lunatum palmar is wider
      than dorsal, the Os lunatum is pushed over time into a permanent position of the extension
      and palmaren dislocation. The Os scaphoideum, on the other hand, is anatomically "slanted" to
      the wrist axis and thus has a tendency towards flexion. The flexion of the Os scaphoideum
      leads to a dorsal subluxation of the os saphoideum to the fossa radialis. This phenomenone in
      turn leads to the Dorsal Intercalated Segment Instability (DISI). This is reflected by the
      flexion of the os scaphoideum and the extension of the os lunatum radiologically in the
      lateral uptake with an increase of the scapholunary angle > 60° (usually maximum 45)° and the
      radioscaphoidal angle >15° again. In the long run, this misalignment develops a wrist
      osteoarthritis called SLAC Wrist (Scapho-Lunate Advanced Collaps) with secondary development
      of osteoarthritis.

      The effect of untreated scapholunary dissociation on wrist function is unknown despite
      abundant studies, but all with small series. However, it has been proven that they lead to
      symptomatic carpal instability, especially with additional rupture of the dorsal ligamentum
      intercarpale.

      In a large study with 839 subjects, 25.6% of patients with distal radius fracture have
      scapholunary dissociation immediately after trauma, and only 13.4% continued to have a
      persi-sedate scpaholunary dissociation after repositioning and osteosynthesis. This can best
      be explained by stabilization due to the ligamentotaxis of the extrinsic carpal ligaments.

      Another study showed an excellent long-term outcome in patients who were stable after volar
      plate osteosynthesis in distal radius fracture without surgical treatment of scapholunal
      dissociation in the functional test. Whereas a plaster cast leads to a worse outcome.

      The Watson test, as used in clinical practice, is a provocation maneuver to diagnose a
      possible scapholic ligament lesion. Here, the Tubercel scaphoideum is fixed with the thumb
      and at the same time a wrist deviation from the radial duction and flexion into the ulnar
      duction and extension is performed. In the case of higher degree of instability in the sense
      of a complete rupture of the scapholunary band, the Watson test is positive if, in addition
      to pain, there is a palpable snap, due to a subluxation of the proximal scaphoid pole over
      dorsal radius at radial deviation and subsequent spontar position in the Fossa radii at
      Ulnadeviation. However, this test is not feasible with fresh radius fracture.

      Accompanying scapholunary lesions in radius fractures are often underdiagnosed, although they
      are up to 54% in dislocated, distal radius fractures. A study shows that intraarticular
      radius fractures are twice more commonly associated with scapholic lesions than seen in
      radiological diagnostics, although there are conventional-radiological suggestive evidence
      for static scapholunary band lesions. It has been described that 60% of all scapholunary
      lesions show no abnormalities in conventional X-ray image and are therefore easily
      overlooked. A widened joint gap between Os scaphoideum and Os lunatum with a distance > 3mm
      as well as a tilting of the two carpalia to each other indicates apossible bandrupture but is
      not diagnostic. However, in patients with a distal radius fracture, more than half of
      patients with an SL distance > 3mm in ct also have an extension on the opposite side 38-52%.
      There are no uniform conventional-radiological criteria for determining the instability of
      the wrist and the scapholunary distance.

      If none of the above abnormalities can be found in the conventional radiological images,
      however, a clinical suspicion of scpholunary dissociation leads to a MR tomography and an
      arthroscopy of the wrist. A computed tomography is not a sensitive modality for a band
      lesion. An arthro-CT, on the other hand, detects a ligament injury and is equivalent to
      arthro MRI with a sensitivity of 95%.

      In current literature, the gold standard in the diagnosis of scapholunary ligament injuries
      is arthroscopy. Using wrist arthroscopy as an examination technique for scapholic
      ligamentions, 7-64% of all patients with a distal radius fracture show a rupture, in
      extra-articular radius fractures the incidence is lower with 7-33%. We do not require an
      indicative arthroscopy due to the increased risk of surgery and therefore also the risk of
      infection.

      So far, there have been no studies that have used a clinical, dynamic functional test
      intraoperatively under screening, to assess scapholunary instability in intra-articular
      radius fractures. With intraoperative detection of an SL band lesion, this can be supplied
      surgically under the same anaesthesia with different methods such as a band seam, ossary
      reinsertion, carpal transfixing or combinations.

      The core of the study is the actual intervention to which the patients commit themselves. In
      this case, patients receive a computed tomography of the affected wrist in distal,
      intra-articular radius fractures in order to preoperatively, in addition to fracture,
      diagnose possible concomitant ligamentic injuries, in particular of the scapholunary band
      rupture. Computed tomography without intraarticular contrast agent administration, on the
      other hand, is a standard for displaying the exact fracture curves in intraarticular, distal
      radius fractures.

      Subsequently, the scpaholunary stability is checked under intraoperative investigation before
      and after osteosynthesis with a dynamic test modified by us. With the help of this test, a
      relevant, i.e. an unstable scpaholunary band lesion, is also to be diagnosed.

      The aim of this study is to investigate scapholunous instability in distal, intraarticular
      radius fracture and thus to diagnose an accompanying scapholunary band rupture.

        -  Determination of the prevalence of scapholunary band lesions in distal, intraarticular
           radius fractures

        -  Detection of scapholic instability in distanceric, intraarticular radius fracture, with
           the intraoperative conduct of a modified, dynamic functional test under illumination

      With the results, the intraoperative test will be able to be used in the future for the
      diagnosis of scapholunary band lesions and the detection of persistent carpal instability
      after osteosynthesis of radius fracture.
    
  