
    
      1 Background Good collateral flow in case of obstructive coronary artery disease and acute
      myocardial has beneficial effects on morbidity and mortality. Pressure controlled
      Intermittent Coronary Sinus Occlusion (PICSO) carries a promise of improving myocardial flow,
      decreasing microvascular obstruction and decreasing the rate of peri-procedural and acute
      myocardial infarction without the increased risk of bleeding such as is encountered with
      gp2b3a inhibitors. This study is designed to evaluate the safety and feasibility of PICSO in
      patients with stable coronary artery disease and experimental short coronary artery
      occlusion.

      2. Objective The purpose of the study is to determine whether PICSO is safe and feasible with
      a femoral approach, and in what amount of cases PICSO is effective to increase collateral
      flow index (CFI). In this study an adapted collateral flow pressure index (CFpI) will be used
      and is calculated as the ratio of the distal LAD pressure during LAD balloon occlusion
      (PLADoccl.) and the Aortic pressure (Pao). CFI>30% has been shown in several studies to be a
      significant predictor of inducible ischemia as measured by intracoronary ST-segment changes.
      The study is a non-randomized single centre trial using a Bayesian statistical model.

      3. Specific This study is a study in 10 elective patients with coronary artery disease
      assessing the safety and feasibility of adjunctive PICSO treatment during PCI using a femoral
      vein approach.

      Together with the preclinical experience using the Miracor technology, we therefore believe
      that the planned cohort of 10 patients is sufficient to corroborate earlier experiences on
      the safety of the procedure as well as present technology.

      For the effectiveness, 10 sets of measurements before and after the procedure in each patient
      will provide insight into the clinical significance since each patient will serve as her or
      his control.

      Study end-points

      3.1 Primary endpoints

        1. Duration from successful femoral vein cannulation until successful placement of PICSO
           Impulse catheter into the Coronary Sinus.

        2. Relative increase in collateral flow pressure index (CFpI) during LAD occlusion with and
           without PICSO.

      3.2 Secondary endpoints

        1. Number of patients reaching collateral flow pressure index (CFpI) higher than 30% during
           PICSO.

        2. Quantitative evaluation of pre-condition effect on relative increase of CFpI.

        3. The change of ST segment as recorded at Intra coronary ECG measures during balloon
           inflation.

      3.3 Primary safety endpoints

        1. The patients are hemodynamic stable during PICSO.

        2. Elevation of coronary sinus pressure

        3. The 30 days MACE is comparable to other patients undergoing PCI.

             1. Stroke

             2. Bleeding

             3. Inflammation

             4. New onset of an acute coronary syndrome or newly documented heart failure,
                requiring therapy or hospitalization

             5. Pulmonary embolism

             6. Coronary sinus permanent occlusion

             7. Death

             8. Other Adverse Events

        4. No reported Adverse Events caused by PICSO
    
  