
    
      Background:

        -  Pilot study to evaluate the feasibility of real time ultrasound imaging to guide focal
           thermal ablation of low risk focal prostate tumors

        -  Prostate cancer is relatively slow growing, with doubling times for local tumors
           estimated at 2 to 4 years.

        -  Recent patient series suggest that 20% to 30% of men undergoing radical prostatectomy
           have pathologic features in the radical prostatectomy

      specimen consistent with an insignificant or "indolent" cancer that poses little threat to
      life or health.

        -  An NIH/NCI protocol #11-C-0158 titled MR Image guided focal laser ablation therapy of
           prostate cancer has treated 15 patients without major complication over the past 5
           years. Out of 15 patients, 3 have had evidence of disease recurrence. This data is being
           prepared for publication (verbal communication with Peter Pinto, MD, principal
           investigator); however, it requires a very long and resource-intensive MRI imaging,
           which may be a barrier to broad translation to the community setting. Specialized custom
           and expensive MRI-compatible equipment is also required. Focal laser ablation for
           prostate cancer using the Medtronic-Visualase laser is FDA cleared.

        -  Focal thermal ablation such as laser ablation or cryosurgery are standard of care
           therapies for prostate cancer, with cancer control comparable to that of external beam
           radiotherapy and brachytherapy.

        -  NIH / NCI clinical trials have performed MRI + ultrasound (US) fusion biopsy in nearly
           1500 patients, greater than 30,000 biopsies over the past 12 years.

        -  We propose to perform ultrasound (US) guided focal thermal ablation with fusion
           visualization and co-display of pre-acquired MRI during the treatment of patients

      Objectives:

      - To determine the feasibility of treating biopsy-confirmed US-targetable and/or
      MR-visible,low to intermediate grade prostate tumor(s) using ultrasound (US) image-guided
      focal interstitial thermal ablation.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must have organ confined, biopsy-confirmed, low or intermediate risk prostate
           cancer that is either US-targetable or MR visible or both.

        -  Men greater than or equal to 18 years of age.

      Design:

        -  Pilot study, testing feasibility of ultrasound-guided thermal ablation of focal prostate
           cancer.

        -  A total of 30 patients will be enrolled to yield 20 evaluable patients.
    
  