
    
      The primary objective of this research study is to evaluate the use of the Verasense pressure
      sensor to optimize intraoperative implant pressures/balance during computer assisted TKR
      utilizing pre- and postoperative kinematic alignment techniques.

      This is a randomized controlled trial where 60 patients will undergo a kinematically aligned
      TKR using VERASENSE pressure sensors. Patients will be randomly assigned to either TKR
      balancing using VERASENSE data (TKR-V), or TKR using standard surgeon decision making in
      balancing (TKR only). In the TKR only group, the surgeon will perform the surgery while
      blinded to the data output of the VERASENSE sensor and will use standard surgeon decision
      making to balance the TKR. In the second group, TKR-V, the surgeon will not be blinded to the
      data output of the VERASENSE sensor and will use the data to influence how they balance the
      TKR.

      The primary outcome measure will be postoperative kinematic gait assessment to evaluate the
      effect of optimizing patient soft tissue balance using Verasense pressure sensor. Secondary
      outcomes will include the number of intraoperative soft tissue releases, and results of
      health outcome questionnaires.

      Research Questions:

        1. What are the differences and similarities between the subjective surgeon-balanced group
           (standard of care) compared to the objective Verasense-balanced group?

        2. Is there a difference in the number of "poorly balanced" knees between the
           surgeon-balanced kinematically aligned groups compared to the Verasense-balanced
           kinematically aligned group?

        3. Is there an effect of preoperative alignment on ligament balancing using Verasense
           pressure sensor?

        4. Is there a difference in the number of ligament releases required to optimize soft
           tissue balance between the Verasense pressure sensor aided total knee replacements and
           those balanced by the surgeon alone?

        5. What is the effect of optimizing patient soft tissue balance with Verasenes pressure
           sensor on gait parameters measured with Knee KG?

      ANOVA will be used to examine pre and post-operative differences in specific features of knee
      kinematics between groups. Primary and secondary outcomes will be evaluated using listings
      and summary statistics. Improvement in pain and function will be analyzed using t-test or
      Wilcoxon Rank tests.
    
  