
    
      In comparison to the use of exogenous gonadotropins, pulsatile administration of GnRH has
      many theoretical advantages for ovulation induction, including; 1) the ability to use the
      patients' own gonadotropins for ovarian stimulation; 2) the ability to treat anovulatory
      defects at their appropriate level, which most commonly is hypothalamic; 3) the ability to
      maintain normal ovarian-pituitary feedback mechanisms to restrain endogenous FSH secretion,
      as occurs normally in species that ovulate a single egg per cycle; 4) a resultant decrease in
      the risks of multiple gestations and hyperstimulation; and 5) a decreased need for intensive
      monitoring of ovarian function with an attendant decrease in costs.

      When synthetic GnRH first became available for clinical study, there was not yet an adequate
      understanding of the physiology of GnRH secretion in the human to support its potential
      therapeutic application. As a result, early attempts at ovulation induction were
      unsuccessful. It was soon appreciated that an episodic mode of delivery was essential for
      normal pituitary stimulation by GnRH. Studies by our group and others which defined the
      frequency of pulsatile GnRH secretion in normal women at different stages of the menstrual
      were then key to designing a physiologic program of pulsatile GnRH administration that
      resulted in successful ovulation induction in patients with GnRH deficiency. Additional
      studies demonstrated that which replacement of GnRH using the subcutaneous route was adequate
      to reproduce normal physiology in GnRH-deficient men, the intravenous route was superior in
      women. We have now determined the dose of GnRH which is appropriate for the majority of women
      as 75 ng/kg, a dose which induces ovulation of a single dominant follicle, followed by normal
      luteal phase dynamics.

      A number of investigators including us have sought to define the specific subgroups likely to
      achieve the greatest benefit from this form of therapy. However, there are many questions
      which remain unanswered and that we are currently addressing. We are specifically interested
      in understanding why there is variability in the dose of GnRH required by apparently
      GnRH-deficient women.

      It is important to note that minors have been included in this protocol, as many patients are
      extremely anxious to know whether they respond normally to pulsatile GnRH even though they
      may not be interested in conceiving at the time. This is particularly true of patients who
      have survived childhood cancers and associated surgery and/or radiation in whom a normal
      response to pulsatile GnRH can be a very positive experience.
    
  