
    
      Dental erosion is defined as the pathogenic, chronic, chemical removal of dental hard tissues
      due to the frequent contact to extrinsic or intrinsic acids. The dissolution process is
      determined by the pH, the chelating properties, mineral content and kind of acid, but in the
      same time modified by various biological (e.g. saliva, pellicle) and behavioural factors.

      The anticariogenic properties of milk are widely investigated, but information of the effects
      of milk or milk components on the development of erosion are limited. It is suggested that
      the demineralisation process is reduced by the presence of calcium and phosphate, but also
      that casein proteins affect the demineralisation by adsorbing to the hydroxyapatite surface
      and inhibiting its dissolution. Initial studies suggest that milk is able to increase
      rehardening of acid-softened enamel, but information about the effects of milk on dentin
      erosion are not available yet. Particularly, the effect of fluoridated milk on dental erosion
      was not investigated yet.

      In contrast, recent studies analysed the effects of products containing casein
      phosphopeptide-amorphous calcium phosphate (CPP-ACP) on erosion, as it is suggested that
      CPP-ACP promotes a supersaturated state and increased remineralisation of demineralised
      dental hard tissue. However, in situ studies on the effect of CPP-ACP on erosion are limited
      to one study, which compared microhardness of enamel after treatment with CPP-ACP and CPP-ACP
      and 900 ppm fluoride, but failed to use appropriate controls in form of other products
      containing calcium and phosphate or fluoride. In summary, the effects of milk, in particular
      fluoridated milk, and products containing milk proteins, such as casein
      phosphopeptide-amorphous calcium phosphate, on erosive wear were not analysed in an
      in-situ-model so far.
    
  