
    
      This study is a randomized controlled trial to compare the usage of ACCM protocol and USSM
      protocol in fluid resuscitation for septic shock pediatric patients. The USSM protocol is the
      intervention, and the ACCM protocol is the control. This study implemented in septic shock
      pediatric patients treated in the intensive care unit. Each patient will be randomized into 2
      groups, the USSM group or the ACCM group. In the initial step, all patient in each group will
      receive early acute/emergency therapy: oxygen support, vascular access, and fluid
      resuscitation. The monitoring of the patient including clinical parameters and laboratory
      examination for both groups, except Doppler ultrasonography that performed in each step of
      management of the intervention group. The monitoring is performed every 15 minutes in the
      first hour of resuscitation. If the patient show good response (fluid responsive shock), the
      monitoring stops in 1 hour. In contrast, if the patient reveal fluid refractory shock, the
      vasoactive agent will be administered and monitoring continues until 6 hours. All outcome
      parameters, except mortality rate, will be recorded at 6 hours. The mortality rates will be
      recorded at 72 hours and time of intensive care discharge.

      Sample size in this study was calculated by clinical trial formula for mortality rate with a
      significance level of 0.05 and study power of 0.2. From the calculation, the subject needed
      is 170 patients for each group (total 340 subjects). The basic characteristics of the patient
      will be analyzed descriptively. All parameter data will be analyzed statistically by
      Statistical Product and Service Solution (SPSS) 20, preceded by normality test and
      homogeneity test. The study analysis will be intention-to-treat. The mortality rate was
      analyzed by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Data transformation will be performed if needed
      in case of outlier data or out-of-range results.
    
  