
    
      IRAS 248493 REC 18/WM/0394 NIHR CPMS ID 40368

      Hypotheses

        1. Overweight and obese children commonly present for procedures under general anaesthesia.

        2. Obese children are at higher risk of perioperative adverse events compared to their
           healthy-weight counterparts.

        3. There is wide variation in paracetamol drug dosing amongst obese children.

        4. Obese children may be more likely to present for certain surgery compared to their
           healthy-weight counterparts.

      This observational cohort study will take place in NHS hospitals in the UK with trainee
      anaesthetists affiliated to the Paediatric Anaesthesia Trainee Research Network (PATRN). To
      increase coverage of sites in the UK, the project will be advertised through other trainee
      research networks including Research and Audit Federation of Trainees (RAFT) and through the
      Association of Paediatric Anaesthetists of Great Britain and Ireland (APAGBI) linkmen.

      Each hospital taking part will have a nominated anaesthetic consultant and trainees who will
      act as local investigators collecting data. Data will be collected for all children aged 2-16
      years weighing >12kg presenting for a procedure involving general anaesthesia during the
      defined study period. This will be one week (7 consecutive days). Using previous PATRN audit
      projects as a guide, we aim to enrol approximately 90 local sites which will give an
      estimated total of 7590 children attending for a procedure under general anaesthesia during
      the study period.

      Patients will be identified by local trainee investigators (independent of delivery of
      anaesthesia but part of the anaesthetic department of the hospital) from operating department
      lists on the days of the study. Data will be collected on all eligible patients who undergo a
      procedure under general anaesthesia during the study period. Similar data collection tools
      have been used in previous PATRN audit projects.

      Data will be collected from the paper or electronic anaesthetic record and clinical notes.
      Only routine clinical data will be included and where this is unavailable the domain will be
      left blank. Data will be collected using a single paper case report form (CRF) per patient.
      This will be initiated by the anaesthetist in the operating theatre and completed by recovery
      staff in PACU. Patient identifiable data in the form of hospital number and date of birth
      will be collected on the CRF for traceability in terms of missing data.

      To calculate BMI, age (to the nearest month), gender, height and weight are required for each
      patient. It is anticipated that all hospitals would routinely measure weight but some
      hospitals may not routinely measure height prior to a procedure under general anaesthesia.
      NICE guidelines currently recommend that clinical judgement should be used to decide when to
      measure a person's height and weight, including at routine health checks. The preoperative
      setting is a specific health check prior to undergoing general anaesthesia and therefore an
      appropriate time to measure a child's height and weight.

      Height will be measured with shoes removed to the nearest 0.1cm using a height measure with
      the child's head positioned so that the Frankfurt plane is horizontal. Body weight will be
      measured with patients lightly clad, to the nearest 0.1kg using a calibrated electronic
      weighing scale. If the local site is unable to collect age, gender, height and weight we will
      ask for the case to be logged and uploaded but for no other data to be collected. It is
      important to know how many cases we are unable to include in the analysis due to incomplete
      data.

      Other information that would routinely be recorded within the clinical notes relating to the
      patients physical status, surgery, anaesthetic and specific perioperative adverse events will
      also be collected on the CRF.

      The completed CRF will be taken directly to a secure location accessible by the local
      investigator. The data will be entered electronically via a secure encrypted connection into
      an online portal managed by Aberdeen University. The software used for data capture will be
      REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture - http://www.project-redcap.org). REDCap is a
      mature, secure web application for building and managing online surveys and databases.

      Each dataset entered will generate a unique identifier (ie the data will be pseudonymised);
      local investigators will be asked to keep a log of their unique identifiers linked to local
      hospital identification numbers. The hospital number will remain within the respective
      trusts, meaning only the local NHS staff responsible for care have access to personal
      identifying information. The study database will be closed for data entry a number of weeks
      after the study completion date. The anonymised responses from participating hospitals across
      the country will be analysed by a team of researchers.
    
  