
    
      This quasi-experimental study uses a cluster design with parents from 3 nursing units at the
      Children's Hospital of Wisconsin. Implementation of the SM-THINk protocol will occur on 2
      pediatric inpatient units and a third unit will serve as the usual care control unit. The
      SM-THINk protocol will be implemented on the two implementation experimental units regardless
      of this study as a clinical practice change. The nurses will not serve as subjects in this
      study since they are expected to learn the protocol as part of their everyday jobs.

      Plan to enroll 300 patients and one legal guardian per patient (parent or caregiver who has
      guardianship of the patient). 300 parents of patients per unit (for a total of 900 patients
      and 900 parents). A high-risk discharge assessment based on Mayo Clinic criteria is used to
      identify children with complex or chronic conditions. Approximately 120 patients per unit
      (40%) will have a complex or chronic condition. Parent experience related to quality of
      discharge teaching and care coordination will be self-reported by parents using established,
      reliable and valid scales. Child and parent characteristics, length of hospitalization,
      readmission, and Emergency Department use data will be extracted from electronic medical
      records.

      Nurses on the three units will provide a brief information sheet to families at some point
      after admission and explain that if the subjects/families have questions that they should
      call the research team or ask the nurse to contact the research team on their behalf. This
      information sheet includes a summary of the research purposes and what questions will be
      asked. When a nurse on the implementation unit is ready to discharge a family who agree to
      participate, he/she will obtain the iPad, enter the patient code and write down which code
      corresponds to which patient on a log, perform the enhanced discharge method per clinical
      practice, then log out of the iPad. He/she will then log into the parent questionnaires
      (REDCap), enter the patient code, and provide the iPad to the subjects/families. The nurse
      will indicate that if they would like to participate, they should do so after he/she leaves
      the room and log out of the iPad when finished. Nurses on the control unit will perform their
      usual discharge and then obtain the iPad, enter the patient code and write down which code
      corresponds to which patient on a log. He/she will then log into the parent questionnaires
      (REDCap), enter the patient code, and provide the iPad to the subjects/families. The nurse
      will indicate that if they would like to participate, they should do so after he/she leaves
      the room and log out of the iPad when finished. After approximately 10 minutes the nurse will
      check to be sure the subject/family has left and if so, will pick up the iPad, ensure the
      family has logged out, and return the iPad to the storage area. If the subject/family has not
      left yet, the nurse will check back periodically until they have left. This design will
      ensure that nursing discharge time is not affected. The research team will pick up the list
      of patient codes on the next working day. There is a waiver for documentation of informed
      consent and assent. If the parent and child are interested, participation will serve as
      implied consent. A HIPAA waiver will be requested by the study team to abstract data from the
      patient's medical record to look for outcomes over time regarding readmissions and ED visits.
      Only the following data will be collected from the patient's medical record: the number of
      hospitalizations in the last 1 year, date of admission/discharge, and the reason for
      hospitalizations.

      All units will ask the parents to complete the parent experience tools at time of discharge
      using the iPad. Both groups will receive standard post-discharge follow-up care including
      laboratory and clinic appointments.

      The parent's age, insurance information and the child's chronic conditions will all be asked
      for in the REDCap questionnaires on the iPad. If the iPad is temporarily unavailable for
      subject/families, paper forms will be provided to them and they will be instructed by the
      nurses to fill out the forms and seal them in an envelope when they are finished. Nursing
      staff will provide the sealed envelopes to the research team.
    
  