
    
      The objective of this study is to assess and quantify any differences between assisted (using
      real-time visualization of tracked cryo-probes) and unassisted cryoablation procedures using
      pre-procedure CT scans or CT fluoroscopy. To assess this, physicians will perform ablation
      procedures with and without the Percu Nav device. Data will be collected on the angle of
      needle entry unassisted and then assisted by PercuNAv to determine if the added imaging
      information modifies the physician's needle approach.

      Each patient will have a pre-procedure CT image set of the area of interest acquired. The
      patient will be scanned in the same position that the ablation will be performed in, although
      not requisite. Sterile registration patches will be applied to the patient's skin around the
      area of interest prior to the scan, ensuring that suitable windows are left available for
      needle entry. The patient will undergo these pre-procedural scans as part of the usual
      clinical evaluation of the lesion to undergo ablation. The scans may be acquired with or
      without contrast, at the discretion of the physician.

      Control group: The physician will perform the procedure using the standard of care method (CT
      only), without the additional information being recorded by the PercuNav device. The tracking
      device will be placed on the patient's skin at the desired point of entry. Without displaying
      the PercuNav screen to the physician, a screen capture will be taken to record the approach
      path. At the point of insertion, the time stamp will be recorded and the start button will be
      pressed. Once the physician states they are at the defined target a screen capture will be
      taken on the PercuNav and the distance to target and time stamp will be recorded by pushing
      the start button again. At the end of the procedure a verification CT scan will be taken with
      the needle in place and sent to the PercuNav.

      Percu Nav group: The physician will perform the procedure using the standard of care
      procedure with the additional information displayed and recorded by the PercuNav device (CT
      and PercuNav). The tracking device will be placed on the patient's skin at the desired point
      of entry. Without displaying the PercuNav screen to the physician, a screen capture will be
      taken to record the approach path. The physician will be shown the PercuNav screen and will
      correct the desired approach path and another screen capture will be taken. At the point of
      insertion, the time stamp will be recorded and the start button will be pressed. Once the
      physician states they are at the defined target a screen capture will be taken on the
      PercuNav and the distance to target and time stamp will be recorded. At the end of the
      procedure a verification CT scan will be taken (as is part of the regular standard of care
      procedure) with the needle in place and sent to the PercuNav.

      The outcome measures that will be evaluated in the groups include:

        1. Accuracy - The distance between the "virtual" needle position (tracking data) and the
           actual needle position (CT confirmation scan)), where applicable (TRE)

        2. Time to reach a clinically acceptable target in the tumor

        3. The total procedure time

        4. Accuracy of needle targeting - The vector of each needle insertion (The initial vector
           allows us to project the path to the pre-defined target. If the initial entry point is
           not ideal, the path to the target will need adjustment)
    
  