
    
      As with other herpes viruses, CMV infection is thought to result most frequently from
      reactivation of latent virus. Transmission of the virus can also occur from donor marrow
      infusion or from allogeneic red cell, leukocyte or platelet transfusions. In an allogeneic
      haematopoietic stem cell (bone marrow) transplant patient who is CMV seropositive or
      receiving a transplant from a donor who is CMV seropositive, CMV frequently reactivates and
      disease resulting from the progression of infection is a major cause of infectious morbidity
      and mortality. CMV infection is a consequence both of the immunosuppression these patients
      receive and may also reflect delayed immune reconstitution in these patients following
      transplant.

      Existing evidence suggests that adoptive cellular therapy can be an effective approach for
      treating viral reactivation following allo HSCT, with a minimal risk of inducing GVHD. The
      major advantage to the patient is likely to be avoidance of extended periods of therapy with
      antiviral medications that have significant associated morbidities, and sometimes require
      inpatient care. A proof of efficacy in the sibling donor setting would strengthen the case
      for extending the therapy to the unrelated donor setting, where both potential risks and
      benefits are greater. From a pharmacoeconomic viewpoint, the avoidance of the costs
      associated with these treatment episodes could offset the costs of adoptive cellular therapy.
      A number of issues remain unresolved. These include the relative contributions of transferred
      CD4+ and CD8+ T cell populations (which may have direct relevance to the best approach for
      selection), the issue of whether adoptive cellular therapy improves outcomes in a randomised
      setting, and equally importantly, the issue of whether such immunotherapies can be delivered
      outside of the setting of a few academic institutions on a multicentre basis.

      These considerations emphasise the importance of undertaking a randomised phase III study of
      prophylactic adoptive cellular therapy for CMV following T cell depleted allogeneic HSCT from
      a sibling donor (CMV~IMPACT). There are multiple methods for T cell depletion available, and
      differences between them will likely have an effect on immune reconstitution. In order to
      avoid this confounding influence the study will be restricted to patients receiving
      alemtuzumab-containing conditioning protocols.

      In summary, this study is a multicentre, prospective, controlled, open-label 3 arm randomized
      study comparing 'best-available' standard anti-viral monitoring and therapy alone, with 'best
      available'anti-viral monitoring and therapy plus prophylactic adoptive cellular therapy (ACT)
      with cells selected by either the Gamma Catch or Multimer Selection techniques. Patients will
      be randomised to:

      A. Standard best available antiviral drug therapy alone B. Immunoprophylactic (Day 27) ACT
      prepared using Gamma Catch Selection in combination with standard best available antiviral
      drug therapy C. Immunoprophylactic (Day 27) ACT prepared using Multimer Selection in
      combination with standard best available antiviral drug therapy

      The study will test the hypothesis that CMV-specific ACT based upon a prescribed T-cell
      dose/kg recipient body weight, can augment the impaired CMV immune function post-transplant
      and reduce the number of recurrent reactivations in patients following a primary reactivation
      event (and thereby reduce the requirement for antiviral drug therapy) without causing an
      increase in GVHD.

      Individual groups will be compared for duration of antiviral therapy and number of
      reactivation episodes, plus GVHD incidence. Similar analyses will be performed for adoptive
      cellular therapy versus no therapy (i.e. (B+C) versus A)
    
  