
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is characterised by airflow limitation that is
      not fully reversible. This limitation is usually progressive and associated with an abnormal
      inflammatory response of the lungs to noxious particles or gases.

      Patients suffering from COPD may show pathologic changes not only in the large but also in
      the small airways, which are defined as less than 2mm in diameter. Airway inflammation may
      cause increased thick mucus secretions which can narrow the airways increasing the resistance
      to the airflow.

      Physiotherapy to remove secretions is indicated for patients with COPD who have regular
      sputum or those with thick secretions and various techniques and physiotherapy devices can be
      applied for the removal of secretions. The flutter is a simple and small device shaped like a
      pipe that creates a positive expiratory pressure (PEP) and high frequency oscillation as
      expired air passes through it. These vibrations and PEP are thought to mobilise airway
      secretions facilitating their clearance and improving airflow.

      The effects of the flutter device have been studied in different patient groups, but
      especially in lung diseases characterised by mucus hypersecretion such as COPD, cystic
      fibrosis and bronchiectasis. In COPD, even though the flutter device increases the volume of
      expectorated secretions, its beneficial effects on pulmonary function as assessed by
      spirometry and plethysmography are inconclusive. However, these standard lung function tests
      (such as spirometry) asses the large airways, but do not provide an accurate estimate of the
      small airways which have been described by some authors as "the silent zone".

      The investigators hypothesise that the use of impulse oscillometry (IOS), a non-invasive
      technique that provides information on small airway resistance during normal breathing, may
      reveal the effect of the flutter device which may have not been accurately measured by
      spirometry in previous studies.

      In addition, the investigators would like to measure exhaled nitric oxide (NO) levels which
      reflect airway inflammation and may therefore be useful to determine the association between
      small airway disease and inflammation.

      In summary, the symptoms of patients with COPD improve following breathing exercises with a
      flutter device, however, the effect of this device on lung function is unclear. The
      investigators hypothesise that the combined use IOS and NO, would help understand and
      quantify the effects of the flutter device on the small airways disease in COPD.

      The main objective of this study is to measure the effect of a 30 minutes breathing exercise
      with a flutter device on airway resistance as assessed by impulse oscillometry in patients
      with COPD.

      The secondary objective is to investigate the association between inflammation, airway
      resistance and volume of secretions in COPD patients.
    
  